04-12-2021||Pune||Six cars, one rickshaw vandalised in Pune||The Pune police have registered a case against five men for vandalising six cars and one autorickshaw near Narhe area of Pune late on Thursday night. A group of five men started shouting and creating a ruckus with weapons near Sinhagad college area. The men were carrying metal rods and some of them were carrying sickles, according to the complainant. The 25-year-old man who lodged a complaint was in the vicinity with his friends when one of the men landed a sickle on the rear end of the complainant’s car. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-cars-one-rickshaw-vandalised-in-pune-101638642558989.html
04-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Building plan violations won’t be allowed, DTCP tells developers||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday held a meeting with the real estate developers in the city and asked them not to indulge in any building plan violations. The department also asked the developers that violations such as construction of rooms in stilts and conversion of balconies into kitchens/bathrooms will not be allowed. The meeting has followed a month-long drive against building plan violations by the department in which over 50 occupancy certificates were cancelled. Members of the Home Developers Association, Gurugram, attended the meeting. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the meeting was held to make the builders aware that such violations were serious and could land the property owners, architects and contractors in trouble. “All the stakeholders are responsible for following the rules. If there are violations on a large scale, then everyone will be held accountable,” he said. During the meeting, Bhath said that a clear message was given that action would be taken against everyone carrying out zoning violations. “We have asked the association to hold meetings with their members and make them aware about the rules. We have also asked them to submit the modalities which could help prevent such violations,” he said. Narender Yadav, newly elected president of the Home Developers Association, said that they discussed all aspects of the issue and assured the officials that they would work with the department to minimise such violations. “We will conduct workshops, hold meetings and make the contractors aware about the prevention of such violations. Construction of rooms is the biggest issue and we will check it in future,” he said. Meanwhile, the DTCP on Saturday held a meeting to discuss ways for creating awareness among the property owners against such violations. “We are also planning to launch an awareness campaign on this issue,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-building-plan-violations-won-t-be-allowed-dtcp-tells-developers-101638642557718.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Active Covid cases again cross 100 in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported 27 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the number of active cases in the state has once again gone over 100, after a gap of about a month. The number of active Covid cases now stands at 116. On November 4, the state had 105 active cases and then the figure came below 100. The number of fresh daily cases also remained below 20 for a month. On October 30, there were 20 fresh Covid cases and since then, the number remained below 20. The maximum in November was 14 fresh cases on November 10. Among the total fresh cases, which are roughly three times in 24 hours, the maximum 9 (one-third of the total) were reported from Gautam Buddha Nagar, five from Mainpuri, three from Varanasi and two each from Mathura, Lucknow and Bareilly, according to the data from the state health department. Till now, UP has reported 1710451 Covid cases and tested a total 88189143 samples. There have been 22911 deaths till now and 1687424 people have recovered. Two cases in Lucknow LUCKNOW: The state capital reported two Covid cases on Saturday. The patients included a woman doctor who returned from a trip to Kolkata. The other is a native of NIgohan and tested positive when he went to be admitted to a hospital for operation. The health officials said contact tracing of the woman doctor was being done and their samples for Covid test were also being taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/active-covid-cases-again-cross-100-in-uttar-pradesh-101638642497614.html
04-12-2021||Pune||71-year-old man from Pune duped of ₹10.7 lakh||PUNE: A senior citizen from Pune was duped of ₹10.7 lakh by a caller who told him that his phone number would stop functioning without verification in November. A complaint was lodged by the 71-year-old man living in Warje area of Pune. On November 25, the man received a call from a man who wrongfully told him that his phone would stop working if the SIM card is not verified. The accused then made the complainant believe that to get the card verified, he will have to fill out an online form. The man unknowingly provided the accused with various confidential pieces of information including account number and OTP that the caller had sent to him using a link. As soon as the man entered the details, transactions worth ₹10,71,269 were made from the account, according to the police. A case under Sections 419 (personification), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Warje police station. Police inspector (crime) Amrut Marathe of Warje police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/71yearold-man-from-pune-duped-of-rs-10-7-lakh-101638642317668.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Over 1.3 million due for second dose of Covishield in Pune, highest in state||Out of the 8.8 million beneficiaries who are due for their second dose, 1.3 million are in Pune district alone, making it the highest in the state. These beneficiaries are due for the second dose of Covishield. Pune is followed by Mumbai that has 700,000 beneficiaries and then Kolhapur that has 550,000 beneficiaries due for their second dose. With regards to the second dose of Covaxin, Pune is among the top three districts that have the highest number of beneficiaries who are eligible to get the second shot but are due. As per the state health department, despite the availability of the vaccines, people are reluctant to take the second dose as the fear of Covid-19 has reduced. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “With new variant Omicron looming over us, people are definitely taking the vaccine as we are seeing a rise of beneficiaries taking both the shots. With government making full vaccination compulsory for commercial activities, and the wake of the new variant, the demand for vaccination has gone up in proportion to the fear.”About 54.43 per cent of the district’s eligible population aged between 18-45 are fully vaccinated and 98.41 per cent have received their first dose. This takes Pune to the second spot among the districts who have fully vaccinated beneficiaries.With regards to the population aged 45 plus, Pune stands at 15th position as the elderly citizens in the district are reluctant to take the vaccine. Only 85.18 per cent of the population has got the first shot and 63.10 per cent of the 45 plus age group has been fully vaccinated. The state health department’s Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) also states that Pune has a nominal number of AEFI registered among Covid19 vaccine beneficiaries, 363 of 357 were minor, five were serious and one severe AEFI incidents were reported in the entire district. GFXHead: Not yet jabbedStrap: Despite the availability of the vaccines, people are reluctant to take the 2nd dose as the fear of Covid-19 has reduced, say officials 1,346,327- No. of beneficiaries who are eligible to take 2nd dose in state as of December 21.30 million- No. of beneficiaries who are due to take 2nd dose of Covishield in PuneDistrict beneficiaries awaiting their 2nd dose of Covishield Pune 1,302,436 Mumbai 709,009 Kolhapur 553,586 Thane 54,7130 Nagpur 490,543 District beneficiaries awaiting their 2nd dose of Covaxin Gondia 114,432Bhandara 89,481Pune 88,940Mumbai 70,461Gadchiroli 67,539*source: State health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-1-3-million-due-for-second-dose-of-covishield-in-pune-highest-in-state-101638642263645.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports nine fresh Covid-19 cases||Nine fresh cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Gautam Budh Nagar in the past 24 hours, said officials on Saturday.The district has 22 active Covid-19 cases -- highest in Uttar Pradesh at present.So far, Gautam Budh Nagar has reported 63,418 cases of Covid-19, since the pandemic outbreak. The highest number of Covid-19 cases were reported in the district this month, as a possible spread of the new coronavirus variant, Omicron, also continues.“A spike in the number of Covid-19 cases is because of the increased testing, following an alert issued in the district because of the new variant of the virus. There is no need to panic,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.Gautam Budh Nagar reported 64 Covid-19 cases in November, and 57 in October. This district has reported only one death due to the coronavirus in the past five months, according to the officials.On October 13, the district reported a death due to Covid when a 67-year-old patient succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 467. This was the first death reported in the district in the past five months, the officials said. The district has not reported any Covid-related death since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-reports-nine-fresh-covid-19-cases-101638642199021.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Man held for involvement in cow slaughtering in Greater Noida||Police arrested a man from Daularajpur village in Greater Noida’s Dankaur on Friday for his alleged involvement in cow slaughtering, said officials on Saturday.The suspect -- identified as Meherban, 45 , a resident of Daularajpur village in Gautam Budh Nagar -- was booked under relevant sections of Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, and Gangster Act and had been absconding for the past five months. He carried a reward of ₹10,000 on his head, said police.“The accused is an alleged cow slaughterer, and was booked under sections of Cow Slaughter Act, and Gangster Act five months ago. He had been absconding since July this year,” said Shri Pal Singh, station house officer (SHO), Jarcha police station in Gautam Budh Nagar.Several complaints have been filed against Meherban at the Dadri and Dankaur police stations since 2019.“An FIR under sections 3, 5 and 8 of the Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act was lodged against the suspect at the Dadri police station in 2019, but he was not arrested. Another FIR under the same sections and sections 2 and 3(1) of the Gangster Act was lodged against him at the Dankaur police station in July this year,” Singh added.After months, police got a tip on Friday that Meherban was at his residence in Daularajpur village, and nabbed him. The suspect was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-involvement-in-cow-slaughtering-in-greater-noida-101638642078994.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Work on Delhi-Baghpat link to speed up: NHAI||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid foundation stone of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (DDEC) on Saturday, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that developmental works will now expedite at different stretches, including a 32km link from Akshardham in New Delhi to Khekra in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat.The DDEC from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) junction in Baghpat to Dehradun, which is pegged at a cost of ₹8,300 crore, will offer the commuters in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida a better access to the DDEC. The estimated cost of the entire corridor from Delhi to Dehradun is ₹12,000 crore, said the officials.The DDEC will reduce the time taken to cover the distance between Delhi and Dehradun from six hours to nearly two and half hours, they added.The NHAI officials said that the work for the 32km stretch along Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, linking the DDEC, has been allotted. The stretch will have six lanes on the elevated section, and three lanes on each side will be on the ground level which will serve as service roads.“The 32km stretch has two links -- one in Delhi and the other in Uttar Pradesh. Work on both links have been allotted. The work for the second stretch in Ghaziabad’s Loni portion has started, and the work for the Delhi section will also start soon. It is estimated that the stretch is likely to see nearly 50,000 passenger car units (PCUs) per day,” said an officer of NHAI, requesting anonymity.“We need nearly 15 hectares of land for planting 5,000 trees, as compensatory afforestation there. With the Prime Minister laying the foundation stone of the economic corridor, we are hopeful that the work will now be expedited,” the officer added.The project is scheduled to be completed within 2.5 years, according to the officials.Apart from the 32km link in Delhi-NCR, the UP jurisdiction from Baghpat to Saharanpur also has a 119km stretch.“With the Prime Minister laying the foundation stone of the DDEC, various works including land procurement in different states are likely to be expedited... and the project itself will see a boost. We have nearly 119 kilometres in our jurisdiction -- from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway to Saharanpur -- and most of the works have been awarded, except for works on a 25-km stretch. It is likely that the work will start on a full scale in the coming days,” said SK Mishra, project director, NHAI.While laying the foundation stone of different projects in Dehradun on Saturday, PM Modi said, “When it (DDEC) is ready, the time taken to travel from Delhi to Dehradun will be almost half of what it is now.”The DDEC will have seven major interchanges for better connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamuna Nagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut. It will also have the largest wildlife elevated corridor of 12km in Asia, for unrestricted wildlife movement. The 340-metre-long tunnel near Daat Kali temple in Dehradun will also help in reducing any impact on the wildlife there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-delhi-baghpat-link-to-speed-upnhai-101638642019393.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Woman accused of killing six-year-old daughter nabbed||Police arrested a woman from Noida’s Naya village on Saturday for allegedly killing her six-year-old daughter last month, said officials.The suspect -- identified as Anuradha (goes by first name), 38, a resident of Noida Sector 93 -- had allegedly planned to frame her husband for the murder, and get all his personal assets and house in Noida and another (native house) in Aligarh, according to the police.The suspect’s husband, Ramkumar Sharma, 40, filed a missing complaint of their daughter -- Honey -- at the Phase 2 police station on November 11 this year. On the basis of his complaint, an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 363 (kidnapping) was registered against unidentified persons the same day, said the officials.“We launched a probe and found the missing girl’s body from a park in Noida Sector 108 on November 13. The girl was strangled. No signs of sexual assault were found on her body... The case was then registered under IPC Section 302 (murder) and a hunt to nab the suspect was underway since then,” said Sujeet Upadhyay, station house officer (SHO), Phase 2 police station in Noida.During interrogation, police got to know that Anuradha divorced her ex-husband and left her two daughters in Aligarh, and married Ramkumar in 2010. In her second marriage, Anuradha gave birth to four girls -- two of them, Kirti and Honey, stayed with them in Noida, and two of their daughters were adopted by the family members of Ramkumar.SHO Upadhyay said, “We found out during interrogation that Anuradha had a fear that Ramkumar would give his properties in Noida and Aligarh to his relatives as she could not give birth to a son. She allegedly made a plan to frame him in a crime, get him arrested, and eventually occupy their houses in Noida and Aligarh. That is why, Anuradha allegedly strangled her daughter Honey in a secluded place on November 11 and dumped her body at the park.”The same day, Anuradha went to Greater Noida on the pretext of buying medicines. “Initially, she misled the police during interrogation by saying that she was in Greater Noida the day her daughter was kidnapped and murdered. As we continued the interrogation, Anuradha did not turn up at the police station when summoned. She had been missing since the last week of November,” the SHO added.Police smelled foul play in the case and launched a search to nab her. On Friday, police nabbed Anuradha from her brother’s house in Naya village. She was produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-accused-of-killing-six-year-old-daughter-nabbed-101638642017602.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Vax or mask? Pune businesses weigh which mandate to follow||Though the government has made it mandatory for establishments to check vaccination certificates, many have not been doing so. However, these establishments have made wearing masks and temperature check compulsory for all who will enter their shop premises. At the same time, supermarkets like D-Mart have started checking certificates of both doses, without which customers are not being allowed inside the premises. On November 29, the state government issued an order, according to which, without a vaccination certificate, an individual is not allowed to step in public places or either use public transport. “We have already opposed the Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB) guidelines. No other state has been given such guidelines, except for Maharashtra. All the shopkeepers and customers are strictly following temperature checks and wearing of masks guidelines regularly,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of the Trade Association of Pune (FTAP). However, grocery marts like D-mart and sports clubs like Deccan Gymkhana have started asking for vaccination certificates or an RT-PCR negative report, done 72 hours prior. “Since international tournaments have started in the Deccan Gymkhana tennis courts we are making it mandatory to check Covid vaccination certificates,” said an official from the Deccan Gymkhana tennis courts. D-mart, watch guard said, “We have been asking for vaccination certificates since the past two days. Those who have not completed vaccination are not allowed inside.” “We are making sure that customers are masked-up and regular temperature checks are done at all our retail putlets. Even customers are supporting i and are following all the guidelines,” said Saurabh Gadgil, chairman and managing director, PNG Jewellers. Box Head: Covid appropriate behaviour guidelines of state government - Rs10,000 fine for shop owner if a customer enters the premises without being fully vaccinated- ₹50,000 fine for shop owner for not following CAB guidelines- ₹500 fine to the customer for violating CAB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vax-or-mask-pune-businesses-weigh-which-mandate-to-follow-101638641958934.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad recorded ‘good’ air on just 10 days this year, AQI still ‘very poor’||Residents of Ghaziabad breathed in “good” quality of air -- with an air quality index (AQI) between zero and 50 -- only 10 days this year, said weather experts on Saturday.Figures released by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) indicate that the city recorded 20 days with an AQI in the ‘severe’ category and 75 days with an AQI in the ‘very poor’ category.According to the official government data, Ghaziabad is listed among the 16 “non-attainment cities” in Uttar Pradesh, with high levels of air pollution. Cities are declared ‘non-attainment’ if they do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter (PM10) or nitrogen dioxide (NO2) over a period of five years.“The fewer number of ‘good’ air days this year is due to the fact that the city is situated in the Indo-Gangetic plain, where the dust content is naturally high. Even during the coronavirus-imposed lockdown, the pollution levels reduced a bit, but the AQI was not in the ‘good’ category... The impact of vehicular emission and adverse meteorological conditions also impact the city’s AQI on a regular basis,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Between January and November this year, days with a ‘very poor’ quality of air increased to 75, against 67 and 62 days during 2019 and 2020, respectively.The figures, however, also indicated that the condition has improved a little as in 2020 and 2019, which saw only 13 and three days with an AQI in the ‘good’ category, but none in the months of April, May and June when the lockdown restrictions were first imposed after the Covid-19 outbreak across the country. 2021 saw 100 ‘moderate’ days, against 122 in 2020 and 93 in 2019, according to the figures.Pollution levels under the ‘moderate’ category causes “breathing discomfort to the people along with lungs, asthma and heart diseases”.“We have about 15-20 patients daily, and they have symptoms related to bronchial asthma, infection in the respiratory tract, among others. These also get aggravated due to higher pollution levels, and some patients also suffer from skin infection, heart issues, and irritation to eyes. The frequency of such patients increases to nearly 100-150 per day during winters. Pollution is one of the major factors affecting such patients,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.Environmentalists, meanwhile, said that all the pollution abatement measures should continue round the year, instead of agencies concerned taking such steps only during the winter season, and that is “the need of the hour”.“If agencies concerned are sincere enough, they must take up pollution abatement measures round the year. However, there is a lack of enforcement on the ground level, and it is only during the monsoon or rainfall that the pollution levels decline. Local factors like garbage burning, road dust, and vehicular emission continue to add to the high pollution levels every day. The administration must have a local policy to combat pollution round the year,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.This year, since Diwali on November 4, the city has been recording the AQI levels only in the ‘severe’, ‘very poor’ or ‘poor’ category.According to figures released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Saturday, the three cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida recorded the AQI at 327, 335, and 355, respectively -- all in the ‘very poor’ category.According to a System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) forecast on Saturday, wind speeds are likely to be low in the next two days (December 5 and 6), and reducing ventilation will lead to a degradation in the air quality, but within the ‘very poor’ category only.“From December 7, winds are likely to increase dispersing pollutants, but the AQI is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category. Partly cloudy sky and low mixing layer height are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants,” said the Safar forecast.
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s first Omicron case in Kalyan-Dombivli; no need to panic, says Tope||A 33-year-old unvaccinated man who returned from South Africa to Kalyan-Dombivli near Mumbai tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19, Maharashtra health department said on Saturday. This is India’s fourth confirmed case of the new strain. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said the probable third wave of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra could be of the Omicron variant if precautions are not taken. He added that the new strain is mild and does not cause severe disease that requires mass hospitalisation. The infected person arrived in Mumbai from Cape Town via Dubai and New Delhi on November 24, according to a statement from the state health department. The department said the man’s 12 high-risk contacts and 23 low-risk contacts were traced and found negative for Covid-19. Additionally, 25 of his co-passengers on the Delhi-Mumbai flight also tested negative. “On November 24, the passenger got mild fever. However, no other symptoms were observed. The mildly symptomatic patient is being treated at the Covid Care Centre in Kalyan-Dombivali,” a statement from the state health department said. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said, “The patient’s condition is stable and he has no symptoms. He is in quarantine at a civic centre. We have tested his family, his society neighbours, his cab driver and his doctor. All are negative.” According to Suryavanshi, KDMC currently has only one functional Covid care centre on account of fewer cases being reported every day. As of Saturday, December 4, there were only 190 active cases in the KDMC jurisdiction. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old male, who arrived from Zambia, has tested negative for the new variant. Instead, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant was detected in the sample that was tested at the National Institute of Virology in Pune, the state health department said. Four international travellers from Thane, too, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Three of the four had returned from The Netherlands and one from Canada, informed Sandeep Malvi, additional municipal commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation. Malvi said all four are in institutional quarantine. All four samples have been sent for genome sequencing. Earlier, Tope said the panic over Omicron is understandable due to people’s experience in the first and second waves of Covid-19 infections. Tope said that the third wave of Covid-19 could be of Omicron, as the variant is said to be highly transmissible. “As per the available information, this variant doesn’t cause severe disease leading to mass hospitalisation, [subsequent] need for oxygen, and an increased fatality. Omicron’s transmissibility is fast, and there is definitely a fear of a rise in infection due to the new variant. If we don’t take precautions the third wave could be of Omicron, even though it is milder [than Delta variant],” Tope said in Jalna on Saturday. Until Saturday morning, 3,839 passengers arriving from at-risk countries for Omicron at Mumbai airport have been tested with RT-PCR. Besides, 344 out of 17,107 passengers who arrived from other countries have also been tested. “Since December 1, 2021, eight passengers have been tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since November 1 is underway,” the statement added. The minister added that people need not panic but must strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour including social distancing, double masking, and vaccinating themselves. “There is no need to fear Omicron. Experts have said that it is not dangerous. People must keep up their immunity, wear masks, and get vaccinated.” Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 782 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 6,638,071. The state added 14 fatalities, pushing the toll to 141,163. Active cases stood at 7,129 on Saturday. Mumbai added 213 cases, pushing its tally to 763,616. It also recorded four fatalities, taking the toll to 16348. The state’s daily positivity rate on Saturday was 0.63%, while the overall positivity rate stood at 10.06%. (Inputs from Sajana Nambiar)
04-12-2021||Lucknow||OPD services hit for two hours as junior doctors stage protest at SRNH||PRAYAGRAJ: Health services were badly affected at the busy SRN Hospital of MLN medical College here on Saturday as junior resident doctors observed strike. The junior doctors boycotted work as part of a nationwide strike called to show displeasure due to no first-year counselling of post graduate courses for a year. Due to the strike, patients, especially those coming from far-flung areas, faced hardships for the first two hours of OPD. As the junior doctors blocked the passage of the hall where the registration slips for OPD are issued, many patients had to wait for getting the slips and approaching senior doctors. The junior doctors maintained that due to no counselling for a year, the load of first year PG students was falling on second- and third-year students. Hence the workload was increasing and although the association had raised the concern, the government was not listening. When the senior doctor sat in the OPD, they managed to attend only a few patients who came with old prescriptions in the first two hours even as there was a huge crowd at the prescription counter. The protesting resident doctors also took out a candle-light procession in the evening. The junior doctors gathered at SRN hospital and raised their demand vigorously. The doctors said that this was a symbolic demonstration and if the demands were not accepted, the agitation would be intensified and even emergency services would be stopped at SRN. “Our demands are justified as we are here to serve the patients and for this we constantly work peacefully under pressure. When there was a nationwide strike, we joined our association. If the demand is not accepted, then the scope of the movement will be increased,” said Dr Sarvesh Pathak, office-bearer of the Prayagraj unit of the association. However, at around 11am, the principal of MLN Medical College, Dr SP Singh, met the agitating junior resident doctors and persuaded them to call off the protest. “It is true that the services were affected for some time, but later senior doctors attended the OPD and all were treated. OT also functioned normally”, said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/opd-services-hit-for-two-hours-as-junior-doctors-stage-protest-at-srnh-101638641837810.html
04-12-2021||Pune||New girl’s school at Pune’s Bhide Wada to have 19th-century architecture, advanced technology classes||The historic Bhide Wada, the building where India’s first girls’ school was started by Jyotiba and Savitribai Phule in 1848, will be redeveloped as a national monument and will house a girl’s school. The work on expanding the Bhide Wada will commence soon. The seven-storey structure will have five floors reserved for the school which will have all the modern amenities. The school will be run by PMC, and the basement will house shops, which are already located there. Professor Hari Narke, former head of the Mahatma Phule chair in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) shared his insights on the proposed monument at the Bhide Wada. Last week, after conducting a meeting with officials, Chhagan Bhujbal, minister of food, civic supplies and customer protection announced that a school for girls will be started in Bhide Wada. According to Professor Narke, the proposed school will have an appearance of the 19th century Bhide Wada and will be the centre of advanced knowledge. “We aim to have a school which will groom the opinion makers in the 21st century. Topics related to advanced technology such as artificial intelligence and programming will be incorporated. The school will prepare girls to pursue higher education from any reputed world university such as Oxford, Cambridge and Harvard,” Narke. He was also present at the meeting held by Bhujbal and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar with the officials, wherein the officials were asked to expedite the process to develop the national monument at Phulewada and memorial of Savitribai Phule. Narke said that there is also a plan to install memorials of other associates of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule who helped the couple start the school at Bhide Wada. “Bhujbal suggested that every student must know the history and legacy of the school, hence, memorials of companions from Brahmin and Maratha communities who helped start the school will be constructed. We are also planning to display the social reforms that took place in the 19th and 20th centuries through pictures in the rest of the area,” he said. Currently, the school is in a dilapidated state after it was shut down almost 15 years ago. The redevelopment will be done by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The plan to redevelop Bhide Wada as a national monument has not taken off due to issues related to opposition from shop owners, who run their business from the premises. Ajit Pawar has told the administration to hold a meeting regarding rehabilitation of commercial occupants and residents living in the building and chalk out the land acquisition process and settle the matter amicably. According to Narke, construction work of the monument is expected to start in early 2022. Amenities at Bhide Wada school - 19th-century architecture - Memorials of companions who helped Phule start the school will be installed - A section on the history of social reforms of the 19th and 20th century - Classes on advanced technology||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-girl-s-school-at-pune-s-bhide-wada-to-have-19th-century-architecture-advanced-technology-classes-101638641598435.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Four booked in Mathura for objectionable social media posts||Agra Police have tightened security and enhanced vigil on social media in Mathura ahead of December 6. Meanwhile, four people were booked under provisions of Information Technology Act for positing provocative posts on social media and two cases each were registered at Govind Nagar and Kotwali police stations of Mathura. “Police have referred the posts to its cyber cell and action will follow. Two cases have been registered at Govind Nagar police station and two at Kotwali police station against the account holders after provocative messages were posted on social media,” informed Vijay Kumar Singh, the in charge of Govind Nagar police station. Earlier, various organizations, including Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha , had given calls to conduct ‘jalabhishek’ at Eidgah adjoining Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. The calls were later withdrawn but Mathura police are in no mood to take chances and have stepped up vigil for December 6. It was on December 6, 1992, that the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya was demolished at the site of a temple-mosque dispute. Under heavy police arrangement, the Friday Namaz was offered at the Shahi Masjid Idgah here. “The namaz was offered in a congenial environment,” SSP Gaurav Grover said. He said entry into the Idgah was granted on the basis of Aadhaar card. “I am happy that there is no change in cordial and affectionate environment in Mathura,” the senior official said. To control any untoward incident, district magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal and SSP Grover stationed themselves at the Deeg Gate police outpost, which is very close to the Idgah. In view of December 6, Grover said permission to hold traditional rituals by four organisations Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, Srikrishna Janmabhumi Nirman Nyas, Narayani Sena and Srikrishna Mukti Dal had been rejected. Narrating the details of force to be deployed, the officials said, five additional SPs, 14 Deputy-SPs, 40 inspectors, 1400 head constables and constables, 10 companies of PAC and six of RAF are being deployed from Saturday evening. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-booked-in-mathura-for-objectionable-social-media-posts-101638641417641.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder: Defense questions complainant's version of events||The police officer who was the complainant in the Dr Narendra Dabholkar murder case later gave a different version of his own movements to the CBI, a defense lawyer claimed during the trial here on Saturday. Dabholkar, a noted anti-superstition activist, was shot dead on the Omkareshwar bridge in the city on August 20, 2013, while on a morning walk. Police officer Navnath Rangat testified before the special judge for Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act cases S R Navandar on Saturday. Pune police had registered the First Information Report on the basis of Rangat's complaint on the day of the murder. The Central Bureau of Investigation took over the case later. Rangat told special prosecutor Prakash Suryawanshi that on August 20, 2013, he was on `Naka-Bandi' (vehicle checking) duty near the Omkareshwar temple when he spotted some people gathered on the bridge. When he reached there he saw a person (Dabholkar) lying in a pool of blood with two live bullets near him, and alerted Vishrambag Police station and the control room, he said. During cross-examination, defense lawyer Prakash Salsingikar pointed our that as per Rangat's statement of July 4, 2014, to CBI deputy superintendent D S Chauhan, he was not present at the Naka Bandi spot, but was taking rest at the Shaniwar Peth police chowky. He even called his wife from the landline of the police chowky around 7.20 am. Sometime later an aged person approached him and informed him about a man lying on the bridge in a pool of blood, the lawyer said, citing the CBI statement. Only then Rangat rushed towards the crime scene, advocate Salsingikar claimed. Rangat said the version recorded by the CBI, based on his Call Data Record, was not true. The defense also claimed that Rangat had denied seeing any person or motorbike passing when he was on Naka-Bandi duty. The court will examine Dabholkar's son Dr Hamid Dabholkar on December 18. The CBI has charge sheeted Virendrasinh Tawde, Sachin Andure, Sharad Kalaskar, Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave as accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-defense-questions-complainant-s-version-of-events-101638640312638.html
04-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Capacity of C&D plant at Basai increased to 1,000 tonnes a day||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) can now process more construction and demolition (C&D) waste than what the city produces on a daily basis. Officials on Saturday said that the civic body has more than tripled its daily processing capacity at its Basai C&D processing plant from 300 tonnes per day (TPD) to 1,000 TPD.According to the MCG’s estimates, the city produces around 850 tonnes C&D waste daily.The increase in processing capacity will help expedite the clearing of legacy C&D waste scattered across the city, the officials said, adding that the plant started operating at its increased capacity early this week. The C&D plant at Basai was started in December 2019. “Initially, almost all the processed waste was being stored on the plant’s premises and earlier this year started overflowing beyond its boundary wall. To deal with the situation, in September, the MCG procured five acres of land from the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority right opposite the plant site to store more processed waste,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The officials said that the availability of more space has facilitated in increasing the plant’s processing capacity.“Following procurement of land, we started storing processed waste on it. Then directions were issued to the concessionaire to increase the plant’s processing capacity to 1,000 tonnes. With this, work on clearing legacy waste will now be expedited,” said Sunder Sheoran, executive engineer (Swachh Bharat Mission), MCG.The officials said that the city has about 900,000 tonnes of legacy C&D waste which will be cleared in the next four years. Any waste dumped at one particular location for more than one month is considered the legacy waste, they said.In July this year, the MCG had issued a release stating that they have five designated locations at Sector 56, Kadipur, Transport Nagar, Wazirabad, and Sector 110 for dumping C&D waste. In September, the civic body also identified a new location in Basai as well as one near Baliawas village for the purpose.However, despite these designated sites, illegal dumping of C&D waste is rampant across the city, especially in newly developed sectors, areas around Golf Course Extension Road, Sector 29, and along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, said environmentalists. “Increasing the Basai plant capacity is not going to solve the MCG’s problems completely in tackling C&D waste. Two other challenges for MCG are ensuring that all C&D waste is only dumped at its designated sites and that illegal dumping is curbed due to fear of inviting heavy penalties. Otherwise, this violation will continue to be rampant across the city, and efforts against reducing C&D waste will not yield desired results,” said Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist.
04-12-2021||Indore||Forest officials search for injured leopard cub missing from Indore zoo premises||Forest officials on Saturday continued their search for the injured six-month-old leopard cub that disappeared from the Kamala Nehru Zoo in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, three days ago. The leopard cub was earlier found wandering in the forest area with injuries on its hind legs, after getting separated from its mother, and was brought to the zoo here for treatment from Burhanpur district, an official said. "Forest staffers had kept the cub inside a cage installed in a vehicle parked on the zoo premises on Wednesday night and left after that. We had told the forest staff that we will not be able to shift the animal at night," Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) run Kamla Nehru Zoo in-charge Uttam Yadav said. On Thursday, when the zoo staff went to the cage to shift the cub, they found that the mesh of the cage had been broken and the animal was missing, Yadav said. According to officials, the forest department and IMC were investigating the matter, but no one has been held accountable as yet. One of the largest animal welfare organisations in India – People For Animals – Indore president Priyanshu Jain said, “There appears to be serious negligence on the part of the forest department and zoo workers and the responsible people should face legal action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/forest-officials-search-for-injured-leopard-cub-missing-from-indore-zoo-premises-101638639125376.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Nowadays political persons are thinking they are above law: Allahabad HC||While rejecting the bail application of former MLA from Kasganj Hasrat Ullah Sherwani, who was convicted by a lower court of assaulting a person in the police lock-up over nine years ago, the Allahabad high court observed, “Nowadays, the legislatures and political persons are thinking themselves as above the law. This menace cannot be lightly taken and should be dealt with iron hand.” The appellant—Hasrat Ullah Sherwani—was a sitting MLA when the incident had taken place on August 30, 2012. He represented the Kasganj assembly constituency of UP’s Etah district from 2007 till 2012. Hearing the appeal filed by Sherwani seeking suspension of sentence and his release on bail during the pendency of the appeal against lower court’s conviction order, Justice Mohd Aslam observed, “It was his duty to raise the issue of misuse of law in Assembly and get it remedied but instead of it he himself misused the law and took law in his hand and pressurized the police personnel to adopt third degree and get him lodged in police lock up, this act of the accused amounts to misuse of police machinery, therefore, his act deserves no sympathy instead of condemnation”.The additional district and sessions judge, Kasganj, had on August 25, 2021 convicted Sherwani and seven others under various Sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC),including the offence of attempt to murder. As per the prosecution case, one Shamshad was lodged in the police lock-up in connection with some case. On August 30, 2012 at 2 pm, the accused-appellant Sherwani, the then MLA, along with other persons, including his relatives and supporters, came to the police station and instructed the police to beat Shamshad.After that Sherwani, armed with rifle and gun, along with his supporters who were armed with sticks proceeded towards the police lock-up and caught hold of Shamshad’s hand in the lock-up from outside and assaulted him with an intention to kill him by the butt of the rifle and other guns and sticks. However, he was saved when the then station house officer Ram Murti Yadav intervened.Thereafter, Shamshad lodged a First Information Report in this connection against the appellant and seven others on September 14, 2012 at Dhalana police station of Kasganj. The court has listed the appeal against the lower court’s judgment for hearing on January 10, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nowadays-political-persons-are-thinking-they-are-above-law-allahabad-hc-101638639857371.html
04-12-2021||Other||Union minister Sonowal assures full support for promotion, development of Loktak Lake||Union minister of ports, shipping and waterways Sarbananda Sonowal on Saturday assured that the Central government will give its 100 percent support for the promotion and development of Loktak Lake, the largest freshwater lake in the Northeast.Sonowal made the assurance while addressing a function at the Loktak Lake jetty, about 45 km south of Imphal.The function was attended by Union minister of state for external affairs and education Dr RK Ranjan and chairman of Loktak development authority L Sushindro, MLA P Saratchandra (Moirang) and other officials.In his speech, Sonowal said that Loktak is one of the largest water bodies in Asia and its beauty stands for its greenery and variety of marine life. He said this lake is surrounded by beautiful blue mountains. The people of Manipur and the Northeast are proud of this lake.“From the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways, I assure you all the support required for the promotion and development of this particular water body,” he said.“Being a Northeasterner, I feel proud and that is why we have an important role to play for the promotion and development of this lake as one of the most important tourist destinations of the globe,” he added.Lauding PM Modi for emphasising the speedy growth of the Northeast, he said, ”He is the first Prime Minister in the last 75 years who has given his heart and soul for the promotion and development of the Northeast.”“In the last 7 years, whatever initiatives he has taken in the sector of connectivity and communication, infrastructure growth, growth of industries has also the benefitted the poorest of the poor besides the youths,” he said.After the brief speech, the visiting Union minister, along with Dr Ranjan, LDA chairman Sushindo and BJP MLA P Sarat (Moirang) took a boat ride till Phubala jetty in Bishnupur district.Later, he attended BJP’s booth-level meeting at Thanga village, also under the Bishnupur district. Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who also holds the AYUSH portfolio, will also meet chief minister N Biren Singh and attend an AYUSH department-sponsored function in Imphal before his departure for the national capital on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-minister-sonowal-assures-full-support-for-promotion-development-of-loktak-lake-101638639378058.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt made UP crime free: Anurag Thakur||Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday said the Yogi government had given a safe environment to Uttar Pradesh by making it crime free. Thakur also said the crime-free atmosphere was also of utmost importance for the youth to succeed in life, get jobs or venture into start-ups after obtaining degrees.He further said under the incumbent government, Uttar Pradesh had witnessed unprecedented development and was emerging as the second largest economy in the country and drawing huge investment not just in Gorakhpur but in all parts of state. “Earlier people felt frightened while stepping out after the sunset as loot, murder and rape cases were common in previous governments (in Uttar Pradesh). But this atmosphere of fear and terror has now been ended completely ever since Yogi ji took over the reins of the state. A sanyasi (a reference to CM Yogi Adityanath), who came from Nath Peeth, ended crime and sent criminals to their right place,” the union minister said while addressing a gathering on the occasion of foundation day of Maharaja Pratap Shiksha Parishad here.Maharaja Pratap Shiksha Parishad is an academic venture of Gorakhnath Temple under which more than four dozen schools, colleges and other educational institutes are being run. Thakur said the ease of doing business had improved significantly after the central and the Yogi governments took several measures to give an impetus to trade and industries.The minister also hailed the BJP government for timely completion of two key projects—fertilizer factory and AIIMS in Gorakhpur—saying the foundation stone of both the projects were laid together by PM Narendra Modi on July 22, 2016 and now these two projects were being inaugurated by the Modi on December 7.On the occasion, Thakur, who is also the minister of sports and youth affairs, announced that a shooting range and an indoor stadium would be established in Gorakhpur and asked the authorities concerned to send a proposal for it. Speaking at the event , chief minister Yogi Adityanath said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the new education policy for the all-round development of youths by improving standard of education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-govt-made-up-crime-free-anurag-thakur-101638639317391.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||'Biggest expose': AAP alleges illegal sand mining in Punjab CM's constituency||Ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Saturday claimed that he found illegal sand mining being carried out in Chamkaur Sahib, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency. Raghav Chadha made the accusation following his visit to Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib."Illegal sand mining in Charanjit Singh Channi constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab's politics," Chadha told reporters, according to news agency PTI."We are in Jindapur village, which is in the chief minister's constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Illegal sand mining is going on here openly. Sand is being illegally ferried in trucks," the AAP leader claimed.The AAP leader also went on to attack the ruling Congress in the state, saying the party was "patronising" the sand mafia.Recalling that Channi had declared that those connected to the sand mafia should not try to approach him, Chadha said, “But here we can see this mafia is enjoying the patronage of the ruling outfit.”Chadha said as per their estimates, 800 to 1,000 trucks, called tippers, filled with sand were being taken out from the site. "Right under the chief minister's nose and in his own constituency, this illegal activity is going on," PTI quoted him as saying."Channi's hoardings can be seen in the state that his government has checked various mafia. The truth is that in his own constituency illegal mining is going, so his claims are hollow. Another claim that people were getting sand at ₹5 per cubic feet is also hollow," Chadha claimed.On Friday, Charanjit Singh Channi attacked his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal calling him a "power greedy outsider" who wants to rule the state and accused him of misleading Punjabis. Channi also claimed that the AAP supremo had little knowledge about the state and was "groping in the dark for fulfilling his lust of power".Notably, Punjab is headed for assembly elections in early 2022. The Aam Aadmi Party is trying to come to power in the state after retaining its rule in neighbouring Delhi for a second term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biggest-expose-aap-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-in-punjab-cm-s-constituency-101638636434203.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron threat: IIIT-A halts phased opening of campus for now||In view of the alerts sounded by the central and state governments with regard to possible threat of new Covid variant Omicron, the Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A) has for the time being deferred its decision to open the campus for more students and will continue holding online classes. Earlier in view of the drastic decline in Covid-19 cases in Prayagraj and the country, the institute had started allowing students back on its campus in phases. The first to return were doctoral and post graduate students from July 2021 followed by select undergraduate students who were facing resources problem at home from September. “The lists of these students were prepared with the help of institute’s ‘Students’ Gymkhana’, the students’ representative body. The plan was to allow another batch of 250 students facing resources problems back on the campus. However, now this has been deferred,” said Vijay Kumar Chaurasiya, associate dean (student affairs), IIIT-A.The decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of all deans and heads of departments chaired by IIIT-A director prof P Nagabhushan on Thursday, he added. “In the high-level meeting, the members assessed the Covid situation, especially the cases of Omicron variant in the country, and decided that the institute is not allowing any student back on the campus for the time being. It was further decided that those who were earlier given permission to join back campus but could not join the institute due to some personal reasons would also not be allowed to join the campus till further orders,” he said. The official said, however, the 200-odd who had returned and after due process allowed to stay in hostels would continue to stay on the campus. “These students can also attend their labs and take the online classes using the resources made available by the institute,” Chaurasiya added.Similarly, the newly admitted first year students who are to report at the institute from December 20 and complete various formalities of admission too would be allowed to do so. “The plan is to closely monitor this evolving situation and then take a call in due course in accordance with directions from the union ministry of education,” he said.Further, all students have been requested to refrain from writing individual emails for joining the campus physically and instead send their request to the Students’ Gymkhana because all future decisions in this regard will be made as per the recommendation of the Gymkhana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-threat-iiit-a-halts-phased-opening-of-campus-for-now-101638638716884.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||In the nick of time: Watch how cops save woman on train platform||Security personnel in Maharashtra were spotted saving a woman from nearly falling into the gap between a platform and a train while she was trying to board the running train at Dombivli railway station, a video tweeted by news agency ANI showed on Saturday.The video showed the cops rushing just in time to rescue the woman after she loses her balance and falls near the platform while attempting to board the fast-moving train.#WATCH | Maharashtra security personnel saves a woman from falling into the gap between platform and train while she was boarding the running train at Dombivli railway station (Source: GRP Dombivli) pic.twitter.com/VVt7uJfIYPIn a similar incident that took place last month, a pointsman attached to the Kalyan railway station saved the life of a 40-year-old man who was trying to board the moving Howrah-Mumbai special train and slipped through the gap between the platform and the footboard.Suburban trains are the quickest and the most convenient way of commuting in Mumbai. Earlier, the Maharashtra government mandated full vaccination for all citizens, including essential workers and government employees, for availing Mumbai local train services.Mumbai local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers in August, after a hiatus of four months. Passengers were restricted from commuting in local trains in the first week of April after the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-the-nick-of-time-watch-how-cops-save-woman-on-train-platform-101638637782137.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Army to get AK-203 assault rifles manufactured in UP’s Amethi soon||With Amethi district all set to roll out five lakh AK-203 series assault rifles from its manufacturing unit in Korwa, the defence manufacturing sector in Uttar Pradesh will get a major boost. The Centre has approved a plan to produce these AK-203 series assault rifles at Korwa and the production will start soon, said the state government in a statement issued on Saturday. At Korwa, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited’s (HAL) avionics division is based. The project is a joint venture with the Russian government under the ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Modi government. According to government officials, the 7.62 X 39mm calibre AK-203 rifles will replace in-service INSAS rifles which were induced over three decades ago. As per defence experts, the AK-203 assault rifles have an effective range of 300 metres and are lightweight. They will enhance operational effectiveness of the Indian Army in counter insurgency operations in the Kashmir valley, they say. According to senior officials of the state government, the project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture named Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL). It was set up with the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board which is now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL) and Munitions India Limited (MIL)] of India and Rosoboronexport (RoE) of Russia.The RoE is the only intermediary in Russia for exports and imports of the entire range of products, technologies and services of military and dual-use. This project is in addition to the Defence Industrial Corridor project of the state government. On February 21, 2018, PM Narendra Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore defence industrial corridor in Bundelkhand region which is considered as one of the most backward regions in the state. The corridor has six nodes, including Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow.
04-12-2021||Other||Cyclonic storm Jawad weakens to deep depression, Odisha relieved||The spectre of cyclonic storm Jawad hitting the Odisha coast may have dissipated after the meteorologists on Saturday said it weakened into a deep depression as it lay about 330 km south-southwest of Puri, where it is supposed to make landfall.The India Meteorological Department in its latest bulletin said cyclonic storm Jawad over the west-central Bay of Bengal moved nearly northwards with a speed of 9 kmph during the past six hours and weakened into a deep depression.“Rapid scan image showed slightly disorganised cloud clusters signifying that the system has weakened before landfall. Under its impact, Puri may experience the wind in the range of 45-50 km per hour. But districts like Ganjam, Gajapati and Puri may experience very heavy rainfall from tonight. However, Cuttack and Bhubaneswar would see heavy rainfall as was being predicted earlier,” said senior scientist Uma Shankar Das of Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar. The gusting speed of the wind is likely to go up to 70 kmph in Puri.Districts like Balasore and Bhadrak may see heavy rainfall from Sunday evening as the system moves north-northeastwards along Odisha coast towards West Bengal coast after reaching Puri on Sunday noon.But farmers in coastal Odisha districts of Puri, Balasore, Bhadrak and Ganjam are worried as the rains would spoil their ripened paddy as well as vegetables they had grown. Already affected by delayed rainfall as well as the pandemic, paddy farmers and vegetable growers hoped for a decent harvest this season. But cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’ may have dashed their hopes.“Though we had managed to harvest paddy, we could not carry the crop to the safety of our home. There is not much time left,” said a farmer in the Balasore district. In Puri district, vegetable farmers resorted to distress sale of cauliflowers to ₹3 per piece afraid of the rains waterlogging their fields. “We had taken loans to carry out cauliflower farming and hoped to earn a decent sum this winter as the prices are still high in local markets. But that seems a remote possibility now,” said another farmer in Pipili block of Puri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclonic-storm-jawad-weakens-to-deep-depression-odisha-relieved-101638637820769.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pune Golf Championship: Chandigarh’s Abhijit walks away with title||Chandigarh’s Abhijit Singh Chadha cruised to a comfortable six-shot win after shooting a solid last round of four-under 66, his third consecutive bogey-free round, at the Pune Open Golf Championship 2021 played at the Poona Club Golf Course on Saturday. Chadha (63-65-64-66), 33, leading by one shot at the end of round three, sank four birdies, to end up with an impressive winning total of 21-under 258.Chadha negotiated the tough conditions to perfection through the week as he went error-free for 71 holes after his bogey on the first hole in round one. Abhijit thus lifted his third title, which also accounted for his first win in six years. He took home prize of Rs. 6.46 lakh to move up nine spots to 15th place in the PGTI Order of Merit.Rookie Kartik Sharma (66-60-67-71) of Gurugram, who was placed second, one shot off the lead, after round three, returned a one-over 71 on the final day to finish second at 15-under 264. Kartik’s round featured a birdie and two bogeys as the putts didn’t roll in for him. Nonetheless, it was a career-best finish for the left-hander who moved up seven spots to 18th place in PGTI’s merit list. It was also Kartik’s fifth top-10 this season.Kolkata’s Sunit Chowrasia shot the day’s best score for the second day in succession to finish third at 13-under 266. In round four, Chowrasia’s 65 was matched by Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (tied eighth at seven-under 272), Bengaluru’s C Muniyappa (tied 17th at three-under 276) and Gurugram’s Ankur Chadha (tied 26th at two-over 281).The par for the course was 70 during round four. Play commenced on time on Saturday. The day witnessed a light drizzle in the afternoon towards the closing stages of the tournament.Abhijit Singh Chadha, a silver medalist from the 2010 Asian Games, dominated the proceedings from the outset in round four as he began pulling away from the rest of the field early on. After nearest challenger Kartik missed the green and the subsequent chip-putts to drop bogeys on the second and third, Abhijit further capitalized with 10-feet birdie conversions on the fifth and sixth to stretch his lead to a massive five shots.Thereafter, Kartik could not convert his opportunities on the greens and Abhijit maintained his lead before further extending it with birdies on the 16th and 17th, making a mammoth 66-feet putt on the latter. Chadha finally emerged triumphant by six shots after Sharma picked up a birdie on the 18th hole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pune-golf-championship-chandigarh-s-abhijit-walks-away-with-title-101638637817898.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC asks citizens not to visit Chaitya Bhoomi, opt for virtual darshan||Mumbai After the first case of Omicron variant was confirmed in Maharashtra, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked citizens not to visit Chaitya Bhoomi in Dadar on the death anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar on December 6.Instead, the BMC said that citizens should use the online facility that is being made available by the civic body. However, those who visit physically, will be allowed at the holy site only if they are fully vaccinated.The civic body has decided to provide visuals of the memorial on its social media handles to avoid crowding at the memorial. As per the BMC’s estimates, nearly 10 lakh people from different parts of the country visit Chaitya Bhoomi every year on December 6. Nearly 500 stalls are set up to sell books, lamps, calendars, decorations, posters, T-shirts, watches and many other such items. However, this year no such permission is given.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We are technically only allowing the fully vaccinated. We have appealed to the citizens to not gather at Chaitya Bhoomi and opt for the online event.”Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednkar appealed that citizens should cooperate with the BMC officials in order to follow Covid-19 appropriate norms. On the other hand, Prakash Ambedkar, prominent Dalit leader and great-grandson of Dr Ambedkar, appealed to the followers of the Dalit icon not to visit the memorial on December 6 to avoid crowding. He urged them to stay at home instead of travelling all the way to Dadar, at a time when following Covid-appropriate behaviour is the necessity. Civic officials said that people can visit Chaitya Bhoomi virtually on the civic body’s social media handles. Every year on December 6, thousands of followers of Dr Ambedkar, as well as political workers, visit Chaitya Bhoomi, a memorial built at Dadar beach where Dr Ambedkar was cremated after he died in 1956.Meanwhile, the BMC in a statement on Friday said that they have ordered the closure of the Global Vipassana Pagoda at Gorai between December 5 and 7, owing to the pandemic. The pagoda is a meditation centre and a monument built as a tribute to Lord Gautama Buddha. The pagoda was shut in December 2020 also due to similar reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-asks-citizens-not-to-visit-chaitya-bhoomi-opt-for-virtual-darshan-101638637816502.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||UP governor visits SSB’s border outpost in Siddharthnagar||Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday visited SSB Aligarhwa Border Outpost in Siddharthnagar and interacted with force personnel, especially women.The governor praised the work being done by the SSB in development and security of border areas and also appreciated the work of dog squad and relief and rescue teams.Inspector general, Frontier, Lucknow, Ratn Sanjay apprised about the role of SSB in national security and participation of women personnel in the discharge of various responsibilities of the force such as border operations, civic action programme, UN peace mission and sports etc. During the programme a short film on history and role SSB was also shown.The dog squad also displayed a wonderful show. In the event tracker dog Lambert perfectly sniffed and picked the handkerchief having the scent of governor to exhibit the quality of training. The Relief and Rescue team also demonstrated their capabilities and preparedness to meet any eventuality. Also, a blood donation camp was organised and on this occasion where SSB personnel, including women soldiers, donated blood.During the occasion MLA of Kapilvastu Shyam Dhani, DM Siddharthnagar Deepak Meena, SP Siddharthnagar Yashvir Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-governor-visits-ssb-s-border-outpost-in-siddharthnagar-101638637276742.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Second meeting with farmers soon: Khattar at Karnal open session||Hundreds of people with their written complaints queued up outside Karnal’s PWD rest house for the redressal of their grievances at chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s open session. Heavy police deployment and barricading was in place and the visitors were made to go through several security checkpoints to enter the venue. Arpita of Araipura in Gharaunda had reached there with her complaint against an encroachment on her land. She said she had to wait for several hours for her turn to raise her concern with the chief minister. Another man waiting in the line, Joginder Sahani, 78, of Karnal, said he had come to apprise the chief minister of a “scam” in the construction of the boundary wall of a cremation ground wherein a notice has been served by the Karnal municipal corporation. He said they had already raised the issue with the local authorities, but could not get any satisfactory response. There were several others who could not have a word with the chief minister and later returned by handing over their written complaints. During the four-hour open session, Khattar tried to sort out about 300 complaints on the spot and 165 complaints were heard one by one. In most of the complaints, directions were issued to the officers concerned for immediate redressal. Due to a huge rush, the chief minister could not address all visitors, but assured them required action. The chief minister said the open session was organised after a long gap due to the pandemic. Khattar said around 25 complaints were from nearby districts, but most of the people returned satisfied. All officers of Karnal district administration, including deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, besides superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia also attended the session.The last such session was organised in June last year at the same venue and the one before that was held in November 2019. In October, former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition in the state assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda had also held an open session in Karnal and interacted with the people over the problems being faced by them during the BJP rule. Committee to hold talks with farmers: CM Reacting over Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s decision to form a five-member committee to discuss the pending issues with the government, the chief minister said either the state government or the Centre will constitute a panel to hold talks with the farmers on other issues, including the MSP.About the Friday’s meeting with farmers, Khattar said the talks could not reach any conclusion on some issues. The chief minister did not disclose why the talks remained inconclusive, but said that more meetings could be organised anytime in future. Replying a question that Haryana was in favour to reduce the National Capital Region (NCR) to a 100km radius, the chief minister said most of the parts of the state included in the NCR could not be developed and therefore there is a need to reduce this area as the state government will work in the development of these areas too.
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron scare casts shadow over eastern UP saree business||The detection of highly contagious new variant of Crononavirus-- Omicron-- in Karnataka has started to show cascading effect on saree trade in eastern Uttar Pradesh, including Varanasi, with many southern states cancelling their orders leading to a dip in production by around 30%, say traders of the region.“A variety of sarees, including semi silk and silk, are weaved in Varanasi and adjoining areas like Mau in eastern UP. The wholesalers and retailers from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra buy sarees from us and sell them in their local markets,” says Mau-based saree trader Mushtaq Ahmad.But with Karnataka reporting two cases of Omicron, many southern states like Karnataka, Maharashtra and Telangana have cancelled 25% of their orders fearing lockdown.“This has made the situation very difficult for saree traders in UP who had already faced a lot of hardship during the first and second waves of the pandemic,” he said.“The situation started looking up since July 2021 and traders were hoping for a better scenario. In September, Mau and Varanasi based manufacturers started receiving orders for Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Telangana where these sarees are well-liked for their designs. The festive and marriage seasons came as a little boost for the entire saree business. But with this new threat, the scene is once again looking bleak,” said Mushtaq. As per the trader, over two dozen silk saree wholesalers from Maharashtra and Karnataka were to visit Mau and Varanasi for placing new orders. But all of them have cancelled their trips. “As a result, we have decreased our production by up to 30%,” he added. Another Mau trader Zail Ali said: “What is the use of making more sarees, when the wholesalers have started cancelling the orders.”Babu Bhai, a Varanasi-based master weaver and saree manufacturer said: “I have heard about the threat of the new corona variant. Many wholesalers, who buy sarees from us, have cancelled their orders fearing that market may see a steep fall in buyers in case Omicron spreads its tentacle. The production has been decreased by 25%.”The adverse effect of this is not just limited to the sellers but weavers too are affected. “The cancellation of orders from wholesalers will have a direct impact on the livelihood of weavers of sarees, who work on powerlooms on a daily wage basis. With drying up of orders, powerlooms may have to shut their shops rendering these weavers out of job,” said Saif Ansari, a Varanasi-based trader.The saree industry, including Banarsi sarees and silk products’, has an annual business between ₹3000 crore and ₹5000 crore. Varanasi region’s saree business generates employment for over 3 lakh people, including 2.5 lakh weavers.
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Mega recruitment of teachers, principals in UP government-aided secondary schools on cards before polls||Recruitment of assistant teachers, lecturers and principals in 4500 government-aided secondary schools of the state will be taken up on priority basis ahead of next year’s assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, said an official of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board (UPSESSB). “The UPSESSB has sent a missive to all district inspectors of schools (DIOS) of the state and asked them to send details regarding vacant posts in government-aided secondary schools in their respective districts. This is to be done by the DIOSs via online portal between December 3 and 12,” said Naval Kishore, secretary, UPSESSB-Prayagraj. A helpline number -- 8468007598-- has also been issued so that there is no difficulty in sending the requisition and details. It has specially been advised to the DIOSs that only verified requisitions of the vacant posts be sent after careful examination, he added. A missive in this regard has also been sent by the UPSESSB secretary to all DIOSs via e-mail marked “Very Important”. The DIOSs have also been asked to make sure that there are no vacant posts in the district other than those whose details are being sent. A certificate in this regard will also have to be given to the selection board, read the missive, a copy of which is with HT. An advertisement is expected to be released soon in this regard. The UPSESSB had earlier released an advertisement for the recruitment of 15,508 teachers on October 29, 2020 after a gap of almost four years of conducting last recruitment process. However, the advertisement was canceled due to legal hurdles. The recruitment against 15,198 vacant posts of teachers then re-started on March 15, 2021.The Supreme Court had ordered completing of this recruitment by October 31, 2021 following which the UPSESSB completed the recruitment process within the set deadline. For this recruitment, the information of vacant posts had been sought till October 2019. However, now that two years have passed since then, information regarding vacant posts has been sought keeping in mind teachers who are retiring till March 31, 2022. Principals too would be selected in this new recruitment drive. The UPSESSB has not issued an advertisement for recruitment of principals since 2013 and there is presently a significant shortage of principals in government-aided secondary schools. In the requisition sought by the board two years ago, 1453 posts of principals were found vacant. Since then a large number of principals have retired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mega-recruitment-of-teachers-principals-in-up-government-aided-secondary-schools-on-cards-before-polls-101638636497492.html
04-12-2021||Pune||DSK case: Hemanti Kulkarni gets bail in a case registered by Sangli police||PUNE: Hemanti Kulkarni (62), co-accused with her husband DS Kulkarni, in a case of defrauding thousands of investors in their real estate business, was granted bail in a case registered against them by Sangli police. The bail was granted by the court of Additional Sessions Judge RV Jagtap after argument on a bail application made by advocate Aashutosh Srivastava on her behalf. Advocate Pravin Chavan is the special public prosecutor in the case. The decision was made on December 1 and the order was made available on December 3. A case against the DSK couple was registered in Sangli in May 2018 based on a complaint lodged by a retired government employee who invested ₹8,95,000 based on newspaper advertisement by the realtor to get 12% interest rate promised in the ads. “The Bombay High Court has already granted bail to our client in the main case which includes case under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act (MPID) registered at Pune. This is the second case in which she has been granted bail by the lower court itself. There is a third case in Kolhapur and two more cases at Pune for VAT and Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act (MOFA) which are ongoing. We have applied for bail/s in the local court/s in those cases. If and when she is granted bail in these, she will be able to come out of jail,” said advocate Srivastava. The couple and some of their family members and colleagues are lodged in the Yerawada Central jail since the couple’s arrest in 2018 from a hotel in Delhi. While Hemanti was granted bail, Deepak Kulkarni was denied bail by the Bombay High Court. Therefore, the defence lawyers have approached the Supreme Court with his bail application. About 32,000 investors have lost over ₹2,043 crore in the form of fixed deposits which DSK’s development company accepted for decades. After building a goodwill among people for multiple years by giving return on investment, the payments in the FD scheme started faltering around 2017-2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dsk-case-hemanti-kulkarni-gets-bail-in-a-case-registered-by-sangli-police-101638635596061.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Amidst Omicron scare, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation increases testing by 7% in one week||Amidst the Omicron scare, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has increased the testing by 7% in one week. However, the cases have dropped by 5%.The civic body is also insisting on more RT-PCR tests rather than antigen tests. The corporation had a ratio of 40% RT-PCR and 60% antigen testing earlier, which is now increased to 55% RT-PCR and 45% antigen testing.The corporation has also issued notification to housing societies asking them to make sure that the international travellers under quarantine do not step out.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “Fortunately now, the high-risk countries are only three – South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe. We are notifying the housing societies about the international travellers coming back and asking them to make sure that they are following the quarantine rules. Also, if anyone from a high-risk country is found positive, the whole society will be sealed.”The corporation also plans to issue a notification to all service providers like petrol pumps, shops and commercial places that no service should be provided to a person who has not completed both vaccine doses. “In case a person has a medical condition that does not allow him to get vaccinated, he should have a doctor’s certificate to access any service. Even the housing societies would be asked to take watchmen, maids, housekeeping and other staff only those who have taken both the doses,” Bangar said.Currently, the average daily cases reported in NMMC are 21, down from 22 last week and from 45 a month ago. The testing currently done is on an average 7,999 which was 7,478 till last week. The doubling rate has also increased to 4,381 from 3,808 days. There are a total of 239 active cases now.Apart from testing, NMMC is also stressing on strict vigilance on masks in order to make sure that there is no surge again.“Every time the cases go down, the common public has a notion that the Covid has gone. Covid has not gone, nobody knows how many mutations would come and how many modifications would happen in the vaccine. Everyone needs to keep on making sure to wear the masks. While the delta variant needs an interaction with a positive person for around 30 minutes, the Omicron variant just needs five to ten minutes,” Bangar said. While the fine for the public is ₹500 for not wearing a mask, he has warned his NMMC staff that the fine would be more for them if found without a mask to ensure that they do not set an example of not taking the pandemic seriously.Besides testing, vaccination too has been getting a good response now, said Bangar. “Due to the media speaking about Omicron now, the response over the few days for vaccination is good compared to what it was a month ago. But it should also be kept in mind that just because one is vaccinated, wearing the mask should not be stopped,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amidst-omicron-scare-navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-increases-testing-by-7-in-one-week-101638633676742.html
04-12-2021||Dehradun||Congress holds protest against PM Modi amid his Dehradun rally||Opposition Congress held protests against Prime Minister Narendra Modi amid his rally in Dehradun on Saturday and accused him of “keeping mum” on the state’s important issues like unemployment and inflation.Congress members, including those from its women’s wing, tried to hold protest against PM Modi by going near the rally venue at Parade Ground but were stopped by police at barricades installed meters away from the venue.The party members then held their protest at the barricade, raising slogans against the PM while holding black flags.Raising slogans of “Narendra Modi Go Back”, Congress members accused him of “coming to Dehradun to befool people with jumlas (fake claims)” before the upcoming state assembly polls to be held early next year.“PM Modi disappointed the people of the state by not talking on state’s important issues like unemployment, inflation, farmers’ suicide, women security and others. It was a complete flop show,” said party vice president Suryakant Dhasmana.Dhasmana added, “During his address, PM Modi again mentioned the double engine government (BJP government at both Centre and state) for the development of the state. He did the same during previous elections in 2017. But it has been almost five years that the BJP has come to power in the state, but their double engine government failed to even start. It was because of this, that they have to change three drivers (CM) of that engine.”He said that the PM earlier promised to reduce inflation by reducing the prices of fuel and other essential items.“Instead, the inflation has only increased with the prices of essential items skyrocketing. People of the state have now understood that he has come again to befool them with fake tall claims. But this won’t happen again and the BJP will be taught a lesson in 2022 polls by the people,” said Dhasmana.The BJP however, termed the rally a successful one.“PM Modi’s event was a huge success which was evident with the fact that people from far away places had come to listen to him because he had a special affection towards Uttarakhand. He is the world’s most popular leader and under his leadership, the state is witnessing many significant development projects. Congress’ protests show their frustration,” said party state general secretary Kuldeep Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/congress-holds-protest-against-pm-modi-call-his-rally-flop-show-101638633436036.html
04-12-2021||Other||Ahead of rabi sowing, Bihar farmers face fertiliser crisis||Meena Devi, 55, of Triveniganj in Supaul district has lost hope. For the last three days, she had been trying to purchase fertilizer, unsuccessfully. “Today (Friday) is the third day when I am returning home without fertilizer. I reach BISCOMAUN (Bihar state co-operative marketing union ltd.) at 3 am. After 14 hours, I had to return empty-handed,” she says, expressing frustration over unavailability of fertilizer, especially DAP (diammonia phosphate) urgently needed for wheat crop. “Untimely rains destroyed our paddy and now the government is spoiling our prospects for rabi,” she laments.In south Bihar, farmers are on the boil due to unprecedented fertilizer shortage in peak Rabi sowing season. In protest, they have been blocking roads, pelting stones and raising slogans against the central government allegedly for sending Bihar quota fertilizer to Uttar Pradesh and Punjab to win the coming assembly elections.Only 14% of required DAP and 16% of required urea fertilizers have been received in four districts of Shahabad region, namely Rohtas, Kaimur, Buxar and Bhojpur. The region, which produced biggest share of paddy and wheat in the state, is called granary of Bihar.“In Kaimur district, only 1,275.75 metric tonnes (MTs) of DAP and 4,442 MTs of urea fertilizer have been against the demand of 8,999 MTs and 27,000 MTs, respectively, for Rabi season,” district agriculture officer Rewati Raman said, adding that 1000 MTs of DAP would arrive next week. Rabi sowing season in the region starts from November 15 and ends on December 15.Dhananjay Tiwary of Rampur, a big farmer, said that the central government had created an artificial crisis by sending the Bihar quota of fertilizers to the poll-bound UP and Punjab and state government is silent. The shortage, predictably, has led to a black market.The government rate for 50 kg bag for DAP is fixed at ₹1,200 and at ₹266 for urea, the DAO said.In the black market, however, fertilizers brought from UP are selling at much higher prices. Farmer Bajarangi Singh of Bhagwanpur said that the desired quantity of DAP and urea was available in black market at ₹1500 and ₹350 per bag. According to Singh, the agriculture department was giving only two bags of fertilizer to one farmer. Since the soil was drying fast, farmers had no option than purchase fertilizer from black market to sow wheat in time.The fertilizer crisis has also threatened to hamper sowing of rabi crops in Darbhanga. “Firstly, fertilizers like DAP (diammonia phosphate) and potash are not easily available in the market. If at all it is available, the prices have gone through the roof. Purchasing fertilizers at an exorbitant rate is beyond our reach,” says Hemchandra Singh, a farmer in Hayaghat block. Many farmers in Kushothar panchayat under Bahadurpur block alleged that a large number of unlicensed fertilizer, seeds and pesticides shops had cropped up in the area these days. “We have directed officials concerned to keep a strict vigil on the fertilizer distributors regarding the shortage and black marketing of fertilizers in the district,” Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM said.Shortage of fertilizer has also Seemanchal region where about 85 per cent people depend on farming.Sunil Kumar Jha, 45, of Japharpur village in Purnia said ‘We have been running from shop to shop, but cannot get DAP fertilizer urgently required for wheat sowing.”Agriculture department officials, however say the crisis will end very soon and DAP supply has even resumed. “At the same time, we are advising farming community to use alternate methods so that rabi crops don’t get affected,” Purnia district agriculture officer Prakash Chandra Mishra said.Inputs from Bishnu K Jha and Aditya Nath Jha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-rabi-sowing-bihar-farmers-face-fertiliser-crisis-101638632717398.html
04-12-2021||Patna||Bihar revises Covid death figures, toll up at 12,089||Bihar has once again revised its Covid-19 death figures, the second time in almost six months, taking the toll to 12,089. Till December 2, the Covid death figures in the state stood at 9,664. However, as per the figures uploaded by the health department on December 3 late night, the deaths in Bihar increased by 2425.The change in figures was effected on the basis of compensation claims cleared across the state, officials of the health department said. The last audit of the Covid-19 death toll was done on June 9 last year, which added 9,375 more deaths, an increase of 72.8% over the 5,424 deaths attributed to the virus in the state till then. The change in the total number of fatalities done after a 20-day exercise to audit Covid deaths on directions of the Patna high court that spotted discrepancies in figures cited by different agencies in one district.“These deaths had remained unaccounted earlier. Applications for seeking a compensation of ₹4 lakh being provided by the Bihar government had been lying for a long time in districts. After verification of papers, the figures have been uploaded on the website,” said Bihar’s health minister Mangal Pandey. “There is nothing to hide. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had announced to provide compensation of ₹4 lakh to each family who died of Covid on the production of proper papers. These additional death figures are nothing but only those whose papers were found correct,” he said. Of the 2425 deaths, the maximum increase is from Patna (445), followed by Vaishali (210), Katihar (174), Gopalganj (162) and Jehananbad (135).The increase reflects deaths reported at private hospitals, in transit to health facilities, under home isolation and those dying of post-Covid complications after they tested negative, said a health department official, wishing not to be quoted.In August, Hindustan Times had reported that there were at least 251,000 excess deaths registered under the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Bihar since the start of the Covid-19 outbreak (from March 2020 to May 2021), which is 48.6 times the official number of confirmed coronavirus deaths (5,163) in the state in the same period.
04-12-2021||Other||Botched cataract surgeries: Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital sealed; three operated at IGIMS||The district administration on Saturday sealed the eye hospital in Muzaffarpur where “botched” cataract surgeries done on November 22 have allegedly caused the removal of one eye of 16 patients. “The operation theatre (OT) and the medical shop in the Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital have been sealed,” Manish (who goes by single name), assistant subdivisional magistrate, Muzaffarpur (East), told reporters.“However, the chamber of secretary of the hospital, Dilip Jalan, one of the 14 accused the in the case, has not been sealed,” she said. Ramnaresh Paswan, deputy superintendent of police (SDP), Muzaffarpur Town, said, “The sealing was needed for the team of medical experts to investigate the matter.”On Thursday, police had lodged an FIR against 14 people in the case.Health minister Mangal Pandey, who met some of the patients admitted at Patna’s IGIMS, said, “Three persons underwent operation after admission at IGIMS on Friday night. Of the 65 cases operated on November 22 at the Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, we are trying to locate others who were from districts of Sheohar, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, and even Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh,” said the minister.Meanwhile, Muzaffarpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday came out in support of doctors named in the FIR and blamed hospital management for tragedy. “Prima facie, much of the onus lies with hospital management as operation theatre and equipment are maintained by management, besides procurement of medicines. None of the doctors are on their payroll either. They only facilitated the operations on the request of hospital management,” said Dr CB Kumar, president of IMA, Muzaffarpur, adding a fact finding team has been constituted to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/botched-cataract-surgeries-muzaffarpur-eye-hospital-sealed-three-operated-at-igims-101638632657343.html
04-12-2021||Ranchi||Paddy procurement: Around 65000 ‘farmers’ under scanner in Jharkhand||Around 65,000 people who sold paddy to the government under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime during the previous financial year are under scanner for allegedly fleecing the government by pretending to be farmers with fake registration. Around 1.79 lakh farmers had registered last year for the purpose and the state procured 62.8 lakh tons paddy against the target of 60 lakh tons. However, after scrutiny, the state government now feels that around 65,000 of those farmers who sold paddy to the government might have used wrongful means to get themselves registered. “These 65,000 farmers are having ration cards, which means they are under BPL category. So either they have fake ration cards or their farmers’ certificate and registration is fake. We are investigating this issue and action to be taken accordingly,” said Rameshwar Oraon, finance and civil supplies minister. The minister said some of these farmers have reportedly sold paddy ranging from 400 to 1000 quintals, which was unusual. The minister said as result, the state has fixed an upper limit of 200 quintals for each registered farmer for the current financial year. “At least in my knowledge, I don’t know any farmer in the state who can sell 1000 quintals of paddy. We are fixing the 200 quintal limit so that small and medium-scale farmers get benefitted from the scheme,” added Oraon. However, the state government this year has fixed the target of procuring 80 lakh tonnes of paddy. Procurement for this season is likely to begin December 15, for which payments will be done in parts. While 50% of the liable amount would be paid instantly after the procurement, the balance would be paid within the next three months..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/paddy-procurement-around-65000-farmers-under-scanner-in-jharkhand-101638632656055.html
04-12-2021||Patna||Fresh supplies of fertiliser soon, say Bihar officials||In view of the shortage of fertilizers for the rabi season, the Bihar government has requested the centre to supply different varieties, which have already starting coming at different places, including Bhojpur, Khagaria and Katihar, through railway rakes, officials said. Two days ago, agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh had conceded in the state assembly that stocks of fertilizers available in several districts was less than the demand and all district agriculture officers had been asked to send the requirement of fertilizers so that supplies could be sent at the earliest. He said against the demand of 4.35 lakh metric tonnes of urea in October and November, there has been a supply of 3.43 lakh metric tonnes, which is 59% of the total requirement. DAP supplies is 35% of the total demand as of November, he said. “Several fertilizer companies have started dispatching supplies and the rakes are going to reach the destinations by December 5,” he said. Agriculture department secretary N Saravana Kumar could not be reached for comment. Meanwhile, Rashtriya Janata Dal national vice president Shivanand Tiwary on Saturday slammed the state government for the shortage of fertilizers, alleging that these were being sold at a premium.“There is no preparedness in sight from the government side to tackle the shortage of fertilizers. The state government should immediately talk to the Centre to tide over this crisis,” Tiwary said.
04-12-2021||Pune||No water cuts in Pune, says Jayant Patil; blames BJP for delay in river rejuvenation project||PUNE There will be no water cuts in Pune city and the government will try to give additional water quota as 23 villages have been merged in the city limits recently, said Maharashtra irrigation minister Jayant Patil.Patil who was in the city on Saturday, said, “When Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was ruling in state and Devendra Fadnavis was chief minister, irrigation department had issued 11 letters to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) regarding water cuts. The irrigation department then also sealed the PMC water pump for almost a month. Now, Fadnavis is blaming Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for water cuts.”Patil blamed the PMC and ruling BJP for water cuts in the city. He said, “It was expected that PMC would execute river rejuvenation project which is funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). If BJP had executed the project in time, more treated water would be released in the river and the irrigation department would not have issued such a letter. The BJP should answer why the JICA project got delayed. Funds are there, the project was approved seven years ago and tenders have been floated but work has not started yet.”On December 1, the irrigation department issued a letter to PMC and warned to cut the city’s water supply with the help of police bandobast. It invited criticism and Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, including other leaders, condemned the action of the irrigation department.On Friday, while inaugurating the BJP office, Fadnavis highlighted the water issue and appealed to the citizens to defeat the opposition who planned water cuts in the city.Earlier, Prashant Jagtap, president, NCP city unit; MLA Chetan Tupe and Sunil Tingre meet the irrigation department officials regarding the issue. Patil held a meeting in Pune and later addressed the media.Patil said, “I am ensuring that there would be no water cut for Pune city. We would consider the additional population due to the merging of new villages. There isn’t enough water in dams. But at the same time, PMC must need to execute the JICA project on priority and treat the sewage.”Mohol said he welcomes the decision taken by the minister. “I don’t not want to bring in party politics here. I attended today’s meeting called by minister and welcome the decision taken by him,” Mohol said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-cuts-in-pune-says-jayant-patil-blames-bjp-for-delay-in-river-rejuvenation-project-101638632355867.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC issues SOP for passengers from at risk countries||The civic body on Saturday issued standard operating procedures (SOP) to monitor passengers arriving from “at risk” countries as they undergo a seven-day home quarantine mandated by the state. The war rooms of each of the city’s 24 wards will call passengers five times a day, and notify their housing societies to ensure that they do not meet anyone during their quarantine, the SOP stated. This comes in the wake of the new variant of concern (VOC) Omicron which was first detected from southern African countries two weeks ago and has now been detected in India too, including in Kalyan-Dombivli, near Mumbai. “BMC has introduced a unique and strict home quarantine monitoring mechanism for passengers arriving in Mumbai from at-risk countries. It will be as effective as institutional quarantine. Our objective is to prevent the possible spread of the Omicron variant in Mumbai,” Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Saturday. The “at-risk” list issued by the Union health ministry includes countries such as the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China and Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, and Hong Kong among others. According to state guidelines issued on December 2, all passengers arriving from these countries will need to undergo RT-PCR tests on arrival in Mumbai; if found positive, the passenger will be put into institutional quarantine or moved to a Covid-19 hospital. Saturday’s SOP has been issued to monitor those passengers who test negative on arrival. As a further precautionary measure, the state also designated three of these countries — Zimbabwe, Bostwana and South Africa — as “high risk” and passengers arriving from here (or with a travel history of a fortnight to these countries) will have to undergo a week-long institutional quarantine even if they test negative on arrival. Accordingly, passengers from these countries will not be given the option of home quarantine. The SOP issued on Saturday directed the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) to send a daily list of international passengers arriving in Mumbai in the preceding 24 hours from high risk and at-risk countries and those who have visited these countries in the last 15 days to the Disaster Management Cell. The civic body has sought the names of only those passengers who reside in the geographical area of Mumbai.The disaster management cell would send the list to all 24 ward war rooms at 10 am. Following this, the civic health department staff will make calls to monitor and track the passengers and conduct contact tracing.“Ward war room shall call all the passengers under home quarantine and politely inform them that they are in 7 days home quarantine. They shall provide the passengers with proper information on Covid-19 and counsel them for concerns. Ward war room shall ensure that all passengers follow the home quarantine protocols by strictly calling them up 5 times a day and monitor their health status,” the SOP read.“The ward war room shall notify to housing society bearers of all such passengers who are under home quarantine. They shall ensure that these passengers strictly follow home quarantine and no visitors shall be allowed to these households. The housing society office bearers should notify any violations to the BMC,” it stated. The SOP further mandated that the passenger’s housing society would be notified, and following the home quarantine, the passenger would need to undergo Real-Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests. “Any passenger violating the home quarantine protocol shall be liable for legal action under the relevant sections of the Epidemic Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2007. Such passengers shall be shifted to mandatory institutional quarantine,” the SOP further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-sop-for-passengers-from-at-risk-countries-101638632295773.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: Charge sheet filed against Param Bir Singh and Sachin Vaze||The Crime Branch (CB) on Saturday filed a charge sheet against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze and two others in an extortion case filed by an hotelier. This is the first charge sheet filed against Singh, who has five First Information Reports (FIRs) registered against him in Mumbai and Thane police stations between April 28 and August 20, 2021.“We have collected evidence and recorded statements of many witnesses to establish how Singh and Vaze were running an extortion racket,” said special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap. Singh had recorded his statement in the case last week.The crime branch collected 69 audio clips of conversations between Vaze, complainant Bimal Agarwal and the witness, from whom Vaze allegedly extorted ₹35 lakh. The transcript of the audio clips forms part of the charge-sheet.According to the charge sheet, the witness stated that Vaze threatened to arrest him in a case registered by the Property Cell of the Mumbai police against cricket bookies though he claimed to have nothing to do with it. The witness said that Vaze reportedly sent him a message asking him to pay ₹2 crore if he wanted to avoid being arrested. The witness said that he was forced to pay the amount which he handed over to Kalpesh Patel, one of the accused in the case.During the course of its investigation, the Mumbai CB has also recorded statements of several bar owners, many of whom disclosed that Vaze collected monthly “protection amounts” from them at the behest of Param Bir Singh, whom Vaze referred to as “Number one.”This assumes importance in view of the fact that in his statements to the Enforcement Directorate, Vaze had claimed that he collected money from bar owners in Mumbai, based on the instructions of former home minister Anil Deshmukh.CB officials said the 1,895 pages long charge sheet against Singh and others contained statements of dozens of witnesses and was filed before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13, in connection with his alleged role in planting explosives (gelatine sticks without a timer or detonator) in an SUV outside the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in February, and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran to whom the car belonged.On August 25, the Goregaon police registered an extortion case against Singh, Vaze and others based on a complaint by hotelier Bimal Agarwal, who alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two bars he owned in partnership with others. The offence had reportedly taken place between January 2020 and March 2021, the police had said. The case was later transferred to CB Unit 11 for investigation.Besides Singh and Vaze, others charge-sheeted in the case include Alpesh Patel and Sumit Singh alias Chintu. While Vaze is in judicial custody, Patel and Sumit Singh are out on bail. The police are yet to file a charge sheet against two others accused in the case, namely Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati.Singh, who was recently suspended by the state from his post as the Director General (DG) of Maharashtra Home Guard. He showed up before CB investigators last week after the Supreme Court granted him protection from arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-charge-sheet-filed-against-param-bir-singh-and-sachin-vaze-101638631755758.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||BJP MLA Shivendrasinh Bhonsle meets Sharad Pawar, fuels speculations of returning to party||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Shivendrasinh Bhonsle recently met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at the latter’s residence in Mumbai, fuelling speculations of him returning to the party. Bhonsle had quit NCP before the last assembly elections.Bhonsle’s visit was related to the Satara District Central Cooperative Bank (SDCCB) election and retaining his position as its chairman. He has sought Pawar’s help for the same. Bhonsle confirmed his meeting with the NCP chief, however, he said it has nothing to do with politics, except the chairman election of the cooperative bank.Bhonsle was among the eight sitting MLAs who left the NCP ahead of the state Assembly elections in 2019. He comes from the family of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji and is a cousin of former BJP member of Parliament (MP) Udayanraje Bhonsle, who is a direct descendant of Shivaji. His return to the party would be beneficial for the NCP and is in line with the party’s plan to recover lost ground in its bastion of the western Maharashtra region, said party insiders.There have been speculations that the MLAs and other leaders who left the party in 2019 wanted to return to NCP. However, Bhonsle has denied the allegations.“Yes, I met him. We (NCP leaders and him) fought the recently held elections for members of the board of directors together. We don’t contest cooperative elections on party lines and also not as a party candidate. The majority of the members elected in the body come from NCP. I met Pawar saheb just to request him to get one more chance as a chairman of SDCCB, as I have been on the post for over the past six years. It had nothing to do with party politics or anything else. The objective of the meeting was limited only to the chairman election,” Bhonsle told HT.The election for the chairman position of the director board is scheduled for December 6.According to Bhonsle, there won’t be any voting because the directors of the board will unanimously elect a chairman election. The board of directors has 21 members, of them, 12 are from NCP.“Since he comes from the family of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, his re-entry will be beneficial for the party in the western Maharashtra region, considering the strained ties between Udayanraje Bhonsle and Pawar,” said a senior NCP functionary.Udayanraje Bhonsle too had left the party ahead of the state Assembly election back in 2019 when he was an NCP MP from Satara Lok Sabha constituency. But could not retain the seat as BJP candidate in the bypolls and lost to Shriniwas Patil, a Pawar loyalist.Meanwhile, Satara district central cooperative bank (SDCCB) is considered the topmost district cooperative bank in Maharashtra as well as in the country. Bhonsle said the NPA (non-performing asset) of the bank has been zero for more than 18 years. Its gross profit for this year was ₹102 crore.
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Kalwa police arrest three for killing friend||The Kalwa police have solved the murder case of a man found lying on the tracks near Kharegaon on Friday morning. The man was murdered by three of his friends over sharing of money needed to buy alcohol for their private party. The police have arrested all the three accused.Senior inspector, Kalwa police station, M Awhad, said, “The body was unknown. We didn’t find any identification documents or marks on his body. However, there were a lot of injuries on him. We sent his body for the post-mortem and also circulated his photo to different groups. His family came forward and identified him as Gulab Shaikh, 22. His brother-in-law informed us that on the day he went missing, he was with his friends.”Police got call records of his friends and located them. The three were arrested and identified as Akash Palas (20), Sunny Sonkar (23) and Faisal Khan (24).Awhad added, “The four were drinking alcohol together near the railway track area when a fight broke out between them over sharing money for alcohol and the three assaulted Shaikh with an iron rod and fled the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalwa-police-arrest-three-for-killing-friend-101638630256535.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena backs off from Mamata Banerjee’s ‘no UPA’ remark, says opposition needs UPA||The Shiv Sena has taken strong exception to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s declaration of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) being over in the country. Sena, the Congress’ ally in Maharashtra, said in its Saamana editorial that opposition parties need the UPA, and forming a parallel front of the opposition parties would be like strengthening Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Sena also asked Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to come forward and clarify what they intend to do with the UPA.“Although it is true that in West Bengal, she (Mamata) finished the Congress, the left and the BJP, doing politics by keeping Congress away from national politics is like strengthening today’s state with a fascist tendency,” said Sena and expressed their concern, “One can understand that (PM) Modi and the BJP want the Congress to be over. It is part of their agenda. But, if those fighting the Modi government and the BJP also feel the same, then it is a concern.”Senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Banerjee’s statement in Mumbai earlier this week about no UPA was valid but a coalition or a front without the Congress party is politically not viable. “Mamata ji’s question on UPA’s existence is valid. Even Uddhav ji [Thackeray] has said in the past that the UPA should be strengthened and it should become more aggressive. We have to weigh the pros and cons of forming a new front in 2024. In the past, we have seen the third front but it has benefitted BJP in the end. So we think that the UPA must be strengthened... Keeping Congress out of the front is politically not appropriate,” Raut said.He added that Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is a prime example where parties who were at ideological loggerheads came together, which should be replicated. “There can be differences; like we are running a government successfully in Maharashtra. We have had differences with Congress and NCP, but we all came together to keep BJP out. Maharashtra is a prime example. Maha Vikas Aghadi is an example of UPA, everybody must sit together and deliberate over it.”He also assured, “We will all meet Mamata ji again along with all the leaders. If she thinks that Congress should not lead the UPA, a solution can be found through discussions. UPA is led by Sonia Gandhi ji and nobody has objected to it so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-backs-off-from-mamata-banerjee-s-no-upa-remark-says-opposition-needs-upa-101638629475716.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Traffic police appeal to people to avoid Kalyan station unless necessary||With the ongoing work of the Kalyan Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme (SATIS) project, which is leading to congestion at the railway station premises, the Kalyan traffic police has appealed to the citizens to only come to station if necessary or avoid taking the road.“The ongoing work of the SATIS project has led to barricading of some portions of the station road due to which there is vehicular congestion at most times. Those who do not have any urgent work at the station should avoid taking the stretch and use alternate routes in the city,” said a traffic police officer of Kalyan west traffic unit.As per the SKDCL the SATIS work shall be completed in 36 months since it began. However, the work on revamping the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus depot, which is also part of this project, would take time as the consent from the MSRTC is yet to be received.“The work in the depot premises has not begun as we are yet to receive the consent from the state transport body. So far, the MSRTC has given conceptual approval. However, the final consent is remaining as the decision on cost and profit sharing is pending,” said Tarun Juneja, executive engineer for the project, KDMC.“A committee has been finalised to discuss the cost and profit sharing of the commercials to be set up at the depot premises. Once this decision is taken, the work at the depot premises will also begin. As of now, we are carrying out the work of flyover, skywalk, covering of nullah and building a parking lot,” added Juneja.
04-12-2021||Other||Gujarat reports first Omicron case in Jamnagar||A 72-year-old man from Zimbabwe, who reached Gujarat’s Jamnagar last week, has been found infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease becoming the first case in the state, the state health department confirmed.This is the third Omicron case in India.Dr S Chatterjee, the Nodal Officer for Covid-19 at the state-run Guru Gobind Singh Hospital in Jamnagar told reporters, “The man’s samples were sent to the Biotechnological Research Laboratory in Ahmedabad which found him positive for the Omicron variant.”“He has been kept in isolation ever since his admission to the hospital. We had traced all his contacts, screened them and they tested negative,” Dr Chatterjee said.He added, “we will test all his contacts once again” after the reports that he carried the Omicron variant of the virus.Gujarat’s additional chief secretary (health) Manoj Aggarwal said, “A micro containment zone has been made where he is living. In the area, we will do the tracing, testing of people.”He landed in Jamnagar on November 28. Soon after he was running a fever and his doctor asked him to go for an RT-PCR test and he was found Covid-19 infected.People familiar with the matter said at least 10 people who came in contact with him have been quarantined and their test reports are awaited. The officials are also tracing 87 people who could have come in touch with him in the Jamnagar district.The man was visiting his in-laws at his native Morakda village near Jamnagar city and had been living in Zimbabwe, which has been classified as an ‘at-risk’ country, for many years.Meanwhile, 30 other passengers coming from Dubai to Ahmedabad and a woman who reached Vadodara from London have tested positive for Covid-19. Their genome sequencing is being done to ascertain if they have been infected with the Omicron mutant.On Friday, Aggrawal maintained that the Gujarat government would go ahead with its Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors Summit scheduled for January and there was no change in it.Chief minister Bhupendra Patel on Saturday convened a high-level meeting with the health department to review the state’s preparedness to tackle the situation after the first Omicron-infected case was reported from Gujarat.An official statement from the CMO stated that while the chief minister stressed the need to step up three-Ts (tracing, testing and treatment), he appealed to the people to maintain social distancing norms and wear masks as well as sanitisation. The meeting was attended by health minister Hrishikesh Patel and Minister of State for Harsh Sanghvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gujarat-reports-first-omicron-case-in-jamnagar-101638627257451.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Elephanta Island to be fully vaccinated against Covid on Dec 7||The Gharapuri gram panchayat will administer vaccines (both doses) to 100% population of the Elephanta Island on December 7.According to the officials, the last 150 residents will get the second jab on that day and the entire population will be fully vaccinated after that.Baliram Thakur, sarpanch of Gharapuri gram panchayat, said, “We keep conducting vaccination drives at our primary health centre. Now, there are only 150 residents who have not received the second dose. So, we are now conducting the last drive on December 7, when those residents will be administered the second dose. We have already informed the residents about the upcoming drive through our office bearers.”Sunil Padte, a 60-year-old shopkeeper on the island, said, “The residents of the island are heavily dependent on the tourists as there is no other source of livelihood here. Now since the tourists are coming, we are selling accessories at our shops. But we are strictly following the Covid norms for our own safety.” 
04-12-2021||Other||Tripura trooper arrested for killing two senior colleagues||A Tripura State Rifles (TSR) jawan allegedly shot his two senior colleagues at the Konabon area of Sepahijala district on Saturday and later surrendered before police, officials said. The accused, Sukanta Das (38) of the 5th TSR battalion killed Marka Singh Jamatia (subedar) and Kiran Kumar Jamatia (Naik Subedar) during their duty inside the camp. “We arrested him after he surrendered to us and took charge under voluntarily causing injury, murder and the Arms Act. He is supposed to be forwarded to court on Sunday after completing preliminary interrogation and other official formalities,” said a police official.According to the primary investigation of the police, Sukanta was likely to have been denied leave from his duty which he had applied for to see his ailing parents, and perhaps, out of frustration, he committed the act. Sukanta joined TSR service in 2002.Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb condoled their demise and announced ₹5 lakh compensation to the bereaved families along with benefits of the die-in-harness scheme. “My homage to our brave personnel of Tripura State Rifles, Subedar Marka Singh Jamatia & Nb Subedar Kiran Jamatia who died while on duty today. My condolences to bereaved family. #Tripura govt has decided to give ₹ 5 Lakh each to bereaved families. They will also get benefits under the Die-in-harness scheme,” Deb tweeted.In 2018, a TSR jawan killed himself after killing his wife and two children in the West district. In August, a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan killed himself with his service rifle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-trooper-arrested-for-killing-two-senior-colleagues-101638625455976.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||State govt sanctions revised proposal for multi-speciality hospital in Thane with helipad facility||The Maharashtra State Government has sanctioned a revised proposal of ₹213Cr to set up a multi-specialty hospital in Thane equipped with a helipad to airlift patients. This will be built in the space of the current civil hospital in the heart of Thane city.The State had earlier sanctioned ₹314Cr. Overall, a budget of ₹527Cr has been sanctioned for the project.As per the plan, the civil hospital will be replaced by a 900-bed multi-specialty hospital with 200 maternity and 200 super-specialty beds, while the remaining 500 beds will be general beds. In addition, two separate ICUs will be set up in each department. The capacity of the hospital will be tripled and it will have health facilities like urology, oncology, oncosurgery section, cardiology, cardiovascular section, nephrology and dialysis.Such specialty wards will help treat cancer, brain-related ailments, respiratory and heart diseases. It will also have a dedicated theatre and training hall for medical examination and will also include a helipad for airlift.“Currently, the civil hospital has a capacity of 300 beds. Patients from Thane and Palghar districts, especially from rural areas, depend on the civil hospital for treatment. Keeping in mind the growing population of these two districts, the old hospital is falling short. Hence, we are setting up this multi-specialty hospital keeping in mind the needs of the growing population,” said Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane District.Meanwhile, a two-storied structure near the Mental Hospital in Thane has been set up where the maternity and paediatric ward would be shifted from the Civil Hospital while it is under renovation.“We will start shifting the women and paediatric ward to the additional facility near the Mental Hospital. The Covid and emergency wards will continue to be at the existing Civil Hospital. Once the renovation of the hospital begins, based on the pandemic situation, we shall take a call regarding the Covid facility,” added Pawar. The Civil Hospital is a stone structure built during the British era in 1835. The British used it as a medical facility and it has continued to serve patients in Thane and nearby areas all these years. In 2017, the plan of a multi-specialty hospital was sanctioned but as the funds were not sufficient, the project was not taken further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-govt-sanctions-revised-proposal-for-multi-speciality-hospital-in-thane-with-helipad-facility-101638624556028.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Colleges, students yet to pick up MU’s off-beat programmes||Mumbai Recently, the academic council (AC) of the University of Mumbai introduced 14 new UG and PG courses, most focusing on research and industry trends with the inclusion of sports management and Artificial Intelligence (AI) with Data Science. While the courses go far beyond the regular sectors by tapping into the latest industry trends, many colleges feel that students might not opt for them right away.“Many courses recently approved by the AC can’t be degree programmes because they are application-based and for a student to pick such a course for a bachelors degree, they need some background or understanding of the course in advance. Instead of implementing UG and PG programmes in these subjects, most colleges are opting for certificate courses so as to give students a general idea of the topic at hand and then prepare them to practically apply what they learnt,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of K C College, Churchgate.After repeated reminders, MU did not release data on the number of affiliated colleges implementing the existing self-financed courses offered through various departments.The last few programmes introduced by the university in the past decade include a BSc in Hospitality Studies and a BA in Culinary Arts, self-financed courses including BCom in Accounting Finance (BAF) and Banking Insurance (BBI) or BA in Mass Media Communication and Journalism (BAMMCJ). As of now, only a handful of MU-affiliated colleges have opted for the courses. Many pointed out that since there already are hospitality institutes with ready set up of a kitchen and culinary stalwarts offering degrees within the city, not many colleges would opt to offer BA in Culinary Arts. “The BSc Hospitality Studies course has slowly picked up demand, thanks to the demand for tourism management across the world and over the last few years, more colleges have applied for the same and the existing ones have applied for additional divisions,” said a spokesperson for the university.“These courses were introduced at a time when the industry was calling for fresh graduates with more than just accounts skills but with management skills as well. The media industry was booming too and BMM gave wings to many hopefuls who were dreaming of a future in the media and public relations industry. At present, most new courses seem to be forced with very little thought. Plus, very niche programmes automatically means colleges struggle to find appropriate faculty for the same,” said a former AC member of the university. He added that instead of adding new programmes in research fields, the AC should focus on introducing more courses in finance, management and accounts for undergraduate students.In 2019, the university made news for introducing a host of diploma/certificate courses in new-age topics including Hip Hop Studies, Data Science as well as Urban and Regional Planning among others. However, till date, only a handful of colleges have applied to offer such courses to their students.“One of the biggest problems in the academic council at present is that meetings are being held online still, so discussions are not welcome. The recent approval of the new courses was also done despite objection by many members but because the meeting was held on a virtual platform, our voices were not given heed,” said a senior member from the MU academic council.Experts have also pointed out the high attrition rate among faculty in self-financed. “Many colleges have consistently paid their teachers very poorly which has led to vacancies in faculty positions. This has also led to colleges applying for closure of certain self-financed courses in rural Maharashtra,” said Madhu Paranjape, General Secretary, Bombay University and College Teachers Union (BUCTU).
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation sets up online monitoring system of Sewage Treatment Plants||Residents can now get an idea of the quality of water released from the Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) as the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has set up an online monitoring system at two of its STPs in Adharwadi and Barave.According to the KDMC, the system will be linked to the website of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the results of water quality will be updated on the site regularly.“The main motive behind this monitoring is to check if the treatment of the water is done effectively by abiding by all the parameters. Secondly, it will be visible to everyone online on a regular basis. This is the first time we are doing it in the KDMC vicinity,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.KDMC has currently chosen two plants. Simultaneously, all the five sewage treatment plants in KDMC will have this system set up in the coming days. The Adharwadi plant has a capacity of treating 25MLD of sewage. At present, 22MLD is treated here and the capacity of Barave plant is 15MLD, while 10MLD is treated at present.The water obtained from the sewage treatment plant is used for gardening purposes by the civic body across the KDMC limits.“I think there is a need to have regular monitoring of air, water and noise across the city and all the information about the same should be visible online for the knowledge of citizens and stakeholders,” said Sanjeev Shinde, 38, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan.
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal needs stricter safety rules for paragliders||The recent fatal mishaps while paragliding in Himachal Pradesh’s Bir-Billing and Dharamshala have put the spotlight back on the safety of pilots and tourists and raised questions about the role of government agencies in checking them. Also read: Samyukt Kisan Morcha threatens agitation in Himachal over demandsDespite the government hype over promotion of aerosports in the state, the reality remains that flawed regulation has led to illegal operations, endangering the lives of adventure seekers. On October 16, a 35-year-old man, who was assisting a pilot while taking off, fell to his death after being stuck in the paraglider at Dharamshala. In another mishap on November 21, a 30-year-old man from Kangra died after he fell from a paraglider during a tandem flight at Bir village of Baijnath. It was alleged that safety harnesses were not properly fastened by the pilot. After the accident, the administration imposed a temporary ban on tandem flights. 24 paraglider crashes in five years In the past five years, more than two dozen paraglider crashes have been reported in Bir-Billing and Dharamshala, adjoining Mandi district and Manali. At least 10 people, including tourists and foreign nationals, have been killed in these crashes, most of which have occurred at Bir-Billing, the world’s second best and Asia’s best paragliding site. However, people involved in conducting paragliding activities say the ban is not the solution and real problem is lack of proper regulation. Sources say that the HP Aero Sports Rules don’t conform to guidelines of international bodies, such as the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI) or World Air Sports Federation. Also, the state authorities lack experts with technical knowhow of paragliding. According to international regulation, one who flies a paraglider is a pilot and levels have been defined from P1 to P5 based on experience, after which come trainee instructors, instructors, senior instructor, sports tandem pilots and commercial pilots. The experience of flying hours is fixed for each level. Same rules for sport and tourism activities In Himachal, the licence for tandem flight is granted without the pilot having passed these levels or sometimes even without the licence for solo flight. Billing Paragliding Association (BPA) chairman and former minister Sudhir Sharma says paragliding is an adventure sport that is “very weather dependent. Tandem flight that is conducted for joy rides for tourists is a commercial activity. The problem is that sport and tourism activities are being governed by the same set of rules.” “The state does not have even an Act in this regard. The Himachal Pradesh Aero Sports Rules were framed in 2004 and amended in 2015 when Billing hosted a Paragliding World Cup. However, these rules don’t differentiate between sport and tourism activities,” he said. The need of the hour is to enact a law and separate the two activities. Untrained pilots have got licences He said licensing was also an issue. The licences for tandem flights are granted by the tourism department but the experience of the pilot is rarely considered. A person trained at Dharamshala is allowed to operate at Billing, while the weather condition and flight-time is way different and needs different skill sets. He said the BPA has constituted a technical committee to frame draft of new safety rules that will be submitted to the government. Due to commercialisation of paragliding, many untrained pilots have managed to get licences as there is no proper mechanism to check their credentials, leading to fatal mishaps. DC asks tourism dept to issue licence after scrutiny Gurpreet Singh Dhindsa, a pilot, says emphasis should be on training and adherence to pilot levels to curb such incidents. “The licence for tandem flights must be granted only after the pilot has attained the required level and experience,” he said, adding there should also be technical analyses of eventualities so that the shortcomings can be removed. Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal said he has directed the tourism department to issue licence for tandem flights only after scrutiny. District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) Prithi Pal Singh said a panel has been constituted to probe the recent crash. “The operators have also been urged to come forward with their suggestions to curb such incidents. They can suggest changes in the rules,” he said, adding that to enact a law or frame policy is the prerogative of the government. Recent mishaps November 21, 2021: Thirty-year-old man dies after falling from paraglider at Bir. October 16: Man assisting pilot in tandem flight falls to death after being stuck in the paraglider. January 8: Delhi man, who took off from Billing, goes missing in the Dhauladhar ranges. His body was found after five months. November 30, 2020: Canadian pilot killed after his paraglider crashlanded near Bir. February 10: Trainee pilot killed after paraglider crashlanded in forest near Bir. 
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Man accused of cheating Mumbai woman, 31, after hacking her phone arrested: Cops||MUMBAI: A 41-year-old man in Pune was arrested on the complaint of a Mumbai woman who alleged that the suspect hacked her phone, transferred ₹30 lakh from her bank account and accessed her private photos that he used to blackmail her, police said.The woman, a 31-year-old animator, told the police that she put up with the blackmail for more than a year, giving in to his demands for money over and above the ₹30 lakh he transferred from her account, an officer at the central region cyber police station said.Like when earlier this year, Yuvraj Bhosale, the man arrested from Pune’s Talegaon, spotted her with a new sports utility vehicle on her social media photos and asked her to give him the vehicle. When she refused, he sent three associates who snatched the SUV from her. She didn’t complain to the police.It is not clear what prompted her to approach the police. She reached out to the cyber police station recently about the blackmail but was initially wary of pressing charges. On Wednesday, she finally submitted a formal complaint.Deputy commissioner of police (Cyber wing) Dr Rashmi Karandikar set up a team led by senior inspector Sanjay Govilkar to track down the accused. Govilkar’s team arrested Bhosale on Friday.The woman wasn’t Bhosale’s first victim, and so far, they know of his three aliases; Satish, Raje Veer and Virendra Sinha. He already has eight criminal cases registered against him since 2013, the year Bhosale started targeting women, a senior police officer said.In his initial interrogation, Bhosale told the police that he graduated with a degree in psychology graduate and had also studied a bit of criminology.Police said he mostly selected his potential victims from profiles uploaded on matrimonial websites. “If he wanted to target a doctor, then he would pose as a doctor and after gaining the woman’s trust, blackmail her and extort money,” the senior officer said.When he approached the 31-year-old animator from Mumbai’s Dadar via a matrimonial website, Bhosale posed as an animatorIn her complaint to the police, the woman, a divorcee, said she was living with her parents and finally gave in to family pressure to get remarried in 2019 and put up her profile on matrimonial sites.A few weeks later, the woman said in her complaint, she received WhatsApp messages from an unidentified person, and a bunch of photographs, the second police officer. These were her private photographs that she had put away in her phone’s password-protected folder.“She says that someone hacked her mobile phone,” the officer said.“She thought if the hacker could get access to her private files kept in a password-protected folder, then he may also get access to her banking details linked to her email and the mobile number. According to her complaint, she found someone had fraudulently transferred ₹30 lakh from her bank account after disabling the SMS alert service of her bank account, to prevent the bank’s message from reaching her,” the officer added, citing the First Information Report registered by the police. The man also called her up on phone, threatening to leak the photographs if she complained to the police.Police said the woman did not spell out how much money she paid to Bhosale. “These aspects will be revealed during the investigation when officers analyse her bank statements as well,” another police officer said.Two mobile phones have been seized from Bhosale and sent for forensic analysis. The SUV that his associates took away from the woman has also been recovered from him, the officer said.Bhosale has been booked on charges of cheating by personation, cheating, criminal intimidation, provoking someone to breach peace, insulting the modesty of any woman, stalking, extortion, and several provisions of the Information Technology Act relating to illegally accessing a computer resource and dishonestly using someone’s password.During its preliminary investigation after Bhosale’s arrest, the officer said, the cyber police has come across instances of the man cheating five other women including one who said she lost around ₹20 lakh. “I think some of them will come forward to file FIRs,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-accused-of-cheating-mumbai-woman-31-after-hacking-her-phone-arrested-cops-101638618194542.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events, news in Pune||Rubiscape wins IPR award Pune-based technology product start-up Rubiscape has been recognised with special appreciation award for its innovative platform for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence at the 7th International Conference on Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) hosted by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, former director general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the Chair of the eminent jury for the AII-IP Awards 2021 said, “India wants to be at the forefront as a leading innovation nation and IP plays a critical role in innovation management, from idea to impact and mind to market. Innovation is an enabler of academia and industry as connect between The Saraswati and The Laxmi.” Dr Prashant Pansare, founder and CEO of Rubiscape said, “At Rubiscape, we started with a simple goal – to help people and enterprises gain a true worth of their data, as data-democratisation is at the core of successful Digital transformations. We dedicate this award to our eco-system partners from industry, academia and our team who have helped us in this journey”. With its ISO certified lab at Pune, Rubiscape is growing rapidly since its inception 2020. Featured under India’s DIPP start-up program, a member of NASSCOM’s Deep-Tech Club Rubiscape is empanelled as a software OEM on the GeM Portal – Govt of India’s eMarket Place. Electric women of Piaggio roll out its Apé Electrik range Piaggio Vehicles (PVPL) introduced an all-women workforce on its assembly line making its Apé Electrik range of products. Women working here are responsible for quality control checks, fitting, assembly, electrical, and overall material management. Piaggio has inducted these female workforce from various technical institutes located in and around Baramati. These women were trained on the safety procedures, usage of tools, electric vehicles and the latest technology related to BMS, motor, E-box before being introduced to the assembly line. Piaggio has redesigned the workplace to make it more ergonomically suited for women. Diego Graffi, chairman and managing director, PVPL said, “We will have inclusion of more women at the assembly line, plant premises, and offices. This is not just to empower women but also to bring workforce equality in the auto sector which was long due.” Pooja Bansal, head of HR at Piaggio Vehicles added, “Diversity at the workplace is very important as it fosters innovation and growth. The strategy at Piaggio is to provide all women employees economic independence, parity of opportunities which includes career development, and escalating them to managerial and leadership positions.” Metaverse platform GMetriXR raises $600k funding led by IvyCap Ventures Metaverse company GMetriXR, founded by Utsav Mathur and Sahil Ahuja, has raised $600k funding in its seed round led by IvyCap Ventures with global participation from the DE Holding and HNIs. GMetriXR offers a no-code platform that allows content creators and enterprises to build, host and deploy metaverse apps without writing a single line of code. “GMetri is unique - there is no other toolkit as complete yet so ridiculously simple that you can have fully functional, monetisable metaverse apps in minutes, not months. This puts us in a very good place to surge forward and see through our vision to truly democratize building the metaverse. We are targeting nothing short of an explosion in adoption over the next few quarters,” said Utsav Mathur, founder & CEO, GMetriXR. Vikram Gupta, founder and managing partner, IvyCap Ventures Advisors, said, “The pandemic has played an important role in accelerating the adoption of this, opening out endless possibilities. As an early mover with a stellar platform that global large enterprises are paying for, GMetri is in a leading position in a rapidly expanding space at just the right time.” Proctur launches app for teachers and tutors EdTech Company Proctur has launched their app ‘Proctur - Live Teaching App’ – a multilingual app available in different languages for users and having chat feature to communicate – for teachers, educators, and tutors in India. The app will help coaching institutes to manage and streamline their services like live classes, online exams and fee collection. ‘Proctur - Live Teaching App’ will also help individual educators and teachers monetise their coaching offerings with a platform developed for their needs. Nishant Agarwal, director, Proctur said, “Tutors and coaching centres will have the complete autonomy to conduct custom tests, mock exams and share files and resources with students. Tutors and educators can also create groups and offer personalised attention that students need. The app also offers support for multiple languages, and we have ensured that video contents and study resources are protected against piracy on our platform. The UI has been designed to simplify online tutoring for educators who have limited exposure to such platforms.” Hyperlocal social media platform ‘Lokal’ expands operations Hyperlocal social media platform ‘Lokal’ – focused around community updates, jobs, matrimonial, real estate, and classifieds – has announced its entry into Maharashtra. The application will provide hyper-local solutions in Marathi and has already witnessed a significant number of active users across 36 districts of the state. Founded in 2018, Lokal aims to garner 10 million users within a year. Since Marathi is one of the most spoken languages, Lokal believes the state will contribute 25 per cent of revenue in the coming quarter. Lokal is currently operational in 150+ districts across Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and now Maharashtra. Jani Pasha, co-founder and CEO of Lokal, said, “We are a country with a remarkable diversity of societies, demographics, traditions, and languages. Our mission is to democratise digitisation by enabling every non-English speaking Indian with relevant digital opportunities in their native language. The expansion to Maharashtra is a key component of our growth plans in India.” BizzTM secures $1.2 million seed funding US-based early-stage India fund ‘2am VC’ along with Axilor Ventures, Let’s Venture, IIMI Fund, Qua Capital, Incisive Ventures, and marquee angel investors such as Anupam Mittal (founder Shaadi.com), Ramakant Sharma (Co-founder Livespace), Abhishek Nag (Director at Netflix) and Ryan Valles (a US-based serial entrepreneur), has invested in M2B2C model startup ‘BizzTM’ enabling retailers to sell without owning inventory through a futuristic supply chain platforms working on aggregated delivery services. Family offices like Patni, Supriyajith Family Trust, and Almoayed General also contributed to the funding, bringing the total to USD 1.2 million for BizzTM in the seed funding round. The brand will leverage the freshly infused capital to further expand its presence in 100 new cities across India. Amit Sharma and Siddharth Biyani, co-founders of BizzTM, said, “The Indian retail ecosystem is swiftly adopting digital adoption. More than 90 per cent of retailers are now using social media applications like WhatsApp. However, these retailers suffer from an inept supply-chain process and expensive costs, thereby earning the lowest margins worldwide. We aim to build smooth supply-chain operations on the back of modernistic technology and enabling retailers to maximise their profits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-news-in-pune-101638615975666.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Samyukt Kisan Morcha threatens agitation in Himachal over demands||The Himachal Pradesh unit of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has threatened an agitation against the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government’s “anti-farmer policies” if it does not meet the 15 demands put forward in August and call members for talks. Also read: Covid relief: Punjab hikes aid for construction workersAfter a meeting of the SKM in Shimla on Friday, its state convener Harish Chauhan said: “A pamphlet listing out the 15 demands of the farmers will be distributed to strengthen the movement in the state. Meetings at the block, tehsil and sub-divisional levels will be held from December 20 to chalk out SKM’s strategy.” The SKM wants the minimum support price to be made a legal right besides implementation of the market intervention scheme on the lines of the apple procurement in neighbouring Jammu and Kashmir. It seeks open bidding in markets and the stopping of arbitrary recoveries from farmers, such as labour and demand draft charges. “The farmers should be allowed to keep 25% of their apple crop in the compressed atmospheric (CA) stores built by corporates as had been agreed upon while granting permission for the construction of such stores,” Chauhan said, adding the government should provide 90% grant to farmers’ cooperative societies to build CA stores at the local level. The SKM also wants the hike in price of packaging material rolled back besides compensation to farmers for loss caused by natural calamities. It sought the restoration of the subsidy on fertilisers, seeds, insecticides, and fungicides. Those affected by land acquisition will protest in front of the state assembly at Dharamshala during the winter session against the BJP government’s delay in implementing the Land Acquisition Act, 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-threatens-agitation-in-himachal-over-demands-101638615554366.html
04-12-2021||Other||Mongolian delegation member found Covid-19 positive, isolated at Bodh Gaya||A member of the 23-member delegation from Mongolia, which visited Bodh Gaya in Bihar a couple of days ago, has been found Covid-19 positive. While the Mongolian delegation member has been isolated at Bodh Gaya, the 20 other locals with whom he is believed to have come into contact during the two-day stay in the holy city, have also got been tested for RTPCR by the local administration. An RT-PCR test of the delegation was done when it arrived. While 22 members of the delegation were found negative, one person is reported to be positive. “He was found asymptomatic in the test. But we are trying again to get done another test. His sample has been collected for this purpose. At present, he is in isolation and will be there for another 10 days,” Abhishek Kumar Singh, DM, Gaya and the Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) chairman, said. A Parliamentary delegation from Mongolia led by the State Great Hural (Parliament) of Mongolia, Gombojav Zandanshatar was on a four-day visit to the country since December 1 and on Thursday (December 2) the delegation arrived in Bodh Gaya in a special aircraft to visit the sites related to Lord Buddha. During the two-day stay, the delegation visited the Mongolian temple and the famous Dungeshwari hills where Lord Buddha had meditated for seven years before attaining enlightenment. And before leaving Bodh Gaya on Friday (December 3), the Mongolian delegation visited Mahabodhi temple, the UNESCO World Heritage Site at the holy city and prayed at the Garbha Griha at the temple and also under the Bodhi tree where Lord Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment. BTMC secretary N Dorje could not be contacted to comment. Meanwhile, some tour planners, hoteliers and guides at Bodh Gaya have expressed concern over the current situation. “We are worried whether the Mongolian delegation member has been carrying Omicron. Being in the security, he must have accompanied the delegation everywhere and must have interacted with many at Mongolian temple, Dungeshwari hill and Mahabodhi,” a tour planner at Bodh Gaya who did not want to get quoted, said. 
04-12-2021||Pune||Pune Startup Mantra: Adding the tech-know gear to every mile of the delivery chain||Truck drivers bid to pick-up, and/or, drop off of a consignment; this is already a reality TV show, at least one based out of the US. Forza Logistics Techlabs is a technology-led logistics company that has bought that reality to India. TruckBhejo is the app that gives drivers and customers access to the platform that, to drop the founders’ elevator pitch line, “reliable, efficient, and capacity-agnostic trucking solutions to companies across every mile of delivery”. The company serves some major players in the grocery, manufacturing, retail, telecom, and FMCG sectors and is expanding its footprint in the small and medium segment. All that is currently part of the “define the scale” and monetise it endeavour and this tech-driven logistic service provider. What fascinates is the idea of truckers bidding for a consignment. Bid to drive… Registered vendors are provided access for ‘live’ orders on the platform. For each order, they are able to view the key order details like material, loading location, unloading location, vehicle type required. Vendors then bid for that order by sharing their quote through the app. Similar bids are collected through a pool of vendors who have access to live ranking against their bids.Vendors have the option to revise their bids and increase their chances of winning the order. Post completion of bidding time, order is allocated to the lowest bidder. Vendor performance is also regularly monitored to ensure qualified vendors operate through the platform and irrelevant vendors are deregistered/blacklistedThrough the mobile app, vendors have access to live bids to win any orders through the platform. These future orders which are under bidding will be visible under the bidding section till closure. Once bids are received then the lowest bidder is allotted the order and these orders are visible under assigned jobs for vehicle deployment. In the beginning… Nilesh Ghule comes from a family of truck drivers. Originally from Nashik, he came to Pune in 2005 and completed his engineering education from the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and after a short stint at Infosys, went on later to get an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Bengaluru, where he met Supreet Kumar, his co-founder. The duo worked together at Reliance Jio before starting this venture. Says Ghule, “Logistics was not new to me, but never looked at it as business per say, as I have witnessed this sector from the driver’s viewpoint. After my higher education, I mostly worked with tech and telecom companies. During our tenure at Reliance Jio, while managing the mobility products, we realised for the first time that logistics is a bigger problem for the big companies. They could not get consistent and timely placement of vehicles. The way logistics industry was structured was people had their own way of doing it. Some people were doing only last mile, or middle mile or first mile. Even types of vehicles were different. So, interaction with multiple vendors was necessary to get your requirement fulfilled.” “Even in 2015-16 most of the business used to happen on calls. We thought that this is the right time when we can actually look at segment like logistics. Secondly, the market itself is extremely huge and fragmented. So, this was the best playground for technology to bring in drastic changes in the logistics’ sector,” he added. Technology-driven logistics Ghule and Kumar decided in July 2016 to form their own company which would be tech-driven and address customers’ end-to-end supply chain needs – starting from the first mile to the last mile. Says Ghule: “It took us six months to go market with a finished product. It has been five years we are operational. The simple mission of our company is to create a technology-led FTL (full trucking logistics) network which would provide end-to-end supply chain coverage to customers. Our services and solutions bring tangible positive transformations as it works to deliver an immaculate customer experience through its three differentiators that are Smart, Scalable and Sustainable. All major functions of business starting from driver management to vehicle deployment, enroute tracking of vehicles, billing, everything happens through an in-house technology platform which we have built.” Recipe for success When asked about how they manage the drivers, Ghule said, “We mostly work with owner-drivers, i.e., people who own their vehicle and drive it themselves. That’s how middlemen get removed. We also get reliability from this particular arrangement. The owner-driver would not damage goods, nor steal material. Another benefit is lower costs as middlemen are removed. That is the recipe for our success. We have very close control on the supply side and we optimally deploy this supply – drivers - to the large B2B corporates. We have FTL contracts with all the major players. It has been a fantastic journey and that’s how the business has grown over the years.” Hearing ‘NO’! Ghule and Kumar were not accustomed to taking ‘no’ as an answer. That was the first thing which hit them when they started to go the market. Says Ghule, “Convincing truck drivers was not a problem. In 2016-17 technology was extremely miniscule when it came to truck drivers. They were using old Nokia phones. Penetrating the application into the driver’s hands, making them aware of the features was also a challenge. We believed that soon complete digitisation will happen in India. That belief of having technology at the core of our operations has actually helped us in the last five years.” “Second challenge was when we started approaching customers in the market, there was reluctance to new changes. Convincing a customer about the benefits of a technology platform which can bring efficiency to their operations and help their business grow faster was a challenge. The first important lesson we learnt was till the time you don’t provide a service which actually fits the customer’s needs you would find it very difficult to get that first customer. Once you have the minimum viable product (MVP) which is actually addressing the problem of a customer, slowly, steadily you start building your own capability and start building network of customers,” he added. Operation hubs and customers TruckBhejo operates across industries starting from e-commerce, e-grocery, telecom and retail and caters to two sets of customers– large corporates and small and medium enterprise (SME). Most of the business for the startup comes from locations like Bhiwandi, Ahmedabad, Vapi, and Pune. Ghule says, “We onboarded Paper Boat as our first customer in 2016. Today we have 42 customers including some big names like HUL, Nestle, Colgate in FMCG segment; Amazon, Flipkart in e-commerce and Reliance and DMart in e-Grocery and Retail; Larsen & Toubro in infrastructure. We also have a contract with the Central government for Indian Security Press Nashik where we manage very high value cargo. We have a total team of 62 members with offices across Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Kolhapur, Vapi, Surat, Ahmedabad and Delhi.” RevenuesSays Ghule, “In B2B contract business, on historical basis, we have done gross margins of about 13 to 15 per cent per transaction. We are in process of audits and hence, we can’t reveal revenue figures for last five years. However, last financial year we have done a revenue of about ₹32 crore. The company has been growing at CAGR 110 per cent.” “In B2B, our business model is that we provide x rate to the customer based on the type of vehicle and the lane in which the particular vehicle is running. The price which we get from the customer vs price which we pay to the driver is our profit margin. As such there are no platform charges for the B2B enterprises,” he stated. FundingAmount of total equity/debt capital raised and capitalisation plan of planned capital raised and its allocation TruckBhejo is currently funded by the Angel investors. Amount raised by the company as part of seed round with participation from marquee angel investors like Kunal Bajaj, Anshuman Ghosh is Rs1.6 crore in equity + Rs3.75 crore in debt Initial capital put in by Nilesh Ghule and Supreet Kumar - ₹1 lakh “Our company has been profit after tax (PAT) positive since inception. We have been on a sustainable growth track and grown in terms of number of vehicles, geographies served, sectors which we cater and the supply chain legs,” says Nilesh Ghule, co-founder, TruckBhejo Insurance coverWhat is the insurance cover for TruckBhejo if a driver dies in an accident or goods are destroyed enroute? “Our clients ensure that there is insurance cover available at all times for the material transported (transit insurance), vehicle insurance and driver insurance (life, medical). Transit insurance is typically covered by the customer as they have large volume of material movement of high value while life/medical insurance is covered by the drivers/vendors where we encourage them to get themselves covered and help them get best rates through our partner network of insurance providers,” sayd Ghule.Future plans Road infrastructure is improving which will remove inefficiencies and reduce the logistics cost in the country. “Considering rising fuel prices, I feel electric vehicles (EV) are the future. However, till the time we get such technology wherein the EV vehicles can run across the difficult terrain and also have the infrastructure around it to charge the vehicles, maintenance. it will take some time for EV, especially in heavy commercial vehicles’ segment, to have good penetration. But in last mile distribution like within cities we are already seeing the uptick. We have also started working on EV project and are in discussion with few of customers to deploy EVs with them,” says Ghule, adding, “In next 3 years, will have presence in around 200 to 250 cities. In terms of fleet strength, would have 20,000 vehicles on the platform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-startup-mantra-adding-the-tech-know-gear-to-every-mile-of-the-delivery-chain-101638615434353.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid relief: Punjab hikes aid for construction workers||In the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections early next year, the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government has increased the financial assistance under the Balri Scheme for registered construction workers and labourers from ₹50,000 to ₹75,000. The financial assistance under the scheme is given to workers when a girl child is born at their house. Also read: ‘Former Punjab CM only worked for 2 hours; I just rest for 2’: Channi at HTLSThe state government has also hiked the monthly and family pension of construction workers and got the nod of the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board to give a Diwali gift of ₹3,100 to each registered worker. These decisions were approved during the welfare board’s meeting on Friday evening. Officials said the decisions were taken as the construction workers were facing financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The minimum wages have not been revised since 2019 and construction workers are facing financial hardship due to restrictions imposed by the central and state governments,” the agenda of the labour department read. The board approved the proposal of giving ₹3,100 to registered workers as announced by Channi. An official said there are 3,78,647 registered workers with the board. Therefore, ₹117.38 crore will be spent on this Diwali gift. The government has hiked the monthly pension from ₹2,000 to ₹3,000 and family pension from ₹1,000 to ₹1,500 a month. The board provides monthly pension for registered construction workers once they attain the age of 60 years and family pension is given to the spouse of the deceased registered workers. Besides, the state government had proposed to hike the amount under the Shagun Scheme from ₹51,000 to ₹61,000 and purchase 27,000 mobile phones at a cost of ₹13.57 crore for children of construction workers. However, these proposals have not been approved by the board so far. Sangat Singh Gilzian, the minister of labour, said, “We have increased the amount of Balri Scheme, monthly pension and family pension. But the proposals of hike in the Shagun Scheme and purchase of mobile phones are still under discussion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-relief-punjab-hikes-aid-for-construction-workers-101638614354113.html
04-12-2021||HTLS||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi speaks on his surprise elevation and what it means||NEW DELHI: Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said his elevation to the state’s top executive position has given the poor confidence and is a win for the country’s democratic system, and that his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh was dropped as he did not have time for people and development works.Channi, Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, who replaced Captain Singh on September 19, said he will ensure that nobody goes through the pain of poverty that he had to undergo in his life. “I understand the pain of poor people, farmers and the middle class as I have gone through that pain. And, that is why all programmes of Punjab government are towards providing relief to poor and middle-class people,” the chief minister said at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.Also Read: This is a new era, Congress also adapting: Charanjit Singh Channi at HTLSOn a Dalit being nominated as the chief minister of the state having 32% Dalit population, the chief minister described it as a change where the power is being transferred from the “elite” to the poor. “Earlier, the power was getting transferred from one elite to another. These elite were even above upper castes. Now, the power is in the hands of people,” he said in a conversation with HT’s national political editor Sunetra Choudhury.Channi who has been extensively touring the state, occasionally even taking children on a joyride in his official helicopter, said he has opened his home for people around the clock. “One day someone came to me at 12.30am. with a problem. I called the district collector and the problem was sorted out. This is our job and we have to do it,” he said.On the Congress’s decision to name him chief minister, Channi said he was, like everyone else, surprised too. Channi said he cried when Rahul Gandhi conveyed the decision to him.“I cried on the phone when Rahul Gandhi told me that I would be CM. I told him please select someone else. But, he told me the decision has been made,” Channi said. In the lighter vein, he said, “I was municipal councillor (MC) and now I am CM. So, now MC has become CM. This is magic of democratic system,” he said, explaining that he counted his appointment as a win for democratic system because it established that someone born in poverty could rise to become a chief minister.Channi said Captain Amarinder was replaced as he was not accessible to people and lived in a highly-guarded farmhouse and the party was just implementing his promise before the 2016 assembly elections that he will not contest again.“Captain worked for two hours, I sleep for two hours. That is the difference,” he said. To emphasise his point that the former chief minister did not have a mass base, Channi underlined that not a single Congress MLA went with Captain “and that shows how wrong he was in his self-assessment”.Channi also said that Amarinder Singh’s plans to join hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for Punjab elections didn’t really come as a surprise to him. “When he was in Congress and CM we knew, he was half with the BJP,” he said.On his other political rival in Punjab, Arvind Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Channi repeated that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was a “kala angrez” (dark-complexioned Englishman) as Kejriwal does not belong to Punjab and does not know anything about the issues in the northern state.Kejriwal’s AAP is the main opposition party in the Punjab assembly and is hoping to better its performance in the February-March assembly elections in the state. “People in Punjab don’t believe in Kejriwal,” Channi said.The 58-year-old chief minister also stressed that he was working together with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu who is often seen as the party’s in-house critic. “I am open to criticism. If I make a mistake, Sidhu ji tells me and I rectify. We are working together,” he said.Channi, who recalled that he was denied a ticket to fight the assembly elections by the Congress till he won as an independent from Chamkaur Sahib assembly seat in 2007, said winnability should be the only criteria for ticket selection for Punjab elections for Congress. “The party should do a survey and give tickets to those who have highest winnability score. Tickets should not be allocated to different groups,” he said.The chief minister said his model of development was one preached by the Sikh gurus and was aimed at empowering the poor so that they can compete with the upper strata of society.“People are overburdened by taxes imposed by the government. We are trying to provide them relief by making electricity free, waiving water tariffs, reducing prices of fuel and helping them in living better life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/htls/at-htls-2021-punjab-cm-channi-speaks-on-his-surprise-elevation-and-what-it-means-101638612014263.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||#DilliwaliShaadi: Denizens game for wedding hopping||New DelhiIt’s raining weddings in Delhi-NCR, and even outstations! The shaadi season is in full swing, and to juggle between multiple weddings, especially on heavy saaya dates, Delhiites are taking all that it takes to face the wedding rush. Hopping from one wedding to another in quite a marathon mode, here’s how they are balancing the act between work and weddings.Weekend plans entail multi-taskingNaman Gautam, an IT professional who has his weekends booked for some wedding or the other since the onset of the wedding season, says, “Work often spills over to Saturdays, and if not, some last-minute meeting almost always crops up. When attending back to back wedding functions, it becomes quite challenging to work, but I’ve now started scooting over to noise-free nooks whenever I get quick calls from work. Who’s to say that the caller isn’t in some wedding, too!” And Kanika Agarwal, an analyst with a tech firm shares how she’s relying on collaborative work to sail smoothly through this wedding season. “I attend some meetings in the first half and my colleague attends some others in the second half and the remaining ones we reschedule. My work requires me to be available on mails at all times, so working from anywhere is easy, especially now that we have been thrown into the WFH model,” says Agarwal.Attending calls amid weddingJaishree Gaur, an HR manager, says, “One of our employees, the groom’s brother, was to attend clients’ call and since it’s the peak wedding season, he did so in the middle of the wedding functions! Many have started asking for half day leaves of late, but when it’s a wedding in your house, half day isn’t sufficient.” And Udit Mittal, from an HR consulting organisation chips in: “Employees are happy taking breaks amid weddings for a video call. Since the video calls have a blur or change backdrop feature, they are not worried about their bosses knowing their place of work. And for seniors at work, as long as the work is completed in time, it doesn’t really matter if the employee is attending a wedding or is on a holiday outstation!”Half day work, rest half shopping Rashmi Priyam, a Delhi-based human resource manager chuckles sharing a recent case. “An employee asked to work from Goa for a week, and then Madhya Pradesh for another 10 days because she has so many friends getting married this year. Emails for location change for work keep coming in, wherein people request for a destination change for some time. Other employees, too, have been juggling. Some are taking half day’s off to be able to shop in the second half. I feel WFH has also given leverage to people, and it’s easier to accommodate remote work requests now.”Wardrobe management on pointFor Radhika Jajoo, a development professional who recently attended three weddings on three consecutive days, access to multiple wardrobes has been a saviour. “I’m mixing and matching as much possible. My mom, sister and I have a lot of clothes that we’re sharing. The annoying part has been getting it fixed and fitted to our exact sizes before each wedding. But changing the dupatta or pairing a different blouse gives a new look to most outfits and that’s what we’ve been doing!”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dilliwalishaadi-denizens-game-for-wedding-hopping-101638609313925.html
04-12-2021||Dehradun||‘There will be nothing but foundation stones and plaques’: P Chidambaram on Modi’s Uttarakhand visit today||In a veiled jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dehradun, Uttarakhand, to lay the foundation stone for multiple projects, Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram on Saturday said that there will be such programmes from now as the state assembly election approaches next year.The Congress veteran also said that there was no development in Uttarakhand despite the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) changing the chief minister in the state three times in five years.“UTTARAKHAND has seen three Chief Ministers in five years, but no development. The start of development will be today, three months before the elections! There will be nothing but foundation stones and plaques!” Chidambaram tweeted.UTTARAKHAND has seen three Chief Ministers in five years, but no developmentThe start of development will be today, three months before the elections!There will be nothing but foundation stones and plaques!Uttarakhand Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal said that the people question Modi on unemployment and inflation. “People will not be influenced by Modi ji's visit to Uttarakhand, but people will question him on the account of the last four and a half years, will question inflation and unemployment, now people's ‘Mann Ki Baat’ will have to be heard,” Godiyal tweeted.As the poll stage gets heated up, the Congress also has planned for campaigns by its leaders. Also read | ‘PM’s apology incomplete’, says Rahul Gandhi over farm laws, poses 4 questionsFormer state chief minister and Congress leader Harish Rawat on December 1 said that the party will convene a meeting of its core committee members to finalise the plan and programme for poll rallies by party MP Rahul Gandhi and party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi.While Rawat said that the Gandhi siblings were expected to visit “soon” he refrained from mentioning any dates.Meanwhile, Modi is slated to lay the foundation stone of multiple projects in capital city Dehradun worth ₹18,000 crore. “A significant focus of the visit will be on projects to improve road infrastructure, which will make travel smooth and safer, and also increase tourism in the region. This is in line with the vision of the Prime Minister to boost connectivity in the areas which were once considered far-flung,” news agency ANI reported citing Modi’s office (PMO).The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) to be built at a cost of around ₹8,300 crore is also among the list of projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/there-will-be-nothing-but-foundation-stones-and-plaques-p-chidambaram-on-modi-s-uttarakhand-visit-today-101638603956336.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Central railway services between Kalyan-Kasara delayed due to foggy conditions||The Central railway services were delayed by 30 minutes between Kalyan to Kasara railway stations due to foggy conditions and a point failure at Kalyan station around 6:30 am on Saturday morning. This led to bunching of local trains on slow and fast tracks, resulting in stranded commuters choosing to walk along the tracks during the morning peak hour. Railway officials claimed the services had been normalised after 10 am. “ There was a point failure at Kalyan station and also due to the foggy weather there was bunching of trains. Due to this the services were delayed by 30 minutes. The services were back to normal after 10 am,” said an officer from Central Railway, who did not wish to be named. 
04-12-2021||Mumbai||Traffic restrictions in Dadar for Ambedkar’s death anniversary||As a large congregation was expected at Chaitya Bhoomi in Mumbai’s Dadar on December 6, marking Dr BR Ambedkar’s 66th death anniversary, the traffic police has imposed some restrictions in Shivaji Park area beginning Saturday afternoon till Tuesday morning, for the four days Abmbedkar’s followers are likely to stay in the city.According to the traffic police, S K Bole Road in Dadar west will be open for one-way traffic from Siddhi Vinayak junction to Hanuman temple and there will be no entry from the temple side on the stretch.Bhavani Shankar Road will also be one-way from Hanuman temple or Dadar Kabutarkhana up to its Junction with Gokhale Road South. Thus, vehicular traffic will not be allowed from Gokhale Road South via Gopinath Chavan Chowk, except for the Bombay Electric Supply & Transport (BEST) buses and emergency or utility services, the traffic police officials said.Some roads in the area, like the SVS Road from Siddhi Vinayak junction to Hinduja Hospital will remain closed for all heavy vehicles and local residents will be allowed to go only up to Pandurang Naik Marg junction from Hinduja Hospital. Except BEST buses, all other heavy vehicles and goods carriers will be diverted from Mahim junction via Mori Road towards Senapati Bapat Road.Around nine roads in the vicinity of Chaitya Bhoomi such as the SVS Road, Ranade Road, NC Kelkar Road, Keluskar Road (north and south), Gokhale Road (north and south), Tilak Bridge, SK Bole Road, Bhavani Shankar Road and Lakshmi Nappu Road will be “no parking zones” from Friday to Sunday, while nine places have been kept for parking, including Senapati Bapat Marg in Mahim and Dadar and Mahim Reti Bunder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-restrictions-in-dadar-for-dr-ambedkar-s-death-anniversary-101638600792973.html
04-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC issues quarantine SOP for passengers from at-risk countries||The Mumbai civic body has planned a strict 7 days long home quarantine monitoring mechanism for passengers arriving from countries “at risk” from the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. This includes 5 calls a day from the Brihanmumbai Coropration’s war room to monitor their health and the involvement of their housing societies to ensure their complete isolation. The protocol also involves conducting RT-PCR test for such passengers after the quarantine period.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Saturday said, “BMC has introduced a very unique and strict home quarantine monitoring mechanism for passengers arriving in Mumbai from ‘at risk’ countries. It will be as effective as institutional quarantine. Our objective is to prevent the possible spread of the Omicron variant in Mumbai.”The chief executive officer (CEO) of the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) will daily submit to the Disaster Management Cell, a list of international passengers arriving in Mumbai in the preceding 24 hours from high risk and at-risk countries and those who have visited these countries in the last 15 days. The Disaster Management Cell will then bifurcate the passengers’ manifest ward-wise into 24 groups and send to ward war rooms every day at 10 am. Post this, the health department shall be monitoring including tracking, contact tracing etc of passengers.Also Watch: Omicron scare: Karnataka govt says one patient ‘escaped’As per the SOP, passengers from countries such as the United Kingdom, Brazil, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel among others will have to undergo seven days of strict home quarantine, while those from South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe, classified by the Maharashtra government as “at high risk” countries will need to undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival apart from seven-day long institutional quarantine. Meanwhile, in Mumbai, 14 samples of suspected Omicron variant have been sent by the BMC for genome sequencing. 10 of these samples are of international passengers and four belonged to the contacts of these passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcissues-quarantine-sop-for-passengers-from-at-risk-countries-101638597732813.html
04-12-2021||Dehradun||S.I.T. starts probe into Dalit man’s death in U’khand||A special investigation team (SIT) has started its probe into the death of a 55-year-old Dalit under suspicious conditions in Champawat district last week, Uttarakhand police said on Saturday.Devendra Pincha, superintendent of police, Champawat, said, “We have formed a SIT under circle officer (CO) to probe the death of a Dalit man. Three SHOs have been included in the SIT to carry out an unbiased probe in the matter.”According to police, 55-year-old Ramesh Ram, a resident of Izzatta Dungra village, had gone to attend a wedding on November 28. Next day, he died under mysterious condition at Susheela Tiwari hospital, Haldwani.Pincha said the police registered an FIR based on the complaint by Ram’s wife, Tulsi Devi. She has alleged that her husband was beaten up by an upper caste man during the wedding dinner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/sit-starts-probe-into-dalit-man-s-death-in-ukhand-101638580464243.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Our mystical Lodhi||Catch a glimpse of red lava smouldering atop a distant volcano. Well, it’s just a reflection of the evening sky on a pond. This breathtaking view, as seen from a Mughal-era stone bridge, is on exhibit throughout the year at Lodhi Garden. So are the park’s centuries-old monuments, flower hedges, trees, birds, dogs and VIPs.But there is one incredibly beautiful aspect of Lodhi Garden experienced only at a certain time of the day - and only in winters - when the air becomes partly hazy with smog or mist.The scenes appear to have been processed with Instagram filters! Visit after sundown, when the place starts getting shrouded in darkness, and you’ll see that only a few spots here and there are lit up by strategically placed lamps. The uneven spread of these lights turns the surroundings into a mystical vista of shadows.Take this 7pm setting, for instance. The trees look like giant joggers frozen in mid-movement, their innards splintered into a geometry of light and nothingness. Some of the grassy patches along the ground, nearer to the lamp posts, are lit up in faint orange. The wetness of the mist is making the grass glisten. Strolling by the pond is an even more disconcerting sight - the water appears to be on fire.Further along, a white-haired woman in pants and a shawl is walking slowly down a darkened pathway. She is wearing a silk scarf in French style. Suddenly, she steps into a small pool of light cast by one of the lamps. The woman walks on unconcernedly and re-enters the darkness. It is like watching a painting in which the figure briefly moved.On the other side of the garden, a ram laddu seller, Rajpal, is silently standing by his makeshift wooden stand. He is as still as the gigantic monument behind him.Some steps away, a lush tree is spreading its wide shadow across the ground. A shaft of golden lamplight boldly enters the black space and disappears some steps later, as if swallowed by a void.Believe it or not, this cold smoggy evening, Lodhi Garden isn’t at all feeling like the Lodhi Garden we know.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-our-mystical-lodhi-101638576426093.html
04-12-2021||Gurugram||5 dead as car rams brick pile by the road in Gurugram||Five employees of a private hospital were killed and one was severely injured after their speeding car lost control and rammed into bricks piled near Garhi Harsaru’s Pataudi Road crossing in Gurugram Sector 88 around 1am on Friday, police officials said.The victims -- all employees of private hospital in Sector 84 -- were identified as Jagbir Singh (38), an electrician; Sagar Kumar (24), an ambulance driver; Jiwat (19), a nursing assistant; Prince Kumar (22), a store in-charge; and Niyaj Khan (45), the supervisor of housekeeping staff. The injured person, Hardik Tiwari (21), works as a receptionist at the same hospital. Police said it was not clear who was driving the vehicle when the accident occurred.The victims were returning to the hospital they worked at after attending the wedding of a colleague in Sadhrana village in Gurugram Sector 88.Noting that the Maruti Dzire car was speeding, Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the driver was taking a turn when he lost control and rammed into bricks piled on the roadside for construction work.“The car flipped several times, and all the passengers were severely injured. Passersby dragged them out of the vehicle with much difficulty. They were bleeding profusely and were unconscious when the police team reached the spot. They were taken to a nearby private hospital, where doctors declared five of them dead. The sixth passenger is undergoing treatment and is still unfit to record a statement... Preliminary investigation revealed that none of the passengers wore seat belts,” Sangwan said.Dr Deepak Mathur, a forensic expert who conducted the autopsy, said that the five victims died due to excessive bleeding and severe head injuries.Police said they registered a case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 (causing death by negligence) against an unidentified person at the Sector 10 police station on Friday.We were awaiting the post mortem reports to know if the driver was under the influence of alcohol, Sangwan said, adding that the five bodies were handed over to their respective family members on Friday.
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air marginally cleaner day after drizzle, strong winds||Delhi’s air quality improved on Friday after isolated rain and stronger winds cleared up pollutants on Thursday night, said officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 4pm bulletin on Friday, Delhi had a 24-hour average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 346, in the “very poor” zone. This was an improvement from Thursday’s reading of 429, which was in the “severe” category.An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.IMD scientists said that the improvement was due to the light, isolated showers in many parts of the Capital on Thursday evening.The rain, along with improved wind speeds, facilitated the dispersion of the accumulated pollutants in Delhi’s air. However, winds are likely to become calm again on Saturday before another western disturbance on December 5 brings a bout of light rain and winds.“The rain and the wind were the primary reason behind the improvement of pollution levels. From December 5 to 7, another western disturbance will impact the Capital, which will result in a marginal improvement in the city’s air. Light rains are forecast for December 6. However, the AQI will still remain in the lower end of ‘very poor’,” VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre, said.Since November this year, Delhi has been reeling under some of the worst pollution spells it has experienced since air quality monitoring began.In November, Delhi’s average air quality was the worst on record since 2015 — when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) started maintaining pollution records. The average AQI last month was 376, surpassing 374 in November 2016.Delhi also recorded 11 “severe” air quality days in November, also the highest number of such days since 2015.Meanwhile, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday wrote to the union environment minister requesting a meeting with environment ministers and experts of states across the National Capital Region (NCR) to prepare a joint action plan for the future to combat pollution.He also alleged, quoting reports and studies, that most of Delhi’s pollution is caused by external sources on which the city government does not have any control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-marginally-cleaner-day-after-drizzle-strong-winds-101638573871171.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Airline asked to explain Covid norm violation||In a first, the Delhi government has issued a show cause notice to an airline operator for failing to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines mandated by the Indian government.The notice issued to American Airlines on Friday stated that the crew of a flight from New York failed to randomly identify its passengers for RT-PCR tests on arrival at the T3 airport in Delhi.“...(As per Centre’s guideline) 2% of such travellers in each flight shall be identified...(and) shall be escorted by the concerned airlines/MoCA (Ministry of Civil Aviation) to the testing area on arrival. The General Manager of the concerned airline is hereby show caused for not complying with the directions...,” read the notice issued by Piyush Arun Rohankar, SDM, Delhi Cantonment.American Airlines officials did not respond to requests seeking comment.
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||IED defused in Kashmir’s Kupwara||The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered an improvised explosive device (IED) on the roadside in north Kashmir’s Kupwara on Friday morning. A BSF spokesman said on a specific information, a BSF patrolling party detected a suspicious cylindrical metal object, connected to a battery and wires. Traffic on the road was stopped and the area was cordoned off by the police and army. The explosive was later defused by the bomb disposal squad of Kupwara police and 41 Rashtriya Rifles without causing any harm to men and material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ieddefused-in-kashmir-s-kupwara-101638567595306.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Anti-terror operations: Avoid collateral damage, Azad advises security forces||Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday advised security forces to avoid collateral damage during anti-terror operations in Jammu and Kashmir. “During counter insurgency operations, if a militant runs into a village and enters a house to hide himself, the security forces blow away the house. Then people think that forces have committed excesses. During my tenure as chief minister, I had asked the security forces to cordon off the house and wait for two days,” Azad told reporters after his rally in Rajouri. “He (militant) will eventually come out. Once out, kill him. No doctor has said that you have to kill him the same day. So, my point is, forces should avoid collateral damage,” he added. To another query, he said, since the central government has agreed upon elections and statehood for Jammu and Kashmir, he wanted exclusive rights of locals to jobs and land. “Till the Supreme Court decides on Article 370, we want the government to guarantee exclusive right to jobs and land to the locals in the statehood bill, which it intends to bring in the Parliament,” he said. “We don’t have to do anything with Article 35-A, but only include these two key issues in the statehood bill,” he said. “The case (on Article 370) is sub-judice in court and if the decision comes after five years then we may lose all jobs and our land to the outsiders. Therefore, incorporate these two issues in the statehood bill so that outsiders don’t get jobs and purchase our land,” he added. Earlier at the rally, Azad again urged people to raze the walls of hatred before the next assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, and elect secular leaders. “When you take ill and need blood, do you ask if the blood being administered to you belongs to a Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Gujjar or a Pahari. Humanity should be the religion of all. Therefore, elect secular leaders on the basis of their humanity and not those who do communal politics,” he said. The political parties in Jammu and Kashmir anticipate assembly polls in June next year, following the completion of the delimitation exercise in March. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron scare: J&K govt directs expeditious genomic analysis||Amid the Omicron scare, the Jammu and Kashmir government on Friday directed surveillance officers to ensure expedited genomic analysis through INSACOG genome sequencing labs. “The designated surveillance officers must establish close coordination with their designated/tagged INSACOG genome sequencing laboratories (IGSLs) for expediting results of genomic analysis,” read an order issued by chief secretary Dr AK Mehta, who is also the chairman of the state executive committee. Mehta in his order said, “Samples of every Covid positive case shall be sent to the designated IGSLs promptly, as per the India SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) guidance document.” “Necessary public health measures should be taken in case presence of variants of concern/variants of interest is reported by the INSACOG network,” the order read further. It also said people from “at-risk” nations who test negative will have to be in home quarantine for seven days. “They should be tested again on the eighth day. If tested negative, they shall be advised to monitor themselves carefully for at least two days,” it stated. “The travellers coming from countries considered not at risk and whose samples have tested negative should be advised to monitor themselves carefully for at least two weeks,” it added. Meanwhile, Jammu deputy commissioner Anshul Garg declared Saraswati Vihar, near Hazuri Bagh in Talab Tillo area of Jammu city, a micro containment zone to arrest the spike in Covid-19 cases.181 new Covid cases in J&K, two dead 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Two members of burglars’ gang held, ₹60,000, LCD recovered||The crime investigation agency (CIA) and Balongi police, in their joint operation, arrested two members of a burglars’ gang and recovered stolen money and an LCD panel from them. The accused have been identified as Anil Kumar, 27, and Mustafa alias Golu, 29, both residents of Azad Nagar in Balongi. A case has been registered against both of them under sections 380 and 457 of the IPC.Kharar deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Gurcharan Singh said the duo had executed the theft at a shop in Balongi by breaking the lock and taken away ₹80,000, an LCD panel, and other items, following which the shop owner, Charanjit Singh, lodged a complaint with the police. The DSP said the police caught hold of the accused following a tip-off. “The accused bought branded clothes worth ₹20,000 with the stolen money. When the police arrested them, ₹60,000 was recovered from their possession. The police have also seized those branded clothes. The stolen LCD and other items have also been recovered,” he added. No headway in Sector-43 house burglaryChandigarh Police have yet to make any arrest in the theft that took place in a locked house in broad daylight on December 1. Thieves broke into the house of Arun Kumar, an SDO in BSNL, when he and his wife were away for work. In his complaint, Arun had mentioned that he and his wife, a teacher in a Kharar school, returned around 4pm only to find the locks of their house broken. He said that the house was ransacked and accused took away 14 silver coins and ₹20,000. He told the police that they used to buy silver coins on Diwali that were kept in a box in the temple in their house and even cash was kept in the temple which thieves took away. A case under sections 380 and 454 of IPC was registered in the Sector-36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-two-members-of-burglars-gang-held-rs-60-000-lcd-recovered-101638565614969.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali businessman booked for cheating||Sohana police have booked a Mohali-based businessman for cheating a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 32. The businessman has been identified as Saurabh Tewari, who runs a garment manufacturing business, Pride and Passion, in Sector 82. He cheated Rohit Jain by selling him a property in Ambala, which was not in his name, the police said. In his complaint to the police, Jain said that in August 2018, Tewari took ₹39 lakh from him in lieu of selling his native house in Ambala, but on checking, it came to the fore that the property was not in his name and he was not authorised to sell it. “When we demanded our money back, Tewari said he will pay double the money and needed some time. He only gave back ₹2 lakh and later started threatening me and my family,” the complaint told the police. The FIR against Saurabh Tewari has been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Investigating officer Harvinder Singh said they have already issued Tewari a notice to join the investigation, on failing which he will be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-businessman-booked-for-cheating-101638565254971.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting teachers marching towards Punjab CM’s house lathicharged in Mohali||Members of ETT-qualified teachers’ union, which had been agitating for the past five months over their long-pending demands, on Friday tried to gherao Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s Kharar residence. They were, however, stopped by police from marching ahead. The protesters tried to break the barricades placed to bar them from proceeding, due to which the police resorted to mild lathicharging. Some protesters sustained minor injuries also. Senior vice-president of the Unemployed ETT Teachers’ Union, Sandeep Saama, said the protesting youth were hoping that after becoming the chief minister, Channi would solve their problems on a priority basis. He rued that Channi and others did not take out time to listen to their demands. He said the recruitment of 2,364 teachers could be done by sending the file in this regard to the AG, Punjab, but no initiative had been taken. He claimed that the issue was being deliberately delayed and no concrete steps were being taken by the AG, Punjab, to get the stay removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-teachers-marching-towards-punjab-cm-s-house-lathicharged-in-mohali-101638565074884.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health department puts on hold plan to reinstate 178 NHM employees||The UT health department has put on hold the decision of reinstating the 178 terminated National Health Mission (NHM) workers after the employees moved high court, director health services said on Friday. All the 178 terminated healthcare workers had submitted written apologies and assurance to rejoin duties on their previous salaries on November 22, after which the department had said that the screening committee will scrutinise their applications, check employees’ demands and explanations, and then will allow them to come back to work. The NHM employees have filed a case — ‘Niranjan Kumar and others versus Union of India and others’ — in the Punjab and Haryana high court, hearing of which is due on January 12, 2022. Director health services Dr Suman Singh said, “The health department was ready to take back the termination of the employees, but the staff preferred to move high court. Now, the department can’t do anything and we will obey the orders which will be given by the court in January. Till then, the staff will not be allowed to rejoin their duties.”At least 500 NHM employees, working under the UT health department as doctors, paramedical staff and managerial staff, including nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 workers, have been working for salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013. In August, over 300 NHM workers had gone on an indefinite leave to press their demand for equal wages for equal work. Following the continuous protest, the UT administration had given a written assurance of a salary hike. The department had then offered revised working conditions for them against the salary hike. However, the services of the NHM workers were terminated on October 28, after they went on a strike without giving prior intimation to press for salaries at DC rates.Meanwhile, Amit Kumar, general secretary of the NHM union, said, “The health department asked us to withdraw the court case before rejoining the duties. We asked the department to give us a written assurance that they will cancel our termination after dropping the court case, but the authorities refused to do so. We are ready to withdraw the case after rejoining the duties or if department will give us written assurance on rolling back the termination once the case is dropped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-health-department-puts-on-hold-plan-to-reinstate-178-nhm-employees-101638564835077.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: South MCD to set up centres to help children with special needs||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Friday decided to set up four “recourse centres” for addressing the education requirement of children with special needs in its 592 primary schools.The institutions will be equipped with specialists and machines to help with 30 different types of therapies, officials of the civic body’s education department said.Municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti mentioned the project in his budget speech on Friday and said the SDMC will set up one centre in each administrative zone managed by the civic body—Najafgarh, West, Central and South zone.SDMC manages 592 primary schools where around 305,000 children are currently enrolled.Nitika Sharma, the chairperson of the education committee of SDMC, said that three or four classes and halls in the corporation’s existing schools will be equipped to make these centres operational.Pradeep Sindhu, the deputy commissioner and education director of SDMC, said, “There are over 30 identified disabilities in children with special needs. We will procure machines for speech therapy, locomotive disabilities, physical therapies and other interventions with the help of CSR initiatives while the recourse centres will be managed by our special educators and counsellors.”The south corporation currently has 208 special educators and 40 counsellors for its primary schools. Sindhu added that the civic body is also planning to appoint at least one special educator in each primary school by March 2022.Sindhu explained that the civic body is training teachers to identify students with special requirements.“Teachers and special educators will jointly identify the children who require help in recourse centres and such students will continue to receive education in their schools while accessing skill upgradation help in the four centres every 10 to 15 days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisouth-mcd-to-set-up-centres-to-help-children-with-special-needs-101638564336432.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Islamic State claims responsibility for murder bid on traffic cop in Srinagar||The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the attack on a traffic policeman in old city on Wednesday.Militants on Wednesday night had shot at a traffic cop at point blank range, while he was regulating traffic on the road at Rajouri Kadal. Identified as Mohammad Abdullah, the victim had received three bullets. He is said to be stable.A video of the incident, purportedly released by Amaq, the publicity wing of the Islamic State, has been circulating on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/islamic-state-claims-responsibility-for-murder-bid-on-traffic-cop-in-srinagar-101638564474699.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two lose battle to Covid in Himachal Pradesh, 51 test positive||Covid-19 claimed two more lives in Himachal Pradesh, while 51 people tested positive for the infection on Friday.Kangra led the daily tally with 18 cases, followed by Shimla with 16, Solan 10, Mandi three, Hamirpur two, and Kinnaur and Una one each.With this, the state’s caseload reached 2,27,405, while death toll climbed to 3,835.Currently, 797 patients are still recuperating from the virus, while 2,22,756 have successfully beaten it. Kangra is the worst hit among the 12 districts, contributing 51,980 cases to the state’s total. It is followed by Mandi with 31,928 cases and Shimla with 27,941 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-lose-battle-to-covid-in-himachal-pradesh-51-test-positive-101638564174685.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Baddi pharma firm owner, manager held for fake sales||The crime investigation department (CID) of Himachal Pradesh Police on Friday arrested the proprietor and manager of a Baddi-based pharmaceutical company for suspicious sales of narcotic drugs. Proprietor Dinesh Bansal, 38, belongs to Barnala, Punjab, and his manager Sonu Saini, 32, hails from Panipat, Haryana. A case was registered against Zannet Pharmaceuticals, that has its headquarters in Zirakpur, Punjab, under Sections 8, 21, 22 and 29 of the NDPS Act and Sections 420, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code on November 30 following a complaint by state drug controller Navneet Marwaha. The complaint came after Marwaha and his team audited the company’s accounts and found suspicious sale transactions. “Interrogation revealed that they prepared fake bills regarding sale of Nitrazapem, Codeine and Etizolam tablets to a Mandi-based wholesale drug dealer,” a press release by the CID said. Investigations established that the dealer never received these drugs. Further, Bansal was found using his private Toyota Innova car to transport drugs to Rajasthan and Punjab. Also, his company’s wholesale drug licence was cancelled in Punjab in 2018-19 for violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. His office and warehouse at Zirakpur and Baddi have been raided, and inspections are still going on. All sale transactions of the company are being verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/baddi-pharma-firm-owner-manager-held-for-fake-sales-101638563994858.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Police issue gag order for cops seeking pay parity||A day after the chief minister warned of action against the agitating cops running a campaign on social media for pay parity, the Himachal Pradesh police on Friday advised its constabulary against airing their grievances online.The advisory issued by director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu states: “In the light of the recent developments within the police constabulary, all unit heads are directed to advise the constables under their command to maintain discipline.”They have been directed to communicate their demands regarding pay scale in the form of a written memorandum to the government of Himachal Pradesh through the Police Headquarters.Besides, it has been advised that the constables refrain from making any comments on social media, and that they should go about their routine in the normal manner and take meals in the mess. “Ensure strict compliance,” the order stated in the end.The Twitter handle of the Himachal Pradesh Police also tweeted an advisory, stating that cops must maintain discipline and perform their duties with dedication.There has been growing anger among the constables of the Himachal Pradesh police over the disparity in their salaries.Irked over their demands not being heard in the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) meeting, policemen in large numbers had marched to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s official residence for a peaceful protest on November 28. The cops have also stopped taking meals in the messes since.The chief minister had hurriedly convened a meeting with the finance secretary and assured the protesting cops that their demands will be looked into in a meeting with all officials concerned. The meeting has yet to be held.In the JCC meeting, the chief minister had announced new pay scales for the employees and reduced their contract period from three to two years. The government’s decision to increase the pay scales of employees had led to resentment among policemen. On Thursday, Thakur, who also holds the home portfolio, had warned to take tough action against cops running a social media campaign regarding their grievances.Talking to the media on Friday, the chief minister said the police were a disciplined force and had the right to raise their grievances. “Government is looking into their demands. However, to make it a campaign on social media and some people provoking them is not right,” he said. “So, the DGP has advised them to take meals in the mess and refrain from making comments on social media,” he said, adding that the gathering of policemen at his residence was not a protest. “It was just that a delegation had to meet me but the number of people who arrived there was quite large. It was just an incident and not a protest,” he said.Around 5,700 constables are feeling aggrieved by the decision of the government to extend the period of the constables for the grant of ₹10,300+ ₹3,200 pay scale from two to eight years. Their repeated pleas to grant the pay scales as per the 2013 policy have gone unheeded.
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM directs speedy redress of working class’ issues||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said regular meetings of the service committees of various boards and corporations will be held for redressing issues of the working class.He was presiding over a meeting with the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS).He said the current government had increased the minimum wage of daily wagers from ₹210 to ₹300 per day and will also ensure that industrial units also provide adequate wages to their workers.He said weekly offs were also being provided to daily wagers.Applauding the work by ASHA and anganwari workers during the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister said it was due to their dedication that Himachal Pradesh emerged as the first state in the country to achieve 100% first dose vaccination and was also on the verge of completing full coverage of second dose.He said the state government had enhanced the honorarium for ASHA workers by ₹1,750 during the last four years, adding that steps will be taken to stop exploitation of workers by the cement companies in the state. Thakur said two years were lost due to the pandemic, but the state government ensured that workers did not suffer. “The BMS played a constructive role in providing help to the needy during the pandemic. All genuine demands of the BMS will be considered sympathetically and steps will be taken for their early redress,” he added.He assured that the state government will organise a meeting with the BMS before the Budget session next year, and directed the officers to immediately implement the announcements made by him in respect of various categories of employees.Earlier, BMS president Madan Rana urged the chief minister to be considerate towards the demands of the labourers and working class. He also sought a permanent policy for ASHA workers, tailoring teachers and anganwari workers, and minimum wages for the mid-day meal workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-directs-speedy-redress-of-working-class-issues-101638563514633.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||HT Readers’ take: Chandigarh needs a clean-up act||Shabby waste management systemChandigarh, which is known as City Beautiful, performed poorly in the Swachh Survekshan due to its shabby waste management system. While residents must do their bit by not littering and following the waste segregation norms, the MC needs to focus on getting rid of the legacy waste of the city. Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhSustainable living Residents can take small steps, which can help affect big changes in the long run. The basic rule of reduce, reuse and recycle must be followed diligently. Secondly, garbage must be segregated at source so that the authorities can dispose it in an efficient manner. Thirdly, residents must be educated about sustainable living. Gaurav Jain, ChandigarhNew C&D policy can helpIt is shameful that a city like Chandigarh, which has a highly-educated population, has done so poorly in Swachh Survekshan. Residents of a planned city like Chandigarh should lead the way in implementing good waste management practices. The new construction and demolition (C&D) policy, which will let generators of malba take processed material costing 50% of the processing charges for free, and penalise those dumping malba at non-designated spots, will help a great deal. The MC needs to bring in more upgrades in its waste management plants. Residents must also do their bit by taking small steps, such as converting kitchen waste into compost. Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhMountain of shameChandigarh’s great fall in Swachh Survekshan 2021 is disappointing for its residents. The city’s dysfunctional waste management plant and the huge mountain of legacy waste have spoiled city’s rank in the survey. Authorities need to act fast and make the waste management plant functional, so that waste can be processed. Besides, initiatives such as rewarding good waste management practices by residents can also prove helpful. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhInvolve citizens in the mission The planned cities of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula can easily attain the top ranks in Swachh Survekshan if these have dedicated teams working towards the goal. The reason Indore has been doing well in the survey is that it has managed to get its residents on board. The municipal corporation alone cannot achieve this target; active citizens’ participation is a must. Simarjit Bhogal, via emailTricity lagging behind on all countsAs per the ministry of urban development and housing, there are five parameters to determine the cleanliness of the city: Collection and transportation, processing and disposal of waste, sanitation levels, behavioural changes and capacity building. Tricity is lagging behind on all five counts. The reason behind this is lack of willingness and involvement of citizens. KNS Sodhi, MohaliFix responsibility The Swachh ranking dip is matter of concern for City Beautiful and responsibility must be fixed at the earliest. The city has the right infrastructure but its implementation is shoddy. Had the authorities not delayed the tenders for hiring a waste processing firm, the city may have been in a better position. Citizens’ participation is also crucial. Political parties must also make cleanliness their poll plank. Sukhpal Singh, ChandigarhPolitical will is neededThe slump in the rank of City Beautiful is not shocking as mismanagement was pretty evident. Chandigarh is a planned city but on the civic front, there is little planning. Instead of passing the buck, authorities must address the problem areas. For that, political willingness is crucial. That would come only if residents hold their elected representatives accountable. Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliHealth hazard Debris and malba on vacant plots and roads are not only an eyesore, but also an obstruction in the cleaning process. Owners of such plots must be penalized for not ensuring cleanliness of their plot. Such spots can also become a health hazard by becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Anju Juneja, via emailMC needs to pull up its socksFrom rank 2 in 2014, City Beautiful has slipped to shameful 66 this year in Swachh Survekshan. The position is likely to deteriorate further if the municipal corporation and administration don’t pull up their socks. Instead of assigning the work to contractors, the MC must take matters into its own hands and set right the waste management system of the city. It’s not just about the rankings, it is residents’ health that is at risk due to the slipping cleanliness levels. SK Khosla, ChandigarhNo improvement till waste plant is in place The city’s cleanliness index will keep slipping till the waste management plant’s capacity is not increased. Authorities must direct all their resources to this end. Besides, it is also upon us s residents to keep our city clean and green. Awareness drives can help a great deal in achieving citizens’ participation.Aarti Verma, PanchkulaSensitise the publicThe clean city initiative cannot make much progress until there is active citizens’ participation. To achieve this, authorities must hold regular sensitization workshops to get citizens involved. We must all learn from Indore dogged pursuit of cleanliness and see how we can do the same for our city. The authorities must also provide sufficient funds to achieve this target. P Mehta, via emailRankings a wake-up callThe poor show in Swachh rankings has come as a wake-up call not only for Chandigarh but also for Mohali and Panchkula. It is time for the authorities of the three cities to draw a clear roadmap and fix responsibility on erring officials. The defaulters must be made to pay for the losses from the own pockets. Residents must also do their bit to help city improve.Subhash Chugh, via emailMC in slumberDue to the MC’s carelessness, the city is going to the dogs. Garbage can be seen lying all over the place, storm water drains are choked by waste and pedestrian paths and green belts are not maintained well. The regular meetings of the MC officials and councillors are of no use if they cannot solve the most basic problems of the city. Huge amounts have been spent on devices such as smart watches for sanitation works, but with little result. Sateesh Dadwal, ChandigarhWaste segregation at sourceUnless waste is segregated at the source, it will be very difficult to manage it. But habits don’t change overnight. Penalising citizens will only antagonise them. So a consistent, focused campaign to sensitise and reinforce waste segregation is need to get the residents on board. Many are not even aware about the classification of the garbage into various categories. We should learn lessons from other cities across India, which have bagged the top rank. All of us a required to do our bit to improve our city’s rankings. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhLet’s do our bitIt is sad that City Beautiful’s ranking has gone down in Swachh Survekshan 2021. It is high time we improve our waste disposal system, starting from our homes to the disposal point. At the outset, we must follow basic principal of 3 R’s: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle waste. A drive must be launched to educate people on waste segregation. Also, people must not throw waste in open places like parks, streets, road berms etc which paint a very poor picture of our city. Col TBS Bedi, MohaliClear legacy waste on war footingThe legacy waste accumulating at Dadumajra is a blot on City Beautiful. The administration must start an initiative to clear the legacy waste on war footing. Also, to improve the Swachh Rankings, citizens’ participation plays a major role. The civic body must take up initiatives to train people in waste segregation at source. Also, sanitation workers should also carry out their work properly. Those found negligent at their work must be punished while those doing well must be rewarded. Regular feedback must be taken from residents’ welfare associations to ensure all is well on the ground. Kidar Nath Sharma, via emailBan plastic bagsThe government must ban plastic all across the country as plastic, being non-biodegradable, leaves a major impact on the environment. We must all consciously resolve to limit plastic use as much as possible and switch alternatives, such as bamboo, jute etc. SK Thakur, via emailSpare a thought for sanitation workersTricity’s isn’t doing well in waste segregation and processing. To top that municipal officials and sanitation workers are always on warpath. The ‘safai karamcharis’ work is the most difficult and if they refuse to work, our city will stink. The administration must be benevolent towards their needs and encourage them by rewarding them for the work from time-to-time. Also, the tricity must seriously consider setting up biogas plants to gainfully treat solid waste. Capt Amar Jeet, KhararBetter governance, residents’ participationPoor governance and litter are two of the biggest threats to Chandigarh’s ‘City Beautiful’ tag. Citizens need to abstain from littering, open urination etc. Apart from these, ensure cleaner markets (rope in market associations for it) and also ensure better cleanliness and garbage management in villages under Chandigarh MC.Kampreet Gill, Chandigarh Lead by exampleWe humans have herd mentality. If we see others engaging in bad practices, we follow them, if we see them doing the right things, we do the same. In airports, where there is cleanliness, residents barely litter, but at roadsides, where garbage is lying, passersby will add carelessly discard their waste. So to set things right, we need community leaders leading by example, so other can learn and follow. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhShun blame gameThe city has slipped on the Swachh Survekshan rankings primarily due to poor solid waste management system and ineffective implementation of waste segregation at source. Due to the non-functional waste plant, garbage is accumulating near the waste plant, making lives of residents nearby a nightmare. Amid this, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress are engaged in a political slugfest over who is to be blamed. While the BJP accuses the Congress of preparing a faulty tender and poor selection of site, the Congress blames the BJP for not being able to resolve the issue despite holding power in the MC and the Centre. SC Luthra, ChandigarhDust, debris due to constructionEfficient solid waste management mechanism is a far cry in the city due to lack of political will. Though poor waste management is one of the main reasons for the dip in Swachh Survekshan Rankings, the unchecked construction work in and around the city is also leading to dust and debris accumulation. Deepak Kumar, PanchkulaDwindling cleanliness Chandigarh was once renowned for its beauty and spick and span roads but over the years, it has lost its sheen. The defunct waste treatment plant has had a major role to play in the city’s dipping cleanliness standards. But the spurt in population and ensuing construction work has also been a contributor. Over increased plastic usage over the years has also degraded the environment. The administration must act before it’s too late. Competitions between sectors, residential societies etc can be explored to help city get back its clean tag. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhSingle-use plastic must be bannedThe city needs to re-work its waste management practices. While residents must clean up their act and stop littering, and start segregation of work, authorities must impose penalty on all those erring on these fronts. More dustbins must be made available at public places to discourage littering. And residents must also take a conscious decision to reduce use of single-use plastic items. Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurAuthorities’ complacency to be blamedChandigarh has slipped on Swachh Survekshan rankings due to the complacency of authorities. Community participation is also lacking. Charity begins at home, so residents must start from their own homes for better waste management. Once that is achieved, we can think about improving the city’s rankings and country’s image.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaTurn the gaze inwardsHow can we expect any change, when our bureaucrats and politicians can themselves be seen holding Swachh Survekshan meetings with plastic water bottles placed next to them. Before they check other, they must turn the gaze inwards. Anju Mohan, PanchkulaCloth bags instead of plastic onesThe MC must work on upgrading the waste plant. Residents must minimise use of plastic bags. Little steps like using jute or cloth bags for shopping, not throwing trash at public places can go a long way. It is a sad sight to see polythene bags scattered in mandis along with discarded vegetables and fruits, which are consumed by cattle and stray dogs. It should be the responsibility of market officials to check this. Vijay Malia, ChandigarhMC must take action against defaultersSolid waste is a challenge for the tricity. The MC started garbage collection in twin-bin carriages to separate wet and dry waste, but due to lack of initiative on residents’ part, it is yet to be fully implemented. Since the next Swachh Survekshan is round the corner, the civic body has become strict and decided to take action against the defaulters. It must show the same urgency round the year. Usha Verma, ChandigarhWrong notion of clean cityResidents of Chandigarh were of the notion that they live in a clean and green city. The latest Swachh Survey has broken that myth. The local administration and residents are to be equally blamed for this. We must now ponder on corrective steps.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhREADER OF THE WEEKResidents, authorities need to work together For the city to improve its Swachh rankings, we need community participation as well as official willingness. At the outset, we need to focus on implementing waste segregation and then work towards enhancing the capacity of recycling and processing of solid waste. Also, authorities must ensure compliance to the ban on use of single-use plastic. Residents need to be sensitised about their role in keeping their cities clean, and the long-term environmental impact of our actions. Akancsha Sood, ChandigarhEXPERT TAKEEye on star-ratingThough our ranking has improved, our aim is to get star rating for which, we will’ve to focus on waste segregation, plastic ban and reuse of construction waste. I urge residents to cooperate with us.Kamal Kumar Garg, Mohali municipal commissionerGet public involvedUntil unless public doesn’t get involved actively, the rankings won’t improve. So, we are going to hold meetings seeking public opinion on what all measures can be taken to bring an improvement.Dharamvir, Panchkula MC commissioner RWAs’ roleMC must involve RWAs in garbage collection process or the ranking will fall further. Residents know the problem areas that MC can’t seem to find. There are so many issues with regards to new van-based garbage collection yet the MC chooses to ignore it. Major DP Singh (retd), CRAWFED patronNeed to inculcate ‘green culture’Waste segregation at source is critical for efficient processing. RWAs can play an effective role in this. We also need to adopt a green culture, which focus on reduce, reuse and recycle. Dr Namita Gupta, associate professor, Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Panjab University||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-readers-take-chandigarh-needs-a-clean-up-act-101638563454802.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar: Tourism jobs have increased in Punjab, says special chief secretary, cultural affairs||Sanjay Kumar, special chief secretary, department of cultural affairs, archives, archaeology and museums, on Friday said there were a lot of jobs in the tourism sector due to the promotion of tourism by the Punjab government. He claimed that tourism-related jobs had increased from 27% to 30% in the state.Sanjay was speaking at a seminar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the second day of the 15th Punjab International Trade Expo (Pitex), which the state government is hosting in Amritsar.Kumar said Punjab had a number of places of historical importance. The connectivity of the Delhi-Katra road has not only increased the number of tourists but also new trends are emerging in this area.Speaking about cultural tourism, he said it should be promoted in order to give international recognition to Amritsar. Publicity is being done through various mediums to establish Amritsar on the international map. In the last few years, Punjab is also growing rapidly in the field of medical tourism, he added.Speaking on the topic of rural entrepreneurship and farm tourism, Harkirat Singh, convener of the Tourism Committee of the PHDCCI, said now village tourism was being promoted in a professional manner. Ajay Mahajan, co-chair, PHD Chamber of Commerce, Punjab Chapter, said there is a need for synergy between tourism and industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-tourism-jobs-have-increased-in-punjab-says-special-chief-secretary-cultural-affairs-101638563338175.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Passengers a harried lot as contractual Punbus, PRTC workers disrupt service for two hours||Passengers at the inter-state bus terminal were in for a harrowing experience on Friday, with agitating contractual staff of the Punbus and PRTC shutting down services for two hours as part of the statewide protest seeking regularisation. With buses not being allowed to enter the terminal, chaos ensued at the entrance. Looking to board pivate busses, people began queuing up in the midst of heavy traffic, adding to the woes. As per the bus terminal authorities, movement of over 100 buses was affected due to the agitation. Multiple cancelations also adversely affected the overall schedule, leaving passengers in limbo.Passengers at the short end of the stickSeveral passengers rued the harassment that they had to face because of the ongoing disagreement between agitating parties and the state government.Surjit Singh, a passenger who was seen waiting for a bus to Amritsar, said the employees should ensure that the public does not become a collateral in their protest. “I have been waiting for around 20 minutes for a bus amid the traffic chaos outside the stand and no information is available even with the bus stand officials regarding the arrival and departure of buses,” he said.Another passenger, Vishal, said even as private operators are running the services, it is very difficult to locate the right bus amid the chaos. “The buses are easily available and accessible inside the stand. Traffic jams also irked the commuters. The employees should pay heed to the problems faced by residents due to their protest,” he complained. Meanwhile, station supervisor, Kuljit Sodhi said movement of over 100 buses was disrupted, estimating a loss of around ₹6 lakh. The state government is working to resolve the issue with the Union. Indefinite strike from December 7 Shamsher Singh, district president of the Punbus/PRTC Contractual Employees Union, said the agitation was a result of the state government’s continued indifference to their demand of regularisation. He further stated the employees will up the ante and go on an indefinite strike across the state from December 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/passengers-a-harried-lot-as-contractual-punbus-prtc-workers-disrupt-service-for-two-hours-101638562919049.html
04-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Right-wing leader held for disrupting namaz||Eleven people associated with different right-wing groups were detained on Friday by the Gurugram police for trying to disrupt namaz in the open in Sector 37, for the third consecutive week. Their efforts were thwarted by the police who formed a security cordon around the Muslims, allowing the namaz to progress without hindrance and preventing a further escalation in law and order.The Sector 37 ground is one of 20 sites designated by the administration for holding Friday prayers in the open, given the paucity of mosques in the city. Even so, protests have been taking place there for the past three weeks, with Hindu groups remaining adamant about not allowing Muslims to pray in the open.While 10 of those detained were later let go, Dinesh Bharti, leader of Hindu outfit Bharat Mata Vahini, was arrested for allegedly threatening Muslims who came to pray, police said.Rajender Kumar, assistant commissioner of police, said more than 400 police personnel were deployed at the sector 37 site as Hindu groups on Thursday had informed the administration of their intention to disrupt Friday prayers. “We called in personnel from four police stations to control the situation and detained protesters before the situation could turn ugly. We created a protective layer around the Muslims offering prayers to ensure their safety and security,” he said.More than 700 personnel were deployed on Friday, mostly at six designated namaz sites that have seen protests in the past. No violence was reported in the city but there was a disruption at a smaller site in Sector 34, where protesters turned away Muslims and did not let them offer prayers, said police.At Sector 37, protesters parked more than 50 trucks on the ground in an effort to stop the namaz. Police had to push back protesters and make space for Muslims, but right-wing groups and residents who gathered there in protest started shouting religious slogans. Only a small portion of ground was finally used for prayers, the police later said .Sushil Kumar, duty magistrate deployed at the Sector 37 site, said hundreds of people had assembled on the ground in protest and were requested by the police to not cause any disruption but they did not pay heed. They started shouting slogans. “They were taken into preventive custody and the site was cleared for prayers,” he said.Among those detained was Bharti, a man at the forefront of these protests since September, who has been arrested twice. Police said Bharti allegedly stood in front of the Muslims who congregated for prayers and started threatening them even as others shouted slogans.Avaneesh Raghav, a resident of Khandsa, said they parked trucks on the ground as they didn’t have space in the village.“We have requested companies in the area to provide space to their Muslim employees — on rooftops, basements or premises — to offer prayers. We will not let them use our ground even if we get arrested for stopping them. Muslims offering namaz here are not locals; they come from far off places to encroach our land,” he said.Praveen Yadav, another protester, said they will park more trucks and vehicles next Friday to leave no space for Muslims. “This is the only ground locals have to organise functions, havan (ritualistic prayers) and other activities, including weddings. No outsider is allowed to perform anything without our consent. It is very strange that people are coming here from Nuh, just to offer namaz,” said the man who himself travelled around 15-18km from his home in Sirhaul village to Sector 37 on Friday, just to protest.Yadav said next Friday they will also target Udyog Vihar, where more than 800 Muslims offer namaz in the open.Haji Shehzad Khan, chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, said the situation is getting more tense as weeks pass, but with the support of police and the administration, they were able to pray on Friday. “The way the Hindu groups are trying to attack us is not fair. They were prepared to take the law into their hands but timely intervention saved us. People offered prayers even as sloganeering continued all around them,” he said.Altaf Ahmed, a representative of the Muslim community, said, “It is a deliberate attempt to disturb the peaceful juma namaz and the communal harmony of this cosmopolitan city,” he said.Over the past three months, right-wing groups have disrupted namaz being offered in open spaces in sectors 47, 12, 37 and Sirhaul village.Members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation of Hindu right-wing groups, which has been leading the protests, said they have been waiting for a month for the administration to stop the practise of namaz in public places.“From next Friday, we will not let anyone offer prayers at any of the 20 sites and we will continue to protest and occupy the sites,” said Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor of the samiti.
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||NRI writes to chief minister Charanjit Channi, offers land for memorial for farmers’ protest||An NRI from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district offered to give land for a memorial for farmers who died in the year-long protests against the agriculture laws.US-based Barjinder Singh Hussainpur, who runs ‘Naroa Punjab’, an NGO, has written to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday saying that the struggle of farmers and labourers against the Union government over the three farm laws was unprecedented not only in the country but across the world. He said nearly 700 farmers and labourers had sacrificed their lives so far in the protests.“To commemorate this great struggle and sacrifice, a unique and world-class memorial needs to be built,” he said. In the letter, Hussainpur said, “I humbly request in the name of being a Sikh, Punjabi and farmer to build this memorial in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district and will give land for the memorial”.In November, Channi announced a memorial for the farmers who died in the year-long protests against the farm laws that the Central government withdrew on the 552nd birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nri-writes-to-chief-minister-charanjit-channi-offers-land-for-memorial-for-farmers-protest-101638562734748.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Country’s first ‘lifelong care centre’ for specially abled to come up in Ambala||On the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday laid the foundation stone of ‘Lifelong Care Centre’ for such people in Ambala Cantonment through a videoconference. The centre is said to be the first of its kind in India. Haryana home minister and local MLA Anil Vij, along with minister of state for social justice and empowerment Om Prakash Yadav, attended the programme at the project site in Sector 34. The centre will be constructed at a cost of ₹31.71 crore and is spread across five acres of land. It will have 40 rooms that can accommodate 100 inmates, where yoga, food, clothing and medical facilities will be available under one roof, officials said.Vij said following a proposal by the United Nations, the state government has provided pension facilities to various categories of the disabled and age concession in all job groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/countrys-first-lifelong-care-centre-for-specially-abled-to-come-up-in-ambala-101638562675726.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mired in controversy over reprimanding teacher, deputy DEO transferred from Ludhiana||In the wake of widespread resentment among teachers of various government schools, deputy district education officer (Deputy DEO) Kuldeep Singh Saini was transferred on Friday.Saini has been transferred to the Government Senior Secondary School, Dhudike, Moga, but no replacement has been announced for the Deputy DEO post so far. Meanwhile, 21 other education officers also received transfer orders in the state.Hundreds of teachers from different blocks had applied for a mass leave to participate in the protest held against Saini outside the office of deputy commissioner earlier this year.Saini had landed in a controversy after he allegedly reprimanded a teacher, Sapandeep Kaur, deputed at the Government Primary School, Sahnewal last month. Kaur was reported to have suffered a paralysis attack and had to be hospitalised.The teacher associations had been demanding strict action against him. Block primary education officer, Khanna-1, and 50 other teachers had also come forward in accusing Saini of harassing and misbehaving with the teachers on varied occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mired-in-controversy-over-reprimanding-teacher-deputy-deo-transferred-from-ludhiana-101638562674699.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Recruitment ‘scams’: Deepender joins protest staged by Haryana Youth Congress||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Friday joined the protest organised by the Haryana Youth Congress against the alleged HPSC and HSSC recruitment scam. Calling it possibly the biggest recruitment scam of the country, Deepender gave the government a 15-day ultimatum for ordering a court-monitored CBI probe in the scam. He said, “If the government does not announce a CBI inquiry and if it fails to reveal names of the culprits, then a big Yuva Aakrosh Rally would be organised in Sonepat on December 19.”He said the youth of Haryana was facing the highest unemployment rate in the country today. “In the report of CMIE every month and NITI Aayog of the Government of India every year, it is clear that Haryana has the highest unemployment in India. The government, which claims to be honest, has been exposed by bundles of notes and blank answer sheets. In the matter of employment, both the Haryana Public Service Commission and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission have the same formula, give a sack of notes to get a job, leave the form completely blank,” he added. Deepender alleged that the rates for each paper were fixed. “It was ₹35 to ₹40 lakh for dental surgeons, ₹20 lakh for staff nurses, and ₹10 lakh for ANMs,” he added. Deepender said till 2014, Haryana was at the forefront of per capita income and per capita investment. “But today, our unemployment rate is four times the average unemployment of the country. The youth who are facing the highest unemployment in the country are being hit by the biggest recruitment scam ever,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recruitment-scams-deepender-joins-protest-staged-by-haryana-youth-congress-101638562495683.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Illegal’ construction: HC seeks status report from state over PUDA Act violations by Congress leader||The Punjab and Haryana high court sought a status report from the state of Punjab on alleged violations under the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) Act by Congress leader Amandeep Singh, alias Gora Gill, on the Kartarpur-Bholath scheduled road in Kapurthala by raising an illegal construction on Friday. Harinder Singh Ishar, advocate, said the bench of justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and justice Vinod S Bhardwaj had fixed the next date of hearing on December 6, while Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurjit Singh has also been made a respondent in the case by the petitioner. Harinder Singh said Karandeep Singh of Bholath had approached the high court alleging that Gill had constructed his house in violation of the PUDA Act within a 30-metre distance from the scheduled road. Karandeep had filed multiple complaints against Gill with the public works department (PWD) seeking action against the illegal construction, claiming that even the police didn’t take action against Gill as he is a close associate of Rana Gurjit Singh.The petitioner urged the court for directing the Punjab government to take action against Gill and the state government may be restrained from regularisng the illegal construction within a 30 metres area on the Kartarpur-Bholath scheduled road during the pendency of the petition. Meanwhile, a press release was issued by the office of former Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira on the matter in the high court. Khaira is in judicial custody in a money laundering case registered against him by the enforcement directorate.When contacted, Gill claimed that he had purchased the land on the Kartarpur-Bholath road by completing all legal formalities and constructed his office by following all norms, adding that he was not aware of the notice of the court and would reply once he gets it. He said Khaira was his “political arch-rival and playing poor gimmicks for his political survival”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-construction-hc-seeks-status-report-from-state-over-puda-act-violations-by-congress-leader-101638562436253.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Clock Tower protests: Vendors lock horns with zila parishad officials again in Ludhiana||High drama unfolded near the Clock Tower on Friday evening as a zila parishad team made a second attempt to remove street vendors from a piece of government land in the presence of police force.The street vendors had earlier in the day raised strong objections to the zila parishad’s move to remove them from the site, where they claimed to have been setting up their stalls for over two decades, before getting into heated arguments with the officials.The officials later submitted a complaint with the police.The protesting vendors stated that they have, for long, been submitting monthly fees to the Municipal Corporation (MC) to set up their stalls on the site. Their protest took the shape of a full-fledged movement earlier this week as they came together to voice their displeasure at the zila parishad decision to build a boundary wall to keep them out of the said site. The vendors have demanded that the authorities declare the site as a vending zone. President of the Rehri Fadi Union, Bal Krishan Pappi, said, “The vendors have also been paying a monthly fee to MC to install the vends in the past. If the authorities have to lease out the land, it should be given to the vendors and they will pay the rent to the authorities.”“The vendors have no other place to install vends in that area as they have been working at the site for over two decades now,” he added.When contacted, the superintendent of the zila parishad, Sikander Singh, refused to comment on the issue.Satnam Singh, assistant police sub inspector from Division number 1 station, said that a complaint has been received regarding encroachments by the zila parishad, but no FIR has yet been registered in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/clock-tower-protests-vendors-lock-horns-with-zila-parishad-officials-again-in-ludhiana-101638562434933.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP Virk, ex-Akali MLA Makkar, others join BJP||Former Punjab director general of police (DGP) SS Virk, ex- Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Sarabjit Singh Makkar and Aam Aadmi Party leader Gurpreet Singh Bhatti along with 25 others on Friday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. The others who entered the saffron fold in the presence of Union jal shakti minister and party’s Punjab election in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat are Avtar Singh Zira, son of veteran Akali leader and former minister late Hari Singh Zira, and industrialists Manvinder Singh Ranauta and Harcharan Singh Ranauta. Of a total of 28 people who joined the party, at least 20 are Sikh. Virk, who has the distinction of remaining the DGP of Punjab and Maharashtra, was one of the prominent faces of the Punjab Police’s fight against militancy in the 1980s. A Maharashtra-cadre retired IPS officer, Virk was awarded the Padma Shri in 1988 and has survived three attempts on his life by Khalistan militants. He was considered close to former chief minister Amarinder Singh and earlier had plans of joining the Congress, it is learnt. The BJP may consider fielding him from the Dasuya seat in Hoshiarpur district in the assembly elections as his native village Chhangla falls in the constituency. Gurpreet Bhatti, a founder member of the Manpreet Singh Badal-led Peoples Party of Punjab (PPP), contested the 2012 assembly polls from Khanna segment on party ticket. In 2017, he contested from the Amloh segment on AAP ticket and finished third with over 32,000. The BJP may to field him from Khanna, it is learnt. “Only the BJP has solution to the problems of Punjab — be it financial or the drug problem,” said Bhatti. Sarabjit Makkar was upset with the SAD over giving ticket to Jagbir Brar from Jalandhar Cantonment in the last polls. More senior leaders are likely to enter the saffron fold in the coming days, a senior party functionary said. On Wednesday, Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) Manjinder Singh Sirsa, a close aide of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, had joined the BJP along with Akali leader Parminder Brar. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Protests by teachers’ unions, govt employees brings life to a standstill in Ludhiana||With the state elections approaching, employees of different government institutions intensified protests to press for such demands as the clearance of pending allowances, increment in salaries and regularisation of services.The majority of government offices remained closed on Friday as staff remained on strike, and the impact was for the general public to feel. As many as 30 tuberculosis (TB) department employees marched from the civil surgeon office to the mini-secretariat to register their protest against the government’s stance on regularising the services of National Health Mission (NHM) employees.On reaching the office of the deputy commissioner, they returned their Corona Yodha appreciation certificate to officials. The healthcare workers also staged a protest at the civil surgeon office, demanding both regularisation of jobs and an increment in salaries.“The government is calling us a Corona Yodha for putting our lives at risk during the first and second waves of the pandemc. However, no decision has been taken when it comes to regularising our services,” said Dinesh Kumar, district account officer.He said that 300 employees of NHM, Ludhiana, and 12,000 from across the state were on strike for an indefinite period.No work at mini-secretariatMeanwhile, ministerial staff employees at the deputy commissioner office and revenue department employees, including patwaris, also joined the strike.All offices in the revenue department remained closed, with those dropped by the mini-secretariat being turned away.Sarwan Singh and Gurpreet Singh from Sidhwan, Bet area, said they were visiting the mini-secretariat in connection with land mutation, but learnt that the offices were closed upon arrival.PAU protest continuesProtests carried out by contractual employees and DPL workers of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), who have set up camp at the Thapar Hall at the university campus while demanding regularisation of old employees and increase in pay, also entered the fourth day.Chamkaur Singh, president of the Contractual and DPL Employee’s Welfare Union said they will continue to protest until all their demands are met.Besides, Dr Harmeet Singh Kingra, president of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO), who sat on an indefinite hunger fast at PAU campus on December 1 also refused to budge from his stance.According to the members of the association, Kingra was doing well physically and will continue his fast.Kingra was here supporting the protest of the teachers union from various universities, who are demanding the revision of the UGC pay scales and withdrawal of the decision of delinking universities from the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protests-by-teachers-unions-govt-employees-brings-life-to-a-standstill-in-ludhiana-101638562254510.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Centre won’t succeed in its attempts to weaken Akali Dal: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the BJP-led central government will not succeed in its attempts to weaken their party and that the leaders who left the party were “finished forever” politically. Addressing rallies in support of party candidates Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Bachittar Singh Kohar at Nakodar and Shahkot constituencies in Jalandhar district, Sukhbir said that conspiracies were being hatched to weaken the SAD as it is the true representative of the people of Punjab. Also, he announced to revive all blue cards within one month of the formation of the SAD-BSP alliance government in the state. “The farmers who do not have a tubewell connection would be given one on priority. Our government will undertake the construction of a bundh on the Sutlej,” the SAD leader said. Terming as shocking what he called “theatrics” of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, he said the CM’s ‘sangat darshan’ in front of his residence was a farce. “Had Channi been sincere, a woman of Cheema Kalan village in Nakodar would not have committed suicide at his doorsteps in sheer frustration after he refused to listen to her persistent pleas for help in resolving a property dispute.” Sukhbir also asked Channi to tell what his government or even the one headed by Capt Amarinder Singh had done in the last nearly five years. “Show me one school or a hospital which you have set up by your government or the one headed by Amarinder Singh. You are only making announcements that are yet to see the light of day,” he dared the CM.Later in Moga, Sukhbir said that the party will win 85 to 90 seats in the upcoming polls. He was at Killi Chahal village to review the preparation of a rally and meet party leaders and workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-won-t-succeed-in-its-attempts-to-weaken-akali-dal-sukhbir-badal-101638562014831.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||₹8-crore property tax dues: Ludhiana MC serves sealing notice to bus stand authorities||In a bid to recover property tax dues worth ₹8-crore, the fund-starved municipal corporation has served a sealing notice to bus stand authorities. Upon receiving the notice, bus stand authorities approached MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal seeking time untill next week to clear the dues.MC officials said bus stand authorities failed to pay propety tax between 2013-14 and 2017-18. Apart from clearing the pending amount, interest and penalty will also be levied. There was a dispute between the bus stand management and maintenance contractor regarding who will pay taxes, due to which the payment of taxes was delayed. However, the dispute has been resolved and the roadways department will clear the dues. Pending tax worth ₹1 crore had also been paid in March. MC zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said teh sealing notice was served to the bus stand authorities last week. “We will wait till next week, and if the department fails to clear the dues, the proceedings to seal the bus stand will be initiated after discussing the matter with senior officials,’ said Jain.Defaulters with commercial units on MC’s radar The MC has also decided to tighten the noose around the defaulters with commercial units who have defaulted on taxes. The MC commissioner on Thursday urged officials to expedite recovery of pending property tax and water-sewer charges.As per officials, weekly targets have been set for recovery of dues and staffers have been directed to initiate door-to-door recovery. They have also been asked to not be harsh with the violaters on account of the upcoming elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8crore-property-tax-dues-ludhiana-mc-serves-sealing-notice-to-bus-stand-authorities-101638561954365.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege: Top dera office-bearers fail to appear again, SIT to visit Sirsa headquarters||With Dera Sacha Sauda administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan and vice-chairperson PR Nain failing to appear in connection with the 2015 sacrilege cases on Friday despite having been served three summons, the special investigation team (SIT) has decided to visit the sect headquarters in Sirsa next week for questioning the two. Nain, for third time, sought exemption from appearance before the SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, citing poor health and submitted his medical report through his counsel. The team, however, received no communication from Vipassana again. Earlier, the SIT had issued summons to both to appear at the IGP’s Ludhiana office on November 16 and November 26 in connection with an FIR lodged at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district on June 2, 2015. The case was registered after a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of the district. The summons were issued under Section 160 (police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). IGP Parmar said, “Nain has again sent his medical report but we have received no communication from Vipassana so far.”Another senior official said as per their information Vipassana has been missing from the dera for over a year but no one has replaced her in official capacity. Vipassana and Nain are also facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017. On November 8, the SIT had asked 114 questions from dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh during his seven-hour questioning at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak. The team submitted a 65-page status report comprising an interrogation report, a copy of the questionnaire and replies of Ram Rahim in the Punjab and Haryana high court on November 12. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Woman killed as scooter crashes into open car door in Ludhiana||A pillion rider was killed after the two-wheeler she was riding crashed into the open door of a car on Thursday evening. The victim, Pooja Verma, 33, of New Karamsar Colony, Tibba Road was travelling towards Police Colony from Jamalpur on Chandigarh Road with her husband Vinod Verma on their scooter when the car in front of them suddenly applied brakes. The complainant, Vinod Verma, said he took a sharp turn to cross the car without ramming into it. However, just then the woman sitting on the back seat of the car threw her car door open without taking the traffic into account and the scooter crashed into it. The driver of the car rushed Pooja and Vinod to Christian Medical College and Hospital, but fled when Pooja was declared brought dead by the doctors. Assistant sub-inspector ASI Harjinder Singh said an FIR had been registered under Sections 304A (death by negligence) and 337 (rash act endangering someone’s life) of the Indian Penal Code. The police are trying to trace the accused through the registration number of the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-killed-as-scooter-crashes-into-open-car-door-in-ludhiana-101638561654346.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kapil Dev pays homage to Yashpal Sharma on eve of 83’s release||Kapil Dev on Thursday attended a promotional event for the upcoming film 83, which chronicles the Indian cricket team’s 1983 World Cup triumph.Sharing his excitement ahead of the film’s impending December 24 release, Dev, who captained the winning squad, said, “I have not seen the film yet. A lot of hard work has gone into the making of the film. We all are excited to see the movie and go back in time.” “Unfortunately, Yashpal Sharma (a member of the World Cup-winning squad) is no more with us anymore but he is in our hearts and we will miss him,” the 62-year-old said, paying homage to his teammate at an event organised by Burlington English. ‘Good communication skills helped me significantly’Shifting his focus on the importance of possessing sharp communication skills, Dev said, “English, while being a universal language, is a critical skill.” Dev revealed that honing his communication and language skills early in life helped him significantly in his sporting career.“Today, it is helping in shaping and sharing my thoughts and ideas or enjoying my favourite Jazz Music. Modern-day sports persons need to have great communication skills. This ability of learning has helped me become an avid golfer too,” said Dev who has taken 434 Test wickets for India. He was named by Wisden as the Indian cricketer of the century in 2002. He holds the record of being the youngest cricket captain to win the world cup at the age of 24 years.Actor Ranveer Singh is playing Dev’s role in the movie 83. “It was great to interact with Ranveer during the making of the movie. Other actors have also given their best I’m sure,” added Dev, who trained in Chandigarh during his formative years at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium under Dronacharya awardee Desh Prem Azad and made his Test debut in 1978.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kapil-dev-pays-homage-to-yashpal-sharma-on-eve-of-83-s-release-101638561594305.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Reconsider Navjot Sidhu’s case, Punjab & Haryana HC tells income tax department||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday asked the income tax (appeals) commissioner, Amritsar, to reconsider the case of Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on the assessment done for 2016-17 by the department. His lawyer, Chetan Bansal, said the matter had been remanded back for a fresh decision. The detailed order is awaited.According to Sidhu, he declared an income of ₹9.66 crore in October 2016. However, the assessment done under the Income Tax Act 1961 by the department, which was completed on December 21, 2018, estimated it at ₹13.19 crore. Sidhu was intimated about the same through a notice served on him on March 31, 2019, against which he moved an appeal before the joint commissioner, income tax, Range-1, Amritsar, who acts as commissioner, income tax (appeals), seeking revision. However, the plea was dismissed through an order on March 27, 2021. He had argued in the HC that it was passed on “flimsy and untenable grounds”. Rather than divulging on merits, his appeal was dismissed in a completely arbitrary manner, he had claimed in a plea filed in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-reconsider-navjot-sidhu-s-case-punjab-haryana-hc-tells-income-tax-department-101638561534015.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh carries ‘myopic mindset’, Arvind Kejriwal an outsider: Charanjit Channi||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday accused former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of carrying a myopic mindset towards the poor.Addressing a public gathering in the Bhoa assembly segment, the chief minister said as he comes from a humble background, he always impressed upon the former chief minister to safeguard the interests of the common man. However, he alleged that instead of resolving the issues to give reprieve to the poor and downtrodden, Capt started victimising him. The chief minister said only Congress can take a revolutionary decision to oust a “Maharaja” and bestow the responsibility of the CM to a common man. However, he said this revolution could sustain only if all the common and needy people stand united to support the Congress. Lashing out at the Akalis, the BJP and Amarinder, the chief minister alleged that the trio of Modi, Badal and Captain had connived to pass anti-farm laws for jeopardising the interests of the state.He said, “The members of this elite group like Badals and Captain have a common bond in form of their own vested interests and plundered the state. They have been doing this by enjoying the fruits of power in the game of musical chairs where the ruler changes after every five years but power remains in their hands. However, now this nexus has been broken and the power is with the common man”.Slamming Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal, the chief minister said, “Besides being an outsider, Kejriwal is a rumour monger who knows nothing about the state but pokes his nose in everything. Such type of cheap politics will never be successful in the state”.He termed Kejriwal “a power greedy outsider”, who desires to rule Punjab due to which he is trying to “mislead” Punjabis. Channi claimed that the Kejriwal government had failed in Delhi whereas the Congress was delivering its best to the people.Striking an emotional chord with residents of border areas, the chief minister said though bravehearts reside in this area, the successive state governments had ignored them. He said this area would be developed holistically by pumping in resources.Meanwhile, the chief minister announced a medical college at Pathankot, declaring Bhoa as an administrative block, upgrading Narot Jaimal Singh hospital and providing the suitable land for the building of Sant Baba Nabha Dass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-carries-myopic-mindset-arvind-kejriwal-an-outsider-charanjit-channi-101638561475372.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-sarpanch assaulted after spat with neighbours in Ludhiana’s Sidhwan Bet||A former Gorsian Khan Mohammad village sarpanch was assaulted by his neighbours, including a woman, after a heated exchange on Thursday. The complainant, Baljit Singh of Sidhwan Bet, said on the day of the incident Surjit Singh, another former sarpanch of the village, had parked his tractor-trailer in front of his house. However, Ranjit Singh, his neighbour, tried to damage the tyres of the vehicle. Alerted by the noise, Baljit Singh and Surjit Singh caught Ranjit Singh and his sister Sapna red-handed and were about to call the police, when the siblings assaulted him and tossed his turban. The complainant said Ranjit Singh was against the drive against drugs, which he had initiated in the village. Assistant sub-inspector Nasib Chand, who is investigating the case, said an FIR was registered under Sections 295 (defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 506 ( criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exsarpanch-assaulted-after-spat-with-neighbours-in-ludhiana-s-sidhwan-bet-101638561174485.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: Two former mayors on BJP final list||Two former mayors have found place on the final list of candidates announced by the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday, just a day before the filing of nominations for the Chandigarh municipal corporations elections comes to an end.Former mayors Davesh Moudgil (Ward 21) and Rajesh Kalia (Ward 26) are among the six people on the list, which also includes former councillor Saurabh Joshi (Ward 12), former senior deputy mayor Heera Negi (Ward 22), Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha state general secretary Jasmanpreet Singh (Ward 32) and Usha (Ward 16), a social worker. Former mayors Asha Kumari Jaswal and Raj Bala Malik don’t figure on the list. Both had expressed unwillingness to contest the elections. “I had informed national general secretary Vinod Tawde about my decision this week. I am a two-time mayor. Now, it’s time to give chance to new people,” said Malik. Malik’s last tenure as the mayor had seen major differences surfacing between her and BJP state president Arun Sood. The party councillors led by Sood had even boycotted a MC General House meeting called by her. Sood, who is also a former mayor, is not contesting the elections this time. Resentment among some sectionsMeanwhile, strong opposition to the ticket allotment has cropped up in some sections of the party.On Friday, party’s OBC Morcha state president NR Mehra said: “We comprise nearly 27% of the population, but none of our office-bearers were given tickets. Even as we deserved at least nine seats, we had asked for only five. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving us due justice, then why is the local unit ignoring us?”On their future strategy, Mehra said: “We are going to boycott the elections, and after discussions, take a call on whether to put up independent candidates or not.”Kripanand Thakur, a district secretary and party member of over two decades, said: “After more than two decades of dedicated work for the party, I deserved a ticket now. I will resign from the party and file nomination as an independent candidate. People of Hallomajra are also unhappy with the party for bringing a Ram Darbar resident to stand here.” Gurpreet Singh Happy, two-time sarpanch of Daria village who was also a member of the BJP’s national kissan morcha, had raised the flag of rebellion immediately after the announcement of the party’s first list on Thursday. In a show of strength, Happy had even held a public meeting of his supporters in the village. Arun Sood also met him and tried to placate him, but Gurpreet stuck to his guns. “My wife filed the nomination as an independent candidate from Ward 9. I have not left the party but resigned from all party posts,” he said.Congress faces rebellion tooIn addition to a string of resignations by its office-bearers, the Congress on Friday saw many leaders leaving the party in protest against the ticket distribution. The party had come out with its first list of 30 candidates on Thursday while it is yet to announce its nominees from five wards.Kamal Kumar, aka Yankee Kalia, from Bapu Dham Colony left the party to join the AAP. He will be contesting from Ward No. 3. Party’s organising secretary Heera Lal also joined the AAP and will contest from Ward No. 24.Another Congress office-bearer, Rajinder Kaur Panag, who is the daughter of former mahila morcha president Bhajan Kaur Panag, joined the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party combine and will contest the elections from Ward No. 18. Senior Congress leader Ram Charan Gupta also criticised the party for ignoring him. AAP poll campaign in-charge gets ticketThe Aam Aadmi Party election campaign in-charge, Chander Mukhi Sharma, will be fighting the MC elections from Ward No. 13. Sharma’s name features on the second list of six nominees released by the party on Friday. Others on the list are Kamal Kumar (from Ward No.3), Nitika Kaushal (6), Jarnail Singh (8), Shadab Rathi (33) and JJ Singh (35). The party has announced 32 candidates so far, and only three tickets are left.After the party came out with the first list of 26 candidates earlier this week, several office-bearers and workers had voiced opposition and some even threatened to fight the elections as rebel candidates. In the list, a number of people who had recently joined the party from Congress were given preference over the old members.Only 79 nominations filed so farWith only a day left to file nominations for the Chandigarh civic body polls, only 79 candidates have submitted their papers with the election commission till Friday. On Friday, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma kicked started the process for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by filing his papers. Two other BJP candidates — Anup Gupta (Ward 11) and sitting council3or Dalip Sharma (3) — also filed their nominations. From the Aam Aadmi Party, election campaign incharge Chander Mukhi Sharma (Ward 13), Anju Katyal (22), Poonam Kumari (16), Ramchander Yadav (15), Jasbir Singh Ladi (21), Kuldeep Kukki (14) and Vikram Singh Pundir (30) filed their papers.Among Congress candidates who filed their papers on Friday were party’s chief spokesperson Harmohinder Singh Lucky (Ward 2), former councillor Jannat Jahan (4), sitting councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral (23) and Gurpreet Singh Gabi (34).Filing of nominations ends on Saturday, while last date for withdrawal of candidature is December 9. The municipal corporation goes to the polls on December 24.
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: One-way traffic imposed on Sector-26 school road||The Chandigarh traffic police have turned the road leading from St John’s High School to St Kabir Public School in Sector 26 into a one-way during rush hours. This system will remain in place on weekdays, between 7:30 am and 8:30 am, and then from 1:30 pm to 2:30 pm. The decision has been taken in view of the ongoing term-1 exams of the board classes, which leads to traffic congestion when students are dropped off in the morning and picked up in the afternoon.Vehicles will only be allowed to enter from the St John’s High School side, and there will be no entry from the St Kabir Public School side. Drivers can either exit from the Butterfly Park turn before Strawberry Fields High School or from the intersection in front of St Kabir Public School.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYAvail benefits of CM’s eye care scheme: Mohali civil surgeonMohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur has appealed to residents to avail full benefits of Mukh Mantri Punjab Motia Mukt scheme. She said to make this campaign successful, private hospitals have also been roped in for the drive, which would continue till December 31. Eye camps are being organised in the district as a part of the drive, wherein eyesight of people is being thoroughly examined and those found suffering from cataract are being operated upon after a period of 15 days free of cost. “The transportation facility, including pick up and drop back, is also being provided to the people along with refreshments for the patients,” said the officer, adding that free spectacles are also to be provided to those operated upon. At least one camp will be held in each tehsil in December, she added. Dr Kaur said 44 patients suffering from cataract have been operated upon and 3,067 people have been screened by eye specialists in government health facilities across the district since November 26.  ₹1 crore donated to UIPS by alumniPU’s University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) recently procured a grant of ₹1 crore under CSR from a multinational pharmaceutical company, Mylan Laboratories Limited, facilitated by its alumni Rajiv Malik, president, Viatris, USA, and Sanjeev K Sethi, COO, Viatris/Mylan, India. The grant will be utilised in establishing state-of-the-art labs, procurement of sophisticated instruments and generation of other facilities. Haryana welfare society gets award from PresidentHaryana Welfare Society for Persons with Speech and Hearing Impairment, Panchkula, has been ‘National Award for the Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities’ for the year 2020 by President Ram Nath Kovind in New Delhi on Friday. The award was given on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities in the category of ‘best employer’. Event to mark disability week conclude Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disabilities (GRIID) organised a carnival on Friday to mark the end of ongoing disability week. It was supported by Swaraj Engines, Mohali. Adaptive learning and teaching techniques for persons with intellectual disabilities were displayed by GRIID College.A cultural programme was also presented by GRIID school and college students.Exhibition by ‘special’ artists begins at PUPU’s department of Gandhian and peace studies, in collaboration with local NGO ThreadBee, launched an exhibition of paintings and artifacts, Nuances: The Subtle Art of Hidden Expressions, by artists with special abilities on Friday. Professor SK Tomar, dean research and dean student welfare, inaugurated the exhibition that will remain open till December 10 at the Gandhi Bhawan from 9am to 1pm and from 2pm to 5pm. Twelve students are participating with their paintings, mixed media photographs and sculptures. ISB celebrates its 20th founding dayThe Mohali campus of Indian School of Business (ISB) celebrated ‘Symphony 2021’ to mark its 20th founding day. Dean professor Madan Pillutla said, “It is gratifying to witness the contribution made by ISB across various spheres. This has been made possible due to the multipronged approach adopted by ISB and the support of well-wishers.” The day was marked by hoisting the ISB flag by the dean and plantation by employees of ISB. Swachh Survekshan: Mohali mayor meets officials Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Friday convened a meeting with MC officials and asked them to work hard to improve the city’s ranking in the Swachh survey next year. Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, commissioner Kamal Garg and joint commissioner Harjit Kaur Chane were also present in the meeting where Sidhu said the people should be made aware of the importance of cleanliness and segregating the garbage at the place of origin. Founders week celebrated by Mount CarmelMount Carmel schools celebrate ‘The Founders Week’ from November 25 to December 3 every year. All three branches of Mount Carmel Schools, including Sector 47, Sector 69, and Chhat, Zirakpur, initiate the celebrations with sports day and culminate with annual day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-one-way-traffic-imposed-on-sector-26-school-road-101638560815551.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Waiting to meet Punjab CM, elderly woman collapses, dies outside his house in Chandigarh||A day after a 63-year-old woman from Jalandhar died after she collapsed outside the Punjab chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh, her body was handed over to her family after postmortem. According to police, the woman, who belonged to Nurmahal in Jalandhar, had come to Chandigarh to meet chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi with a land dispute complaint against her brother. According to sources, she consumed poison in a toilet after being denied entry by the security men posted outside the CM’s house. As she fell unconscious, the police control room was informed, and the woman was rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead. “A call was received at the PCR about a woman collapsing outside the CM’s house. She was shifted to hospital by police, where she was declared dead. We have initiated inquest proceedings and the body has been handed over to the family,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. Police will be sending the woman’s viscera for chemical examination to find out the cause of death. Meanwhile, the woman’s son said: “The doctors did not tell us anything about the cause of death. They said the postmortem report will take about two to three days.” The woman has been cremated. According to police, the woman had come to meet the CM with a complaint against her brother and sister-in-law, who had allegedly grabbed her share of ancestral land. The woman’s son claimed that earlier the CM had assured her of help, but to no avail. Meanwhile, when contacted, the chief minister’s office expressed ignorance about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waiting-to-meet-punjab-cm-elderly-woman-collapses-dies-outside-his-house-in-chandigarh-101638560814436.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali teen dies as ESI delays payment for heart surgery||In a case of sheer negligence and red-tapism on the part of Employees’ State Insurance (ESI), Punjab, a 13-year-old boy died as the corporation delayed advance payment of ₹2 lakh to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, for his heart surgery by more than one month. The authorities have ordered a probe into the case on Friday. The matter came to light after the deceased boy’s father submitted a complaint with the director, health services, ESI. In his complaint, Ram Kumar, who works at a private firm in Mohali, stated that on September 23 this year, his son Sachin was diagnosed with a health problem at the PGIMER, for which an urgent surgery was recommended. The very next day, the father reportedly submitted an estimate of ₹2 lakh given by the PGIMER to ESI Hospital, Phase 7, Mohali. His application was forwarded to the director, health services, ESI, on September 28 for approval. However, due to the delay in disbursal, surgery could take place and the child passed away on October 16. According to Ram Kumar, it was only on November 11 that he received a phone call from ESI, asking him to collect the letter sanctioning the advance payment of ₹2 lakh. “I have been paying ESI contribution for the past one decade with the hope that my family and I will get the required medical treatment when needed. But now I lost my son, and urge you to register a criminal case against the officials concerned for the delay,” he said in his complaint. Inquiry orderedJasbir Singh, chairman of the labour laws committee, Mohali Industries Association, said: “Why did the ESI take one month to sanction the advance payment to the PGIMER? Now, who is responsible for the death of the child due to the negligence of ESI officials? Who will compensate the poor worker?”Dr GB Singh, director, health services, ESI, said: “I have already ordered an inquiry into the case and will fix the responsibility of officials concerned. Action will be taken accordingly. We will not tolerate this.” Catering to over 4 lakh insured workers of Mohali, the ESI Hospital in Phase 7, Industrial Area, continues to remain in a shambles. Though the ESI Corporation is also running two dispensaries, these are ill-equipped, leaving ailing workers and their families in the lurch. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali records 14 new Covid cases, highest since July 5||As many as 14 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Friday, the highest single-day tally in the district since July 5, when an equal number of cases had surfaced.While Dera Bassi recorded six cases, three cases each surfaced in Kharar and Dhakoli, and one case each was reported from Boothgarh and Gharuan. Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia attributed the uptick to overcrowding in markets and violations of Covid-19 norms. “We have already ordered closure of schools below Class 4 in Dhakoli, Gharuan and Dera Bassi, where the positivity rate is 0.2%. Our staff on Friday carried out an awareness drive regarding wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing. We will start challaning the violators soon,” she said. Meanwhile, Chandigarh recorded three cases and one person tested positive in Panchkula, taking the tricity’s tally to 18 on Friday. On Thursday, only eight cases had surfaced. Meanwhile, no death was reported due to the virus. Since November 1, only four deaths have been reported, all from Mohali.The tricity’s active caseload has gone up to 141, with 64 patients in Chandigarh, 54 in Mohali, and 23 in Panchkula.Woman breaks quarantine after return from South Africa, bookedThe Chandigarh Police on Friday booked a woman, who had recently returned from South Africa, for flouting the mandatory quarantine order. According to the director, health services, Chandigarh the woman had returned to the city from South Africa on December 1. Upon her arrival at the airport, she tested negative for Covid-19. However, as per central guidelines for returnees from “high risk” countries, she was asked to quarantine herself at her house in Sector 48 for seven days. She was to undergo another test on December 8, as per the standard protocol.However on December 2, the woman broke the quarantine protocol and checked into a hotel in the afternoon. Thereafter, she again left the hotel and returned to her house in the late evening hours.A case has been lodged against her under the Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread the infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at the Sector-49 police station. “The UT administration is very vigilant and is adopting every measure to control the Covid-19 spread. However, people must help the administration by following all the rules and guidelines, which are ultimately for their own benefit, said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. Garg said police and other authorities concerned have been asked to take special caution about foreign returnees from specified countries at risk. “Also, hotels and guest houses within Chandigarh have been instructed to ascertain travel history of the guests for the last 15 days at time of their check-in,” he said.Health authorities across the country are on alert in view of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, which was first reported in South Africa. One vaccine dose mandatory for staff to enter Chandigarh schools Amid an uptick in Covid-19 cases and the threat of its new Omicron variant, the Chandigarh education department has made it mandatory for both teaching and non-teaching staff to have taken at least one vaccine dose to enter the school premises. Those who fail to do so can still be allowed entry, but only if they carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. Action will be taken against the school head if any non-complying employee is found on the premises.According to the order issued by district education officer (DEO) Prabhjot Kaur, schools will have to prepare a list of employees who have not been vaccinated. Those who have received the shot will have to show their certificate.The move is unlikely to have any major impact on work as, according to the DEO, almost all employees have been vaccinated. “These orders were issued as per instructions of the department of personnel, UT administration, which are also being followed by other government offices. Over 99% of the department employees have been vaccinated. We will look into any special cases, wherein exemption can be given on medical grounds,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-records-14-new-covid-cases-highest-since-july-5-101638560755545.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Murder on PU campus: Month on, Chandigarh Police fail to make headway||It’s been a month since a Panjab University professor’s wife was found murdered at their official residence on the campus in Sector 14 on November 4, but the Chandigarh Police have failed to make any breakthrough. In fact, they are still awaiting the forensic report, according to the investigating officials.Prof BB Goyal, who teaches at University Business School, had told police that he found the body of his wife, Seema Goyal, 60, on waking up in the morning. While she had slept in a room on the ground floor, he had reportedly slept in another room upstairs. By the time police reached the spot, the body had been moved to hospital. Prof Goyal had claimed that Seema’s hands and legs were tied with a cloth and the house’s main door was bolted from outside. According to the preliminary postmortem report, she had strangulation marks on the neck and some injuries on the head.“The crime scene was already contaminated when police reached the spot, as the body had been removed. Preserving the crime scene is very important, as it can give vital clues,” said a senior police official privy to the investigations. The official, who did not wish to be named, added that the forensic report will help shed more light on the crime, “but we have not received it yet, as it takes time”. Meanwhile, Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh, refused to share any details, stating that the investigations were still underway. Police are yet to ascertain whether the parts of two mesh doors in the house – one in the bedroom and the other in the kitchen – were removed from inside or outside. Even though police have so far ruled out forced entry, a senior official said the condition of the mesh doors suggests attempt to enter by opening the door bolts. This would become clear only once forensic report becomes available. The victim’s mobile phone is also untraceable, and as per the mobile tower locations, it did not leave the campus. Clueless in shooting case too Not just the PU murder case, police have failed to get any clue about the robbery suspect who had fired at a home guard chasing him in the Industrial Area on November 23. The suspect had committed a robbery at the mango orchards in Sector 28 on November 17.The injured home guard, Prakash Singh Negi, 40, had sustained a bullet injury in the stomach. He was discharged from hospital on Friday. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Air quality turns very poor for first time since Diwali||The air quality turned very poor for the first time since Diwali in Chandigarh on Friday.The Air Quality Index, an average of the readings in the past 24 hours, rose up to 320 around 3 pm, before dropping below 300 in the evening, at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) in Sector 22.In fact, the AQI had crossed the 300 mark around 1 am on Friday. It was recorded at 289 around 7 pm. An AQI of 200-300 is considered poor and can lead to breathing discomfort to most people, while that between 300 and 400 is categorised as very poor and can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. On Diwali night, the AQI had gone up to 465 (severe). Meanwhile, at the other CAAQMS located in Sector 25, the AQI remained in moderate bracket (100-200). “With a new system of western disturbance arriving in the region, the northwesterly wind system that had been dispersing pollutants from the air got disturbed. Dust in the air combined with foggy conditions made the AQI go up,” said Manmohan Singh, director, Indian Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.Even visibility dropped to one kilometre in parts of the city. After trace rainfall recorded on Friday, chances of shallow fog and further drop in visibility will continue till Saturday morning, said the weatherman. On Sunday, another western disturbance will hit the region, said IMD officials, adding that cloudy weather along with light rain can be expected.Meanwhile, after staying on the lower side for the past couple of days, the maximum temperature went up from Thursday’s 19°C to 25.9°C on Friday, two degrees above normal. The cloudy weather also led to an increase in the minimum temperature from 12.8°C to 14.1°C, seven notches above normal.In the next three days, the maximum temperature is likely to stay between 22 and 25 degrees, and the minimum is likely to stay above normal, between 12 and 14 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-air-quality-turns-very-poor-for-first-time-since-diwali-101638560694149.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 63 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Friday reported 63 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,410, according to a medical bulletin. With no Covid-related fatality reported, the death toll stood at 16,607, it said. The state’s positivity rate was 0.20%. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 359, the bulletin said. Among the fresh cases, maximum 14 were detected in Mohali, 13 in Ferozepur and nine in Jalandhar. With 43 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons in the state has reached 5,86,444, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-63-fresh-covid-cases-101638560454309.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: A lot remains to be desired in ward 27||Ward number 27 is an urban ward, which consists of Sector 38 West, excluding parts of the Rehabilitation Colony, and Sectors 39 and 40, which were earlier part of ward number 9.When the draft notification for increasing the number of wards from 26 to 35 was issued by the UT administration in December 2020, various Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) of Sector 38 West had protested placing the sector in the same ward as the nearby Dadumajra Colony, which led to its inclusion in Ward 27.However, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta said being in another ward didn’t make much difference, as proximity to the Dadumajra dumping ground still remained, which brought along a host of issues. Sectors 39 and 40 have their share of troubles, including rising crime, pothole-riddled roads, poor sanitation, stray dogs and a shoddy garbage collection system.Amardeep Singh, who lives in Sector 39, said, “Road carpeting remains pending, while finding parking space is also a task. The sector often faces water supply snags as well.” Former president of the Residents Welfare Society, HIG Category-1 Flats, Sector 39-B, KK Kaul said, “There is no check on stray dogs, whose numbers have grown by leaps and bounds. Residents, especially senior citizens, are scared to venture out due to their fear. The garbage collection system is also troublesome due to haphazard timings.”General secretary of the MIG-1 Houses Welfare Association of Sector 40-C, SK Khosla said, “The sector needs more playgrounds for children, as arguments in parks are commonplace. CCTV cameras are required at various points in the sector to rein in the increasing street crimes.”Shopkeepers in the sector complain of the chaos due to the street vending zone. “The traders don’t stick to the space allotted to them for vending and create mess right in front of our shops,” said Pritpal Singh Sodhi, president of the local market association. SK Joyed Ali, a jeweller here, added that the tiles installed in the market needed replacement and the parking space also needed improvements.Know Your WardLocalities: Parts of Sector 38 West (excluding Rehabilitation Colony), Sector 39 and Sector 40General wardVoters: 23,500Key issuesProximity to the Dadumajra dumping groundPoor sanitation in sectors, problems with garbage collection systemDeteriorating law and order due to frequent crimes like snatchingsLocal voicesThe Dadumajra dumping ground needs a permanent solution. There are problems with sanitation and water supply here.Pankaj Gupta, FOSWAC chief spokesperson and resident of Sector 38 WestThe authorities need to do something about the stray dog population. Garbage collection must be improved.KK Kaul, former RWA president, Sector 39-BThe tiles in the market haven’t been changed in many years. The vending zone in the Sector 40-C market needs to be shifted from here.Pritpal Singh Sodhi, president of the Sector 40-C market associationThe law and order situation in Sector 40 has deteriorated. Roads are also in bad shape and a playground is needed for children.SK Khosla, general secretary of the MIG-1 Houses RWA, Sector 40-C||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-a-lot-remains-to-be-desired-in-ward-27-101638560395709.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will replicate Delhi model for industry in Punjab: Sisodia||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia assured to replicate the Delhi model for the industry for its development. Interacting with businessmen, industrialists and traders on the home turf of Punjab industries minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli, the AAP leader said: “The one thing the industry in state needs is a government that listens to them so their suggestions are implemented.” “After the formation of the AAP government in Punjab, the “raid raj” will be brought to an end so businessmen are not harassed,” he said. Sisodia also interacted with manufacturers, traders, transporters and shopkeepers at Amloh constituency and Mandi Gobindgarh on Friday. Businessmen, industrialists, manufacturers and others shared their views and discussed the problems they had been facing for years with Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-replicate-delhi-model-for-industry-in-punjab-sisodia-101638560394174.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Golgappa vendor held for rape bid on 4-year-old girl in Ludhiana||A golgappa vendor attempted to rape a four-year-old girl at her house in Gandhi Nagar on Thursday night. The accused, Davinder Kumar, 25, of Gandhi Nagar, entered the victim’s house when she was alone at home and attempted to rape her. However, the girls’ cried alerted the neighbours, who caught the accused and handed him over to the police. The victim’s mother, in her complaint, said she had taken her younger son to the hospital as he was unwell on Thursday night, leaving her daughter alone at home. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Janak Raj, who is investigating the case, said an FIR has been registered under Sections 354B (use of criminal force with intent to disrobe) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Division 4 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golgappa-vendor-held-for-rape-bid-on-4-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana-101638560217597.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Only Punjab, Arunachal provided data on deaths due to O2 shortage, says Centre||The government had sought data from states and union territories on deaths of Covid patients due to oxygen shortage during the second wave and only Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh have responded, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday.Punjab has sent an email saying that four deaths suspected to be due to lack of oxygen have been reported in a private hospital in Amritsar district, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply.He was responding to a question on whether the government had sought report or data from states and union territories regarding deaths of Covid patients due to oxygen shortage in various hospitals across the country during the second wave. “Request for data on the subject was emailed to all states and UTs including the last email sent on November 29, 2021. In response, only two states (Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh) have responded,” he said. He also said that detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by Union health ministry to all states and union territories and accordingly, they report cases and deaths to the ministry on a regular basis.The ICMR on May 10, 2020, issued “Guidance for appropriate recording of COVID19 related deaths in India”.The ministry on October 9, 2020, had conveyed to states and union territories, WHO and ICMR guidelines on correct recording of COVID-19 related deaths in accordance with globally accepted ICD-10 classification and also urged states to undertake periodic death audits with the aim to improve quality of healthcare services by suitable corrective measures, Mandaviya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-only-punjab-arunachal-provided-data-on-deaths-due-to-o2-shortage-says-centre-101638560214174.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||2019 accident: Tribunal awards ₹18 lakh compensation to Ambala mishap victim’s kin||Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) has awarded a compensation of ₹18.31 lakh to an Ambala woman and her two children, nearly three years after her husband was killed in a road mishap.In a petition, Paramjit Kaur of Kesri village in Ambala said that on February 18, 2019, when her husband, Angrej Singh, was on his way back home, a speeding car coming from the wrong side hit his bike. The car driver, who was later identified as Mam Raj of Dhakola village, fled the spot after the incident. Angrej Singh, meanwhile, was taken to the Ambala Cantt civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Angrej’s family claimed he used to earn ₹20,000 per month by polishing utensils in different factories at Jagadhari and hence, sought a compensation of ₹50 lakh.Mam Raj submitted that no accident, involving his vehicle, took place and that a false FIR was lodged by the claimants in collusion with the police. The car’s insurer, Iffco Tokio General Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh, on the other hand, stated that the owner was not holding a valid driving license at the time of accident and hence, there was violation in the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Therefore, the insurance company is not liable to indemnify the owner.After hearing both sides, the tribunal gave the order in favour of the family of the deceased. It directed the insurance company to pay compensation of ₹18,31,370 to the family within a period of two months along with interest @ 6% per annum from the date of filing of the petition.While the widow will get 60% of the total amount of compensation, the victim’s two children will get 20% each of the compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2019-accident-tribunal-awards-18-lakh-compensation-to-ambala-mishap-victim-s-kin-101638560153991.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Money laundering case: ED court reserves order on Khaira’s bail plea||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) court in Mohali on Friday reserved orders on the bail plea of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira in a money laundering case for December 7. The bail application came up for hearing in the special ED court here on Friday. The judge, after hearing the arguments from the prosecution and defence, said the orders have been reserved. On November 11, the ED arrested the former Bholath MLA and he was taken into custody by the central probe agency under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). On November 19, he was sent to judicial custody.Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from the Bholath assembly seat in Punjab’s Kapurthala district on an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket.He resigned from the primary membership of the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP in January 2019 and floated his own outfit, the Punjab Ekta Party. He then re-joined the Congress.In October this year, Punjab vidhan sabha speaker Rana KP Singh accepted Khaira’s resignation as Bholath MLA, almost three years after he first tendered his resignation in January 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-case-ed-court-reserves-order-on-khaira-s-bail-plea-101638560035252.html
04-12-2021||Lucknow||Newly constructed road in Bijnor cracks after MLA slams coconut during inauguration||MEERUT A portion of the proposed 7.5-km road constructed by the irrigation department in Kheda Azizpura village of UP’s Bijnor developed cracks when BJP MLA of Sadar constituency Suchi Choudhary slammed a coconut to the ground during the inauguration ceremony.Upset over this, the MLA and her supporters sat on dharna till a team arrived on the spot to collect the samples of the material used in the construction of the road. A budget of ₹1.16 crore had been sanctioned for the road and the irrigation department had constructed a 700-metre portion of it.“When I got there and tried to break a coconut, the coconut did not break. Bits of the road came off,” Choudhary told media.An angry Choudhary lodged a complaint in this regard (against officials of irrigation department) with district magistrate Umesh Mishra, who formed a committee to investigate the charges of the MLA.Speaking to HT over phone, Mishra said the executive engineer of the irrigation department had given a request letter to form a committee for an investigation into the matter. “I have formed a committee for probe into the case,” he added.MLA Choudhary, in a video circulating in social media, raised questions over the quality of the road and accused the irrigation department’s executive engineer and junior engineer of connivance with the contractor who constructed the road. “While I was questioning the contractor for substandard construction, the executive engineer and junior Engineer were trying to pacify me more than the contractor,” she said demanding stern action against those responsible for “substandard construction”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/newly-constructed-road-in-bijnore-cracks-after-mla-slams-coconut-during-inauguration-101638559914077.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: SIT says accused trying to delay trial||Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) on Friday accused the cops who are accused in the Behbal Kalan firing incident in which two Sikh protestors were killed on October 14, 2015, of trying to delay the trial. During arguments on a plea filed by former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma, the SIT said the accused were filing pleas on one ground or the other only to delay the trial. The SIT urged the court against entertaining the pleas. Last month, Sharma had filed a plea seeking directions to the Punjab Police to conduct further investigation with regard to the injuries suffered by cops as well as the damage to public property during the Behbal Kalan firing incident. Another application was filed last week for deferment of framing of charges against the accused in the case, citing the Punjab and Haryana high court decision to grant exemption to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini from personal appearance till February 2022. The accused had also urged the court to ask the SIT to file a status report in the FIR registered against protesters by the cops. Replying to this, the SIT told the court that the accused cannot make any suggestions regarding the investigation method or seek information of the ongoing probe. Public prosecutor Pankaj Taneja argued in the court that the SIT was still investigating the two cases registered in connection with the Behbal Kalan firing incident, including the one against protesters. “As the matter is under investigation, the details cannot be disclosed to the accused. They are filling pleas on one ground or the other with a purpose to delay the trial, these pleas should be dismissed,” he added. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi adjourned the matter to December 7 for further arguments and asked the state to file a reply on the second application. All the accused, including suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal, former SSP Sharma, SP Bikramjit Singh, then SHO, Bajakhana, Amarjit Singh Kular, Pankaj Bansal and Suhail Singh Brar were present. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to ex-vigilance chief, 2 others on ex-Punjab DGP Saini’s contempt plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday put former Punjab vigilance chief BK Uppal and two other cops on notice on a contempt plea moved by former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini. The plea was filed on September 1, but the notice was issued on Friday, confirmed Saini’s lawyer Sant Pal Singh Sidhu. Saini was arrested on August 18 in a September 2020 cheating case when he had gone to the vigilance office to join the probe in a corruption case as directed by the high court on August 12. A day later, the high court had termed his arrest illegal and ordered his release. Saini has made former director general, vigilance, BK Uppal, then joint director, Varinder Singh and DSP, Harwinder Singh, who was investigating officer of the case as party in the case. Saini’s allegations are that they acted in violation of high court orders and on the instructions from political leaders even as high court had given him protection against the arrest. A single-judge bench, which allowed release of Saini, had observed that the allegations against Saini were the same which were in the August 2021 FIR of alleged corruption in which interim anticipatory bail was granted by high court to him on August 12. Thus, Saini’s arrest on substantially the same allegations was “patently illegal” in a 2020 FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-ex-vigilance-chief-2-others-on-ex-punjab-dgp-saini-s-contempt-plea-101638559616303.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Prospective employer sedates, rapes beautician, 2 booked||The complainant, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar, said, “On November 25, a woman with whom I was sharing an auto-rickshaw struck up a conversation with me. I told her in passing that I was looking for a job and she assured me that she could help me. We exchanged phone numbers, but I did not follow up with her.”“Two days later, I got a call from the woman’s number and a man, who introduced himself as Randhawa, told me that he had a vacancy at his office near the Grain Market. The man claimed to be a transporter. However, I declined the offer.” On November 30, Randhawa allegedly called the victim again and offered her another position at his office near the Jalandhar Bypass. On his insistence, the victim went to Jalandhar Bypass Chowk on December 1 from where the accused picked her up in his car. He then took her to a house in a colony behind a marriage palace saying that he had set up his office in a house. “Once there the accused offered me a cold drink laced with sedatives, after which I lost consciousness and he raped me,” the victim said, adding that she sent her location to her family after regaining consciousness. However, the accused managed to flee. The house where the victim was raped belongs to one Manjit Singh, who has been booked for criminal conspiracy.Sub-inspector Kashmir Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR had been registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Salem Tabri police station. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-prospective-employer-sedates-rapes-beautician-2-booked-101638559615225.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Preparations pick up pace at Panjab University ahead of 2022 NAAC evaluation||Following a temporary pandemic-induced setback, Panjab University (PU) has resumed its preparations for the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) team’s impending 2022 evaluation, scheduled after June next year.Stepping up its efforts, the varsity is in the process of compiling a self-study report (SSR) for the NAAC, for which it has recently asked the office of dean university instruction (DUI) to direct officials, who were asked to implement the various parameters in the university, to send them the action-taken reports. Over the last two years, the Panjab University’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) forwarded multiple recommendations, which were to be implemented in the university by its different organs, to the Dean University Instruction (DUI) office. These included self-deduced measures aimed at overall improvement, as well as suggestions made by the NAAC during its last visit.Last year, the IQAC communicated a need for an annual gender sensitisation action plan. The cell also pressed for detailed reports on measures taken to make the campus disabled-friendly and inducing a barrier free environment.‘University faces a challenge’Ashish Jain, the director of IQAC, said the varsity is already gearing up for the NAAC ‘s upcoming visit. “The work at hand right now is the submission of the AQAR report for 2021 and once that is done, we will start work on filling in the SSR,” he said. Also highlighting some of the challenges that they are currently facing, Jain said, “The university is facing challenges to fulfil the NAAC criteria in view of the prevalent situation due to pandemic, wherein the varsity was functioning with a very limited capacity for the last one and half year. However, we are now working the best we can to ensure that we fulfil most of the NAAC criteria.”The DUI office on Thursday also sent out a circular, asking departments to provide contact details of faculty members who have been told to look into the various parameters of NAAC evaluation. During the last NAAC visit, which was held in 2015, PU was granted an A-grade, with a comprehensive score of 3.35 out of four. The varsity, however, is yet to implement some of the NAAC’s 2015 recommendations, which may impact its rating in the upcoming evaluation. 
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Teen charged with 17-yr-old British Sikh’s murder in UK||A 17-year-old boy in the UK was on Friday charged with the murder of British Sikh teenager Rishmeet Singh, who was stabbed to death in a fight involving a group of people on a west London street.The boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was arrested on suspicion of murder on Thursday and appeared at Wimbledon magistrate’s court on Friday.The arrest follows public appeals by Scotland Yard for information on to the murder of the 16-year-old British Sikh teenager since the attack on November 24.A second 19-year-old man arrested on Tuesday has been bailed to a date in late December.The murder investigation was launched after the Metropolitan police were called to Raleigh Road in Southall over reports of a stabbing that followed a fight involving a group of people.Officers attended along with paramedics from the London Ambulance Service (LAS) found Rishmeet with stab wounds. Despite the efforts of the emergency services, he died at the scene a short time later, the Met Police said.“My thoughts and those of my team are with Rishmeet’s family and friends at this incredibly difficult time. I want to reassure them and the wider community that we are working around the clock to bring the person, or people, responsible for Rishmeet’s death, to justice,” said Detective Chief Inspector James Shirley, who is leading the investigation.Rishmeet’s friends and locals from the area have expressed fears that the British Sikh boy may have been attacked for a fake Gucci bag he always carried with him.Chief superintendent Sean Wilson, head of policing for Ealing, Hounslow and Hillingdon, said Rishmeet’s family have been devastated by his death.“Specialist detectives continue to work at pace to find out who was responsible for this attack. I would also add my appeal to the public to get in touch if they have any information that could help the investigation,” said Wilson.“I know that this tragic incident will have understandably shocked the local community and our officers throughout the west (London) area share that shock.“We remain committed to working with the local community to address any concerns they may have,” he said, adding that residents of the west London neighbourhood can expect to see an increased policing presence over the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-charged-with-17-yr-old-british-sikh-s-murder-in-uk-101638559315190.html
04-12-2021||Other||Kanpur: BSP slams BJP over UP TET paper leak||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary, Satish Chandra Mishra, on Friday slammed the BJP-led state government over the Uttar Pradesh Teachers’ Eligibility Test (UP TET) question paper leak and alleged that the question papers for the test conducted by the state government for recruitment on various posts, was on sale. “The BJP leaders were raising money by selling question papers at high rate to fund their election campaigns,” he alleged while addressing the party workers’ conference at Bilhaur and Mohan reserved assembly seats in Kanpur and Unnao, respectively. Mishra said that the report of the question paper leak became public else the people close to the BJP government would have been declared qualified and the deserving candidates had to suffer. He also attacked the BJP for imposing National Security Act (NSA) against the political rivals out of political vendetta. Mishra said, “The projects for development of Mathura were launched during the BSP government by then chief minister Mayawati, but the BJP government is now just putting its stamp on the development done by our government.” “The BJP leaders have been indulging in politics of caste and creed. For the past five years, the leaders of the saffron brigade did not remember Lord Krishna, when the assembly elections drew near, they started raising the issue of Sri Krishna temple at Mathura,” Mishra said. Around 700 farmers died during the farmers’ stir against the three contentious farm laws but the government was not ready to give financial assistance to the family members of the deceased.“No talks are being held with farmer leaders over withdrawal of the cases and minimum support price,” he said. Under the Samajwadi Party government too, riots, communal tension, loot, murder, robbery and rape used to happen every day in various districts. Under the BSP government, not a single riot took place, the criminals fled the state, all castes and class felt safe during the tenure of Mayawati ji, he said. Caption- BSP national general secretary, SC Mishra addressing a party workers conference at Mohan reserved assembly seat in Unnao district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-bsp-slams-bjp-over-up-tet-paper-leak-101638559136350.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||2018 sacrilege accused shot dead in Muktsar||An accused in the sacrilege case of Guru Granth Sahib in 2018, Charan Das, was shot dead by unidentified persons at Bhunder village in Muktsar on Friday evening.Police sources said Das was facing trial in a case of hurting religious sentiments in Muktsar three years ago. He was granted bail early this year, said a police official.Police officials said there was no confirmation if he was associated with any particular religious group or sect.Das, who was in his early 40s, was at his grocery store when two unidentified persons opened fire at him.Gidderbaha deputy superintendent of police Narinder Singh said the Das suffered a fatal gunshot on the face.“His mother said two persons wearing white kurta payjama came on a motorbike and opened fire. There was a power outage at the time of the crime and no one could see the faces of the accused,” said the DSP.Das was rushed to the civil hospital in Gidderbaha town and seeing his critical condition, doctors referred him to Bathinda.“But he died on the way. We are trying to identify the assailants,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2018-sacrilege-accused-shot-dead-in-muktsar-101638559135050.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Students protest for reopening hostels in Pune||PUNE: Students from various colleges staged a protest outside the Pune district collector’s office Friday morning, demanding that state government and university hostels in the city be started. Students Helping Hand and Chatra Bharati student organisation held the protest and submitted their demands to the Pune district collector. With offline lectures having resumed, many students are returning to Pune from their villages to join their respective colleges.Bhavesh Nanaware, a third-year student from S P College who is from Washi taluka, Osmanabad district, said, “I came to Pune yesterday as our offline lectures have started but our accommodation in the state government social welfare department hostel has not yet opened. We are repeatedly demanding that they give us accommodation as we cannot afford to stay in rented flats. I am now staying at a friend’s room.”Sampada Dengale, a third-year student from Fergusson College who is from Nashik, said, “Since the last two weeks, I am staying at my relative’s place and as college lectures have started, I need hostel accommodation. Due to financial issues, I am using the food mess only one time. How can I afford private rented rooms or flats!”While colleges have resumed, hostels within colleges and the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus hostels have not yet started. Apart from that, there are several other state government- and civic body- run hostels for students coming to Pune for studies.Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand, said, “If our demands are not met and hostels are not opened up immediately, students who cannot afford to rent private flats will have to stay outside government offices and the Pune mayor’s bungalow on footpaths. The state government should realise that these students come from poor families and have already suffered a lot over the past two years due to the pandemic.”About the opening-up of university hostels, professor N S Umrani, SPPU pro vice-chancellor, said, “The university hostels will certainly open and admissions for the same will take place for this academic year once we receive clear guidelines about opening up of hostels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-protest-for-reopening-hostels-in-pune-101638559133919.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||JJP leaders making all efforts for success of Dec 9 rally||After President Ram Nath Kovind signed off on the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, Bharatiya Janata Party’s junior alliance partner in Haryana Jannayak Janata Party leaders started efforts to make the December 9 rally in Jhajjar on the occasion of party’s third foundation day, a success.JJP leaders, led by its convener Ajay Singh Chautala, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, and state minister Anoop Dhanak, are holding district-level meetings while party’s general secretary Digvijay Singh Chautala, INSO national president Pradeep Deswal, and former Dadri MLA Rajdeep Phogat are interacting with workers at district and village levels.Earlier, the JJP leaders were facing protests from farmers but after repealing the three farm laws, they are holding meetings without any disruption. Khaps and farmers had announced a social boycott of the BJP-JJP leaders and the ruling leaders faced massive protests in the last one year.Interacting with party workers in Sonepat, Dushyant said his party has fulfilled over 40% of its poll promises made during the 2019 assembly polls.“Our government is procuring 13 crops on minimum support price and compensation to farmers under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana’ for 19 crops. We have also fulfilled our promise of giving 75% reservation to Haryana youths in the private sector in state and 50% reservation to women in the Panchayati Raj system. We are enthusiastic about celebrating the third foundation day of our party in Jhajjar. People of Haryana had given 10 seats to our newly-formed party in the 2019 assembly polls and we are committed to fulfil all our promises,” Chautala added.Dushyant interacted with the party workers and assigned their duties for the December 9 rally. INSO chief Pradeep Deswal said he held village-level meetings with Digvijay Singh Chautala and they faced no protest from the villagers when they invited people for the December 9 rally.“The JJP has made its space in Haryana politics in such a short time due to its workers’ hard work and dedication,” he added.After being expelled from the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) after a family feud, the then Hisar MP Dushyant Singh Chautala had on December 9, 2018 floated his new political outfit, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP).Dushyant said his party has been following the principles and ideologies of late deputy PM Devi Lal. Dushyant and his younger brother Digvijay Singh were expelled from primary membership of the INLD for indulging in “indiscipline” during the birthday celebrations of Chaudhary Devi Lal on October 7, 2018 at a rally in Gohana. Later, Ajay Chautala was also expelled from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-leaders-making-all-efforts-for-success-of-dec-9-rally-101638559014323.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Absconding ASI arrested by ACB sleuths in bribery case||PUNE The anti-corruption bureau (ACB), on Friday, arrested assistant sub-inspector Ashok Balkrishna Desai, in connection with the ₹one lakh bribery case involving police sub-inspector Hema Salunke, attached to Sangvi police station under the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate. PSI Salunke was arrested on Thursday. She has been charged for allegedly accepting bribe to not register a rape case. Her colleague, ASI Desai, fled from the station premises on Thursday. According to police, an application was received to lodge a rape case against a 42-year-old man at Sangvi police station. PSI Hema Salunke was investigating the case and alongwith Desai demanded a bribe of ₹one lakh from the accused for not filing the case. The 42-year-old accused contacted ACB seven days ago. On Thursday afternoon, the ACB caught Desai red-handed accepting the bribe from the accused. The anti-corruption sleuths took action under the guidance of deputy superintendent of police Seema Adnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/absconding-asi-arrested-by-acb-sleuths-in-bribery-case-101638558953977.html
04-12-2021||Other||Varanasi: UPPCL sacks executive engineer on charges of irregularities, corruption||Lucknow: The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) on Friday terminated services of an executive engineer posted in Varanasi after a probe committee established charges of irregularities and corruption against him. Action against engineer Sunil Kumar Gupta, who is currently attached to the Varansi discoms, comes after he failed to provide a satisfactory reply to charges farmed against him. “We have sacked Sunil Kumar Gupta after charges against him were established beyond any doubt,” UPPCL chairman M Devrak said while confirming it. There are charges that Gupta, who was supposed to make physical inspection of two factories and send a report to his bosses before the Varanasi discom, ordered purchase of material from the same factories, manipulated his physical presence and reported to have favoured the suppliers. It was found during the probe that Gupta was not present during the joint inspection of the two factories on May 23, 24 and 24, 2021. “Instead, he photo-shopped to show his presence and sent a report to his bosses through an e-mail, and they cleared the procurement of electricity goods from the two factories on the basis of the same report,” the probe report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-uppcl-sacks-executive-engineer-on-charges-of-irregularities-corruption-101638558833735.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to adopt Bhattu Kalan model in all police stations||To improve police functioning in Haryana, the government plans to replicate the Bhattu Kalan police station model at all police stations in state, said Anil Vij, state home minister.The Bhattu Kalan police station in Fatehabad was ranked among the top three best police stations in India in 2021 by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).“We will soon organise a video conference between the staff of the police station and top cops of all districts along with their staff to understand their working. It is a proud moment for the state and we will reward the police station,” Vij added.He said this after meeting the station in-charge of the police station, sub-inspector Om Prakash and his staff members at his residence in Ambala Cantt last week.There are around 350 police stations in state including women stations, an official said.The SHO was awarded by Union home minister Amit Shah at a national conference in Lucknow last month along with his counterparts from Odisha’s Gangapur and New Delhi’s Sadar Bazar police stations.During a survey, a team of the MHA had visited the areas under the jurisdiction of the police station in Bhattu Kalan block to take feedback from the residents.Though an official report by the MHA on the parameters taken into consideration while analysing the performance is yet to be shared with the Haryana officials, SHO Om Prakash said issues such as case pendency, beautification of the building, and women help desk were the key highlights.“We have an average 95% disposal of all types of complaints at our police station. To attend to female complainants, we have a separate desk, and there are clean washrooms for women. Beautification in and around the police station and at the living area of our staff was also counted as an achievement. In public feedback taken by the team, we scored 496 points of total 500,” the cop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-adopt-bhattu-kalan-model-in-all-police-stations-101638558775273.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||NDRI Karnal tops in ICAR agricultural universities ranking 2020||The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal has bagged the first position in country in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) agricultural universities’ ranking-2020.As per the official statement by the NDRI, it is the fifth time in a row that NDRI has achieved the first position among 67 such institutions in country.As per the rankings of the agricultural universities for 2020 released on Friday, the Indian Agriculture Research Institute, New Delhi has remained at the second position, and the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar remained on the third position. Also, the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) is at the ninth position.NDRI director MS Chauhan congratulated the scientists and other staff for this achievement.He said NDRI, Karnal is a pioneering institute in country working in the field of dairy research and education since 1923.The institution has played an important role to boost milk production and making dairy farming profitable for farmers by developing technologies and researches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ndri-karnal-tops-in-icar-agricultural-universities-ranking-2020-101638558656658.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 1.5kg opium, 18kg poppy husk seized in separate cases, 2 held||Two people were arrested with 1.5kg opium and 18kg poppy husk in two separate cases on Thursday. In the first case, Joginder Singh of Balochan Basti, Ferozepur, was stopped for checking near the Canal Bridge in Malak village and 1kg opium was found in his scooter. A truck driver was arrested with 500g opium, and 18kg poppy husk near Rasulpur in the second case. The accused, Jagroop Singh of Hathur, is already facing trial in two cases of drug peddling and was arrested on the basis of a tipoff. Inspector Prem Singh said that in both cases the vehicles used to smuggle the contraband were impounded and cases were registered under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-1-5kg-opium-18kg-poppy-husk-seized-in-separate-cases-2-held-101638558596826.html
04-12-2021||Other||Mahant Narendra Giri death case: HC seeks reply from CBI on Anand Giri’s bail plea||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court on Friday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file its reply within four weeks on the bail application moved by Anand Giri, who was arrested in the alleged suicide case of Mahant Narendra Giri, former president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP). Justice Rahul Chaturvedi passed the order while hearing the bail application of Anand Giri, who is in jail since September 22, 2021, in connection with the case. According to the petitioner’s bail application, it has been stated that he (Anand Giri) has falsely been implicated in the case. The alleged suicide note is not in the hand writing of Narendra Giri and there are a lot of cuttings in the suicide note. Apart from this, there is no evidence against the petitioner who was in Haridwar, away from the city when the incident occurred, when police authorities informed the petitioner over phone regarding the incident. The matter will come up again for hearing after four weeks. Earlier on November 11, a local court had rejected the bail application of Anand Giri. Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan in Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20. A suicide note was also recovered from him, in which he had accused his disciple Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari, and Sandeep Tiwari of mental torture. On November 20, two months after the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, CBI filed a charge sheet in a local court against Anand Giri and two others booked for abetment of suicide, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. Subsequently, a first information report (FIR) was also lodged against Anand Giri and two others under IPC Section 306 at Georgetown police station in Prayagraj. The state government set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter. However, the matter was later handed over to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mahant-narendra-giri-death-case-hc-seeks-reply-from-cbi-on-anand-giri-s-bail-plea-101638558479445.html
04-12-2021||Other||18 railway stations identified to increase vigilance, CCTV surveillance at 6||PUNE: Anil Kumar Lahoti, general manager (GM), central railways, who on Friday was on a one-day annual inspection of the sections between Lonavala and Pune and Pune and Daund of the Pune division, said, “In a bid to increase vigilance at railway stations in the Pune division, 18 railway stations have been identified by the Pune railway division, for six out of which, CCTV surveillance has already been started. For this, funds have been provided under the Nirbhaya project. Also a two-storied building will come up at Hadapsar railway station by the end of 2022 as more train operations start from this station.” The six railway stations where CCTV surveillance has been started include: Shivajinagar, Khadaki, Dapodi, Kasarwadi, Pimpri and Chinchwad.Lahoti, along with several other senior officials from the CR, conducted a survey of the railway tracks, operations, railway stations and other safety-related equipment.About the inspection, he further said at a press conference held in the evening, “For better on-the-run service to the passengers, we have started a dedicated information technology cell at Ghorpadi railway station. The complaints lodged by passengers while travelling or about the station and passenger amenities will be addressed from here. An analysis will be carried out for the entire CR.”Lahoti informed, “Pimpri railway station is the first station in the division to be completely operated on green (solar) energy which includes even the elevators at the station. The railways are extra alert about the new Omicron variant and safety-related instructions have been given for passenger safety and sanitisation of trains to all divisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18-railway-stations-identified-to-increase-vigilance-cctv-surveillance-at-6-101638558474417.html
04-12-2021||Pune||BJP’s saffron and Shiv Sena’s saffron is different: Fadnavis||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party launched its campaign for the Pune Municipal Corporation elections on Friday, while inaugurating the new party office near the PMC’s headquarters. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “BJP did remarkable work at the national and city level during Covid. BJP executed various projects which will help it to get power in PMC again.”Fadnavis launched an attack on Shiv Sena and said, “Now BJP’s saffron and Shiv Shiv Sena’s saffron is different. Shiv Sena forgot Hinduism and joined hands with those party who insulted Savarkar.”Fadnavis added, “Though Maharashtra government did not given a single penny for Covid relief in Pune, PMC took all efforts to help citizens. The Prime Minister gave free vaccines to Maharashtra that’s why the state government is claiming that Maharashtra is number one for vaccinations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi helped manufacture, produce and research the vaccines. As well given advance them to produce more vaccine.”Fadnavis claimed that if citizens give power to BJP, the party would ensure that Pune is the number one city in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjps-saffron-and-shiv-sena-s-saffron-is-different-fadnavis-101638558417160.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Divyang sports corner in one stadium of every district in Haryana||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said a divyang sports corner will be set up in one stadium of every district and announced to construct a new building of government blind school in Panipat.The CM also announced that Braille printers will be given to blind officers of Category I and II.Laying the foundation stone of divyang care home in Ambala through video conferencing on Friday, the CM launched the website of the department of social justice and empowerment and portal to apply online for divyang award especially developed for persons with disabilities.“Persons with disabilities are blessed with one or the other special qualities and talent, the example of this was highlighted when sportspersons with disabilities won medals in Paralympic Games,” the CM said.Khattar recalled that despite being visually impaired, Surdas was a great poet, Louis Braille created the Braille script, and Helen Keller left an indelible mark in history.He said for care of the mentally challenged, a divyang care home will be constructed in Ambala on five acre at the cost of ₹32 crore.In this home, adequate arrangement for clothes, food and proper care for 100 persons with disabilities will be ensured.He said there are about 50 lakh mentally disabled people in country, and the Haryana government is making efforts to provide facilities to maximum number of such people.The CM said now, persons with disabilities can register their complaints with the state commissioner for disabilities portal. Along with tracking of complaint on the portal, they can get information about Acts, schemes of the department, and case list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/divyang-sports-corner-in-one-stadium-of-every-district-in-haryana-101638558415875.html
04-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak land release case: INLD slams Haryana govt for seeking recall of CBI probe order by SC||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Friday slammed the BJP-led Haryana government for filing an application in the Supreme Court (SC) to seek recall of a July 7 order of the apex court for a CBI probe in the release of land in Rohtak to real estate developer, Uddar Gagan Properties, during the tenure of Bhupinder Singh Hooda as chief minister.Reacting to a HT news report, INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala in a statement on Friday alleged that the move to seek recall of the SC’s orders clearly showed that there was a tacit understanding between the ruling BJP and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda.The Ellenabad MLA said CM Manohar Lal Khattar had in 2018 announced on the floor of the state assembly that a CBI probe will be ordered in the Rohtak land release matter.“But the issue was diluted when a retired judge was appointed to hold an inquiry. I had asked the CM in the assembly as to why this somersault has been made. The decision clearly meant a betrayal with the people of the state and an attempt to shield Hooda,” the INLD leader alleged.The apex court, in its July 7 order, had said that the matter shall be looked into by the CBI without in any way being influenced by the reports and conclusions as stated in this order.The SC was referring to the outcome of the multiple inquiries ordered by the state government which as per the amicus curiae, Jaideep Gupta only concluded that there was “systemic failure” rather than considering the individual actions of those who were responsible.The SC, in its order, said amicus curiae while highlighting the May 2016 directions of the court has said the drift of the apex court’s decision showed that the state power was deliberately misused for private gain and therefore, the direction required the state to “inquire into the legality and bona fides of the actions of the persons responsible for illegally entertaining the application of the builder and allotting the land to it”.“The amicus curiae further submits that initially the matter was referred to a senior civil servant. After his report which suggested systemic failure and that no action be taken against any official, the matter was made over to a retired judge of the high court.”“The matter was then considered under five heads as stated in the report and with respect to the fifth head, the matter was again dealt with by another civil servant. This report also concluded that there was systemic failure rather than considering the individual actions of those who were responsible,” the SC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-land-release-case-inld-slams-haryana-govt-for-seeking-recall-of-cbi-probe-order-by-sc-101638558294084.html
04-12-2021||Pune||One-way between Baner and Pashan road being implemented||PUNE: To facilitate easy vehicular movement, the Pune traffic police department has decided to make a circular one-way between Abhimanshree society in Baner and Pashan road. Preparations for the one-way are underway and most probably it will be implemented next week onward.Sharing details of the one-way road, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame said, “We are going to make a circular one-way route between Baner and Pashan roads for easy vehicular movement. On Pashan road, vehicles going straight will go toward Pashan while from Abhimanshree society, the road will take a right turn, then a left turn, and then go toward Baner road. While vehicles coming from Baner road will take a left turn toward Abhimanshree society and then go toward Pashan road. This will be carried out in a circular movement and currently, the work of installing signage boards for the same is underway.”“These changes will be made on an experimental basis initially but later on, they will be made permanent as barricades will be installed. Also, other infrastructural works are underway along the road stretch and so it will take time to start. Most probably from next week, these new changes of one-way traffic movement will be implemented,” said Shrirame.The area around Abhimanshree society has a mix of bungalows and housing societies. It connects to major roads of Pashan and Baner where prominent institutions such as the Pune rural police headquarters, National Institute of Chemistry (NCL), and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Pune are located.While most residents have welcomed the decision of a circular one-way route, Shantanu Rathi said, “It is good that a circular one-way is being made on this road as during peak hours, there is traffic congestion many times. Also there would be more space for vehicular movement but initially people will take time to understand the changes in this one-way circular movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oneway-between-baner-and-pashan-road-being-implemented-101638558175256.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district sees 168 new cases and 2 deaths||Pune: As of Friday, Pune district has reported 168 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,061 deaths and 1,928 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 95,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 49 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 368,044 and the death toll stood at 6,981 as two more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 84 new cases which took the progressive count to 523,225 and the death toll stood at 9,218 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 35 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,921 and the toll stood at 3,512 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 95,430 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Friday and in total 13,482,355. Of which, 8,227,980 are first doses and 5,254,375 are second doses. A total of 710 sites saw vaccination of which 549 were government centres and 161 were private. Omicron variant: 30 samples sent for genomic surveillance Two more suspected Omicron samples sent for genome sequencing. On November 26, 2021, the World Health Organisation (WHO) named the Covid-19 virus variant detected in South Africa and some other countries Omicron. WHO has also classified the Omicron variant as a “variant of concern”. Experts have expressed possibilities that owing to the genetic modification in the virus, it may possess some specific characteristics. While the transmissibility of infection seems to have increased because of this new variant, there is still not enough clarity on whether or not it will cause a severe disease and whether it will evade the immunity. More information is expected in the next two weeks’ time or so. Against this background, surveillance of international passengers has been started as per the Government of India guidelines. Until Friday morning, 2,821 passengers arriving from Omicron high-risk countries at Mumbai airport have been tested with RT-PCR and two samples have been positive. 224 of 11,060 passengers arrived from other countries have been tested and one out of them was tested positive. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since November 1 is underway. A total of 30 samples from both airport and field surveillance have been sent for genomic sequencing. Of these, 14 are sent to NIV Pune and 16 to Kasturba Hospital laboratory. Genetic changes/mutation in viruses is a natural phenomenon and people should not panic. The public health department appeals to the citizens that they should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. The department authorities if they have had an international travel history in the last month and those who have not taken Covid-19 vaccine or have had only one dose should complete their vaccination at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-sees-168-new-cases-and-2-deaths-101638557995192.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal flags off first pilgrim train to Ayodhya||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagged off on Friday the first pilgrim train to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, launched under the ”Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna”, from the Safdarjung railway station. Launched in 2019, the government scheme allows Delhi residents to undertake subsidised tours to popular pilgrim sites across the country and three new sites — Ayodhya, Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni — were added last month to the list of available tour options, said officials. The maiden train to Ayodhya set off on Friday, but not before some minor hiccups. Kejriwal said the central government did not grant permission to hold a programme at the station to see off the first set of pilgrims. “I want to tell the central government that this type of behaviour is not right,” he said. Chief public relations officer, Northern Railway, Deepak Kumar said no function can be allowed because of safety and operations at the railway stations. He said that despite the restriction, there was massive rush at the station.The train carrying 1,000 pilgrims was flagged off by Kejriwal and it finally set off for Ayodhya around 7.20pm. The chief minister met and spoke with several pilgrims before they seeing them off. “If anyone gets a chance to undertake a pilgrimage in their twilight years, then their happiness knows no bounds. I loved meeting the pilgrims and seeing them so happy,” Kejriwal said. He added that due to Covid-19 pandemic, the pilgrimage tours under the state government scheme had to be stopped, but now that Covid cases have reduced, the government has restarted the tours. “Now, the trains will go everywhere, including three new pilgrim sites, he said.The pilgrim tours scheme was launched by the government in July 2019 and a total of 1,100 residents per assembly constituency can avail of this facility a year, subject to a cap of 77,000 beneficiaries per year, officials said. Since its formal launch, a total of 35,080 beneficiaries have travelled under the scheme. Originally, the scheme had provisions to visit 12 religious sites, but three new places — Ayodhya, Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni — were added last month. The sites under the free pilgrimage scheme now are Anandpur Sahib, Ajmer-Pushkar, Rameshwaram-Madurai, Jagannath Puri-Konark, Vaishno Devi, Tirupati Balaji, Mathura-Vrindavan-Fatehpur Sikri, Haridwar-Rishikesh-Neelkanth, Dwarikadhish-Somnath, Shirdi-Shani Shingnapur-Trimbakeshwar, Ujjain-Omkareshwar, Gaya-Varanasi, Ayodhya, Velankanni and Kartarpur Sahib.A government official said passengers going from Delhi to Velankanni will be provided a seat in an AC three-tier compartment by the Delhi government, while a plan has been made to send Delhi pilgrims to Kartarpur Sahib by deluxe AC buses. The first batch of passengers on an AC bus from Delhi to Kartarpur Sahib will leave on January 5, 2022, and the first train carrying passengers from Delhi to Velankanni will leave on January 7, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-flags-off-first-pilgrim-train-to-ayodhya-101638557935122.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves marginally, thanks to overnight rain||New Delhi: Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Friday as isolated rain and increased wind speed cleared pollutants in the Capital’s air on Thursday night, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) 4pm bulletin on Friday, the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of Delhi was 346, in the “very poor” zone. This was a marginal improvement from Thursday’s reading of 429, in the “severe” category on CPCB’s AQI scale. An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.IMD scientists said that this improvement in Delhi’s pollution levels was due to light, isolated showers in many parts of the Capital on Thursday evening. The rain, along with improved wind speeds, facilitated the dispersion of accumulated pollutants. However, winds are likely to become calm again on Saturday before another western disturbance on November 5 brings a bout of light rain and swift wind. “The rain and wind were the primary reasons for the improvement in pollution levels. From November 5 to November 7, another western disturbance will impact the Capital, which will result in a marginal improvement in the city’s air quality. Light rain has been forecast for November 6. However, the AQI will still remain in the lower end of ”very poor”,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre. Since November this year, Delhi has been reeling under some of the worst spells of pollution that it has ever experienced. Delhi’s average air quality in November was the worst on record since 2015—when the CPCB started maintaining pollution records. The average AQI reading last month was 376, surpassing the previous high of November 2016, when it was 374. Delhi also recorded 11 “severe” air quality days in November, the highest count since 2015. On Thursday, on the directions of the Supreme Court, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas directed the constitution of a special task force for Delhi and in each of the NCR states to ensure that steps ordered for pollution control in the region are effectively enforced. The CAQM ordered the closure of all schools and educational institutions in NCR, banned the entry of trucks into Delhi, except for those carrying essential items, and disallowed industries that use non-PNG and other unclean fuels from operating. Meanwhile, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday wrote to the Union environment minister requesting a meeting with all environment ministers and experts of NCR states to prepare a joint action plan for the future to combat pollution. He also alleged, quoting reports and studies, that most of Delhi’s pollution is caused by external sources on which the city government has little control. “As far as I am aware, a report released by CSE (Centre for Science and Environment) on the basis of data presented by IITM (Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology) says that Delhi’s internal pollution sources account for 31% of the total pollution in the city, while 69% is from sources outside. Despite all our efforts to curb internal sources of pollution, the overall pollution is still high. Keeping that in mind, I have once again written to the Union environment minister to take some time out to address this important issue. I have been consistently urging him to create a joint action plan with the environment departments and ministers of the various NCR states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-improves-marginally-thanks-to-overnight-rain-101638557933912.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Festival organisers on back foot due to looming Omicron threat||PUNE: With the spectre of the new, Omicron variant of coronavirus looming large, the state government is maintaining restrictions for theatres, auditoriums and open spaces and organisers of popular cultural and music shows are consequently on the back foot.While organisers were hoping for performances to full capacity auditoriums and open spaces, they are now disappointed as the threat of Omicron has made it difficult to plan programmes. Anticipating further restrictions, most organisers are now adopting a ‘wait and watch’ policy to see how the situation evolves. As a result, they could lose the entire month of December, adding to their losses.Sunil Mahajan, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad, Kothrud branch, said that minimum two months are required to arrange a programme as many artists come from other states. “I spoke to an artist from Karnataka yesterday and he said that because of Omicron positive patients, some restrictions have been imposed there. Many artists come from other states but because of the Omicron threat, we cannot schedule anything with them. Also, occupancy issues are still there. If the situation worsens and lockdown is imposed again, all preparations will go to naught. So for now, we will just wait till the confusion is cleared,” Mahajan said.In its latest order, the state government has cleared that multiplexes, auditoriums, and single-screen theatres will continue to operate at 50% capacity while open sky spaces for any event or gathering will continue to operate at 25% capacity.Shrinivas Joshi, executive secretary of Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal which organises the popular Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav said that these are inconvenient times for organisers. “We have been holding this mahotsav on open grounds and having only 25% capacity is not affordable for us or the sponsors. We had started planning the event but it has now been put on hold. Open spaces should be allowed to function with at least 50% capacity. We can hold the programmes only if that happens,” Joshi said.As the Omicron threat has increased over the last few days, many are anticipating further Covid-induced restrictions. “We definitely want to hold the music festivals. It’s a tradition and it should continue. Last year, we couldn’t do much. This year, even though the number of cases is less, there is the challenge of the new variant. As of now, we don’t know if more restrictions will be imposed. If there is no lockdown, we plan to do shows in January 2022,” said Rajas Upadhye, chief executive officer, Swar Jhankar music festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/festival-organisers-on-back-foot-due-to-looming-omicron-threat-101638557873850.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 54 new Covid cases, single-day infections see consistent uptick||Delhi on Friday maintained its consistent uptick of daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a total of 54 people were found to be infected with the virus, according to the health bulletin data shared by the Delhi government. Following this, the cumulative caseload of Covid-19 in the national capital climbed up to 14,41,244.Friday's single-day caseload is a rise from Thursday when 41 cases were logged. Further, 176 Covid-19 cases from earlier weeks were added to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal by ICMR-NICPR Noida on Thursday.Delhi has continuously been witnessing an upward swing in fresh Covid-19 cases for the last six days. On November 28, the city reported 32 new cases, and has since been seeing a consistent rise.Meanwhile, Delhi is yet to report a fatality due to Covid-19 in December after three days of the last month of the year have passed. However, the national capital last month logged as many as seven deaths due to coronavirus - a departure from its trend of reporting lesser fatalities due to the infection. Notably, in October, the capital recorded the least monthly death toll due to Covid-19 since March 2020 after four people succumbed to the virus. In September, the city reported five deaths due to Covid-19.A total of 29 new recoveries were recorded on Friday, which took the total number of recovered cases to 14,15,814, the bulletin data revealed. The capital's active case count now stands at 332.As far as vaccination against Covid-19 is concerned, 2,29,61,978 eligible beneficiaries have been jabbed in the capital so far, of which, 1,39,65,332 have received the first dose and the remaining 89,96,646 the second. In the last 24 hours, 107,293 people have been administered with Covid-19 vaccine, with 38,825 getting jabbed with the first shot and 68,468 with the second.This development comes at a time when the world is grappling with the discovery of Omicron Covid-19 variant, first seen in South Africa. Classified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) as a ‘variant of concern’, the Omicron was reported in India on Thursday after two tested positive for the same in Karnataka. One of the patients is a 66-year-old South African man, who has already returned to the his home country. A controversy has now emerged regarding the RT-PCR test report he showed while leaving India. Meanwhile, the other patient aged 46, who is a doctor, doesn't have any travel history and five of his contacts have also tested Covid-19 positive.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has constantly been vocal with his appeal to the Centre as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi over imposing travel bans from affected countries in order to stop the Omicron variant from spreading in India. On Tuesday, he mentioned during a press conference that the Delhi government has prepared a total of 30,000 oxygen beds, of which, 10,000 will be ICU in wake of Omicron. Besides, 6,800 beds are under construction and will be ready by February 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-54-new-covid-cases-single-day-infections-see-consistent-uptick-101638553657666.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Pune ZP reopens schools for Classes 1-4 in villages free of Covid-19||PUNE The Pune Zilla Parishad administration, on Thursday, issued a circular announcing that schools in the rural areas can reopen for Classes 1-4 in villages free of Covid-19. A total of 443 villages in Pune district with approximately 1.41 million people are now fully vaccinated. Villagers in these villages, across the district and from different talukas, have taken both shots of the Covid vaccine. Pune district is one of the districts with the highest number of first-dose and fully vaccinated beneficiaries. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad said, “We were to start schools from December 1, but we had to delay it due to various reasons like the Omicron scare and the rains that started. However, now we are resuming primary classes for Class 1 to Class 4th. Almost all the villages under Pune ZP administration have no active cases, except eight that are either within PMC limits now or on the border. We have permitted both private and public schools to start, since our staff is fully vaccinated and private schools have to ensure that their staff is following Covid-19- appropriate behaviour.” As of Thursday, the areas of Pune Zilla Parishad, including the villages, the councils and Cantonment areas have 135 hospitalised Covid-19 patients and 590 active patients isolated at homes Also, the ZP reported 68 new cases and two deaths as per the district health office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zp-reopens-schools-for-classes-1-4-in-villages-free-of-covid19-101638557696875.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Uphaar fire: Delhi court junks Ansals’ plea to suspend jail sentence||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed pleas by real estate baron Sushil and Gopal Ansal seeking suspension of the seven-year jail term awarded to them for tampering with evidence in the main Uphaar fire case.Noting that the “crime involved in the present case is of a very grave nature”, additional sessions judge Anil Antil also dismissed pleas by Ansals’ former employees PP Batra and Anoop Singh, and a former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma, who were also booked in the tampering case.“The case at hand is one of the gravest of its kind. The offence herein appears to be the outcome of a calculated design on the part of the appellants/convicts to interfere with the course of justice. The polluters of the judicial firmament are required to be shown no leniency to maintain the sublimity of the institution, and recourse faith in general public in the administration of justice; any interference in the course of justice, any obstruction caused in the path of those seeking justice are an affront to the majesty of law and needs to be viewed seriously,” the court said in a 44-page order.The case is related to the tampering of the evidence in the main Uphaar fire tragedy case, which had claimed 59 lives, for which the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to a two-year jail term by the Supreme Court.The Ansal brothers along with former court staff Dinesh Sharma, and other individuals -- PP Batra, Har Swaroop Panwar, Anoop Singh, and Dharamvir Malhotra -- were booked in the tampering case. Panwar and Malhotra died during the course of the trial.In the main fire case, the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to two years in jail by the Supreme Court. The apex court had, however, released them on the period already undergone in the jail on the condition that they paid ₹30 crore fine each to be used for building a trauma centre in the national capital.During the trial in the main case related to the tragedy, the Ansals, along with five others, including the then court staffer, had torn and defaced crucial documents of the prosecution evidence to secure their acquittal.On October 8, the court convicted the Ansal brothers and three others for abetment, causing disappearance of evidence, criminal breach of trust by a public servant and criminal conspiracy.On November 8, the magistrate court had handed over seven-year imprisonment to all the five convicts while imposing a fine of ₹2.25 crore on the Ansal brothers. The judge had also fined Batra, Singh and Sharma ₹3 lakh each along with the jail term. The convicts had challenged the sentence and the fine imposed on them.On Friday, rejecting their challenge, the court said that suspending the sentence at this stage will be against the established principles of criminal law and would “shake the confidence of general public in the judicial system”.The court also said that a criminal justice system drives its legitimacy not only from legislation but more so from the faith that the public at large reposes in it. It said that no extraordinary circumstances exist in favour of the convicts to suspend their sentence, adding that the nature of the crime is such that it “strikes at the very edifice of functioning of the court”.“A finding of guilt has already been given by the trial court. Thus the presumption of innocence that attaches to the accused during the trial of the case does not apply at the stage of consideration of suspension of sentence, whereby the appellants/accused persons stand guilty by the court concerned,” the judge said.The court noted that besides suffering from age related ailments, no other diseases are cited which requires immediate/urgent intervention. It further said that age itself cannot be the sole criteria to grant relief to the convicts when they were themselves involved in the “procrastinated trial of the case”.“They cannot be permitted to take benefit of their own wrongs. On the other hand, inordinate delay in the trial of the case also does cause acute suffering and anguish to the victims of the offence, and the rights of the victims cannot by any yardstick be subservient to the rights of the accused/convicts,” the court said.It also said that the convicts had not undergone a long incarceration and it is not such that the appeal is not likely to be heard in near future.“In so far as the said question of hearing of the appeals in nearby future is concerned, the same can well be taken care by expediting the final arguments on merits and the convenient date can be given, in light of other pendency and scheduled workloads of the court, and the counsels can also conclude their arguments within a time frame,” the judge said.The court also said that it is “manifestly clear that the tampered documents, including one cheque which went missing at a relevant point of time, could have been used, or tampered with only with the intent to use the same for illegal design”.It also said that the Ansals and Har Swaroop Panwar, a co-accused who died during trial, were the ultimate beneficiaries of the tampering and strong motive existed for the accused to get the documents tampered as those documents reflected the culpability of Ansal brothers in managing the affairs of the companies.
04-12-2021||Pune||598 foreign returnees in Pune district to be RTPCR tested; 393 in city||PUNE A total of 598 people have come into Pune district from various countries in the past 15 days, 393 of whom are in Pune city. The respective administrations are now tracking all the foreign returnees to test them for the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron.Sample collections will happen door to door. These 598 foreign returnees who will be subject to RTPCR testing and contact tracing include all international passengers, irrespective of country of origin.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “We are tracking all passengers and calling them up for their RTPCR testing. Irrespective of their symptoms and the country of origin we are RTPCR testing them and sending their samples to government labs. We are calling up each individual and sending our teams door-to-door to collect samples and trace their contacts as well to follow up on symptoms if any. We have about 393 people who have travelled back to Pune from various countries, not necessarily just the three countries ‘at risk’. Over 90% of the people on the list are not from ‘at risk’ countries, but we are testing them as well.” Along with PMC, the rural administration as well the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has geared up to track all passengers who have returned from abroad, irrespective of the country they have travelled to. On Thursday, the state government issued guidelines stating that domestic travellers either have to be fully vaccinated or have to carry a negative RTPCr test not older than 72 hours. For international travellers coming from ‘at risk’ countries, including Botswana, South Africa and Zimbabwe, 15 days before the date of arrival in Maharashtra an RTPCR test has to be done. Also, immediately upon arrival have these passengers have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine and a second RTPCR test. If any of these tests are positive then the person will be admitted to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/598-foreign-returnees-in-pune-district-to-be-rtpcr-tested-393-in-city-101638557514969.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Most prefer doorstep ration delivery over fair price shops: Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the state government why it did not implement the doorstep ration delivery programme with the existing framework of fair price shops (FPS), even as it observed that these shops carried a “poor impression”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked the Delhi government about the programme’s checks and balances, and how it will be different from the FPS scheme.“People carry a poor impression of fair price shops, probably for good reasons because there was not much regulation, checks on the practices that they were following. They were selling it in the black market and those things have been there in the past,” the court observed. “These technological advancements which have been there … the ePos [electronic point-of-sale], the geo-tagging etc… these are all measures that have been put in place to check all those malpractices, pilferage. If it can be done through the new process, by bypassing these FPS, why can’t it be done through them. That is the only point. If it can be done through all those checks in place, then that serves everybody’s purpose. We are telling you all this so that you may want to consider…,” the bench asked.The questions were posed while hearing a plea by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, a group of FPS owners, in which they have challenged the doorstep ration delivery scheme and demanded that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority).The state last month told the high court that it will set up exclusive stores in different parts of the city for doorstep delivery of ration to ensure that those who are not at home can collect it at their convenience.The scheme has become another flashpoint between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government and the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi, with the former saying that the plan violates the provisions of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and will deprive migrants of foodgrains, and the latter pointing out that it will root out the ration mafia and ensure that all beneficiaries get their ration.On November 15, the Supreme Court declined to entertain two separate petitions (one by the Centre and another by FPS owners) against a Delhi high court interim order on September 27 that allowed the AAP government to stop supplying foodgrain to fixed price shops for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.The high court verdict also effectively gave a go-ahead to the state government scheme.Defending its scheme, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the state government, said that there was no point in having 1,500-2,000 fair price shops when 6.9 million of the city’s 7.2 million ration beneficiaries have opted for the home delivery of ration.He also contended that the National Food Security Act (NFSA) does not prohibit the doorstep delivery of entitlements. The state had earlier told the court that doorstep deliveries had become a norm and it assured that beneficiaries could opt out at any time.“The problem cannot always be the solution. We have put on record to show the glaring nepotistic practices… They want the vested interest and architecture to continue. There is a parallel system without total abolition and with an option for them to participate,” said Singhvi.
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi crime: Customs seizes 2,800 kg of cosmetics||The Delhi Customs on Monday seized around 2,800 kg of cosmetic items from Pakistan, which were routed through Abu Dhabi and shown as household items to avoid customs duty to the tune of around ₹1 crore.The officials said that while the customs duty for goods from most countries is 10-15%, the duty fee for goods sent from Pakistan is 200% which the smugglers, who are yet to be identified, tried to avoid.Custom officials said that the intelligence officers of the Air Cargo Export Commissionerate received a tip off on Monday about a consignment at the New Courier Terminal, following which officials found at least 2,800 kg of cosmetic products of Pakistan origin.“A total of 87 consignments had arrived by flight from Abu Dabhi. Upon examination, 84 consignments were found to contain cosmetics of Pakistan origin, and three consignments were of perfumes concentrate from Bahrain... The goods were attempted to be cleared through courier mode by wrongly declaring the origin and description of goods, including their value, to evade the applicable customs duty of 200% and IGST (integrated goods and service tax). The duty that they sought to evade is more than ₹1 crore. Interestingly, the smugglers used names and addresses of 87 individual recipients which appear to be ghost recipients,” said Sanjay Bansal, Commissioner of Customs, ACC (export).Officials in charge of the investigation said that they are now trying to identify the persons who were to collect these consignments from the delivery addresses.“Since the products are the same and were part of the same consignment, we suspect that it was the work of the same gang. They have got these addresses to receive the packages separately to avoid suspicion. We are trying to identify the module,” said an officer aware of the investigation details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-crime-customs-seizes-2-800kg-of-cosmetics-101638557217693.html
04-12-2021||Pune||Shallow fog, light rainfall forecast for Saturday as Punekars begin to miss the sun||PUNE December this year has seen rain and fog in Pune. On Friday, many parts of the city reported dense to shallow fog, giving Puneites the feel of a hill station. Pictures, videos and comments dominated social media with the “beauty of the weather” on Friday morning driving the hashtags.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune city has just 0.7 days in December that are likely to see a fog. In the entire year, only 3.5 days of fog is theee average forecast, as per IMD.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said the shallow fog is likely to continue on Saturday, December 4. “The upper air cyclonic circulation off the south Gujarat coast and north Konkan system is still persistent. The trough line has become less important for Maharashtra. There are chances of light rainfall at isolated places over Konkan and Goa and central Maharashtra till November 5. Over Marathwada, light rainfall at isolated areas is likely till December 4. After December 5, the state will have a clear sky,” said Kashyapi.However, from December 5, the temperature is likely to reduce as northerly winds are likely to penetrate. “In Pune, overcast conditions are likely till December 5. Light rainfall and early morning will have shallow fog till December 5 as well. Then from December 5, mainly clear skies with no rainfall. Between December 6 to December 9, the temperature is likely to decrease,” said Kashyapi. Speaking about her experience with the fog in Pune, resident Amruta Kharate said, “Pune on Friday did feel like a hill station. It was an entirely different feel for Pune city. Fog and rain at the same time. We really would like some sunshine back.”On Friday, along with the fog, parts of Pune city experienced light rainfall. Some areas like Bibewadi, Hadapsar, Kalyani Nagar also reported water logging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shallow-fog-light-rainfall-forecast-for-saturday-as-punekars-begin-to-miss-the-sun-101638557215255.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Cricket betting racket busted in Noida, three arrested||Three people were arrested on Friday for allegedly luring people in Noida--either in person or through social networking sites--to bet on cricket matches and making at least ₹1 crore by running this racket. The suspects were identified as Pankaj Giri, 26, Shivam Chauhan, 23, and Shivam Kumar, 22, all residents of Nandgram in Ghaziabad. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said Sector 58 police received information about the suspects’ movement near Minda T-Point in Sector 60. “A police team reached the spot and arrested the three suspects. The police recovered 26 debit cards, nine forged Aadhaar cards, six mobile phones and ₹4.5 lakh cash from their possession,” he said. Singh said Giri is the mastermind of the gang. “Giri had hired the other two men for ₹8,000 a month to collect money from the betting participants. Chauhan and Kumar used to visit different areas in Noida and lure people to bet on cricket matches. They claimed to offer 80 times the betting amount if they won. The suspects operated the racket through a messaging app,” he said. The officer added the suspects used to give a few winners some money while keeping the rest of the amount for themselves. “During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they bought these debit cards from two suspects six months ago. Those two suspects are presently in Dasna jail in connection with some other crime,” said Rajnish Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Noida. Police said Giri has been involved in this racket for the last five years while the two others are working with him since last year. “A case has been registered against them under Section 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) of the IPC and Section 66 of the IT Act. “The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Singh. The suspects were brought to the ADCP’s office in Noida Sector 14-A during the press conference. Briefly interacting with media while being escorted to the court, Giri said, “The allegations levelled against me are not true.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cricket-betting-racket-busted-in-noida-three-arrested-101638557213807.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Havildar of Indian Army arrested for harassing woman in Greater Noida||A 32-year-old havildar of the Indian Army was arrested on Friday for allegedly harassing a 24-year-old woman in Greater Noida’s Sector Alpha 2. The suspect, identified as Sunil Baisla, a resident of Palwal in Haryana, was posted in Maharashtra. He had joined the services in 2008. The woman is single while the suspect is married and has two children, said police. Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector Beta 2 police station, said the woman is a native of Aligarh and was living with her family members in Greater Noida. “The woman is pursuing MSc in a private college. In 2017, the woman and the suspect connected on a social networking site and started chatting. They met quite a number of times and decided to be in a relationship. However recently, the woman decided to opt out of the relationship. This infuriated the suspect, who came from Maharashtra to Greater Noida on November 30. He stayed in a guest house for a few days and on Thursday, reached the woman’s flat and created a ruckus,” said Kumar. Police said the woman closed the door from inside and refused to speak to him. “The suspect pelted stones and bricks at the woman’s house from outside and damaged her window and door. He also threatened the victim and her family members of consequences. Based on the complaint, we registered a case against the suspect on Thursday under Section 354-D (stalking), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC,” said the SHO.The victim and her family members left for their hometown on Friday fearing for their lives. “The suspect followed the woman to her hometown in Aligarh. We sent a police team and arrested him from Aligarh,” said Kumar. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/havildar-of-indian-army-arrested-for-harassing-woman-in-greater-noida-101638557034873.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin now plans to vaccinate all beneficiaries with 1st dose by Dec 15||After missing the November 30 deadline of vaccinating all eligible beneficiaries in the district with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, district officials have set a new deadline and are now targeting to complete the task by December 15. According to official data, the district has administered the first dose to 2,430,509 people till December 3 of the total 2,702,167 eligible beneficiaries identified in the district, taking the first dose coverage to 89.95%. The second dose coverage is about 52.42% with 1,416,492 beneficiaries completely vaccinated against the virus. Officials, on their part, have planned extensive door to door campaign to spread awareness about Covid vaccination, more so after cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 have come to the fore. “In terms of overall first dose coverage, the district stands at the third spot after Gautam Budh Nagar and Shahjahanpur. By December 15, we plan to vaccinate all beneficiaries with the first dose. We have also planned to rope in ration dealers to increase awareness among beneficiaries in the areas which have been left out of the inoculation drive or where vaccination coverage is low,” said R K Singh, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. According to figures available on the CoWIN portal, in the last one week spanning from November 26 to December 2, the district has been administering about 7,837 first doses on an average daily. The district administration will have to administer about 22,638 doses per days in the remaining 12 days starting from November 3 to meet its target of vaccinating all beneficiaries with the first dose by December 15. With the current daily average of administering 7,837 doses, the district would need about 35 more days to meet the first dose vaccination target. “We also plan to tap the super spreader groups, such as auto drivers, who come in direct contact with the public everyday, and have directed them to get the first dose. Moreover, teams have been deployed at engineering colleges, bus stations, ration shops and other public places for creating awareness and scaling up the vaccination drive,” said Singh. The administration is now focussing on areas, such as Kaila Bhatta, Shaheed Nagar, Loni and Vijay Nagar, where vaccination coverage is low. “There is no shortage of vaccine.It has been observed that the turnout for vaccination has slowed down since the festive season and more so after Covid cases have reduced considerably. We are using different measures to meet our vaccination target,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. 
04-12-2021||Noida||500 travellers from ‘at risk’ countries arrived in Noida since Nov 15||The district administration has received a list of about 500 international travellers who have come to Noida since November 15 from high risk countries. Officials said of the 292 travellers notified till Thursday, teams from the district administration have been able to trace about 240 of them till Friday. Around 45 travellers had been traced till Thursday morning. None of the travellers have tested positive for Covid-19 yet, said officials. A new list of about 200 travellers was sent to the district administration on Friday. The administration could not get through 52 travellers identified from the previous list and has sent teams to their given addresses to take their health updates. Meanwhile, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas L Y has been appointed as the nodal officer from the state to coordinate the list of international travellers coming to Uttar Pradesh. “The Director General of Civil Aviation essentially sends information of all travellers to the states. The state surveillance officer distributes them among all the district magistrates. We just need to ensure that the lists come on time so that tracking and testing can begin accordingly,” said the DM. Suhas also held the district’s Covid task force meeting on Friday morning after nearly three months to review the Covid preparedness of the district. Nodal officers for various tasks, including surveillance, RRTS, testing and contact tracing, have been appointed. Arrangements for various medications, beds and oxygen supply were also reviewed.“Many medicines used in Covid treatment do not a long shelf life. Though we don’t have any Covid cases yet, we want to be safe than sorry. I have asked the health department to find out the requirement of medicines so that we can rationally stock up,” said Suhas. He added that since most of the oxygen plants in the district are new, they are functional and are being kept ready for supply. “There are minor snags in the operation of the oxygen plants, which will be plugged within a week. There are also sufficient oxygen cylinders,” said Suhas. Estimates suggest that about 1,200 cylinders are available at the government facilities.While testing and vaccination was hit due to the strike called by staff of the National Health Mission (NHM), the administration has asked the lab technicians and Asha workers to rejoin work. On Thursday, the district health department reserved 30 beds in two wards of Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39 for all international travellers who test positive for Covid-19.Depending on the severity of cases, patients will be either transferred to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida or be treated in the Noida Covid hospital, said officials.“Most L-1 (non-critical) patients may be in home isolation; L-2 (complicated) patients will be taken to the Noida Covid Hospital and L-3 (critical) patients will be taken to GIMS. If cases increase further, we will scale up the number of beds at other facilities,” Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer, had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/500-travellers-from-at-risk-countries-arrived-in-noida-since-nov-15-101638556973831.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three held for stabbings, fourth suspect killed in accident||The police on Friday arrested two suspects and apprehended a juvenile accomplice in connection with two separate stabbing incidents that took place within an hour of each other on the night of November 30. A fourth suspect, police said, was killed in a road accident nearly seven hours after the gang allegedly committed the two crimes.Explaining the sequence of events, police said the gang of four first stabbed a man for resisting a robbery in south-west Delhi’s Mohan Garden. The victim, 32-year-old AC mechanic Saroj Kumar, was stabbed multiple times in his abdomen, back and thigh before the gang robbed him of his cellphone and fled on their motorcycles, police said.The second victim, a contractual conductor with the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), was stabbed near the waist by the four following an altercation. Although the DTC conductor, Surender Singh, was not robbed, the police suspect that the four may have waylaid him with the intention of robbing him. However, despite being stabbed, Singh managed to flee and reached the nearest police booth. That probably saved his life and belongings, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said the arrested men were identified as Karan,22, and Mohammad Sohail,21. They were arrested on Thursday by the investigating team of Mohan Garden police station. Their interrogation led to the recovery of the knife that was used in the two stabbing cases. The minor boy was also apprehended the same day.The fourth suspect, identified as Arju alias Razzak, was killed in a road accident nearly seven hours after the two crimes. The accident took place in Dwarka’s Sector 4 and the motorcycle that Arju and Karan were riding on was hit by an unknown vehicle, a senior police officer associated with the probe said.The incidents, latest in a series of street crimes in which the victims suffered fatal or serious injuries besides losing their property, took place between 9pm and 10pm near Old Palam Road on November 30.In his statement, the first victim Saroj Kumar told the police that he was returning home after work when the suspects cornered him and stabbed him multiple times before fleeing with his cellphone.Second victim Surender Singh said he had stopped his motorcycle to relieve himself when he was attacked by the four persons. He ran towards the police booth after being stabbed and raised the alarm. The suspects who were chasing him fled on seeing the police, the officer said. Delhi Police statistics show that cases of robbery have increased by nearly 14% this year (till October 31) when compared with the corresponding period last year. In numbers, the city saw 1,606 cases of robbery between January 1 and October 30 last year. This year, during the same period, 1,829 robberies were reported, police data showed.The data further revealed that Delhi reported 7,504 snatching cases till October 31 this year — 1,186 more than the cases reported during the same period in 2020. In a series of reports on crime in Delhi in March, HT had reported that unemployed, illiterate, school drop-outs, arrested for the first time are a common thread that connect almost every person arrested for snatching in Delhi since 2018, highlighting how one of the most serious concerns on the streets of the national capital is also its biggest gateway crime.
04-12-2021||Delhi||505 liquor brands registered in Delhi so far as part of new excise policy: Govt||The Delhi government said Friday that the new excise policy will help promote liquor brand availability in the Capital and the customer will have a wider choice. A government official said that under the new excise policy, the excise department has, so far, registered 505 brands, including 332 Indian brands and 173 foreign ones.“Of these, 166 brands of whisky, 55 brands of vodka, 65 brands of beer, 154 brands of wine, and 65 brands of other categories such rum, gin, brandy, liqueurs, and mixed alcoholic beverages have been registered for the year 2021-22. We have processed all applications and there is no brand registration pending,” the official said.The official added that the excise department is trying to add more brands in the next few months.Delhi moved to a new excise regime from November 17, 2021, which promises to improve user experience, increase government revenue, and clean up malpractices in the Capital’s liquor business. “We have reduced registration fees for a majority of liquor brand categories. This will further give the customer a wide choice in terms of brand availability. We have rationalised the brand registration process in order to make all niche brands available to the residents of the Capital,” a government official said.In March 2021, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had announced that a new policy will be set up for the liquor trade and the government will exit the business of selling liquor.Earlier, HT had reported that there were some initial hiccups once the new excise policy came into force--many vends faced a shortage in supply while some sites had not yet opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/505-liquor-brands-registered-in-delhi-so-far-as-part-of-new-excise-policy-govt-101638556915958.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Visitors from across country pour in Greater Noida for 4-day expo on home decor||From centuries-old art carved on wood and metalware to the latest innovations, such as sleep technology and PPE safety kits, the Home Decor-Gift-Handicraft (HGH) India 2021 show, which concluded at the India Expo Mart in Greater Noida on Friday, was an amalgamation of ancient and modern ideas.The 10th edition of the four-day trade show for home products, which is held every year in Mumbai, was hosted in Greater Noida for the first time and had visitors from over 460 cities and towns across India.In a joint initiative with the ministry of textiles, the HGH India dedicated a pavilion to Indian heritage and artisans, whose artworks were the major crowd puller. There were live demonstrations by master craftsmen and national award winners.Padma Shri awardee Lajwanti (identified by first name) displayed phulkari embroidery products at the pavilion. The 64-year-old from Patiala in Punjab has been engaged in the artwork since she was six.“Phulkari was once an important part of a Punjabi bride’s trousseau and continues to be the same till date. However now, it is also being adapted to home décor items such as bed sheets, curtains, wall hangings, and cushion covers. Dresses, bags, and pouches are also embellished with phulkari,” she said.Other artworks promoted here included homeware products carved in wood, metal engraving, terracotta, among others. Talking about initiatives to promote Indian artisans, Shantmanu (identified by first name), development commissioner (handicraft), ministry of textiles, said, “In addition to the big players in the home décor industry, we also have small-scale artisans, weavers, and handloom workers whose works were showcased here. For this fair, the ministry has sponsored these artisans, apart from giving them training, upscaling and providing toolkits to promote their art and increase their income”.With an aim to promote the traditional handloom from Shillong, 23-year-old Kimberley Khyriem, a fashion designer from Meghalaya, showcased her collection of home linen, furnishings, beddings, and apparel made of Erisilk.“Erisilk is also known as ‘ahimsa silk’, as it is produced without harming insects. Instead of boiling the insects, we wait for the caterpillars to leave their shells to gather silk. This is a traditional form of producing silk used by hand weavers of northeast states of India, especially Meghalaya,” said Khyriem, who is a graduate of the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), New Delhi.Khyriem is an incubatee of NIFT Foundation for Design Innovation (NFDI), a company set up by NIFT under the ministry of textiles wherein the government promotes startups in the industry.“My brand promotes sustainable form of production of fabric, as we use natural organic dyes like turmeric, lac, coffee, tea, which are locally sourced from Khweng village in Shillong. I aim to take this traditional method to the international market of home décor and furnishing through the HGH expo here,” said Khyriem.More such innovations were part of a stall dedicated to NIFT-NFDI pavilion. “NFDI promotes and supports incubatees, most of whom are final year students as well as alumni of NIFT who want to set up their own enterprise and startups. For such young innovators, the HGH expo is a great opportunity,” said Shantmanu, who is also the director-general of NIFT.According to experts, home décor industry has seen a boom since the Covid-19 outbreak.“We have observed that during the last two years of Covid-enforced lockdowns and work -from-home lifestyle, Indian consumer sentiments have turned more positive towards their homes. They are spending on all categories of home products and this trend will continue. According to the retailers in bed & bath, furnishing fabrics, wallpaper, kitchenware, furniture and home décor, the period from July to November this year have recorded 30-40% increase in retail sales compared to last year. This boom in the home retail segment is expected to be long-lasting,” said Arun Roongta, managing director, HGH India.Roongta added that Noida and Greater Noida--being a hub of new real estate investments--is a major upcoming market for interior décor. “The young generation moving to their dream homes in Gautam Budh Nagar is a major target for the home décor industry. They like to experiment in home decor with new innovations and at the same time explore traditional art forms. For such a target audience, traders have offered a varied range of products at the HGH Expo,” he added.
04-12-2021||Noida||Light rain helps improve air in Noida, Greater Noida||The light rain on Thursday helped settle the pollutants in the air in Greater Noida, with a result that the air quality improved, enough to move from the ”very poor” to the “poor” category of the air quality index (AQI) scale on Friday. There was significant improvement in the air quality of Noida too, which had a “severe” AQI a day earlier. Experts from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the upcoming western disturbance, on December 5 and 6, will have a positive impact on the pollution in the region. According to the 4pm air quality index (AQI) bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board, Ghaziabad continued to experience ‘very poor’ air on Friday with an AQI of 342, five points below than AQI of 347 on Thursday. Noida recorded an AQI of 312 under the ‘very poor’ category--a sharp contrast from AQI 408 recorded a day earlier. Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 262 on Friday, under the ‘poor’ category, a considerable drop from AQI 356 recorded on Thursday. “The lowering of pollution levels is the result of light rain that the region received on Thursday. The impact of the drizzle reflected in the AQI levels recorded on Friday. The wind has almost remained calm on Friday but will pick up and range between 10kmph to 20kmph on December 5 and 6. This will further help in dispersal of pollutants,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD. “The drizzle on Thursday contributed around 1mm rain. The upcoming western disturbance on December 5/6 will bring upto 5mm rain. This will have a positive impact over the prevailing weather conditions,” he added. Ever since Diwali, which was observed on November 4 this year, the AQI levels have been oscillating between “severe,” “very poor” and “poor” categories in the three cities. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. “In Ghaziabad, the pollution levels did not show any improvement as there was hardly any drizzle here on Thursday, compared to Delhi and Noida. So, the air quality index continued to remain in the ‘very poor’ category. A positive impact on the current weather conditions is expected when it rains during the western disturbance predicted on December 5 and 6. We are continuing with our measures against local sources of pollution,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board, Ghaziabad. A forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said on Friday that air quality improved from Thursday due to isolated light rain at a few places. “For the next two days, winds are likely to be calm reducing ventilation leading to degradation of air quality but within the same category. From December 5 onwards, winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but AQI likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Partly cloudy sky and low mixing layer height are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants,” said the Safar forecast. Another forecast by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said winds are likely to be relatively stronger from December 5 onwards--- favourable for dispersion of pollutants--with the possibility of rain on December 6. 
04-12-2021||Delhi||First civic hospital for birds and animals in Delhi to come up in Vasant Kunj||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) decided to set up the first municipal hospital for animals and birds hospital in Vasant Kunj, officials said Friday.Commissioner Gyanesh Bharti, while delivering his annual budget for 2022-23 said that Delhi Development Authority allocated 483 square metres of land in Vasant Kunj on which the veterinary department will set up the hospital.Currently, the three municipal corporations of Delhi do not operate any animal or bird hospitals, but the Delhi government’s animal husbandry department does operate dispensaries for animals.Dr Ravindra Sharma, director of veterinary services, SDMC, said that the project is in the nascent stage and a three-storey building complex will be set up in Vasant Kunj, where the hospital will be developed in public-private partnership (PPP) mode. “The project will be carried out in PPP mode, just like the pet crematorium that is being set up in Dwarka sector 29. The ground floor of this facility will be reserved for the treatment of birds with an equipped laboratory for blood sampling and analysis, surgery stations, and advanced diagnostic tools,” he added.Another municipal official said that DDA allotted the plot in Vasant Kunj to the civic body last year and the department has sought a no-objection certificate from the land-owning agency for developing the hospital.“There are some charitable hospitals for birds like Charity Birds Hospital near Lal Jain temple in Chandni Chowk and a few private pet hospitals in south Delhi which offer treatment at high rates. The dispensaries run by the animal husbandry and dairying departments mostly cater to cattle or horses. We hope to provide subsidised healthcare for pets in the Vasant Kunj facility,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Municipal officials said that while the three corporations currently don’t have any such facilities, the erstwhile unified MCD used to operate 23 dispensaries and animal hospitals till 1992.“The units were operating in municipal buildings with our staff while the doctors deputed in these units were from the Delhi government. A policy decision was taken to transfer all these units in 1992 to the Delhi government and we haven’t had any animal hospitals since 1992,” the official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-civic-hospital-for-birds-and-animals-in-delhi-to-come-up-in-vasant-kunj-101638556673514.html
04-12-2021||Noida||Noida police issues notice to imam for organizing Friday prayers in park||Noida: Police on Friday issued a notice to an imam--a Muslim priest who leads a prayer--for organising a Friday prayer in a park in Noida’s Phase 2. The move came after a person tweeted a photo of the gathering in the park and tagged Noida police. Atul Pandey tweeted a photo on Friday afternoon with the caption, “Shall we take this as open entitlement to practice religion in public parks? This was at Block B in Hosiery Complex, Noida.” Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer (SHO) of Phase 2 police station, said a police team soon reached the spot on getting information about the incident. “Primary investigation indicates that workers of a factory had gathered at a local mosque to offer Friday prayers. However, since the mosque was full, a group of men visited the park in the neighbourhood to offer prayers,” he said. Upadhyaya said people have been advised not to offer prayers in the park from next week. “We have also served a notice to the Imam/maulvi Siraj Ahmad,” he said. Talking to HT, Ahmad said he works at a factory in Phase 2. “The factory workers have been offering prayers in the park for five years but due to lockdown, this practice was discontinued two years ago. The workers again gathered on Friday to offer prayers. We were not aware that offering prayers at the park is banned. We will not organise such congregation in the park from next week,” he said. In December 2018, Noida police had issued an order banning any religious activity in the parks in the city. The police had also asked the companies/factories to ensure their employees do not use a park for any religious activity, including offering namaz on Fridays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-issues-notice-to-imam-for-organizing-friday-prayers-in-park-101638556554104.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||17 flying squads will monitor pollution curbs: Centre in SC||The Union government on Friday responded to the 24-hour deadline set by the Supreme Court on Thursday for creating an “urgent” mechanism to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, and constituted an enforcement task force and 17 flying squads to implement pollution control measures through surprise checks, inspection and closure of polluting units, besides announcing criminal prosecution and imposition of fines on violators. On Thursday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, observed that the top court could set up a task force itself since “nothing is really happening to control pollution” and “all authorities have failed”.“We expect a serious, serious action or we will pass orders. We give you 24 hours to come out with a plan of action,” the bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.Hours later, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas, held an emergency meeting in the wake of the Supreme Court’s deadline. The decisions taken in the meeting were presented before the bench on Friday in the form of an affidavit. Reading out from the affidavit, S-G Mehta informed the court that a five-member enforcement task force, led by CAQM chairperson MM Kutty, has been set up under the statutory powers of the commission. Flying squads are led by the officers of the Central Pollution Control Board.Mehta added that 17 flying squads have been constituted so far to make surprise visits, periodical incognito checking and inspections. “The number of flying squads will be increased to 40 within 24 hours. These squads will report to the enforcement task force everyday at 6pm in daily meetings. Based on their reports, the task force shall pass orders of preventive, corrective and punitive actions such as financial penalty and criminal prosecution as prescribed by the law.” He further said that any dereliction in duty by any of the members of the flying squad or the implementing agency will also attract disciplinary proceedings. Another important decision, Mehta said, pertained to cutting down industrial pollution by restricting the operation of all units not running on PNG or other cleaner fuels up to eight hours a day during the week and closure on weekends. “Operation of thermal power plants within 300 kilometres radius of Delhi shall continue to be regulated in terms of Commission’s order on November 30 whereby, only 5 out of 11 thermal power plants, have been permitted to schedule their operations and rest have been directed to remain inoperative till at least December 15.” At this point, the bench asked the S-G to consider moving to alternate power sources once thermal power plants are switched off. “We are not issuing any direction or anything today. You give it a thought....In the long term, you have to think of phasing them (thermal power plants) out completely,” the bench told Mehta.The national capital has been in the grip of hazardous pollution for over a month now, compelling the Supreme Court to regularly monitor the issue. This was the worst November for Delhi in terms of the average air quality index (AQI). While pollution till mid-November was driven significantly by smoke from farm fires in upwind states, the poor air quality since, and especially in the past week has been caused by local emissions and meteorological factors. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the 17-year-old petitioner, Aditya Dubey, complained that the latest affidavit is just “eyewash” and the authorities should be questioned why the solar power plants have not come up in the national capital if they were really serious about the issue. “We mentioned that to the S-G just now... This is not an adversarial litigation. Something has been done. Whatever you asked for yesterday, they have started that too. Mr Singh, we are not closing the proceedings. We are going to monitor it...we are nudging the government,” responded the bench.Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, expressed his concerns about the directive issued by CAQM to restrict the number of hours an industrial unit could work if it is not running on PNG or other clean fuels. He said that the condition is too stringent for the sugarcane industry and would create huge losses to them since this is the sugarcane crushing season. Kumar requested the bench to suspend the operation of this order for at least two weeks to enable him come back with specific details on location and number of the industrial units coming under the ambit of CAQM order.The bench, however, asked Kumar to approach the Commission with his grievances. “All NCR states are members of the Commission. You go to them with your grievances if you want an exemption or suspension of this order.”. As Kumar said that UP is a downwind state and the air quality is affected due to wind from Pakistan, the bench replied in a lighter vein: “Do you want us to ban industries in Pakistan?” The court then passed a brief order, recording its satisfaction over the steps taken by the Centre and CAQM. “For the time being, in view of the measures taken by the government of India and the notification issued by CAQM dated December 2, we direct the governments of India and Delhi to implement the measures therein,” stated the court order, fixing the next hearing on December 10. The affidavit submitted in the court further said that CAQM has ordered that all schools and colleges in NCR shall remain closed till further orders, allowing only on-line mode of education except for the purpose of conducting examinations and laboratory practicals.“Entry of trucks in Delhi shall not permitted, except for CNG and electric trucks and trucks carrying essential commodities,” it added.Entry of vehicles from other states to the national capital will also be regulated more strictly now. At 124 entry points to Delhi, the concerned state government will ensure deployment of teams from the road transport department along with police personnel at every border entry point for 24 hours, in rotation, directed the commission. These teams shall be responsible to stop entry of trucks as well as check other vehicles. On Thursday, the apex court rued lack of effective mechanism for implementing the pollution control measures. It also questioned the efficacy of CAQM, asking whether the Commission has any power to enforce its directives or if its remit is confined to only issuing directions. 
04-12-2021||Noida||Depts get directions to improve cleanliness as Noida sets sight on Swachh survey||CEO of the Noida authority Ritu Maheshwari has issued directions to the engineering department to repair all broken footpaths and roads and asked the health department to clean every nook and corner in the city so that Noida sports a new look before the Swachh survey, which will be undertaken next year and in which the authority aims to better its rank. The move comes after the ministry of housing and urban affairs adjudged Noida as the fourth cleanest city in the country with a population ranging from 100,00 to a million and 11th cleanest city in terms of overall cleanliness. Indore secured the first position across the country in the overall category. Officials said given the world class infrastructure Noida has, the authority believes that the city can easily secure the first position in the 2022 Swachh survey, the process of which is likely to begin from January next year. Officials discussed all details at a workshop in Balak Inter College in Sector 91 and issued instructions to concerned departments. “There should not be any encroachment on public land, especially within 100 metres of public toilets; toilets should be clean, civic infrastructure should be repaired and complaints on waste should be dealt with promptly,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority. On April 17,1976, the UP government established Noida--a well-planned industrial town--adjoining Delhi. Currently, it has around 12,000 industrial units and 165 residential sectors. Around 13% of the area in the city has been allocated for industrial purposes, 43% for residential purposes and the remaining land for other usages. Officials feel despite being a well planned city, it has failed to secure the top spot in the Swachh survey of the country. The chief general manager directed the staff to make sure all vending zones should be in order without chaos, only treated waste should be used for irrigation purposes and pubic spaces should be cleaned regularly. “We have appealed to all staff members to work in tandem with citizens to make the city clean and help it achieve the top sot in the survey. If the officials work together with citizens, Noida can easily secure the top spot,” said Tyagi. 
04-12-2021||Delhi||Wazirabad barrage to be upgraded soon, says Satyendar Jain||Taking a step towards averting flooding along the Yamuna bank during monsoons, the Delhi government has decided to upgrade the Wazirabad barrage in order to increase its strength and boost the response time of the barrage gates, the water minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday.Jain, who convened a meeting with senior officials of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and the Irrigation and flood department on Friday, said the barrage will be equipped with the latest flood alarm systems for quick response during monsoon. “This will be a key step to stop flooding in nearby areas and will help safeguard the property and lives of people. This new barrage will also help to hold more water during the non-rainy season, leading to more water percolation, which will further help to increase the groundwater levels of the city,” said Jain.The minister claimed that the new barrage will further stabilise river water elevation needed to feed DJB’s water treatment plants.A senior DJB official stated that the Wazirabad barrage across Yamuna was built in 1959. “A barrage is a diversion dam which consists of a number of large gates that can be opened or closed to control the amount of water passing through it. This allows us to regulate and stabilise river water elevation upstream for use in irrigation and other systems. Yamuna has a total of six barrages,” official added.The DJB official explained that during monsoon, up to four-five lakh million gallons of water flows through the barrage each day. “The reconstruction of the new barrage gates will help increase the strength of the gates so that they can withstand the high-water pressure. This will help in regulating more water during the non-rainy season, and increase its percolation. Every year, the supply of drinking water is interrupted due to excess ammonia in the water. In such a case, the water held in these newly constructed barrages can be used to dilute the contaminants,” the official said.Jain said that through the overhaul, the government also aims to reduce silt deposition in the Wazirabad pond so that the holding capacity of drinking water can also be increased.There are six major barrages constructed across the Yamuna in four states -- Dakpathar in Uttarakhand; Hathnikund in Haryana; Wazirabad, Indraprastha and Okhla in Delhi; and Gokul bararge in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura. Yamuna water is severely polluted beyond the Wazirabad barrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wazirabad-barrage-to-be-upgraded-soon-says-satyendar-jain-101638556253855.html
04-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to install 140,000 more CCTV cameras across the city: Kejriwal||The Delhi government has decided to initiate the second phase of its CCTV project under which 140,000 new cameras will be installed across the Capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday.The government has already installed over 275,000 cameras, covering streets, public spaces, residential colonies and schools across the city, under the first phase of the project.The CM said that once the project is complete, Delhi will have 415,000 CCTV cameras.“We are far ahead of London, New York, Singapore and Paris, to the point that there is no comparison. Within India, Chennai comes at number two and Delhi has more than three times number of cameras in Chennai...,” said the CM. In August, a Forbes India report said Delhi is the most surveilled city of the world, with 1,826.6 CCTV cameras per square mile, followed by London with 1,138 cameras per square mile.Kejriwal said the CCTV project has helped improve security, especially for women. “These cameras will have 4-megapixel resolution and night vision. They will help in increasing security situation in the city and we hope people will feel more secure,” Kejriwal said.He added that the government faced resistance from the central government and the Lieutenant Governor before the project could be started. “We had to even carry out a dharna with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia at the Lieutenant Governor’s house. We remained resolute and steadfast,” he added.Kejriwal said the cameras will be installed by Bharat Electronics Limited, a public sector undertaking. “If a unit is not functional, an alarm is raised in the command centre and SMS is sent to the authorised people. If a camera is broken, non-operational or even if someone restricts its visibility, an immediate alarm is raised at the command centre. The footage from the cameras will be saved for 30 days and the live feed will be accessible only by three-four authorised people anywhere in the world,” he added.The CCTV project is part of the government’s larger action plan to enhance women safety in the Capital, which was one of the main aspects of the manifesto of the Aam Aadmi Party in the 2020 assembly elections.The project is being undertaken by the public works department (PWD) which is operating a central command and control centre on the 11th floor of its headquarters at ITO where a specialised team will monitor the live feed.Retired IPS officer Ashok Chand, who was deputy commissioner of police of the special cell for six years, said the CCTV cameras will help investigations.“The addition of cameras will definitely help solve cases, but it must be ensured that the picture quality is good and that they are positioned at the right place. In many cases, cameras are found to not be operational after a crime, so enough emphasis should be given to find out how many cameras are operational,” Chand added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-install-140-000-more-cctv-cameras-across-the-city-kejriwal-101638554814497.html
04-12-2021||World||Will not let Iran 'slow walk' over nuclear deal, warns United States||The United States warned Saturday that it would not allow Iran to "slow walk" international negotiations over its nuclear program, a day after heaping blame on Tehran for the stalled process."We can't accept a situation in which Iran accelerates its nuclear program and slow walks its nuclear diplomacy," said a senior administration official.The official said the United States was not yet planning to walk away from the talks in Vienna, but that it hoped Iran would return "with a serious attitude."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-not-let-iran-slow-walk-nuclear-talks-warns-united-states-101638641569140.html
04-12-2021||World||Taliban minister discusses humanitarian aid, trade with Chinese envoy in Kabul||Taliban appointed foreign minister Amir Khan Motaqi on Saturday met the Chinese Ambassador to Kabul Wang Yu and discussed the issues of humanitarian aid, trade, and development in Afghanistan."IEA Foreign Minister Mawlawi Amir Khan Muttaqi met Mr Wang Yu, Ambassador of PRC to Kabul this morning. The two sides discussed Afghan-China political relations, trade, humanitarian aid, development, and providing technical education to Afghan students," said Afghan Foreign Ministry spokesman Abdul Qahar Balkhi in a tweet.He said that the meeting particularly focused on enhanced trade between Afghanistan and China."Also, the two sides discussed increased export of pine nuts and routes to export Afghan products to China. To end, the Chinese side pledged further humanitarian aid in addition to what has already been provided," he added.China, along with Pakistan were among the first countries that began engaging with Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover in August this year.This latest meeting was the second between Amir Khan Motaqi and China's Wang Yu.The meeting came amid Taliban's repeated appeal for wider international recognition. China is among the very few which seem to have started engaging with the outfit. Other members of the international community are taking a wait and watch approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-minister-discusses-humanitarian-aid-trade-with-chinese-envoy-in-kabul-101638639376217.html
04-12-2021||World||China criticises US democracy before Biden summit||Whether a country is democratic or not should be judged by the international community and not by a few “self-appointed judges”, China on Saturday said in an official document as it ramps up criticism against the upcoming US-organised Summit for Democracy.“There is no fixed model of democracy,” China said in the official document titled China: Democracy That Works, published on Saturday, which details its democratic endeavors.The document said whether a country is democratic “should be acknowledged by the international community, not arbitrarily decided by a few self-appointed judges”.“Over the past hundred years, the Party has led the people in realising people’s democracy in China. The Chinese people now truly hold in their hands their own future and that of society and the country,” the paper said, the official CGTN channel reported.China has termed its system “whole-process people’s democracy” after President Xi Jinping proposed the concept two years ago in Shanghai, according to Chinese official media.Ruled by the Communist Party of China (CPC) since 1949, China’s governance is firmly under the party’s control with all functions of the government – including the legislature and judiciary – fully compliant to rules laid down by the CPC.China’s legislature, the National People’s Congress, is considered largely ceremonial and a rubber-stamp for decisions finalised by the CPC.The definition does not include a free media nor universal suffrage for national office.Considered to have become increasingly authoritarian under Xi, the phrase “whole-process democracy” was enshrined in law this past March.Beijing has sharply criticised the Summit for Democracy to be held next week with Communist Party of China (CPC) officials calling it a “joke” at the release of the Chinese document on democracy on Saturday.“The US is a self-styled leader of democracy, but its so-called summit of democracy is only aimed at suppressing and containing countries with a different development model,” said Tian Peiyan, deputy director of the Policy Research Office of the CPC’s central committee.“It is set to become a joke and will not be popular,” Tian said.“Such democracy brings not happiness but disaster to voters,” he said.China has consistently criticised the west for trying to supplant its democratic model on other countries.Neither China nor Russia are among about 110 governments invited to Biden’s two-day virtual Summit for Democracy, which starts on Thursday.The participation of Taiwan, a self-governing democracy that China claims is a breakaway region has further angered Beijing.“Xi has long used the claim that the party’s governance is superior to that of the West in order to legitimise the party’s monopoly of power,” Charles Parton, a former British diplomat and a senior associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-criticises-us-democracy-before-biden-summit-101638620354714.html
04-12-2021||World||Michigan high school shooting: Parents of accused who killed 4 caught||The parents of a teen accused of killing four students in a shooting at a Michigan high school were caught early Saturday, several hours after a prosecutor filed involuntary manslaughter charges against them, officials said.James and Jennifer Crumbley were captured in a commercial building in Detroit that housed artwork, Detroit Police Chief James E. White told a news conference. White said the couple “were aided in getting into the building,” and that a person who helped them may also face charges.A Detroit business owner spotted a car tied to the Crumbleys in his parking lot late Friday, Oakland County Undersheriff Michael McCabe said in a statement. A woman seen near the vehicle ran away when the business owner called 911, McCabe said. The couple was later located and arrested by Detroit police.A prosecutor filed involuntary manslaughter charges against the Crumbleys on Friday, accusing them of failing to intervene on the day of the tragedy despite being confronted with a drawing and chilling message — “blood everywhere” — that was found at the boy’s desk.The Crumbleys committed “egregious” acts, from buying a gun on Black Friday and making it available to Ethan Crumbley to resisting his removal from school when they were summoned a few hours before the shooting, Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said.Authorities had been looking for the couple since Friday afternoon. Late Friday, U.S. Marshals announced a reward of up to $10,000 each for information leading to their arrests.The Crumbley's attorney, Shannon Smith, said the pair had left town earlier in the week “for their own safety.” Smith told The Associated Press they would be returning to Oxford to be arraigned.However, White said the Crumbleys “appeared to be hiding” in the building where they were found. He added that the parents appeared to be “distressed” when they were captured.“Head down... just very upset,” he said of one of the parents.The couple was expected to be booked into the Oakland County Jail, McCabe said.Earlier, the prosecutor offered the most precise account so far of the events that led to the shooting at Oxford High School, roughly 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Detroit.Ethan Crumbley, 15, emerged from a bathroom with a gun, shooting students in the hallway, investigators said. He’s charged as an adult with murder, terrorism and other crimes.Under Michigan law, the involuntary manslaughter charge filed against the parents can be pursued if authorities believe someone contributed to a situation where there was a high chance of harm or death.Parents in the U.S. are rarely charged in school shootings involving their children, even as most minors get guns from a parent or relative’s house, according to experts.School officials became concerned about the younger Crumbley on Monday, a day before the shooting, when a teacher saw him searching for ammunition on his phone, McDonald said.Jennifer Crumbley was contacted and subsequently told her son in a text message: “Lol. I’m not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught,” according to the prosecutor.On Tuesday, a teacher found a note on Ethan’s desk and took a photo. It was a drawing of a gun pointing at the words, “The thoughts won’t stop. Help me,” McDonald said.There also was a drawing of a bullet, she said, with words above it: “Blood everywhere.”Between the gun and the bullet was a person who appeared to have been shot twice and is bleeding. He also wrote, “My life is useless” and “The world is dead,” according to the prosecutor.The school quickly had a meeting with Ethan and his parents, who were told to get him into counseling within 48 hours, McDonald said.The Crumbleys failed to ask their son about the gun or check his backpack and “resisted the idea of their son leaving the school at that time,” McDonald said.Instead, the teen returned to class and the shooting subsequently occurred.“The notion that a parent could read those words and also know that their son had access to a deadly weapon that they gave him is unconscionable — it’s criminal,” the prosecutor said.Jennifer Crumbley texted her son after the shooting, saying, “Ethan, don’t do it,” McDonald said.James Crumbley called 911 to say that a gun was missing from their home and that Ethan might be the shooter. The gun had been kept in an unlocked drawer in the parents’ bedroom, McDonald said.Ethan accompanied his father for the gun purchase on Nov. 26 and posted photos of the firearm on social media, saying, “Just got my new beauty today,” McDonald said.Over the long Thanksgiving weekend, Jennifer Crumbley wrote on social media that it is a “mom and son day testing out his new Christmas present,” the prosecutor said.Asked at a news conference if the father could be charged for purchasing the gun for the son, McDonald said that would be the decision of federal authorities.In a video message to the community Thursday, the head of Oxford Community Schools said the high school looks like a “war zone” and won’t be ready for weeks. Superintendent Tim Throne repeatedly complimented students and staff for how they responded to the violence.He also acknowledged the meeting of Crumbley, the parents and school officials. Throne offered no details but summed it up by saying, “No discipline was warranted.”McDonald was asked about the decision to keep Crumbley in school.“Of course, he shouldn’t have gone back to that classroom. ... I believe that is a universal position. I’m not going to chastise or attack, but yeah,” she said.Asked if school officials may potentially be charged, McDonald said: “The investigation’s ongoing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michigan-high-school-shooting-parents-of-accused-who-killed-4-caught-101638608328937.html
04-12-2021||World||Trudeau appoints more Indo-Canadians to key positions in the new govt||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Friday appointed three more Indo-Canadians to significant positions in his new government.Trudeau in an announcement on Friday appointed parliamentary secretaries and other functionaries. Among them, Maninder Sidhu was made parliamentary secretary to the minister of foreign affairs Melanie JolySidhu, who was elected to the House of Commons for the first time in October 2019 from the riding (as constituencies are called in Canada) of Brampton East, was earlier parliamentary secretary to the minister of international development.Joining him among the ranks of the parliamentary secretaries is Arif Virani, who represents the Parkdale-High Park riding in Toronto. Virani, who has roots in Gujarat, was appointed parliamentary secretary to the minister of international trade, export promotion, small business and economic development Mary Ng. He had earlier held similar positions, most recently as parliamentary secretary to minister of justice and the Attorney General in the previous Government.Ruby Sahota, who represents Brampton North, and is the former chair of the House of Commons standing committee on procedure and House affairs, will serve as deputy government whip. Interestingly, all three newly-appointed Parliamentary secretaries are from the Greater Toronto Area.“This team will be an important link between ministers and Parliament, working closely with their colleagues to find real solutions to the challenges that Canadians face, as we finish the fight against Covid-19 and build a better future for everyone,” a statement from the PMO said, announcing the new roster of parliamentary secretaries.Trudeau had appointed three Indo-Canadians to his cabinet in October, when he was forming a minority government after winning snap elections in September. They are minister of national defence Anita Anand, minister of seniors Kamal Khera, and minister of international development and minister responsible for Pacific economic development Canada Harjit Sajjan.
04-12-2021||World||Canada’s Omicron infections top double digits as more cases reported||Infections from the new variant of Covid on Friday crossed double digits in Canada, which includes cases reported in the country’s largest city Toronto, public health officials said.Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam said the country had so far detected 11 infections of the new variant dubbed Omicron, all involving people who had recently travelled abroad, and voiced concerns over its spread.“The emergence and spread of the Omicron variant of concern, including 11 recent detections in travellers coming into Canada and/or their close contacts, is yet another reminder of how quickly things can shift in this pandemic, unless we continue to reduce the spread and impact of the virus with vaccination and other layers of protection,” said Tam. Hours after her statement, Reuters reported that the number of Omicron cases had gone up to 15, with at least once case in the city of York. The report said that a child under 12, who had recently travelled to South Africa, had been diagnosed with Omicron. Of the other cases reported in the country, three were detected in Toronto and, of these, two individuals recently returned from travel from Nigeria, while another recently returned from Switzerland.“These are the first cases of the Omicron variant of concern which have been confirmed by whole genome sequencing, reported in Toronto,” a statement from Toronto Public Health said.Tam, meanwhile, stressed the need for “heightened vigilance” now and during the winter, even as the variant circulates and its “significance and impact” is still being assessed.Canada has barred foreign nationals travelling from ten African nations from entering the country.It has also announced an accelerated roll-out of booster doses of the Covid vaccines for all adults above 18 who have received their initial two doses. The third jab is expected to be widely available later this month and into the next year.The National Advisory Committee on Immunization on Friday said that it had “reviewed the latest data that suggest protection against infection decreases over time since completion of a primary Covid-19 vaccine series”.While protection against severe illness remained generally high, it could decrease over time for some people, such as older adults. “Booster doses of Covid-19 mRNA vaccines can increase the immune response and are expected to offer enhanced protection against infection and severe disease and may help reduce spread of infection,” it said.It “strongly recommended” administering boosters early to those above 50, along with other more vulnerable groups like frontline healthcare workers. 
04-12-2021||World||Biden predicts ‘long discussion’ with Putin over possible invasion of Ukraine||US President Joe Biden on Friday (local time) said he was going to have a “long discussion” with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin about Moscow’s recent actions signalling its intention to invade Ukraine. The concerns of a possible Russian invasion grew after US intelligence officials reportedly determined the Kremlin’s plan to launch a military offensive against Ukraine could begin as soon as early 2022."We're aware of Russia's actions for a long time and my expectation is we're going to have a long discussion with Putin," Biden told reporters while leaving for a weekend trip to Camp David.When asked about Putin’s warning that the US deploying countermeasures in Ukraine would represent a red line for the Kremlin, Biden said, "I don't accept anybody's red lines."The new US intelligence finding estimates that Russia’s possible military offensive would include 175,000 personnel with half of them already deployed at various points near Ukraine's border, reported Associated Press citing an official in Biden administration. The report suggests that Russian propaganda machinery has intensified its operations to denigrate Ukraine and NATO ahead of a potential invasion.Earlier on Friday, Biden said he was coordinating with European allies to make it “very, very difficult” for Putin to launch an offensive against Ukraine.“What I am doing is putting together what I believe to be will be the most comprehensive and meaningful set of initiatives to make it very, very difficult for Mr. Putin to go ahead and do what people are worried he may do,” Biden told reporters.The two world leaders last met in June at a stately 18th-century mansion in Geneva where the issues related to Ukraine were also discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-predicts-long-discussion-with-putin-over-possible-invasion-of-ukraine-101638588243492.html
04-12-2021||World||Last solar eclipse of the year today: When, where and how to watch||The last solar eclipse of the year is set to occur on Saturday (December 4) and some people in the southern hemisphere of the world would witness the event as a total or partial solar eclipse. A total solar eclipse occurs when the sun, moon and the earth are in a direct line and people living at places where the centre of the moon’s shadow hits the earth would see the event.“The sky becomes very dark, as if it were dawn or dusk. Weather permitting, people in the path of a total solar eclipse can see the Sun’s corona, the outer atmosphere, which is otherwise usually obscured by the bright face of the Sun,” the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) said.Where will it be visible ?Antarctica will be the only place on earth from where the total solar eclipse could be seen. In some other places, where the sun, moon and the earth are not directly lined up, a partial solar eclipse could be seen. Only a part of the sun’s surface will appear to have a shadow during this celestial event.A partial eclipse could be seen in parts of Saint Helena, Namibia, Lesotho, South Africa, South Georgia and Sandwich Islands, Crozet Islands, Falkland Islands, Chile, New Zealand, and Australia, NASA said.How to watch ?Countries where the event is not visible directly, including India, can still view the event using NASA’s live streaming service. A view of the total eclipse from the Union Glacier, Antarctica would be streamed by NASA, conditional that the weather is clear during the time of the event.Is it safe to look ?A solar viewing or eclipse glass is always needed to watch the sun during the eclipse and it is never safe to directly look at it. However, during a total eclipse, it is safe to directly look at the sun during the period of totality, that is when the moon completely obscures the sun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/last-solar-eclipse-of-the-year-today-when-where-and-how-to-watch-101638584794094.html
04-12-2021||World||US intelligence finds Russia planning Ukraine offensive||US intelligence officials have determined that Russian planning is underway for a possible military offensive against Ukraine that could begin as soon as early 2022 and would include an estimated 175,000 personnel, according to an administration official.The new intelligence finding estimates that half of the Russian personel are already deployed along various points near Ukraine's border, according to a Biden administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the finding.It comes as Russia has picked up its demands on Biden to guarantee that Ukraine will not be allowed to join the NATO alliance.The official added that the plans call for the movement of 100 battalion tactical groups along with armor, artillery, and equipment.Intelligence officials also have seen an uptick in Russian information operations' use of proxies and media outlets to denigrate Ukraine and NATO ahead of a potential invasion, the official said.The intelligence findings were first reported by The Washington Post.Earlier Friday, President Joe Biden pledged to make it “very, very difficult” for Russia's Vladimir Putin to take military action in Ukraine and said new initiatives coming from his administration are intended to deter Russian aggression.The president offered the measured warning to Putin in response to growing concern about a Russian buildup of troops on the Ukrainian border and increasingly bellicose rhetoric from the Kremlin.“What I am doing is putting together what I believe to be will be the most comprehensive and meaningful set of initiatives to make it very, very difficult for Mr. Putin to go ahead and do what people are worried he may do,” Biden told reporters.The Kremlin said Friday that Putin would seek binding guarantees precluding NATO’s expansion to Ukraine during the call with Biden, while the Ukrainian defense minister warned that Russia could invade his country next monthUkrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov told lawmakers Friday that the number of Russian troops near Ukraine and in Russian-annexed Crimea is estimated at 94,300, warning that a “large-scale escalation” is possible in January.There are signs that the White House and Kremlin are close to arranging a conversation next week between Biden and Putin. Putin’s foreign affairs adviser Yuri Ushakov told reporters Friday that arrangements have been made for a Putin-Biden call in the coming days, adding that the date will be announced after Moscow and Washington finalize details. The Russians say a date has been agreed upon, but declined to say when.Biden and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy have also tentatively agreed to have a call next week, according to a person close to the Ukrainian president who was not authorized to speak publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said administration officials have “engaged in the possibility” of a Biden-Putin call. White House officials did not respond to a request for comment on the expected Zelenskyy call.“It certainly would be an opportunity to discuss our serious concerns about the bellicose rhetoric, about the military buildup that we’re seeing on the border of Ukraine,” Psaki said of a potential Biden-Putin call.Biden did not detail what actions he was weighing. But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who met Thursday with Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Sweden, said the U.S. has threatened new sanctions. He did not detail the potential sanctions but suggested the effort would not be effective.“If the new ‘sanctions from hell’ come, we will respond," Lavrov said. “We can’t fail to respond."Psaki said the administration would look to coordinate with European allies if it moved forward with sanctions. She noted that bitter memories of Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea, the Black Sea peninsula that had been under Ukraine's control since 1954, are front of mind as the White House considers the way forward.“We know what President Putin has done in the past,” Psaki said. “We see that he is putting in place the capacity to take action in short order.”Deep differences were on display during the Blinken-Lavrov meeting, with the Russia official charging the West was “playing with fire” by denying Russia a say in any further NATO expansion into countries of the former Soviet Union. Zelenskyy has pushed for Ukraine to join the alliance, which holds out the promise of membership but hasn’t set a a timeline.Blinken this week said the U.S. has “made it clear to the Kremlin that we will respond resolutely, including with a range of high-impact economic measures that we’ve refrained from using in the past.”He did not detail what sanctions were being weighed, but one potentially could be to cut off Russia from the SWIFT system of international payments. The European Union’s Parliament approved a nonbinding resolution in April to cut off Russia from SWIFT if its troops entered Ukraine.Such a move would go far toward blocking Russian businesses from the global financial system. Western allies reportedly considered such a step in 2014 and 2015, during earlier Russian-led escalations of tensions over Ukraine.Then-Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said it would be tantamount to “a declaration of war.”U.S.-Russia relations have been rocky since Biden took office.In addition to the Ukraine issue, the Biden administration has levied sanctions against Russian targets and called out Putin on Kremlin interference in U.S. elections, malign cyberactivity against U.S. businesses, and the treatment of opposition figure Alexei Navalny, who was poisoned last year and then later imprisoned.Putin and Biden met face to face in Geneva in June, with the U.S. president warning if Russia crossed certain red lines — including going after major American infrastructure — his administration would respond and “the consequences of that would be devastating.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-intelligence-finds-russia-planning-ukraine-offensive-101638583862350.html
04-12-2021||World||Is Kamala Harris getting sidelined in Biden administration? Here's what reports suggest||Jovanni Ortiz is in talks to take up a top communications role in US Vice President Kamala Harris' office, reported The Hill citing people familiar with the development. The vice president's office has meanwhile denied the reports of Ortiz’s potential appointment for a top communications role, saying it was not true.The report of Ortiz's appointment emerged after the White House on Thursday confirmed that Harris' chief spokesperson Symone Sanders will be leaving the job by year-end. Confirming the reports of Sanders’ exit, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said that "she'll always be a part of this Biden-Harris family, and it's only natural after a couple of years to be ready for something new.""Working in the first year of a White House is exciting and rewarding, but it's also gruelling and exhausting," Psaki added. "It's all of those things at once."Sanders’ is the latest departure from Kamala Harris’ office amid growing concerns of the vice president’s communication strategy and reports of her getting sidelined in the administration. The first woman vice president of the United States is struggling to find her place in the White House due to strained relations with the members of US President Joe Biden’s team, reported news agency AFP.Several media reports have claimed that Harris's communications director Ashley Etienne will also be leaving.The early exits come at a time when Harris is facing two challenging missions of voting access for minorities and the migration crisis on the southern border. After taking over the Oval Office in January, Biden asked Harris to become a champion of voting rights even as the passage of any such legislation in Congress remains a remote prospect. She has been handed over the job of resolving the migration crisis at the southern border, an issue that several of Biden’s predecessors have failed to address.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-kamala-harris-getting-sidelined-in-biden-administration-what-we-know-so-far-101638582027642.html
04-12-2021||World||Don’t panic over new Covid variant: WHO||The World Health Organization’s (WHO) chief scientist on Friday urged people not to panic over the emergence of the Omicron coronavirus variant and said it was too early to say if vaccines would be need to be reworked.Speaking in an interview at the Reuters Next conference, Soumya Swaminathan said it was impossible to predict if Omicron would become the dominant strain.Swaminathan said Omicron “was highly transmissible” and cited data from South Africa showing the number of cases doubling daily. “How worried should we be? We need to be prepared and cautious, not panic, because we’re in a different situation to a year ago.”Delta accounts for 99% of infections around the world. This variant would have to be more transmissible to outcompete and become dominant worldwide. It is possible, but it’s not possible to predict.”We need to wait, lets hope it’s milder... but it’s too early to conclude about the variant as a whole,” Swaminathan said.WHO’s emergencies director, Mike Ryan, said there was no evidence to support a change in vaccines to tailor them to Omicron. “Right now, we have highly effective vaccines that are working. We need to focus on getting them more equitably distributed. We need to focus on getting people most at risk vaccinated,” Ryan said at a social media event.“I have not seen reports of Omicron-related deaths yet,” WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier said separately.‘Some cases in people who came from Europe’Botswana’s President Mokg-weetsi Masisi said some of the four diplomats who first tested positive for the Omicron coronavirus variant in the country had come from Europe, calling for a reversal of widespread travel bans imposed against southern African countries.“The diplomats came from a number of countries ... and they passed through a number of countries to get to Botswana.”He declined to disclose their nationalities, only saying “some had been to Europe and some had been elsewhere”.The country has so far reported more than 20 cases of the new variant.Presidential spokesman Batlhalefi Leagajang told Reuters on Friday that Masisi will not disclose the countries the diplomats passed through, or their countries of origin, because “the virus should never be geo-politicised”.Omicron spreads in United States, AustraliaThe US and Australia announced their first locally transmitted cases of the Omicron variant.Nine cases have been confirmed in France and 10 in the United States. One case each in Hawaii and Minnesota involved residents with no recent international travel history - showing that Omicron is already circulating inside the country.Australia on Friday, too, reported three students had tested positive for the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-panic-over-new-covid-variant-who-101638581320584.html
04-12-2021||World||Michigan school shooting: Parents of teen accused charged with manslaughter||A prosecutor filed involuntary manslaughter charges Friday against the parents of a teen accused of killing four students at a Michigan high school, saying they failed to intervene on the day of the tragedy despite being confronted with a drawing and chilling message — “blood everywhere” — that was found at the boy’s desk.James and Jennifer Crumbley committed “egregious” acts, from buying a gun on Black Friday and making it available to Ethan Crumbley to resisting his removal from school when they were summoned a few hours before the shooting, Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said.“I expect parents and everyone to have humanity and to step in and stop a potential tragedy,” she said. “The conclusion I draw is that there was absolute reason to believe this individual was dangerous and disturbed.”By mid-afternoon, authorities said they were searching for the couple. Sheriff Mike Bouchard said their attorney, Shannon Smith, had agreed to arrange their arrest if charges were filed but hadn't been able to reach them.Smith, however, said the Crumbleys weren't on the run and had left town earlier in the week “for their own safety.”“They are returning to the area to be arraigned,” Smith told The Associated Press.Earlier, the prosecutor offered the most precise account so far of the events that led to the shooting, three days after four students were killed and others were wounded at Oxford High School, roughly 30 miles (50 kilometers) north of Detroit.Ethan Crumbley, 15, emerged from a bathroom with a gun, shooting students in the hallway, investigators said. He’s charged as an adult with murder, terrorism and other crimes.Under Michigan law, the involuntary manslaughter charge filed against the parents can be pursued if authorities believe someone contributed to a situation where there was a high chance of harm or death.Parents in the U.S. are rarely charged in school shootings involving their children, even as most minors get guns from a parent or relative’s house, according to experts.School officials became concerned about the younger Crumbley on Monday, a day before the shooting, when a teacher saw him searching for ammunition on his phone, McDonald said.Jennifer Crumbley was contacted and subsequently told her son in a text message: “Lol. I’m not mad at you. You have to learn not to get caught,” according to the prosecutor.On Tuesday, a teacher found a note on Ethan’s desk and took a photo. It was a drawing of a gun pointing at the words, “The thoughts won’t stop. Help me,” McDonald said.There also was a drawing of a bullet, she said, with words above it: “Blood everywhere.”Between the gun and the bullet was a person who appeared to have been shot twice and is bleeding. He also wrote, “My life is useless” and “The world is dead,” according to the prosecutor.The school quickly had a meeting with Ethan and his parents, who were told to get him into counseling within 48 hours, McDonald said.The Crumbleys failed to ask their son about the gun or check his backpack and “resisted the idea of their son leaving the school at that time,” McDonald said.Instead, the teen returned to class and the shooting subsequently occurred.“The notion that a parent could read those words and also know that their son had access to a deadly weapon that they gave him is unconscionable — it’s criminal,” the prosecutor said.Jennifer Crumbley texted her son after the shooting, saying, “Ethan, don’t do it,” McDonald said.James Crumbley called 911 to say that a gun was missing from their home and that Ethan might be the shooter. The gun had been kept in an unlocked drawer in the parents’ bedroom, McDonald said.Ethan accompanied his father for the gun purchase on Nov. 26 and posted photos of the firearm on social media, saying, “Just got my new beauty today,” McDonald said.Over the long Thanksgiving weekend, Jennifer Crumbley wrote on social media that it is a “mom and son day testing out his new Christmas present,” the prosecutor said.Asked at a news conference if the father could be charged for purchasing the gun for the son, McDonald said that would be the decision of federal authorities.In a video message to the community Thursday, the head of Oxford Community Schools said the high school looks like a “war zone” and won’t be ready for weeks. Superintendent Tim Throne repeatedly complimented students and staff for how they responded to the violence.He also acknowledged the meeting of Crumbley, the parents and school officials. Throne offered no details but summed it up by saying, "No discipline was warranted.”McDonald was asked about the decision to keep Crumbley in school.“Of course, he shouldn’t have gone back to that classroom. ... I believe that is a universal position. I’m not going to chastise or attack, but yeah," she said.Asked if school officials may potentially be charged, McDonald said: “The investigation’s ongoing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michigan-school-shooting-parents-of-teen-accused-charged-with-manslaughter-101638580836864.html
04-12-2021||World||‘I am okay… just a cold,' says Biden with hoarse voic as Omicron variant spreads in US||US President Joe Biden was notably hoarse Friday as he delivered a speech and answered questions from the press, but insisted he had simply caught a cold from his grandson, and his doctor said his Covid tests were negative.The gravelly, lower-pitched tone of Biden's voice as he spoke at the White House, peppered with several coughs, prompted the first journalist called on to ask, "Are you okay?"c," Biden said. "I have a test every day... a Covid test. They check me for all the strains."What I have is a 1 1/2-year-old grandson who had a cold who likes to kiss his pop... but it's just a cold," he added.The arrival of winter hand-in-hand with the emergence of the new Omicron coronavirus variant have raised fears of a potential resurgence of Covid-19 cases, particularly as Americans gather for end-of-year festivities.Biden, 79, spent last week's Thanksgiving holiday with his family.He is the oldest president ever elected in the United States, making his health of particular concern.Earlier in November, he underwent an extensive but routine checkup, after which White House physician Kevin O'Connor said the president was "healthy" and "vigorous."After Biden's public appearance on Friday, O'Connor confirmed that Biden "is experiencing some increased nasal congestion this week.""This can be heard in his voice and he is feeling the colloquially well-known 'frog in ones throat'," the doctor said in a statement released by the White House.O'Connor said the president had been tested for 19 common respiratory diseases, including three tests this week for Covid-19, and that all the tests were negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-am-okay-just-a-cold-says-biden-with-hoarse-voic-as-omicron-variant-spreads-in-us-101638578404866.html
04-12-2021||World||'A day of shame for Pakistan': Imran Khan after mob lynches Sri Lankan factory manager, set on fire||A Sri Lankan factory manager in Pakistan was on Friday beaten to death and set ablaze by a mob, police confirmed, in an incident local media reported was linked to alleged blasphemy.Few issues are as galvanising in Pakistan as blasphemy, and even the slightest suggestion of an insult to Islam can supercharge protests and incite lynchings.Prime Minister Imran Khan said he would personally oversee an investigation into "the horrific vigilante attack" which he also called "a day of shame for Pakistan"."Let there be no mistake all those responsible will be punished with full severity of the law," he tweeted.Friday's incident took place in Sialkot, about 200 kilometres (125 miles) southeast of the capital Islamabad.Several gruesome video clips shared on social media showed a mob beating the prone victim while chanting slogans against blasphemy.Other clips showed his body set ablaze, as well as the overturned wreckage of what was said to be his car.Many in the mob made no attempt to hide their identity and some took selfies in front of the burning corpse.Punjab government spokesman Hasaan Khawar told reporters in Lahore that police have already arrested 50 people."CCTV footage is being carefully looked into as we have been directed to complete the inquiry within 48 hours," he said.The slogans chanted in the social media videos were the same used by supporters of the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) -- an anti-blasphemy party.The TLP has in the past paralysed the country with protests, including an anti-France campaign after Paris-based satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo last year republished cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed.It was only unbanned last month and its leader freed from detention after another period of civil unrest in which seven police officers were killed.In just five years the party has seen its reach explode in Pakistan, opening a new chapter in the country's deadly confrontation with extremism.On Sunday thousands of people torched a police station in northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province after demanding officers hand over a man accused of burning the Koran.In April 2017 an angry mob lynched university student Mashal Khan when he was accused of posting blasphemous content online.A Christian couple was lynched then burnt in a kiln in Punjab in 2014 after being falsely accused of desecrating the Koran.A senior Pakistan official told AFP that Islamabad had been in touch with Sri Lankan diplomats over the incident "and have assured them that all those involved in the heinous crime will be brought to justice".Rights groups say accusations of blasphemy can often be wielded to settle personal vendettas, with minorities largely the target."Today's event underscores the urgency with which an environment that enables abuse and puts lives at risk must be rectified," Amnesty International South Asia said in a tweet under the hashtag "Sialkot", which was trending in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-day-of-shame-for-pakistan-imran-khan-after-sri-lankan-factory-manager-lynched-set-on-fire-101638578241752.html
04-12-2021||World||Why Omicron infection possibly looks like common cold, researchers explain||The symptoms of the Omicron variant are apparently milder than the earlier variants as the variant is making itself look "more human". This is a result of the mutation, during which it has picked up a snippet of genetic material from another virus, probably a common cold virus, according to researchers. In a study led by Venky Soundararajan of Cambridge, it has been revealed that this mutation might have happened in a cell that can host both SARS-CoV-2 and common cold viruses.What does this finding mean? As Reuters reported, this could mean the virus transmits more easily, while only causing mild or asymptomatic disease. Questions like whether Omicron is more infectious than other variants, whether it causes more severe disease or whether it will overtake Delta as the most prevalent variant are et to be answered as the scientific probe is going on.The new characteristic of Omicron indicates that it might be a result of viral recombination, which is a process in which two different viruses in the same host cell interact while making copies of themselves, generating new copies that have some genetic material from both "parents".According to this study, Omicron could have occurred in a person infected with both pathogens where a version of SARS-CoV-2 picked up the genetic sequence from the other virus and that's why Omicron's genetic sequence does not match with the earlier versions. Neither do the symptoms match with Covid caused by the earlier variants of the virus.The same genetic sequence appears many times in one of the coronaviruses that cause colds in people - known as HCoV-229E - and in the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) that causes AIDS, Soundararajan said.South African scientists have earlier hinted that Omicron was probably incubated in the body of a person whose immune system was affected by HIV or by any other immuno-compromising condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-omicron-infection-possibly-looks-like-common-cold-researchers-explain-101638578866919.html
04-12-2021||World||WHO says no Omicron deaths yet, as variant spreads worldwide||The Omicron variant has been detected in 38 countries but no deaths have yet been reported, the WHO said on Friday, as authorities worldwide rushed to stem the heavily mutated Covid-19 strain's spread amid warnings that it could damage the global economic recovery.The United States and Australia became the latest countries to confirm locally transmitted cases of the variant, as Omicron infections pushed South Africa's total cases past three million.The World Health Organization has warned it could take weeks to determine how infectious the variant is, whether it causes more severe illness and how effective treatments and vaccines are against it."We're going to get the answers that everybody out there needs," WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan said.The WHO said on Friday it had still not seen any reports of deaths related to Omicron, but the new variant's spread has led to warnings that it could cause more than half of Europe's Covid cases in the next few months.The new variant could also slow global economic recovery, just as the Delta strain did, International Monetary Fund chief Kristalina Georgieva said on Friday."Even before the arrival of this new variant, we were concerned that the recovery, while it continues, is losing somewhat momentum," she said."A new variant that may spread very rapidly can dent confidence."A preliminary study by researchers in South Africa, where the variant was first reported on November 24, suggests it is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Delta or Beta strains.The emergence of Omicron was the "ultimate evidence" of the danger of unequal global vaccination rates, Red Cross head Francesca Rocca said.South African doctors said there had been a spike in children under five admitted to hospital since Omicron emerged, but stressed it was too early to know if young children were particularly susceptible."The incidence in those under-fives is now second-highest, and second only to the incidence in those over 60," said Wassila Jassat from the National Institute for Communicable Diseases.In the US, two cases involved residents with no recent international travel history -- showing Omicron is already circulating inside the country."This is a case of community spread," the Hawaii Health Department said.US President Joe Biden on Thursday unveiled his plans to battle Covid-19 during the winter, with new testing requirements for travellers and a surge in vaccination efforts.'Kick in the nuts'All incoming travellers will need to test negative within a day of their flights, and rapid tests that cost $25 will be covered by insurance and distributed free to the uninsured.Australia on Friday reported three students in Sydney had tested positive for the variant, despite a ban on non-citizens entering the country and restrictions on flights from southern Africa, with multiple countries rushing to limit travel from the region in the past week."It's quite a kick in the nuts," said Sabine Stam, who runs a South African tour company and whose customers are demanding refunds. "Everyone is too scared to set a new travel date," she said.In Norway, officials said at least 13 people who contracted Covid-19 after an office Christmas party in Oslo last week had the Omicron variant -- though so far they have only had mild symptoms, city health official Tine Ravlo told AFP.But the government ushered in restrictions in greater Oslo after fears of the cluster surfaced.On Friday, Malaysia also reported a first Omicron infection in a foreign student arriving from South Africa on November 19. Sri Lanka also announced its first case, a citizen returning from South Africa.Russia's federal statistics agency Rosstat, meanwhile, said that nearly 75,000 people died of coronavirus in the country in October, making it the deadliest month of the pandemic.Snogging discouragedThe new variant poses a major challenge to ending the pandemic.Rising Delta cases had already forced European governments to reintroduce mandatory mask-wearing, social distancing, curfews or lockdowns, leaving businesses fearing another grim Christmas.Belgian authorities said on Friday that primary schools would close a week early for the Christmas holidays.Germany's regional leaders agreed new measures including a ban on fireworks at new year parties to discourage large gatherings.Ireland said it will close nightclubs and reintroduce social distancing in some settings over Christmas and the New Year.In the UK, ministers have been expressing divergent opinions, not only on the idea of hosting parties, but also on the kind of conduct deemed acceptable."For what it's worth, I don't think there should be much snogging under the mistletoe," said one minister, Therese Coffey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-no-omicron-deaths-yet-as-variant-spreads-worldwide-101638573128942.html
04-12-2021||World||Fuel in tap water alarms Pearl Harbor military families||Cheri Burness' dog was the first to signal something was wrong with their tap water. He stopped drinking it two weeks ago. Then Burness started feeling stomach cramps. Her 12-year-old daughter was nauseous.“It was just getting worse every day,” said Burness, whose husband is in the Navy.Their family is among hundreds of military families living near Pearl Harbor with similar complaints amid concerns the Navy's water system may have been contaminated by a fuel leak. The problems have afflicted one of the most important Navy bases in the world, home to submarines, ships and the commander of US forces in the Indo-Pacific region. The issues may even threaten one of Honolulu's most important aquifers and water sources.This week, the state Department of Health said a sample of Navy tap water from an elementary school had tested positive for petroleum product. The Navy says its water samples haven't shown the presence of fuel. But Hawaii's public health officials have told people using Navy water — some 93,000 people — not to drink it. Navy water users who smell a fuel or chemical odor should not use their water for showering, laundry or washing dishes, they said.Neither the Navy nor the state has identified where the fuel or fuel odor is coming from. They are investigating.But on Nov. 22, the Navy said a water and fuel mixture had leaked into a fire suppression system drain line in a tunnel at a massive fuel storage facility 3 miles (4.8 kilometers) inland of Pearl Harbor. The Navy said it removed about 14,000 gallons (53 kiloliters) of the mixture, and said the liquid hadn’t leaked into the environment.In the days after Thanksgiving, Burness’s daughter felt so sick she didn’t want to eat any leftovers, including potatoes, turnips and carrots that had been boiled in water.“‘I don’t want you to have to throw out food because I know it’s expensive, but I can’t eat this Mom,’” Burness said her daughter told her.On Sunday, Burness started seeing comments on social media from military families saying their tap water smelled like fuel. She didn’t smell it, but people told her to turn on her hot water and check. She did and smelled it too.She told her family not to drink the water and not to wash their hair and face with it. She ordered private water delivery for $120 a month. They family has mostly been eating off of plastic and paper plates and eating out.On Monday, when she gave her dog some bottled water, he immediately drank a full liter's worth and then drank two more liters over the next 12 hours.The Navy has since starting distributing bottled water.Burness said her stomach cramps are about 85% better, but not fully. Her daughter's nausea has improved. But they are both now complaining of breathing issues.Burness has been frustrated with the Navy's response, which she believes has been dismissive of families' concerns. She pointed to a Monday email from the commander of Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam that told residents the Navy was testing water samples but it had no immediate indication the water wasn't safe. His email said he and his staff were drinking the water.“All they had to do was say; ‘We see that there’s a problem, we don’t know what it is and we’re going to do whatever it takes to find out and fix it.’ That’s all they had to do. And instead, we got: ‘Nope. Looks good. Smells fine. Bye,'” Burness said.Navy Region Hawaii, which oversees all Navy installations in the state, said the commander's email was sent when “numbers of concerns were still very low.”“Since then, the Navy has aggressively increased sampling, testing, communication to families and others impacted, as well as started response teams of experts to address the issues we all are facing,” the command said in a statement.On Thursday, the Army, which houses some Hawaii-based soldiers in the Pearl Harbor area with Navy water, said families could go to a community center for help moving to a hotel or a new home or to talk to a health care professional.The Nov. 22 tunnel leak was only the latest involving the Red Hill Fuel Storage Facility, a complex of 20 underground fuel tanks built during World War II. Environmentalists and Honolulu's municipal water utility have expressed concerns about these aging tanks since the Navy disclosed one of them leaked 27,000 gallons (102 kiloliters) in 2014.The tanks sit 100 feet (30 meters) above an aquifer that supplies about a quarter of the water consumed in Honolulu, prompting concerns that leaks could contaminate one of the city's most crucial water sources.Burness said her experience has shaken her confidence in the military. During her decades as a military spouse, she's always believed in doing whatever it takes to support “the mission.”“This has destroyed all of that,” she said. “I have zero confidence at this point, and I think this has shown that they cannot be trusted with anything."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fuel-in-tap-water-alarms-pearl-harbor-military-families-101638511496195.html
04-12-2021||World||Can’t allow Afghanistan to become a threat to its neighours: EU special envoy||The European Union (EU) wants to see movement on commitments made by the Taliban setup in Kabul, including on humanitarian access, counter-terrorism and the formation of an inclusive government, EU special envoy for Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson said on Friday. In an interview, Niklasson said the EU and India are very close on most issues related to Afghanistan, including the need not to isolate the Afghan people even as there is no recognition of the interim government formed by the Taliban. Edited excerpts:Q. Could we talk about the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, which is the focus of the world community? But it’s a difficult situation as there is no agreement on the unfreezing of Afghan assets around the world, and there are problems in getting the aid across to the Afghan people.A. I think, first of all, Afghanistan is heading towards a rough winter. I should actually correct myself because I’ve been saying this for months – I think today we should say Afghanistan is in a rough winter because winter is already here. The EU, like most partners, has stopped regular development assistance, but at the same time, we see the needs and have multiplied our humanitarian assistance fivefold, from 60 million euros to 300 million euros.Member states have pledged another 400 million euros. My understanding is that this, together with contributions by others, basically responds to the humanitarian appeal that was launched this autumn. But the needs are enormous and the projections for next year are even bigger.You rightly pointed at the problems of getting the money in, the uncertainties about distribution, but the EU is in a good position, to the extent that we had people on the [ground] in Kabul and also expatriate staff working for the European Commission and the EU. They don’t distribute the aid. We do that through UN organisations and NGOs, never through the government. And the other advantage is that we have worked in Afghanistan and provided humanitarian assistance for the last 20 years, so it’s not new territory to us.We have also been working in areas controlled by the Taliban, again not through the Taliban, but they know who we are. They know what we do. They know the rules of the game and most of the time, they respect the rules of the game.Q. What about the unfreezing of Afghan assets? Do you see that happening?A. I think it’s a complex matter. As we know, the assets are frozen, the bulk of them in the US in banks [but also in] British, German, Swiss and UAE banks. But the largest amount is in the US. These amounts are somehow locked in court cases by victims of 9/11 and Americans who gave their lives in Afghanistan.And then there is the issue of who actually owns this money. Is it the government which isn’t recognised? Is it the Afghan people? Is it the donors because a lot of it presumably would have come from partners who contributed 75% to the national budget.The third question is these are reserves. They’re not meant to be used to prop up the budget. They’re there to guarantee the stability of a currency. You may call that a luxury if you’re starving, but that...just keeps adding to the difficulties and I don’t see solutions.However, we understand there are discussions going on. I think there are people in the US working to see that some of this money could be released in some form. But I don’t know how quickly or how much. And then an additional challenge would then be to whom should it go?Would there be a way through UN-led trust funds or a World Bank trust, or for example, to use part of this money for humanitarian or basic needs. I don’t have an answer, but I know the discussion is going on and I’m not hopeful that there would be a major breakthrough soon, but I hope that part of it can contribute to the solution.Q. You had several meetings in New Delhi and there have been efforts to align the position of different key players in Afghanistan. Was there some convergence with India? Are we on the same page and what were the main areas of your discussions?A. India and the EU are far away geographically and they’re very different entities with a different history and different geography. But we have found in recent years a strong convergence or even an overlap, to a large extent, in our positions when it comes to Afghanistan. We talked about “Afghan-owned and Afghan-led”, we had the same principles when it came to human rights and rights of women and girls, the call for the Afghan people to shape their own future. This was confirmed shortly before the EU-India Summit in spring in a joint declaration by your minister of external affairs and the EU high representative, vice president Josep Borrell.Since then, I have been in regular contact with my counterparts at the ministry here and we have compared notes as things changed very dramatically in Afghanistan. I’m pleased to see that we have not moved away and my visit confirms that we are very close on many issues.I thought perhaps before my visit that India would be even more focused on the security aspects and that would be very understandable. There is a focus on security but I also find that there is quite a lot of similarity. Neither Europe nor India wants to isolate Afghanistan. None of us wants to isolate the Afghan people, [and] none of us is ready to recognise the interim government. But we both, in different ways, try to see that dialogue in some form is still needed. We both focus on humanitarian assistance as a first and immediate priority.And we both see it as important that countries in the region, including India, Iran and [the] Central Asia [states], and countries further afield such as Russia, the US and the EU work together in defining what we expect from Afghanistan and try to influence a change for the better in the country.Q. Before coming to India, you met a Taliban delegation in Doha and a statement issued after the talks started by saying that the meeting didn’t imply any sort of recognition. It’s quite clear that nobody is moving towards recognition of the Taliban right now.A. It is clear that no one has gone for recognition right now. It is also clear that many of us engage and have a dialogue. I think from that point of view, it was useful to point it out in the statement that this doesn’t constitute recognition. I think recognition is a tricky term and it has a legal meaning and we can always come back and say, we do not actually work with those governments, we recognise states. But what about when the nature of the state which has changed from an Islamic republic to we do not know what is it. But you know, these are diplomatic niceties.I think what we mean is this is not a government that has come to power in a legitimate manner. This is a government that has revoked the constitution, that has broken its promises in terms of negotiating an agreement, a government that is unclear about its international obligations, that calls on its partners not to isolate Afghanistan, but at the same time sends signals that put us in doubt on whether they want to engage with us.So this is the background...and this is why there is no recognition, but yet at the same time, the Taliban or interim government, whatever we call it...they are the reality for now. We see it as more in our interest to have a dialogue or try a dialogue than to close doors.Q. It’s very clear the Taliban haven’t delivered on commitments made during their negotiations with the US or under UN Security Council resolution 2593. There are clearly things that they need to do.A. There are clearly things they need to do, and we could sit quietly in our corners in Delhi or in Brussels and wait for them to do it. We think there is a higher probability that they may do at least some of those things if we talk to them. If we find after two months, four months, six months, whatever the time may be, that they are not moving at all, the appetite for engaging will be less, I don’t mean everything will be delivered in six months and there may be different timescales for some of the things we want, but we want to see movement. We want to see the process, but the process also leading to results. And as long as that happens, I think we are ready to continue the dialogue.Q. Could you pinpoint some of the issues you raised with the Taliban in Doha?A. We talked about humanitarian access, issues such as taxation of humanitarian assistance, which they committed not to do. They underlined, as we did, the importance of having women contributing to humanitarian assistance, assessing needs, reaching out to people, and delivering assistance. They made a commitment to what we call safe passage. It is not about opening the borders for everybody to leave the country, but Afghans who are under threat Afghans who may have worked in sensitive positions before, maybe Afghans who worked with Indian development or European projects and feel threatened and want to leave. They should be allowed to leave and there’s a commitment on that.We talked about human rights, a lot needs to be done. We talked about girls’ education, where there’s a strong commitment now at least on paper...[with] the government saying it is a policy of the Islamic emirate, as they refer to themselves, that girls should have access to school.This is not what we heard a few months and certainly not two decades ago. This needs to be translated, it needs to happen throughout the country. Those are some of the things we talked about. Where I see less movement is on inclusivity, of having a government representing minorities or ethnic communities, a government having women or a government representing different political affiliations.And we try to explain to the Taliban [that they] want international recognition, but you also need domestic recognition. If that doesn’t come, there’s a risk that history repeats itself. The winner takes it all and then after a decade or two, loses it all.Q. Three security-related issues that are a concern are the Taliban’s failure to cut ties to terror groups, an increase in drug production, and the rise of Islamic State-Khorasan. What are the EU’s view on this?A. Afghanistan cannot [and] must not be allowed to become a threat to its neighbours or to other countries. And this is not something we are waiting to see happen. It takes decisions, it takes action from the de facto authorities.When it comes to drug production, I think it’s a mixed history. We have seen over the last two decades a very substantial increase in production. It’s debatable to what extent it was driven by the Taliban or they benefited from some of the “taxes” on production and smuggling.Anyway, it was part of their income...We hear reports that production or smuggling is increasing. We now have the Taliban controlling the borders. So that’s a worrying sign, but we know that drug production provides livelihood for many Afghans...To be able to address it, they will need to find other alternative crops.When it comes to ISIS-K, they are active...and figures vary and there are discussions about, is it one movement? Is it a set of different movements of people moving from one to the other? I see a few risks. First of all, [there is] the risk [or] the potential of the breeding ground, if you like. The market for recruiting fighters will be there. We have disgruntled or disappointed Taliban who have known for months or years, or sometimes longer, how to use a gun. And suddenly they’re more or less out of a job. They don’t have a salary or a function or belonging. We need to add some kind of purpose in life.I don’t want to exaggerate it but we have members of the former Afghan national security forces who certainly know how to use a gun or some of them would certainly hold a grudge against the Taliban. And some of them would certainly be looking for an income. I would link this to two things – the humanitarian situation because if winter gets harsh [and] if the economy deteriorates even further, and if the interim government is not seen as delivering and being more representative than it is now, there is a bad old tradition in Afghanistan of having a fighting season starting in the spring.One of many question marks when it comes to Afghanistan is the financing of Daesh. And I don’t have the answers to that but it seems that they have the ability to recruit, and that they continue doing so.Q. Two of the most important players in this region, India and Pakistan, clearly have different views on Afghanistan. Is that coming in the way of trying to put together some sort of regional consensus? Is this something that worries you?A. It does worry me. I mean if I try to be an optimist for a moment, what I see is at some level, a convergence of views between India and Pakistan on what they say they want out of Afghanistan. We come back to some of the issues we talked about – an inclusive and stable government, human rights, not threatening its neighbours.I think the positive element I see is overall convergence at a rather abstract level. But there is a fundamental lack of trust. As we know from history… the Pakistani version of the story is very much that they have generously been hosting maybe four million refugees, some of them for decades, that the country has been greatly affected by terrorist attacks, and you have figures they quote of 70,000 or 80,000 people being killed, But you also hear another story which is presented by India and others about part of the military so-called establishment, in particular ISI, actively recruiting madrassa students, hosting leaders of various shuras in Pakistan, pulling the strings, calling the shots, and even having played a significant role in putting the current government in place with a very large number of Haqqani Network [members]. Pakistani authorities claim they have lost some influence. Some Indian observers would probably laugh them in the face and say we saw what happened in Kabul. I think what I would hope to see is that there could be some convergence not only of views but also of action.I’m a little bit sceptical about precisely the role India and Pakistan together can play. What I see as hopeful is regional formats, and some formats where both countries are brought together, the discussions in Moscow for example, and hopefully we think sometimes it’s easier to solve issues or not to focus too much on bilateral tensions. If you try to solve things in a larger context, I think that’s also the European experience.
04-12-2021||India||Tripura State Rifles jawan kills 2 seniors, surrenders: Police||AGARTALA: Two Tripura State Rifles (TSR) personnel were allegedly gunned down by their colleague on Saturday at a camp at Konabon area in Sepahijala district, police said, adding that the accused subsequently surrendered. According to a police officer, the accused, Sukanta Das (38), a rifleman of the 5th battalion of TSR, gunned down his seniors — Subedar Marka Singh Jamatia and Naib Subedar Kiran Jamatia — as he was “not given relief despite approval of his leave application”. “Other members of the battalion, on hearing gun shots, rushed to the spot and found the subedar and naib subedar lying in a pool of blood. They were taken to a hospital, where the subedar was declared ‘brought dead’ and the naib subedar later succumbed to his injuries,” Krishnendu Chakravertty, the superintendent of police in Sepahijala, was quoted as saying by PTI. “We arrested him after he surrendered before us. He has been booked for voluntarily causing injury, murder and under relevant sections of the Arms Act. He is likely to be produced before a court on Sunday after completing preliminary interrogation and other official formalities,” said a senior police officer. Das joined TSR services in 2002. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb announced ₹5 lakh compensation to the families of both TSR personnel along with benefits under die-in-harness scheme. “My homage to our brave personnel of Tripura State Rifles, Subedar Marka Singh Jamatia & Nb Subedar Kiran Jamatia who died while on duty today. My condolences to bereaved family. #Tripura govt has decided to give ₹ 5 Lakh each to bereaved families. They will also get benefits under the Die-in-harness scheme,” Deb posted on Twitter. In 2018, a TSR jawan killed his wife and two children in West district before claiming his own life. In August this year, a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan killed himself with his service rifle in Khowai district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-state-rifles-jawan-kills-2-seniors-surrenders-police-101638642560656.html
04-12-2021||India||Not just Bengal and Odisha, cyclone Jawad to cause rainfall in 10 more states||It's December and yet rain continues to wreak havoc as India braces up for yet another cyclone in 2021. Cyclone Jawad, named by Saudi Arabia, is expected to make landfall in Odisha's Puri district around Sunday noon. Owing to this, a total of 12 states, including Assam and Delhi, among others are likely to receive rainfall.According to the latest bulletin by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclone has weakened into a deep depression and is currently maintaining a north-northwestwards move towards Puri. The storm will gradually weaken into a depression by Sunday morning, and reach Puri by noon. Thereafter, it will move further north-northwestwards towards West Bengal coast and turn into a low-pressure area in the subsequent 24 hours.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression, lies 330km of Odisha’s Puri: IMDNot just Bengal and Odisha, cyclone Jawad to cause rainfall in 10 more states and UTsThis has come as quite a relief for Odisha, which was preparing to experience a cyclone in December after more than 100 years. The state government announced a closure of schools in 19 vulnerable districts for Saturday, and also evacuated thousands of people from the low-lying regions to safety zones.Similarly, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal governments also evacuated people, with the former moving more than 54 thousand people.Also Read | Pronouncing approaching cyclone ‘Jawad’? You’re doing it wrongHowever, the aforementioned states are not the only ones to get affected by cyclone Jawad and the deep depression it has now weakened into. As many as 10 more states and Union territories (UTs) will receive rainfall over the next two days.Here are the key IMD alerts for all the 10 states till December 6:1. According to the latest IMD bulletin, light to moderate rainfall at many places, with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places are likely over Gangetic West Bengal on December 5. The same weather alert has also been issued for north Odisha.2. Heavy rainfall has been forecasted over south Assam and Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram on December 5.3. The IMD bulletin stated that light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places are likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura on December 6.4. Isolated heavy rainfall or snowfall warning has been issued in Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh on December 5.5. According to the latest IMD bulletin, isolated light rainfall is very likely over Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab on December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-12-states-to-get-rainfall-till-december-6-due-to-cyclone-jawad-101638637762234.html
04-12-2021||India||Mandaviya rejoices as India administers over 1 crore single-day Covid-19 vaccine jabs once again||India on Saturday registered yet another milestone of inoculating over 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in a single day. This is the sixth time that the country has achieved this feat, especially at a time when the 'Har Ghar Dastak' (door-to-door) vaccination campaign is underway.Taking to Twitter, Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya hailed India’s achievement. “India achieves another 10000000 Covid-19 vaccinations today. With the Har Ghar Dastak campaign in full swing, the world’s largest vaccination drive is touching new heights and accomplishing new feats under PM Narendra Modi’s leadership,” he tweeted.
04-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 ‘Star kids’ have it much tougher, social media has increased intrusion: Anil and Janhvi Kapoor||Evergreen Bollywood superstar Anil Kapoor, 64, and his rising star niece Janhvi Kapoor, 24, opened up on the industry’s recent vilification and also the future of creative audio-visual content in the OTT era during the concluding session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021 on Saturday.In the context of the tribulations in a drugs case of Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, Janhvi said that public scrutiny on people from film families is relentless in this age of social media.“Not just actors but even common people are subject to critiquing by means of social media these days. I’ve been made to feel very aware my whole life of my privilege, and there’s no running away from it. But that doesn’t really take away from experiences of pain and suffering and all the experiences of hard work and struggle that we might have had individually. And therefore, the wisdom that we have acquired as a result of those experiences; it doesn’t make that any less valuable,” Janhvi said.She confessed that for a long time, she was “very apologetic” about where she came from, and of who her parents were. “Yes, I did get my first film relatively easier than most people get it. And it’s important to acknowledge that. There are people that must have been much more deserving than I was. But, I can’t keep waking up with that baggage and that pressure,” she added. “Yes, I have the privilege of being able to do what I want to, but you (the audience) will watch me only if you find me worth it, else you won’t.”Anil, who joined the conversation with HT’s managing editor (entertainment & lifestyle) Sonal Kalra virtually from home quarantine in Mumbai after a visit to Europe, said the label “star kids” was by no means new, and the so-called “insider versus outsider” divide existed even when he started his career but the margin for failure afforded to the current generation was way too thin.“In my early days, I did several films that sank without a trace; nobody knew when they opened and went off screens. Yet, nothing happened. There was no social media at that time, so maybe it didn’t come out so much. I was considered an outsider for a long time, so I had the luxury of making mistakes... But not the other star kids like Sanjay Dutt, Sunny Deol, Kumar Gaurav who started out with me, but had the pressure to live up to their fathers’ name. Today, I would salute star kids because it is definitely tougher for them because of social media.”In tune with the theme of the summit — The New World Order — the actors also talked about how the advent of OTT (over-the-top) platforms redefined the dynamics of show business, more so in the past nearly two years since the pandemic hit.Anil, who forayed into the OTT space playing himself in Anurag Kashyap’s web film AK vs AK last year, said, “OTT is definitely the future because it opens us to the global stage, and we, as content creators and actors, get this opportunity to show our work... if you’re on an OTT platform, there are 200 countries simultaneously seeing your work, which is fantastic.”Jahnvi made her digital debut with her second project itself, starring in Zoya Akhtar’s web anthology Ghost Stories (2020), and was also seen in direct-to-OTT film Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl the same year. Lauding the reach the platform has to offer, she said, “The web has made the audience’s sensibilities evolve. It has encouraged us as creative people, not just actors but writers, directors, producers and other creative people too. We’re exposed to cinema and TV shows and content world over.”Going forward, she said, a content divide would evolve between material more suited to the needs of each platform — OTT as well as bricks-and-mortar cinemas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-star-kids-have-it-much-tougher-social-media-has-increased-intrusion-anil-and-janhvi-kapoor-101638641776802.html
04-12-2021||India||Pronouncing approaching cyclone ‘Jawad’? You’re doing it wrong||As states, including Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, brace for the landfall of cyclone Jawad, one may wonder how the storm got its name. Pronounced as ‘Jowad’ in Arabic, the storm was christened by Saudi Arabia.Cyclone Jawad is the fifth storm to hit the Indian coasts this year. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclonic storm has, however, weakened into a deep depression and currently lies closer to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coast.This weakening followed a forecast by the weather department earlier in the day. The storm is now likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Odisha’s Puri district on Sunday (December 5) noon.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression, lies 330km of Odisha’s Puri: IMDGovernments of West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have evacuated several thousand people from low-lying areas to safety zones in order to minimise chances of casualties. The Odisha government has established shelter homes in Puri, and vacated people from the district’s beach – which is also a popular tourist destination in the eastern side of India. Both the Odisha and Bengal governments have urged tourists to stay away from the coast ahead of cyclone Jawad’s landfall.In its latest bulletin, the IMD said that cyclone Jawad is expected to turn into a depression by Sunday morning before reaching Puri around noon on the same day. It will then move towards the West Bengal coast and weaken further into a low-pressure area in the subsequent 24 hours.Owing to this, the weather department has issued a heavy to very heavy rainfall alert in Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on December 5.What exactly does Jawad mean?Jawad pronounced as ‘Jowad’ means generous and merciful. It is an Arabic name that was given by Saudi Arabia.How are cyclones named?The responsibility of naming cyclones is handled by the World Meteorological Organisation and UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (UN ESCAP) led panel on tropical cyclones. This panel is a global body that constitutes regional specialised meteorological centres (RSMC) and tropical cyclone warning centres. The IMD is among the six RMCs across the globe, which needs to mandatorily issue advisories and name tropical cyclones over the north Indian Ocean area.Which countries can name the cyclones?The panel on tropical cyclones consists of as many as 13 countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar, the Maldives, Thailand, Iran, Qatar, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Yemen, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia, and India. In 2020, the countries released a new list of names, containing a total of 169 names of cyclones. A total of 13 lists were released with each list having names of cyclones as suggested by all the 13 nations. At the moment, the first list is being followed by the panel.What will the next cyclone over the north Indian Ocean regions be called?The next name of the cyclone will be ‘Asani’ given by Sri Lanka, while the one following that will be called ‘Sitrang’, a name suggested by Thailand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pronouncing-approaching-cyclone-jawad-you-re-doing-it-wrong-101638640172720.html
04-12-2021||India||‘Worries about terrorism have got stronger...’: Jaishankar at Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi||The US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the Covid-19 pandemic have heightened uncertainties for Indian Ocean countries, which will have to take on greater responsibilities and display more initiative, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. The changing American strategic posture and the rise of China are trends with significant consequences for nations in the Indian Ocean region that highlight the importance of establishing a multi-polar Asia as a foundation for a multi-polar world, Jaishankar said while addressing the Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi. The drawdown of US troops from Afghanistan has left the immediate and extended region grappling with serious concerns about terrorism, radicalism, instability, narco-trafficking and governance practices, while the impact of Covid-19 has left the region vulnerable to health and economic stresses and also exposed fault-lines and shortcomings of the international system, he said. “Worries about terrorism have got stronger in the light of developments in the Af-Pak region,” Jaishankar said. The world community has voiced its concerns through UN Security Council resolution 2593, by demanding “assurances that Afghan soil will not be used for terrorism, by pressing for inclusive governance, and seeking safeguards on the treatment of minorities, women and children”, he pointed out. There is now “greater caution in US power projection” and an effort to correct its over extension, and Washington is adjusting to multi-polarity and rebalancing, he said. The rise of China has had an impact on connectivity, technology and trade, he added. “Separately, we have also seen a sharpening of tensions on territorial issues across the breadth of Asia. Agreements and understandings of yesteryears now seem to have some question marks,” Jaishankar said in an apparent reference to the India-China standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that began last year. Without naming China, Jaishankar also took a swipe at its Belt and Road Initiative. He said, “Assuming unsustainable levels of debt in pursuit of apparently attractive projects was one concern. The economic downturn that accompanied the pandemic has heightened this significantly.” He added, “The ongoing debate on responsible and viable connectivity is another. When plans and projects lack transparency, market viability, consultation or local participation, their consequences are unlikely to be beneficial. This too has been sharpened at a time of financial stress.” Freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded commerce under the framework of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) will have to be respected and facilitated, and it is also essential to resolve disputes through peaceful means without threat or use of force, Jaishankar said. Countries in the Indian Ocean region will have to work towards more resilient and reliable supply chains and greater trust and transparency. A greater role is emerging for middle powers, and there will be “greater localisation and arrangements of greater pragmatism”, he said. “Indian Ocean nations are called upon today to take greater responsibilities, fashion better relationships and display more initiative,” he added. The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, he said, was a good example of cooperation within the Indo-Pacific region. Within a year, it had developed a robust agenda covering maritime security, cyber security, climate action, vaccine collaboration, critical technologies, semi-conductors, counter-terrorism, resilient supply chains, infrastructure, disinformation and disaster relief. Nations also need to speedily normalise travel through recognition of vaccine certificates, he said, adding India has finalised solutions in this regard with about 100 countries. 
04-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh panchayat elections to be held in 3 phases from Jan 6: Commission||BHOPAL: : Madhya Pradesh’s panchayat elections will be held in three phases with voting on January 6, January 28 and February 14, 2021, state election commissioner Basant Pratap Singh said on Saturday.Singh said the model code of conduct in the state has kicked in with the announcement of the poll schedule.“The last election was held in 2014 December and the tenure has been completed in 2020 but due to Covid 19, it delayed. Now, the commission has decided to conduct it as the positivity rate in MP is less than 0.1% for the past five months,” Singh said.The top election official mandated to conduct local body elections said the state commission will follow Covid 19 protocols. “If the number of Covid cases increases in January and February, a decision will be taken accordingly,” he said.The official also explained that the commission was opting for three phrases since it only has 55,000 electronic voting machines (EVM). “We will use sealed detachable memory module in the EVMs to keep a record of results,” he said.The process of filing nominations for the first and second phases will start from December 13.Counting for sarpanch and panch elections will be held at the booth after the polling, while the votes for janpad panchayat and zila panchayat members will be counted at the block headquarters.Results of elections for janpad panchayat members will be announced at the block headquarters on February 22. The results of zila panchayat members’ election will be declared at the district headquarters on February 23, Singh said.According to news agency PTI, polling for 859 posts of district panchayats across 52 districts, 6,727 posts of 313 janpad panchayats, sarpanch of 22,581 village panchayats and 3,62,754 posts of panch members will be held over the three phases.In the first phase, polling for 6,283 village panchayats and 85 janpad panchayats across nine districts will be held on January 6, 2022.The polling for 110 janpad panchayats and 8,015 village panchayats across seven districts will be held in the second phase on January 28.Elections for 8,397 village panchayats and 118 janpad panchayats across 36 districts will be held on February 16 in the third phase, Singh said.The process of filing nominations for the first and second phases will start from December 13.Counting for sarpanch and panch elections will be held at the booth after the polling, while the votes for Janpad Panchayat and Zila Panchayat members will be counted at the block headquarters.Results of election for Janpad panchayat members will be announced at the block headquarters on February 22. The results of district panchayat members’ election will be declared at the district headquarters on February 23, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-panchayat-elections-to-be-held-in-3-phases-from-jan-6-commission-101638638596828.html
04-12-2021||India||Prospects of farm talks brighten, SKM forms panel||Crucial talks between the Union government and protesting farm unions could resume in a few weeks after nearly a year of pause.On Saturday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of over 40 farm unions, named a five-member committee to lead negotiations “in case the government sends a formal invitation for discussions”, a farm leader said.“Talks are possible soon but it all depends on when the government send its invitation,” Hannan Mollah, who is on the SKM’s committee for presumptive negotiations, said.The Union government is indirectly talking to some farm leaders to prepare the ground for dialogue over a slew of remaining demands by cultivators. On November 29, the Centre repealed three contentious agricultural-reform laws farmers had been protesting against since over a year ago. Mollah said the farmers’ platform had set up a five-member panel acceding to a request by the Centre to keep the team of negotiators small. He said home minister Amit Shah had telephonic conversations with farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Yudhvir Singh. “This not good enough. We need a formal dialogue to start soon,” he said.The Union government hasn’t announced a date for the two sides to get back on the table and the SKM said it would respond only when an official invitation is extended to the farmers by the Centre. After 11 rounds of talks, the Centre had withdrawn from the dialogue process on January 22 this year after a deadlock. At that time, the Union government witnessed sweeping calls by farm unions to scrap the laws. In a rare climbdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 said his government would abandon the legislation at the heart of massive protests by tens of thousands of farmers. The agricultural laws scrapped by the Modi government allowed private traders and supermarket chains to buy farm produce outside of tightly regulated state-run agricultural markets. Farmers say this would have left them at the mercy of large corporations.The laws also allowed traders to stockpile large quantities of farm produce for future sale and laid down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.The farmers said the government would have to cancel all criminal cases registered against protesting farmers in various states, especially Haryana, a major arena of the farm protests. In separate talks between Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and a team of farm leaders, that included Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Inderjit Singh, the Haryana government on Friday, for the first time, acknowledged that it was prepared to take cases. “The Haryana chief minister said cases would be withdrawn but he did not even in principle accept our demand of monetary compensation to families of farmers who lost their lives,” Inderjit said.The two sides – the Haryana government and the farm leaders led by Charuni - could not agree on the number of cases to be withdrawn. Farm unions say 45,000 protesting farmers had been named as accused in various police complaints, while the government put the figure at 32,000. “(The) Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a crucial meeting today to discuss pending demands of the farmers’ movement and the lack of a formal response from the Government of India. It was decided unanimously that the farmers’ agitation will continue until formal and satisfactory responses are obtained from the Government of India,” the SKM said in a release. Although the Union government has cancelled three farm laws, which farmers argue were meant to benefit large corporations and supermarket chains at the expense of cultivators, a slew of demands is yet to be resolved.Bringing law to guarantee minimum prices for farm produce is a top pending demand. Besides, farm unions also want the cancelling of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020/2021, which proposes to replace subsidized agricultural power with direct cash benefits. The SKM also wants section 15 of law on pollution in the national capital region deleted. The section empowers authorities to fine farmers for burning crop residue, a major cause of air pollution. The farmers also want the withdrawal of all cases slapped on protesting farmers in states such as Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chandigarh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. They also want a parcel of land to erect a memorial for 708 farmers who lost their lives during their year-long agitation and their families rehabilitated with compensation. The SKM in its statement on Friday also demanded the arrest and sacking of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son has been arrested for allegedly ramming a car into a group of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The farmers’ platform said the five-member committee will also decide on state-level teams that might have to work along with some state governments should there be a requirement. The SKM’s leaders said they awaited a response from the Centre and would meet next on December 7. 
04-12-2021||India||Decision soon, says Goa Congress MLA Ravi Naik on buzz that he will join BJP||PANAJI: Congress MLA and former chief minister Ravi Naik, widely speculated to be planning to switch across to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said he has consulted his supporters and will announce his decision soon. Naik, who was Goa chief minister for a little over 27 months in the early 1990s, was responding to buzz that he will be the next one to cross sides.Goa Forward Party, a regional party led by Vijai Sardesai, this week lost a MLA, Jayesh Salgaonkar, who quit from the assembly and the party before joining the BJP on Friday. As chief minister Pramod Sawant welcomed Jayesh Salgaonkar into the BJP, he announced that there was a long list of politicians from rival parties who were waiting to sign up with the BJP.Naik has long been considered to be on the top of this list. Political leaders close to him said Ravi Naik could join the BJP as early as Sunday.“There is nothing to announce at the moment. Over the next few days I will announce if there is any decision. I have heard all sides and have also consulted with my supporters,” Naik told reporters on Friday.Naik’s exit, as and when he chooses to formalise it, will not surprise the Goa Congress which gave up on the politician who once led the state government after his sons ejected from the party.Congress leaders said the veteran Congress politician has been considered persona non grata for all practical purposes by the party leadership after his two sons, Ritesh and Roy, joined the BJP in August last year. Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar was upfront, and public about it. “The day his sons joined the BJP we disowned him and have also readied another candidate to take his place,” Chodankar said earlier.The Naik camp also never made it an effort to counter the view that he will follow his sons’ footsteps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-soon-says-goa-congress-mla-ravi-naik-on-buzz-that-he-will-join-bjp-101638632357059.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jammu’s border villagers in favour of Indo-Pak truce deal, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The villagers in more than 400 Indian villages along the 300 km long Line of Control (LoC) and 198 km long International Border in five districts of the Jammu region are leading a normal life since February 25 when India and Pakistan renewed their truce deal to bring an end to the intense shelling. Read moreCyclone Jawad has weakened into a deep depression, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, the weather department said that the deep depression currently lies near Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, and Odisha’s Gopalpur, Paradip and Puri. Read moreIndia and Russia are putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6. Read moreNew Zealand pacer Ajaz Patel on Saturday, at the Wankhede Stadium, became only the third bowler in the history of Test cricket, after Jim Laker and Anil Kumble, to bag all 10 wickets in a single innings. Read moreSending emojis while communicating with others or simply sharing posts on social media platforms has turned into an inseparable part of life for many. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jammu-s-border-villagers-in-favour-of-indo-pak-truce-deal-and-all-the-latest-news-101638630441214.html
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression, lies 330km of Odisha’s Puri: IMD||Cyclone Jawad has weakened into a deep depression, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, the weather department said that the deep depression currently lies near Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, and Odisha’s Gopalpur, Paradip and Puri.“It (cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression) is about 180km east-southeast of Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), 260km south of Gopalpur, 330km south-southwest of Puri, and 420km south-southwest of Paradip (all three in Odisha),” IMD tweeted at 6.51pm.
04-12-2021||India||India, Russia expected to sign agreements in defence, trade, energy during annual summit||India and Russia are putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6.Ahead of Putin’s day-long visit, the Indian government cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The annual summit – which has been held since 2000 – will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers.The two sides are looking forward to intense engagement on issues ranging from ways to deepen bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with planning for the summit said on condition of anonymity.Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit, the people said. The two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, the people said. Modi and Putin had decided in August to have close consultations on Afghanistan and the two sides are coordinating on common concerns, the people added.Days before the summit, the government approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles at a factory at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday took up the ₹5,100-crore project. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago.“The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buying (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said an official. “The project will provide business opportunities to various MSMEs and other defence firms for supply of raw material and components, which will lead to a generation of new employment opportunities,” he said.Last month, the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 rifles to be made in India with a transfer of Russian technology.Putin’s visit will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is coinciding with the visit. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun.Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the people cited above said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.The people said Russia was a “natural fit” for a 2+2 dialogue as the two countries work closely on defence and political issues. India currently has such mechanisms only with Australia, Japan and the US, but the people said the new 2+2 dialogue with Russia wasn’t an afterthought or a balancing act.At least 15 groups focused on economic cooperation between India and Russia have met virtually over the past two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the two sides have increased the target for two-way investments to $50 billion by 2025 as the earlier target of $30 billion had been achieved in 2018. India is also focusing on trade and investment opportunities in Russia’s Far East, including in coal and diamonds and meeting manpower needs. As part of these efforts, 11 governors from the Far East have been invited to the Vibrant Gujarat meet of 2022.Modi and Putin are expected to have restricted one-on-one talks during the summit, which will begin at 5.30 pm, and the Russian leader will emplane from Delhi at 9.30 pm. Their talks are expected to provide guidance for strengthening the bilateral strategic partnership.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-expected-to-sign-agreements-in-defence-trade-energy-during-annual-summit-101638628936512.html
04-12-2021||India||Fourth case of Omicron Covid-19 variant detected in India||India has confirmed its fourth case of Omicron variant of coronavirus (Covid-19), hours after a senior citizen from Gujarat was found infected with the highly transmissible variant. The infection has been reported in a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra’s Kalyan-Dombivli who has a travel history to Cape Town in South Africa, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. The case is also the first-known infection of Omicron variant to be reported from Maharashtra.The 33-year-old man had arrived in Delhi on November 23 and gave his samples for Covid-19 testing at the Delhi airport. He then took a flight to Mumbai, according to news agency PTI.“A man from Kalyan Dombivli municipal corporation area has tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19. He is the first official case in the state,” Maharashtra health department director Dr Archana Patil told PTI in Mumbai.Also read | 'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shots“He came with a group of four people. We are tracing and tracking them. Their RT-PCR test as well as genome sequencing will be done as well,” she said.Cases with the Omicron variant have already been detected in Karnataka and Gujarat.Also read | Does our immune system needs to evolve with new, risky variants of coronavirus?The third known case of the Omicron Covid-19 variant in India came to light from Gujarat after a man from Jamnagar, who had returned from Zimbabwe, tested positive for the disease.Previously, two men in Karnataka tested positive for the Omicron variant, in the first cases to be reported from India.The omicron variant, first detected in South Africa, has triggered widespread concern as multiple mutations have been found in the strain that can possibly dampen all the efforts to slow down the ongoing pandemic. The strain has been marked as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organisation (WHO).According to the Centre, the countries designated as ‘at-risk’ are European countries, including the United Kingdom, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-case-of-omicron-covid-19-variant-detected-in-india-101638625560688.html
04-12-2021||India||TN makes Tamil exam mandatory for qualifying government services||The MK Stalin-led Tamil Nadu government has made qualifying the Tamil exam mandatory for entry to Tamil Nadu government services and state-run public sector enterprises, reported news agencies. The order to this effect was passed by the state government on Friday, reported news agency ANI.The order makes the Tamil exam mandatory for all the candidates appearing for a competitive exam conducted by the state recruitment board, ANI further cited the information as shared by state finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan. "The exam will be qualifying in nature and it is mandatory for a student to secure at least 40% marks in this exam to get a government job in the state," he was quoted as saying."This new policy will help prevail social justice. The government school students will be given importance in the recruitment process," he added.If an aspirant does not get through in the qualifying Tamil language paper, other subject papers, that are part of the overall exam scheme, would not be taken up for evaluation, according to the order.Other state recruitment agencies including the Teachers Recruitment Board, Medical Services Recruitment Board, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board and Tamil Nadu Forest Uniformed Services Recruitment Committee would release similar guidelines.The minister further informed that there are nine lakh government posts for eight crore people in Tamil Nadu.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-makes-tamil-exam-mandatory-for-qualifying-government-services-101638624000356.html
04-12-2021||India||Jammu’s border villagers say they want Indo-Pak truce deal to continue||The villagers in more than 400 Indian villages along the 300 km long Line of Control (LoC) and 198 km long International Border in five districts of the Jammu region are leading a normal life since February 25 when India and Pakistan renewed their truce deal to bring an end to the intense shelling. A total of 457 villages with a population of 4,51,856 are located at the IB and the LoC in Jammu, Samba, Kathua, Poonch and Rajouri districts of the Jammu region.“Earlier, Pakistani mortars used to hit our houses and my own house was damaged in it. We had to flee the village to safer places. However, peace has returned since February 25 and now we feel like living in a paradise. We are leading a peaceful life,” said Tufail Hussain, 36, of Shahpur Mendhar, a village on the LoC in Poonch district.Hussain informed that new roads have been constructed in his area.“Other development projects have also been taken up. The socio-economic condition has improved. Earlier, villagers lived under constant fear of being hit by Pak mortars. Now, we are also able to do farming,” he added.Vikram, a resident of Mendhar in Poonch said, “we want Indo-Pak truce deal to continue because during hostilities villagers bear the maximum brunt of Pak shelling. We appeal to both the countries to keep it in place”. With peace in place, fear among the villagers has also vanished into thin air, he added.Rohit Choudhary, a youth from RS Pura sector of Jammu district, said, “we are the biggest beneficiaries of peace between India and Pakistan because during hostilities we literally become sitting ducks for Pakistani forces, which target hapless villagers.”“Since there is peace now on the border, we are able to focus on other aspects of life like farming, livelihood and education. Otherwise, either we lived under constant fear of getting killed in Pak shelling or lived in pitiable conditions in government camps for days together,” he added. Choudhary, however, regretted that the government has not learnt its lessons from past experiences.“Though the government has created a 50-bedded hospital in RS Pura, it doesn’t have adequate staff. It doesn’t have a blood bank and has no trauma centre. There is no senior doctor at the night,” he said. He informed that even BSF jawans, who get injured in Pak firing, were shifted to the RS Pura hospital but in absence of staff, they had to be referred to GMC Jammu.BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu said, “there is peace on the international border since February 25. Earlier, there was uncertainty. We and they (rangers) are very positive. Definitely renewed truce deal has benefitted people on either side of the border”. However, infiltration bids have resumed since June this year and some of the attempts were successful as well, evident from recent encounters close to LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts.The DGP Dilbag Singh has said that infiltration bids have resumed and that launch pads across the LoC remain intact.On November 24, BSF also lodged a strong protest with Pak Rangers at a commandant level meet against drone activities on IB and asked it to refrain from it.However, on June 2, Pakistan had opened fire at a BSF’s excavator in the Arnia sector of the Jammu district. The machine was being used to clear wild grass and bushes on the Indian territory along the border. Prior to it, Pak rangers had opened fire on May 3 at BSF personnel in the Ramgarh sector. They were doing maintenance work at the border fence when Rangers opened a small arms fire. The BSF had exercised restraint in both incidents. 
04-12-2021||India||Farmers won't budge from protest sites in Delhi until cases are withdrawn: SKM||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday announced farmers protesting against the three farm laws, which have now been repealed, will not move from the demonstration sites at the borders of Delhi until the Centre withdraws cases registered against them during the course of their agitation.The latest announcement came after the umbrella body of farmers’ unions held a meeting near the Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi to discuss the future course of the farmers' protests.Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh, speaking to the ANI news agency, said leaders of all farmers' organisations have decided to not go back unless the cases against the farmers are withdrawn.“Today, a clear-cut signal has been sent out to the government that we are not going to back the agitation unless all cases against the farmers are taken back,” the news agency quoted the leader as saying.On Monday, a bill was passed in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament to repeal the three contentious agriculture laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.However, the stalemate continues with protesters pressing for other pending demands – which include a law guaranteeing minimum selling price (MSP), an amount of money as compensation to the families of farmers who died during the stir and the withdrawal of cases against the protesters.The SKM, which spearheaded the protests against the controversial farm laws, has now formed a five-member panel for carrying out dialogue with the central government on the rest of their demands.Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, and Yudhvir Singh were named the members of the committee.According to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, the next meeting of the SKM will take place at 11am on December 7, where they will further deliberate upon the future course of the movement.Farmer leader and SKM member Ashok Dhawle told PTI that the issues such as the compensation for martyred farmers, “false cases” lodged against farmers, and even the Lakhimpur Kheri violence were discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-won-t-budge-from-protest-sites-in-delhi-until-cases-are-withdrawn-skm-101638618270015.html
04-12-2021||India||Amit Shah meets Paralympian Avani Lekhara, thanks her for ‘wonderful gift’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday tweeted a photo with Paralympian and rifle shooter Avani Lekhara after meeting her on the sidelines of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021.The home minister also wished Lekhara, the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic gold medal.“Met India’s ace shooter and Paralympic gold medalist @AvaniLekhara this morning. The entire nation is proud of your accomplishments. My best wishes for your future endeavours. And thank you for this wonderful gift,” Shah said in a tweet.Avani Lekhara won India's first gold medal at the 2020 Summer Paralympics, with a score of 249.6 points in the final event.Met India’s ace shooter and Paralympic gold medalist @AvaniLekhara this morning. The entire nation is proud of your accomplishments. My best wishes for your future endeavours.And thank you for this wonderful gift. pic.twitter.com/zdQh2f7RCGHindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021, over the past five days, saw prominent personalities from the world of politics, sports, business and entertainment taking the stage and sharing their insights on what ‘The New World Order’ entails in their domain.Amit Shah, who delivered the keynote address on the last and final day of HTLS, spoke on a range of topics, including Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, restoration of statehood in Jammu and Kashmir among other things.The Union home minister also highlighted how Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) transformed the country in the last seven years, adding India was in a state of ‘policy paralysis’ before 2014, and it was changed by the present dispensation.Avani Lekhara, speaking on the HTLS, expressed happiness with the positive change that India's Paralympic contingent has brought about with their record medal haul in Tokyo earlier this summer. "There has been a good change after winning the medal. Para sports are being recognised now", Avani told Shivani Gupta, the senior associate of CNN-News18.Check full coverage here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-meets-paralympian-avani-lekhara-thanks-her-for-wonderful-gift-101638614448453.html
04-12-2021||India||Samyukt Kisan Morcha forms 5-member panel to talk with Centre over farm issues||Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella of famers' unions, on Saturday formed a five-member committee to talk to the Centre over agricultural issues, its convener Rakesh Tikait said.“SKM has formed a 5-member committee to talk to the government. It'll be the authorised body to talk to the government. The committee will have Balbir Singh Rajewal, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Yudhvir Singh and Ashok Dhawale,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He added that the next meeting of the SKM would be convened on December 7.The SKM held a meeting earlier in the day to decide on the future course of farmers' agitation.Last month, Tikait said that the SKM has given the government time till December 4 to listen to the demands of the farmers.Raising the issue of shortage of fertilisers, Tikait said, “There is a shortage of fertiliser in the country. This will lead affect the production of crops. Then the government will have to import grains from other countries.”He said the government should take responsibility if production decreases in the country. “We have always asked the government to ensure the availability of fertilisers,” Tikait was quoted as saying by ANI.The meeting came in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month announcing his government's decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws.Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the winter session on November 29. President Ram Nath Kovind has also given his assent to the Bill that completes the process of repealing the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-forms-5-member-panel-to-talk-with-centre-over-farm-issues-101638618097187.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Focus on double Covid vaccination first, experts tell India amid cry for booster jabs over Omicron||'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shotsAs calls for Covid-19 vaccine booster shots grow amid the emergence of Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, scientists are urging India should prioritise double vaccinating its eligible population first so that most people at least get the base layer of protection against the viral infection. Read more.India detects third Omicron case. What we know so farIndia on Saturday reported its third case of the Omicron days after two people were found infected with the latest strain of the coronavirus in Karnataka, government officials said. Read more.276 pregnant Odisha women shifted to hospital as cyclone Jawad nearsOdisha shifted 276 pregnant women to nearest hospitals during evacuation of people from low lying areas even as the India Meteorological Department on Saturday said cyclone Jawad may weaken to deep depression before reaching Puri coast by Sunday noon. Read more.India vs New Zealand: Kiwis register historic low in Mumbai Test, break 34-year-old recordShortly after New Zealand reached a record high thanks to Ajaz Patel's 10-wicket haul in an innings, the Kiwis posted the lowest ever score against India in a Test. Read more.Twinkle Khanna shares heartwarming post about her dog Cleo along with a videoTwinkle Khanna took to Instagram to share a video of herself grooming her dog Cleo. Read more.Easy tips by Rujuta Diwekar to get through a weight loss plateauWeight loss plateaus can be very discouraging, especially after losing a significant amount of weight in the first phase of your fitness journey. Read more.KBC 13: Jaya Bachchan gives Amitabh Bachchan a stare down for comparing her to ‘earthquake’, she reveals the truthOn Friday's Shaandaar Shukravaar episode (Friday Special) of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, Amitabh Bachchan welcomed his daughter Shweta Nanda and granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda to the hot seat. Read more.
04-12-2021||India||Fully solar-powered, Cochin airport leaves Anand Mahindra impressed. See tweet||Businessman Anand Mahindra, who is often known for sharing interesting and trending aspects from his official Twitter handle, on Saturday praised the Cochin international airport for its design, cleanliness, efficiency, and renewable energy consumption. The chairman of the Mahindra Group, who was in Kerala's Kochi for a group conference, said that the airport serving the city should be a model for all other airports.The Mumbai-based business conglomerate was left impressed by the fact that the Cochin airport was designed using local architectural motifs, and that not only it is the first private airport in India, but also the first-of-its-kind in the entire world to be fully powered by solar energy. Mahindra also found the airport in Kerala to be quite compact, clean, and efficient, according to the tweet from his handle.“Leaving Kochi after a rewarding ⁦group conference. The airport⁩ is compact, designed using local architectural motifs & is clean & efficient. The 1st private airport in the country, the 1st in the world to be fully solar-powered. This is a model for ALL airports,” tweeted Anand MahindraLeaving Kochi after a rewarding ⁦group conference. The airport⁩ is compact, designed using local architectural motifs & is clean & efficient. The 1st private airport in the country, the 1st in the world to be fully solar powered. This is a model for ALL airports. 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼 pic.twitter.com/m6sv7Hxh1xNotably, the Cochin international airport, situated about 25 kilometres away from the city centre, was the first-of-its-kind in India to be developed using a public-private partnership (PPP) model, which uses funds accumulated from nearly 10,000 non-resident Indians hailing from 30 countries. In addition to being the busiest and largest airport in India, the Cochin airport is also the fourth-busiest airport (in terms of international traffic) in the entire country.The Cochin airport became fully powered by solar energy back in 2015 after it started drawing power from a dedicated solar plant – the 15 megawatts (MW) photovoltaic power station built by the Cochin International Airport Limited. The solar plant operates on 46,150 photovoltaic panels, which are capable of generating 50,000 units of electricity daily. The airport even ambitiously plans to double this solar production within the next two years. The entrepreneurial vision won the airport in 2018 the much-coveted 'Champion of the Earth' award, which is the highest environmental honour granted by the United Nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fully-solar-powered-cochin-airport-leaves-anand-mahindra-impressed-see-tweet-101638615381022.html
04-12-2021||India||India detects third Omicron case. What we know so far||India reported its third case of the Omicron on Saturday days after two people were found infected with the latest strain of the coronavirus in Karnataka, government officials said.The latest case of Omicron, marked as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organization (WHO), comes on a day India reported 8,603 new Covid-19 cases, taking the country’s tally to 34.62 million.Gujarat's commissioner of health Jai Prakash Shivhare confirmed the man has tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Also read | 'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shotsOfficials in Gujarat said the patient, who tested positive for Omicron, is a 72-year old man of Indian origin who has lived in Zimbabwe for decades and came to India last month.The health department said on Saturday the 72-year-old man has been found infected with the Omicron in Jamnagar of Gujarat, days after he came to the state from Zimbabwe, a high-risk country.Also read | Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: ReportsEuropean countries, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel are the countries designated as "at-risk" by the Centre.Officials said the man arrived in Gujarat from Zimbabwe on November 28 and tested positive for coronavirus on December 2, after which his sample was sent for genome sequencing.Also read | Does our immune system needs to evolve with new, risky variants of coronavirus?Jamnagar municipal commissioner Vijaykumar Kharadi said the man’s sample was sent to Ahmedabad for genome sequencing to ascertain whether he was infected with the Omicron variant.The man, who hails from Jamnagar, has been living in Zimbabwe for the last many years. He arrived in the state to meet his father-in-law. After he got a fever, his doctor advised him to get an RT-PCR test done.Also read | 288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing: Mumbai mayorThe private laboratory on Thursday informed the civic authorities that his report has come out positive for COVID-19, he said.Jamnagar municipal commissioner Kharadi said the man has been shifted to the isolation ward at the Guru Gobind Singh Government Hospital.According to officials, district authorities have already started his tracing his contact as per protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-detects-third-omicron-case-what-we-know-so-far-101638615277619.html
04-12-2021||India||'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shots||As calls for Covid-19 vaccine booster shots grow amid the emergence of Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, scientists are urging India should prioritise double vaccinating its eligible population first so that most people at least get the base layer of protection against the viral infection.Many countries have already started giving booster shots to their citizens in light of the new strain. India, however, is yet to consider booster shots even as several experts in the past few days have urged for the same.“We have a large proportion of our population in the below 18 age group. Until that is achieved, a uniform policy for a second booster, or a third dose, is not advisable,” news agency PTI quoted immunologist Vineeta Bal as saying.Adding to the argument, Satyajit Rath, from New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology (NII), said it is not clear if boosters are needed for any vaccine worldwide yet. “The duration of immune responses and protection are beginning to show differences, too, in recent studies. So I would be loath to jump the gun and say anything very definitive about boosters based on these data,” he told PTI.Also read | Omicron in India: Consider vaccine booster shots for 40+, says expert panelBal agreed that there is no solid data on waning immunity in India. In principle, of course, immunity will wane with time.“Antibody levels in serum will be lower six months down the road than soon after vaccination but that is not the only and adequate evidence of significant lowering of protective immunity which is based on immunological memory,” she added.Vasant Nagvekar, a consultant on infectious diseases at a Mumbai-based hospital and a member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force on Thursday, said a booster dose of vaccine, even if it works, is just a temporary fix and the emphasis should instead be on mask use.This discussion regarding the correct timing for a booster shot rekindled amid renewed fears over an impending third wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.In the meantime, the health community is trying to study Coronavirus's new variant which has multiple mutations and is being considered potentially more dangerous than its predecessors.The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium (INSACOG), a network of national testing labs that monitor genomic variations of Covid-19, has recommended a booster dose for those above 40 years in high-risk and high-exposure populations.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed Parliament on Friday that a decision on booster dose will be taken on the basis of scientific guidance from experts.  At least 36 countries are administering booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to Our World in Data. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) wants the most vulnerable people worldwide to be fully vaccinated first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-vaccination-first-say-indian-experts-amid-calls-for-booster-shots-101638613444490.html
04-12-2021||India||No relief for former president of Union Biblical Seminary in POSH case||The Bombay high court last week dismissed a petition by the former president of the Union Biblical Seminary in Pune, David G Samuel, questioning the jurisdiction of the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) which held him guilty of sexually harassing an employee. On June 23, 2020, an employee of the seminary lodged a written complaint against Samuel under provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) (POSH) Act, 2013. On November 3, the general body of the seminary resolved to constitute an internal committee to enquire into the allegation against Samuel. A fortnight later, one more female employee of the seminary lodged a similar complaint against Samuel. On January 25, the one-member panel submitted its report which held the president of the seminary guilty of sexual harassment at workplace, and on February 1, 2021, Samuel’s membership was terminated and he was removed from the post of the president of the governing board of trustees of the seminary. Samuel then moved the high court questioning the ICC report, primarily on the ground of jurisdiction. He argued that the ICC had no jurisdiction to enquire into the complaints since he was the employer of the complainant and therefore it should have been enquired into by the Local Complaints Committee, appointed by the Pune district collector. In support of his contentions, the lawyer relied on definitions of various terms used in the POSH Act. Also Read: Mumbai police charge-sheet against Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze in extortion caseThe argument, however, failed to impress the division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar. “The submission is misconceived,”the bench concluded after noting that the enactment defines “an employer” as any person responsible for the management, supervision and control of the workplace. Explaining the rational further, HC noted that since the business affairs of the seminary are carried out and managed by the governing board, which consists of 11 members, and the board as a composite body is responsible for the governance of the institution and therefore,“the president is not, by virtue of his office, solely in charge of the management, supervision and control of the working place.” The court said the POSH Act seeks to redress gender imbalances, inequalities and to prevent and prohibit sexual harassment of women in the workplace and the purpose would not be achieved if petitioner’s contentions were accepted. “Worse, it would require the two complainants to once again undergo a trauma of having to reagitate their complaints before a Local Complaints Committee,” said the court. “This is certainly not what the POSH Act contemplates.”...
04-12-2021||India||72-year-old from Gujarat tests positive for Omicron Covid-19 variant upon return from Zimbabwe, 3 cases so far in India||The third known case of the Omicron Covid-19 variant in India has been detected in Gujarat after a man from Jamnagar, who had returned from Zimbabwe, tested positive for the disease. The Gujarat health department on Saturday confirmed the state’s first Omicron case while two other cases have been reported earlier from Karnataka.A 72-year-old from Jamnagar had initially tested positive for the disease on Thursday after his return from Zimbabwe, following which his sample was sent for genome sequencing, news agency PTI reported citing the state health department.Jai Prakash Shivhar, Gujarat's commissioner of health, also confirmed that the elderly person has been infected with the Omicron variant.Also read | Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: ReportsAnother top official also said that a micro-containment zone has been formed around the infected person’s house and testing of people in that area would be carried out.“A person was found Omicron positive in Jamnagar. We have isolated him and are monitoring him. A micro containment zone has been made where he is living. In the area, we will do tracing, testing of people,” news agency ANI quoted Manoj Aggarwal, the additional chief secretary of the state health and family welfare department.Zimbabwe has been listed as one among the 11 ‘at-risk’ countries, the health ministry's list of countries where cases pertaining to the Omicron variant have been detected.According to the ministry’s latest guidelines, travellers from the 11 ‘at-risk’ countries will be subjected to a mandatory RT PCR test upon their arrival, the cost of which should be borne by the concerned traveller. If found positive, their sample would be collected for genome sequencing and they would be sent to isolation wards. On testing negative, they will be sent to a week-long home quarantine after which they would be tested again on the eighth day.In view of the Omicron variant, the state had recently extended the night curfew in its eight major cities until December 10, according to a news report by PTI. On Friday, the state reported 45 new Covid-19 cases and no new related deaths, as the total caseload reached 827,615 while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,094.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/72yearold-man-from-jamnagar-gujarat-tests-positive-for-omicron-covid-19-variant-after-returning-from-zimbabwe-3-cases-so-far-in-india-101638611047048.html
04-12-2021||India||Mumbai police file charge sheet against Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze||Mumbai crime branch on Saturday filed charge-sheet against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze and two others in an extortion case filed by a hotelier. This is the first charge-sheet filed against Singh, who faces total five FIRs in Mumbai and Thane. “We have collected evidence and recorded statements of many witnesses to establish how Singh and Vaze were running an extortion racket,” said special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap. Singh had recorded his statement in the case last week.Crime branch sources said the 1,895 page long charge-sheet against Singh and others contains statements of dozens of witnesses and it was filed before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13, in Antilia explosives scare case and the connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. The Goregaon police had, on August 25, registered an extortion case against Singh, Vaze and others on the complaint by hotelier Bimal Agarwal, alleging that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of the bars he operated in partnership.The offence had taken place between January 2020 and March 2021, police had earlier said. Later, the case was transferred to Unit 11 of the crime branch for investigation. Also Read: NCB wants to take over Maharashtra police cases, says Nawab MalikBesides Singh and Vaze, others charge-sheeted in the case include Alpesh Patel and Sumit Singh alias Chintu. while Vaze is in judicial custody, Patel and Sumit Singh are out on bail. Police are yet to file a charge-sheet against two more accused in the case – Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati. Singh, who was in hiding for months, showed up before the crime branch investigators early this week after the Supreme Court granted him protection from arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-charge-sheet-against-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-in-extortion-case-101638610453837.html
04-12-2021||India||Mustn’t repeat past mistakes in EV market, says Niti Aayog CEO||India must learn from its past mistakes made in the fields of electronics manufacturing and not repeat them in the field of electric mobility, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Niti Aayog, Amitabh Kant said on Friday. Addressing a roundtable to promote electric mobility,organised by the ministry of heavy industries, currently underway in Goa, Amitabh Kant said that making India a global leader in electric vehicle manufacturing will help India move to sunrise sector industries. “Those countries that go digital and go green will attract valuation and attract investment and those that do not go green and digital will go dead. There will be no future for those countries. This disruption is absolutely clear. This writing is on the wall that by 2025 there will be no combustion 2-3 wheelers left,” Kant said. “In the last 70 years India has always been getting into the sunset areas of industry. And by the time you get into the sunset areas of industry it is too late. By that time the Chinese and other countries have already taken the market and they have the size and scale. And once they have the size and scale you’ll never be able to penetrate global markets. Therefore we are saying that you get into the sunrise areas of the future and these are the areas if you get in you will become a global champion,” he said. “One of the lessons we learnt was, that in mobile phones, the market grew in India but we became import dependent. What we learned in solar [is that] the market grew in India but we became import dependent. Let us not make that mistake in the world of [electric] mobility. We must make India the centre of manufacturing both for the Indian market and for the rest of the world. And that is now dependent on all of you to make the states of India the centre of manufacturing,” he said. Also Read: PM Modi lays foundation for Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor “Our vision is battery storage, green hydrogen and renewables. And we are not talking about India. We are talking about making India the biggest player in the world. India must become the biggest manufacturer of battery storage, of green hydrogen, the biggest exporter of green hydrogen, the biggest exporter of battery storage. Must become the centre of compact car manufacturing, the biggest manufacturer of two wheelers, three wheelers, four wheelers of green vehicles. So you are looking at the world as a market. Don’t look at India. Look at the world as your market,” he told the gathering that included state transport ministers from most states as well as representatives of private industry. He added that India must become a centre for the world which was going through “disruption” and bring in new technology or and go green if didn’t want to loose out . The roundtable is being organized to bring together all stakeholders including the Centre, states and UTs, leaders of the auto and automotive parts industries, start-ups and technical experts and it aims to work out strategies to promote adoption of electric vehicles in India and attract investment in manufacturing of EVs, batteries and high technology automotive components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mustnt-repeat-mistakes-of-mobile-solar-manufacturing-with-ev-market-niti-aayog-ceo-101638607393454.html
04-12-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates, lays foundation stone for multiple projects worth ₹18,000 cr in Dehradun||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for multiple development projects worth around ₹18,000 crores in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of eleven development projects including the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) which will be built at a cost of around ₹8300 crore.In major highglight, the corrirdor will significantly reduce the travel time from Delhi to Dehradun from six hours to around 2.5 hours.The corridor will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut. It will also have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor (12 kilometres) for unrestricted wildlife movement. Also, the 340 metres long tunnel near Dat Kaali temple, Dehradun will help reduce impact on wildlife.“Today, India is moving ahead with the intention of investing more than Rs.100 lakh crores on modern infrastructure," PM Modi said while addressing a rally after launch event.  “ In the last 5 years, the Centre has approved more than ₹1 lakh crores for the development of Uttarakhand. More than ₹18,000 crores have been invested in today's developmental projects," he noted.“Today, India is moving forward with the intention of investing more than ₹100 lakh crores in modern infrastructure: PM Narendra Modi in Dehradun, Uttarakhand," PM Modi also said.Praising the construction of the Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor, PM Modi said, “Today, I am very happy that the foundation stone of the corridor has been laid. When it is ready, the time taken to travel from Delhi to Dehradun will be almost halved."Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was also present at the event along with other senior officials. PM Modi also laid the foundation stone for Dehradun - Paonta Sahib (Himachal Pradesh) road project, being constructed at a cost of around ₹1700 crore. After completion, the it will reduce travel time and provide seamless connectivity between the two places. It will also boost inter-state tourism. The Najibabad-Kotdwar road widening project will reduce travel time and also improve connectivity to Lansdowne.Accoriding to official statement, a bridge across River Ganga next to the Laksham Jhula will also be constructed. The world-renowned Lakshman Jhula was constructed in 1929, but has now been closed due to decreased load carrying capacity. It will also have a provision of a glass deck for people walking, and will also allow light weight vehicles to move across.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-for-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-101638604849893.html
04-12-2021||India||Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: Reports||One of the two confirmed Omicron cases in India is a 46-year-old doctor who has no foreign travel history. According to the information of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, his sample was sent for genome sequencing just by chance, as the CT value in his Covid test was 13, which indicates a very heavy viral load. Apart from tiredness, the doctor did not exhibit any other symptoms and is fine now, according to reports. As the government is now tracing the possible sources from where he might have been infected by the new variant, it has been found that the doctor had attended an international conference that was held between November 18 and November 20.According to reports, the doctor attended the event on November 20, the last day. Just a day after, he complained of fever and body ache and got tested. If the doctor has contracted the Omicron variant from that international event, which was attended by many foreign delegates, then it is a cause of worry for the administration as the conference, in that case, may turn out to be a 'superspreader'.But since the symptoms surfaced only a day after the doctor attended the conference, the possibility that he might have contracted it before attending the conference remains there as symptoms take some time to be noticed.Reports said the doctor was on the hospital premises on November 19 and the last surgery he performed was on November 17. Since he is an anesthesiologist, he does not come in direct contact with the patients and the hospital authorities said the hospital premises is safe.The 66-year-old South African national who is another Omicron case of India has left the country on November 27 with a negative Covid certificate that he got from a private testing facility. The Karnataka government has ordered a probe into the incident as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said it is a bit doubtful that three days after being tested positive, he tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-doctor-with-omicron-attended-international-medical-conference-reports-101638606829058.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: 288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing: Mumbai mayorAs many 288 samples of international travellers have been sent for genome sequencing in Mumbai, Maharashtra, the city's mayor Kishori Pednekar informed on Saturday. Read MoreCalling up 5 times: How Mumbai will ensure no foreign traveller is off the radarAmid the threat of Omicron, the new Covid variant which has been reported from Bengaluru, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has come up with a new guideline to ensure there is constant monitoring of the international passengers coming from high-risk and at-risk countries. Read More‘BJP will win Uttar Pradesh polls with overwhelming majority’: Amit Shah at HTLSUnion home minister Amit Shah said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will return to power in Uttar Pradesh with “overwhelming majority”. He was speaking at Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS). Read MoreMixtape movie review: Netflix’s teen drama is a nostalgic fest that will tug at your heartstringsA film opening with Donna Lewis’ I Love You Always Forever and fireworks in the night sky might seem like a little bit of a cliche but it turns out to be the perfect prologue for Netflix’s teen drama, Mixtape. Read MorePadma Lakshmi shows her reaction to those who don’t like Indian food with memeAuthor and TV host Padma Lakshmi recently took to Twitter to share a meme featuring herself to react to those who don’t like Indian food. There is a chance that her share will leave you giggling hard. Also, it may make you nod in agreement. Read MoreWatch | 'Army doing great job but...': Ghulam Nabi's advice to security forces in J&K||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-288-samples-of-foreign-fliers-sent-for-genome-sequencing-and-all-the-latest-news-101638603042702.html
04-12-2021||India||288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing: Mumbai mayor||As many 288 samples of international travellers have been sent for genome sequencing in Mumbai, Maharashtra, the city's mayor Kishori Pednekar informed on Saturday. The administration is on constant alert about people returning from the so-called "at-risk" countries, she also said, adding it "has prepared a complete action plan for it," the news agency ANI reported."The airport authorities have been directed to inform our disaster control room on arrivals from these countries," she also said. Ten ambulances will also be kept on stand by in each ward, she also said as per ANI.Earlier in the day, the civic body of Mumbai released a new standard operating procedure (SOP) as concerns regarding the Omnicron variant of the coronavirus gripped the country.As per the revised guidelines, seven-day home quarantine of people arriving in the city from high-risk countries is mandatory. According to the health ministry, the countries designated as "at-risk" are the European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.According to the order, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will also receive a list of passengers, who arrive from the countries defined as "high-risk" or "at risk" by the Union health ministry. The list will include the detailed address and contact numbers of these travellers.After getting the list, "its staff will contact the passengers to inform them to remain home quarantined for the next seven days. Adherence to the home quarantine order is mandatory and the passengers will be shifted to government-run institutions if they are found violating it," the civic body stated in the order."An RT-PCR test will be conducted after seven days and necessary steps will be taken accordingly," the order added.The Omicron strain, first detected in South Africa, has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO). The first cases of the Omicron variant in India have been confirmed in two individuals in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/288-samples-of-foreign-fliers-sent-for-genome-sequencing-mumbai-mayor-101638602237478.html
04-12-2021||India||Calling up 5 times: How Mumbai will ensure no foreign traveller is off the radar||Amid the threat of Omicron, the new Covid variant which has been reported from Bengaluru, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has come up with a new guideline to ensure there is constant monitoring of the international passengers coming from high-risk and at-risk countries. The guideline includes calling these people up even five times a day for the seven days they are supposed to be under home quarantine. According to the guidelines, the surveillance will be done at the micro-level by the ward administration. Covid war rooms set up at each ward of the municipality are in charge of the monitoring.Here is how the 24X7 monitoring will go on for 7 days1. Every day at 9am, the Mumbai airport authorities will send a list of international passengers who have arrived in the city in the preceding 24 hours.2. Those who have mentioned Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai as their location will only be monitored.3. The list will get segregated into 24 wards based on the addresses given through software.4. At 10am every day, the ward war rooms will receive the list of passengers in their areas.5. They will call each of the passengers and politely inform them that they will have to remain isolated at their address for seven days.6. The war room will ensure that all quarantine rules are being followed and they will call these people up five times a day to monitor their health status.7. A letter will be issued to the housing society where these people are staying informing them that they are supposed to be under home isolation for 7 days.8. On the 7th day of the home quarantine, the ward war room will ensure that they undergo an RT-PCR test. If required, they can send their own medical team for the purpose of the test.9. If anyone complains of any symptom, the war room will decide the future course of action. Ward doctors can offer them advice through telephone "in a reassuring and polite manner".10. Each ward war room will have 10 functional ambulances ready and the medical team are supposed to physically visit these people from time to time during these 7 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calling-up-5-times-how-mumbai-will-ensure-no-foreign-traveller-is-off-the-radar-101638600402079.html
04-12-2021||India||Former Andhra CM and ex-governor of Tamil Nadu K Rosaiah passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh who later served as the governor of Tamil Nadu, Konijeti Rosaiahdied on Saturday morning following a cardiac stroke. The 88 year old leader is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter.According to his family members, Rosaiah experienced a sudden fall in blood pressure in the morning at his Ameerpet residence in Hyderabad before being rushed to Star Hospitals in Banjara Hills, where he was declared brought dead.A bulletin from the hospital said the former chief minister was brought in an unresponsive state and was declared dead at 8.20 am.Born on July 4, 1933 at Vemuru village of Guntur district, Rosaiah was in politics for over six decades. It started at Hindu College in Guntur district as a student union leader while studying commerce.A disciple of Swatantra Party leader N G Ranga, Rosaiah later joined the Congress party and was a four-term member of the state legislative council in 1968, 1974, 1980 and 2009 and was twice elected a member of the legislative assembly of the undivided Andhra Pradesh in 1989 and 2004from Chirala assembly constituency in Prakasam district. He was also elected a Member of Parliament (MP) from Narsaraopet parliamentary constituency in 1998.As a minister, Rosaiah served many Congress chief ministers including Marri Channa Reddy in 1978 to YS Rajasekhar Reddy in 2004-09. He held several prominent portfolios but was very popular as the finance minister of YS Rajasekhar Reddy state cabinet.After the sudden demise of YSR in a helicopter crash on September 2, 2009, he took over as the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh and held the post till November 4, 2010, when he was replaced by N Kiran Kumar Reddy.Also Read | ‘BJP will win Uttar Pradesh polls with overwhelming majority’: Amit Shah at HTLSIt was during his stint as Andhra Pradesh chief minister that the separate Telangana movement reached its peak, forcing the commencement of the process of Telangana state formation.On August 31, 2011, Rosaiah was sworn in as the governor of Tamil Nadu and continued in the post till August 30, 2016. For a brief period between July and September, 2014, Rosaiah was also the acting governor of Karnataka.After his tenure as governor ended, Rosaiah kept away from active politics and attended social functions occasionally.Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telangana Congress unit chief A Revanth Reddy and several other leaders expressed condolences over his demise.
04-12-2021||India||Covid-19: This district in Tamil Nadu has decided to close shops, public places for unvaccinated||A week’s time has been given to the residents of Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu by the district administration for getting at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine following which, those unvaccinated would be barred entry from public places and commercial establishments.The announcement was made by district collector Aneesh Sekhar, who said that only people possessing a vaccine certificate will be allowed in public places.“One week's time has been given to people to get at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, failing which those unvaccinated people to be not allowed to enter public places like hotels, shopping malls and other commercial establishments,” news agency ANI quoted the collector as saying.With a week’s time left, according to the administration’s announcement, close to 300,000 people are yet to receive even one dose of the vaccine, the collector said. He further insisted that at least one dose was necessary for the people to visit public places.Also read | Omicron: Tamil Nadu issues new SOPs; unvaccinated people to be restricted“Only people with a coronavirus vaccine certificate should be allowed in crowded places. People without the vaccine will not be allowed in hotels, hostels, bars, shopping malls, businesses, factories, businesses, educational institutions, wedding halls, theatres, markets, and wine shops. People coming to public places should be vaccinated with at least the first dose,” he said.Similar restrictions have also been implemented in Tamil Nadu’s neighbouring Karnataka where only vaccinated people would be allowed in public places. The measures were implemented after the state detected the first two cases of the Omicron variant in the country.The coercive measure from the Madurai administration came after state health minister Ma Subramanian on Wednesday (December 1) said that the state government has asked district officials to restrict the movement of unvaccinated people among the public. The move has been intended at increasing the vaccination rate and coverage.“We have instructed district collectors to take steps on restrictions for non-vaccinated people and ensure that they do not come in public places. We want to ensure that people get vaccinated without fail,” ANI quoted the minister as saying earlier.Tamil Nadu has reported two international passengers – one from the UK and another from Singapore – who have tested positive for coronavirus at the Chennai and Tiruchirapalli international airports respectively. Following this, the airports in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore started compulsory testing of passengers arriving from the ‘at-risk’ nations listed by the Union health ministry, Subramanian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-this-district-in-tamil-nadu-has-decided-to-close-shops-public-places-for-unvaccinated-101638598531809.html
04-12-2021||India||Govt clears ₹5,100-cr project to make AK-203 rifles with Russia in Amethi||NEW DELHI: The government has cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector. The decision comes ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by PM Modi, on Wednesday approved the ₹5,100-crore project to jointly manufacture the rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi.“The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said one of the officials.The AK-203 assault rifles will replace the in-service INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago.“The project will provide business opportunities to various Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and other defence firms for supply of raw material and components, which will lead to the generation of new employment opportunities,” he said.The project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL). It has been created with the erstwhile OFB (now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited) of India, and Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov of Russia.Last month, the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted some key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 assault rifles to be made in India with the transfer of technology from Russia.Putin’s visit to India will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is expected to coincide with Putin’s visit.India and Russia last week announced they will hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Modi and Putin.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.
04-12-2021||India||India reports 8,603 new Covid-19 cases, 415 deaths in 24 hours, active cases below 100,000 for 4th day||India on Saturday saw its daily Covid-19 caseload fall marginally after 8,603 new cases were reported from across the country. Also 415 more people succumbed to their infections in the last 24 hours. With this, the total confirmed cases reached 34,624,360 and the death toll climbed to 470,530, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/VsqAenW96E pic.twitter.com/ytxhaDx7EHThe active caseload virtually remained at the same level as earlier after it fell by only two cases and stood at 99,974. It went below the 100,000-mark on December 1 and has remained so for the fourth straight day.“Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.29%; Lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.As many as 8,190 people recovered from the illness in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative recoveries so far to 34,053,856 with a recovery rate of 98.35%.Also read | Omicron variant: What we know so far on cases in India and vaccine efficacyWith 1,252,596 samples tested for the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the total samples tested so far stood at 646,026,786, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s immunisation drive crossed the 1.26-billion mark – 1,265,344,975 doses administered as of 8am – according to the latest data. Also, more than 213 million doses of the vaccine remain unutilised with states and Union territories, the ministry said.“More than 138 crore (1,38,95,38,030) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through Govt of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. More than 21.38 Cr (21,38,89,971) balance and unutilized COVID Vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered,” it said in a statement.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, during the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, said that the Centre is taking measures to tackle the new Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant. Regarding booster doses and vaccination of children, he said that the Centre would only go by scientific advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-603-new-covid-19-cases-415-deaths-in-24-hours-active-cases-below-100-000-for-4th-day-101638595468287.html
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad to hit Andhra Pradesh: Govt evacuates over 54 thousands; 11 NDRF teams deployed||More than 54 thousand people were evacuated from the three districts of Andhra Pradesh as cyclone Jawad is likely to hit the northern coastal area of the state. The Andhra Pradesh government moved 15,755 people from Srikakulam district, 1,700 from Vizianagaram and 36,553 from Visakhapatnam to safety, according to news agency ANI.As many as 11 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and five teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed for relief work. Along with this, six coast guard and ten marine police teams are also in place for rescue work.AK Satpathy of divisional railway, said “Waltair Division of East Coast Railway is prepared to face the challenges posed by cyclone Jawad." “We are in touch with the state govt, SDRF, NDRF and other agencies. Our personnel are on alert and in full preparedness," he also said. The state government has also set up 197 relief camps in schools and community halls. Village secretaries and District collectors are working throughout the night.Meanwhile, two helicopters are also kept on standby for emergency situations. In view of the cyclone, the state government has released ₹1 crore to tackle any unforeseen situation, ANI also reported.As depression over the southeast Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify as Cyclonic Storm, 'Jawad' and moving North Westerly direction and is likely to cross the coasts of north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha on Saturday morning, Indian Navy is closely monitoring the movement of the Cyclonic Storm.According to the Met department, Cyclone Jawad lay centred at 5:30 pm of Friday over the west central Bay of Bengal, about 300 km south-SE of Visakhapatnam, 420 km nearly south of Gopalpur, 480 km south-SW of Puri & 560 km south-southwest of Paradip.The weather department has forecasted heavy to very heavy rainfall. The winds would range up to 90-100 kmph accompanied by tidal waves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-to-hit-andhra-pradesh-govt-evacuates-over-54-thousands-11-ndrf-teams-deployed-101638591449739.html
04-12-2021||India||Navy Day 2021: President, other leaders remember success of 'Operation Trident'||The Indian Navy is commemorating it’s the success of its ‘Operation Trident’ during the 1971 War by marking the Navy Day. President Ram Nath Kovind and many senior leaders greeted the naval personnel and the families on the occasion.“On Navy Day, greetings to all Navy personnel, veterans and their families. Besides safeguarding maritime security and protecting our interests in the sea, our Navy also played a stellar role in coping with the COVID-19 related crises. Indians remain grateful for your service,” President Kovind said on Twitter.On Navy Day, greetings to all Navy personnel, veterans and their families. Besides safeguarding maritime security and protecting our interests in the sea, our Navy also played a stellar role in coping with the COVID-19 related crises. Indians remain grateful for your service.Defence minister Rajnath Singh called Navy an “outstanding force” which protects national interest.“On this special day commemorating Indian Navy’s daring ‘Operation Trident’ during #1971War, my greetings and best wishes to all personnel of this outstanding force which continues to protect our National Interest through Maritime Security,” he said in his tweet.On this special day commemorating Indian Navy’s daring ‘Operation Trident’ during #1971War, my greetings and best wishes to all personnel of this outstanding force which continues to protect our National Interest through Maritime Security.#SwarnimVijayVarsh @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/bcbQG45svNOn December 4, during the 1971 Indo-Pak War, the Indian Navy played a significant role in the bombing of Karachi harbour, when Operation Trident was launched. Owing to its success, since then December 4 is celebrated as Navy Day."On the occasion of Navy Day2021, we reaffirm Indian Navy's unwavering commitment to preserve, protect and promote India's maritime interest, pay homage to supreme sacrifices of our bravehearts and express gratitude to our veterans,” said Admiral R Hari Kumar.Other leaders too, like Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also wished the Navy on the occasion.“Greetings to our brave Indian Navy personnel and their families on the special occasion of #NavyDay. The nation is proud of our valorous Naval force for their commitment towards securing India's maritime interests and helping the countrymen during the civil emergencies,” Shah said on Twitter.Greetings to our brave Indian Navy personnel and their families on the special occasion of #NavyDay.The nation is proud of our valorous Naval force for their commitment towards securing India's maritime interests and helping the countrymen during the civil emergencies.“Salute to the bravery of all the navy personnel serving to protect the country's maritime borders. Wishing you all a very Happy Indian Navy Day. We are all proud of your unwavering commitment, valour and courage to serve and protect the nation,” Adityanath said on Koo.Operation Trident caused heavy damage to Pakistan’s vessels. It was during this operation that an anti-ship missile ship was used for the first time. Nearly 300 soldiers laid down their lives and around 700 were injured during the course of this particular operation.During Operation Trident, the Indian Navy sank four Pakistani vessels and severely damaged Karachi harbour fuel fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-day-2021-president-other-leaders-remember-operation-trident-success-101638590276868.html
04-12-2021||India||Mahua Moitra says she stands by her tweets on Adani, after Mamata-Adani meeting||Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra was questioned on Friday about her stand on Adani following West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's meeting with Gautam Adani, as in past she has remained a vociferous critic of the industrialist. Making a collection of all of Moitra's past tweets against Adani, CPM leader MD Salim tweeted it is only a matter of time before the Trinamool MP deletes her old tweets. Some Twitter users also claimed that Moitra has deleted her old tweets on Adani. Moitra said she has not deleted those tweets as she stands by what she had said. "Tweets are still there. I stand by them," the Trinamool MP said. Tweets are still there. I stand by themGautam Adani met Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on Thursday evening and investment prospects were discussed in the 90-minute meeting. Mamata Banerjee invited Adani to the Bengal Global Business Summit in Kolkata on April 20. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited to inaugurate the summit.
04-12-2021||India||Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor: How ₹8,300 crore project will boost connectivity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday lay the foundation stone for the Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor, which will be built at a cost of around ₹8,300 crore.The new road will significantly cut the travel time between Delhi and Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun from the present six hours to 2.5 hours.According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi will also inaugurate and lay foundation stones for various other projects, which will improve infrastructure. "A significant focus of the visit will be on projects to improve road infrastructure, which will make travel smooth and safer, and also increase tourism in the region. This is in line with the vision of the Prime Minister to boost connectivity in the areas which were once considered far-flung," the PMO said in a release.Here’s everything you need to know about the road connecting Delhi with Dehradun:• The Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor will stretch from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun.• The corridor is likely to reduce the distance between Delhi and Dehradun from 235 kilometres to 210 kilometres.• It will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut.• The proposed road will also have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor - or around 12 kilometres - for unrestricted wildlife movement, according to PMO.• Since Uttarakhand is known for its natural beauty and a rich wildlife, the corridor will also have animal passes for avoiding animal-vehicle collisions. These passes will primarily be built in the Ganeshpur-Dehradun section.• A serious thought has been given not let the rainwater go waste. The economic corridor will have arrangements for rainwater harvesting at intervals of 500 metres and over 400 water recharge points.• The greenfield alignment project from Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor, connecting Halgoa, Saharanpur to Bhadrabad, Haridwar will be constructed at a cost of over ₹2,000 crore.• Also being inaugurated are the road widening project from Devprayag to Srikot, and from Brahmpuri to Kodiyala on NH-58, under Char Dham road connectivity project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhidehradun-economic-corridor-how-the-project-will-boost-connectivity-101638588505243.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Modi to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor today and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi in Dehradun today, to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic CorridorPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand on Saturday, where he is scheduled to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects including the ambitious Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor worth around ₹18,000 crore. Read more‘Will discuss how agitation moves forward’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait on key SKM meeting todaySome key decisions regarding the future course of action about the ongoing farmers’ protest are likely to be decided during a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions, to be held on Saturday. Read more'It is a no-brainer that he was not out': Five former India, New Zealand cricketers debate over Kohli's dubious LBW callThere were two big talking points from Day 1 of the second Test between India and New Zealand being played at Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says Aaradhya found his Bob Biswas look ‘cute’, reveals Aishwarya Rai-Jaya Bachchan’s reactionAround a decade ago, Abhishek Bachchan was offered the role of Bob Biswas in Kahaani but was forced to turn it down. The film became a sleeper hit and the character, which was essayed by Saswata Chatterjee, became so popular that it got a standalone film of its own. Read moreKiara Advani's yellow sharara is an absolute steal for wedding haldi look, brides-to-be take notesActor Kiara Advani is taking contemporary ethnic fashion to new heights. And each look is equally better. Recently, the star wore a note-worthy lehenga set that had all the makings of a perfect wedding look. Read moreOmicron scare: Karnataka govt says one patient ‘escaped’One of the Omicron infected patients in Karnataka escaped, the state govt said on December 3. The 66-year-old South African fled after taking a covid negative certificate from a private lab. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101638587406104.html
04-12-2021||India||‘Will discuss how agitation moves forward’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait on key SKM meeting today||Some key decisions regarding the future course of action about the ongoing farmers’ protest are likely to be decided during a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions, to be held on Saturday. The meeting comes as the Union government has taken back the three contentious farm laws by passing the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session.The farmers have said that the repeal was only one among several of their demands, including a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said that the meeting would mainly discuss how the demonstrations would move further. “Our demand for MSP is from the Government of India. The talks have just started, we will see how it goes. We won't develop any strategies today, we will only discuss how the agitation moves forward,” news agency ANI quoted Tikait as saying.The comment from Tikait came after a meeting between Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and farmer leaders from the state on Friday. “Talks between Haryana CM and farmers yesterday remained inconclusive, although they have agreed to take back the cases registered against farmers. Like Punjab, we need state-wise compensation for deaths of farmers and employment,” Tikait said about this meeting.Also read | Approached by Centre to join panel proposed by PM Modi: SKMThe farmers met Khattar with a list of demands that included the withdrawal of cases against the farmers who took part in the protests, compensation and a government job to the families of those that lost their lives during the protests and space for setting up a memorial at Kundli border. However, the farmer leaders after the meeting said that it remained inconclusive with no guarantee or agreement of any kind reached with the CM regarding the demands.Following the meeting, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), said that the farmers would decide the next course of action during the SKM’s meeting on the day. “The net result after our talks is that there was no agreement reached on our demands,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.“We did not get a satisfactory reply from the government. Talks broke down and the rest we will decide in tomorrow's SKM meeting,” he added.On November 28, the SKM called off a planned tractor march to Parliament on November 29 and said that it would wait until December 4 for the Union government to formally respond to its demands, which it had stated in an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had urged the protesting farmers to return to their homes after the repeal of the farm laws. During the Winter Session, Tomar also informed the Lok Sabha that the Centre had no record of the number of farmers who died during the protests and the question of giving financial aid or compensation to their families “does not arise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-how-agitation-moves-forward-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-on-key-skm-meeting-today-101638587574664.html
04-12-2021||India||Mysterious lights in sky leave Pathankot residents puzzled||The residents of Punjab’s Pathankot were surprised to see a line of bright light in the night sky on Friday. The phenomenon also generated a lot of buzz on social media platforms like Twitter.According to locals, the ray of mysterious lights darting through the sky was spotted at around 7pm and was visible for five minutes.The lights could be seen blinking in a straight line.There has been no official word about these lights, nor has any expert offered any comment. But the phenomenon generated a lot of chatter on Twitter.Mysterious lights seen in the sky in Jammu and Punjab's Pathankot.Yeah i saw it too today evening at PathankotThis is not the first time that such a thing has been seen in the night sky. Mysterious rows of bright blinking lights were seen gliding across the sky in Gujarat's Junagadh in June this year. It had triggered speculation of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs).In videos and pictures of the phenomenon that surfaced online, about four to seven bright shining lights could be seen gliding in the row in the sky. However, the experts dismissed the reports that it was a UFO.Narottam Sahoo, Advisor at Gujarat Council of Science and Technology (GUJCOST), had said that the light sighting could be because of some satellite passing through the low earth orbit.He had added that there are more than 3,000 satellites functional in the lower orbit of the Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysterious-lights-in-sky-leave-pathankot-residents-puzzled-101638586490284.html
04-12-2021||India||'Do not switch off mobiles, not right way': Karnataka minister as foreign nationals go missing||Amid reports of several foreign nationals becoming untraceable after landing in Bengaluru, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the police are efficient enough to track these people, but this is not the right way. Passengers should behave responsibly. "But my appeal is that no one should switch off their mobiles and go untraceable. It is not the right way. They should behave responsibly," the minister said.Karnataka which has reported two Omicron cases is not alone in facing the problem of missing international passengers. Chief medical officer of Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, Dr Akhilesh Mohan said some foreign nationals have given wrong mobile numbers and addresses to the administration. At least 13 out of 297 foreign returnees have done this, Dr Mohan told ANI.In Chandigarh, a woman who returned from South Africa reportedly broke home quarantine and went to a five-star hotel inviting strict action from the administration.Two Omicron cases have been confirmed in India while several suspected samples have been submitted for genome sequencing. The first Omicron case was also a South African national who flew to Dubai after testing Covid negative within days of testing positive.The Karnataka government has already ordered a probe into the first case of Omicron in the state as well as the country as the South African national travelled to Dubai within a week after testing positive. According to reports, he tested negative at a private testing facility which has now come on the radar of the government. However, all his primary and secondary contacts have tested negative."The person (66-year-old) had isolated at a hotel and he has gone from there (outside the country). First, his (Covid test) report came positive and then the re-test came negative. Whether there was any mishandling, whether the lab tests were accurate or were there any wrongdoing, the police commissioner has been directed to investigate this," revenue minister R Ashoka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-switch-off-mobiles-not-right-way-karnataka-minister-as-foreign-nationals-go-missing-101638581400071.html
04-12-2021||India||PM Modi in Dehradun today, to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand on Saturday, where he is scheduled to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects including the ambitious Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor worth around ₹18,000 crore.According to the statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) will be built at a cost of around ₹8,300 crore.Apart from this, he will also lay the foundation stone of 10 development projects and inaugurate seven others. Most of these projects are focused on improving the road infrastructure of Dehradun, making travel safer to the city, situated at the foothills of the Himalayas.What is the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor project?After completion, the Delhi-Dehradun Corridor will reduce the travel time from the national capital to the city of Uttarkhand to 2.5 hours. Currently, by road, it takes about six hours to reach there from Delhi.It will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunanagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut.The corridor will also have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor (12 km) for unrestricted wildlife movement. Also, the 340-metre long tunnel near Dat Kaali temple, Dehradun will help reduce the impact on wildlife, the government has stated.The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor will have arrangements for rainwater harvesting at intervals of 500 meters and over 400 water recharge points.The corridor is expected to boost the overall economy of the region. In the statement, the government said that this project will provide seamless connectivity and reduce logistics costs.The construction of the Delhi-Dehradun corridor is also expected to give impetus to the development of tourism, especially in Haridwar, a popular pilgrimage site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-dehradun-today-to-lay-foundation-of-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-101638579999800.html
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh districts to receive heavy rainfall||Cyclone Jawad is likely to reach off north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts by Saturday morning after the deep depression intensified into a cyclonic storm on Friday noon. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted rainfall to pick up the intensity on December 4 as Cyclone Jawad moves along the coast to make landfall the next day near Odisha’s Puri. After a pre-cyclone watch was issued on December 1, the Met department issued alerts related to heavy rain and high wind speed for Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Gangetic Plains of West Bengal and some northeastern states.Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are expected to witness the maximum impact of Cyclone Jawad as the squally wind that started along and off north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts on the intervening night of December 3-4 is likely to reach up to 7–80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph by Saturday evening.On Saturday, heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over north coastal Andhra Pradesh. IMD has issued a red alert for Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram in view of heavy rainfall along with high wind speed.A few places over coastal Odisha is expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall while isolated places in the region are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall. Isolated places over West Bengal are also likely to receive heavy to heavy rainfall as Cyclone Jawad changes the route to move north-northeastward.‘Evacuate, follow protocols’: Union secretary to states ahead of cyclone JawadThe Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy falls (more than 20 cm) over Odisha's Gajapati, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur districts on Saturday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected over Koraput, Rayagada, Kandhamal, Nayagarh, Khordha, Cuttack, and Kendrapara.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the west-central and northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts through December 5.Major damage to thatched houses and breaking of tree branches and uprooting of trees are expected as the cyclone reaches near the coast. Power and communication lines can also witness minor disruption. Intense rainfall could cause localised flooding of roads, inundation and water logging in low lying areas. Disruption of traffic in major cities is also possible due to waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-odisha-north-andhra-pradesh-districts-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-101638576979700.html
04-12-2021||India||'Doubtful': Karnataka to probe how SA national with Omicron got negative result in 3 days||The Karnataka government has ordered a probe into the test report of the 66-year-old South African national who was one of the first Omicron cases in India. All his primary and secondary contacts have tested negative, but questions arise as to how he could fly out of the country while the genome sequencing result of his sample was awaited. Within a week after testing positive, the South African man flew to Dubai showing a negative RT-PCR report, which he got at a private Covid testing centre.The person reached Bengaluru on November 20 and left on November 27. He tested positive on his arrival and a government doctor visited him at the hotel where he was lodged. Since he had no symptoms, he was advised to self-isolate. His samples were again taken for genome sequencing since he came from an 'at-risk' country. A day later, on November 23, he got tested at a private facility where his report came negative.Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner has been directed to file a case at the city's High Ground Police Station in this regard. . "Two reports- one positive and one negative- is doubtful. So the lab must be investigated. So we have asked the police commissioner to investigate immediately in coordination with the health department," the chief minister said.Going by the negative results of the primary and the secondary contacts of the South African national, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar earlier said his certificate may be true. "The 66-year-old, who has left for South Africa, via Dubai, had presented a negative certificate for the virus, from a private lab. His primary and secondary contacts were found negative. So it means to say that his certificate may be true," he said, as quoted by ANI.The decision of investigation comes as around 57 international passengers who arrived from African countries between November 12 and 22 are believed to be missing after their arrival at the Bengaluru airport. The officials realised they were incommunicado when they tried contacting them to send samples for genomic sequencing to ascertain if they had the Omicron variant.Revenue minister R Ashok said, "They will be tracked and tested. The authorities have been given directions in this regard."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-probe-how-sa-national-with-omicron-got-negative-result-in-3-days-101638575726625.html
04-12-2021||India||Pollution body widens closure order: All schools in NCR shut||After the Delhi government closed all schools in the city due to high pollution levels, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) expanded the closure order to the entire national capital region (NCR) from Friday -- a move that some experts said will hit learning outcomes while not preventing the air crisis that young people face.The Supreme Court, during a hearing related to air quality measures in the Capital, on Friday lamented that it was sought to be portrayed as a “villain” for trying to get schools shut although it did not pass any such order.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, clarified that it did not give any direction to the effect, nor did it suggest that the Delhi government must shut schools; all it did on Thursday was to ask the Delhi government for reasons behind reopening them even as pollution levels were high.“We don’t know whether its intentional or not [but] some sections of media try to project as if we are villains, and we want closure of schools. You (Delhi government) had said we were closing schools and introducing work from home. Then you yourself opened the schools. So, we asked for reasons,” the bench, which included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the Delhi government.On Thursday, the top court pulled up the Delhi government for reopening schools on November 29, asking if it was prudent to expose young children to bad air and toxic smog while adults were still working from home.“Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather...You have implemented work for home for the employees. So, parents work from home and children have to go to schools. What’s this?” it asked.Singhvi replied at the time that the city government could reconsider its decision if the court wanted this, prompting the CJI to retort: “Don’t use our shoulders to fire shots. You are the government. You do your work.”Hours later, the Delhi government announced closure of schools until further orders. By a late-night order on Thursday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the NCR and Adjoining Areas directed for closure of all schools and colleges in the NCR, except for the purpose of conducting examinations and laboratory practical.On Friday, the bench regretted the way a section of the media reported the proceedings from a day ago about the discussion on closure of schools in the national capital, and sought to clarify that the court only enquired about the latest position since the Delhi government’s last affidavit said all schools were shut.“Some section started projecting after yesterday’s hearing as if we are not concerned about welfare and education of children. Freedom of press is there...we cannot take it away. They can twist, write anything. You are a political party. You can have a press conference and say something, we cannot,” it further told Singhvi.Singhvi agreed with the bench, complaining that reports reflecting Thursday’s proceedings in a tenor of administrative combat or as if the court wanted to take over the administration.“Where did we say that we are interested in taking over administration? The fact of the matter is that neither the court said anything like that nor did we suggest anything like that,” retorted the bench.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, supported Singhvi in his submissions, adding the court had not issued any mandate to the Delhi government on closure of schools.Delhi has been in the grip of hazardous pollution since November, a bad air spike that was first fuelled largely by smoke from stubble fires in Haryana and Punjab. However, while they ebbed out towards the end of November, pollution levels have remained either in the upper reaches of the ‘very poor’ zone or in the ‘severe’ level.The air quality index (AQI) on Friday improved to 349 (very poor) after light rain and stronger winds throughout the previous day, when the AQI was 429 (severe).Schools in Delhi have been shut four separate times since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice in less than three weeks because of the pollution. Experts have, however, repeatedly pointed that the pollution levels are as bad indoors as they are outside, if not worse. Further, they have also flagged concerns over the mental health impact and learning gaps that the repeated interruptions have caused.On Friday, the bench allowed the Delhi government’s application to let it go ahead with construction work related to hospitals in the city. The application sought permission for construction activities for seven new Covid hospitals at Shalimar Bagh, Kirari, Sultanpuri, Raghubir Nagar, Sarita Vihar, GTB Hospital and Chacha Nehru Hospital.The plea stated that the work for these Covid hospitals had begun in October but had to be stopped due to a ban on construction activities. It added that six months will be required to complete the work.The city government also submitted a list of another 19 hospitals where some additional and remodelling work had to be carried out. Mehta supported the Delhi government’s application.The top court allowed the plea subject to city government’s compliance with the guidelines laid down by CAQM.On Thursday, the court criticised the Delhi government for reopening schools in the city despite air quality remaining in “hazardous” category.“One thing you told us was that schools are closed. But schools are not closed. Small children have to go in morning in fog. Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather,” the bench told Singhvi.Singhvi, however, maintained that the Delhi government has taken strongest possible measures to control pollution and that there is no dilution of the court order. He admitted that schools in the city have reopened from November 29, adding that children have also been given the option of online studies instead of physical classes.“There are various reports on learning loss due to school closure during the pandemic and therefore, it was decided to reopen the schools with the option of online teaching,” Singhvi argued.
04-12-2021||India||Don’t implement entry, exit regulations for outsiders, HC directs Meghalaya govt||SHILLONG: The Meghalaya high court on Friday blocked the implementation of entry and exit rules to the state under the Meghalaya Residents Safety and Security Act 2016 that required non-residents to register at check-posts.A two-judge bench of the high court comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice T Diengdoh told the government to “let the matter stand over for some time” after the government’s law officer sought time to seek information from the government to respond to the bench’s many questions.The bench noted that though the state government referred to Article 19(5) of the Constitution while drawing up the Act, the grounds on which entry to or movement within the state may be regulated have not been spelt out in the impugned statute or any rules framed thereunder.Article 19(5) grants the government the power to impose reasonable restrictions upon the freedom to move freely throughout India and the freedom to reside or settle in any part of the territory of the country in the interest of the general public or the protection of the interests of any Scheduled Tribe. “The challenge here is to the validity of the Meghalaya Residents Safety and Security Act, 2016 and the possible draconian manner in which it may be implemented as appropriately apprehended by the petitioners,” the bench said.“It is made clear that the apparent omnibus charter conferred by the impugned statute without indicating any parameters for restricting or regulating the entry or movement of Indian citizens into and within the state may be not exercised,” the judges added.The case has been listed for hearing on February 2 next year.Petitioner Ibanhunlang Nongkynrih submitted that gates have been set up at several points for checks to be conducted on persons seeking to enter the state without any objective parameters being set down for denying entry or regulating the movement of any citizen of the country in the state. The petitioner had also said that such check-posts may be “impermissible” and the exercise of may be “wholly arbitrary”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-implement-entry-exit-regulations-for-outsiders-hc-directs-meghalaya-govt-101638562494412.html
04-12-2021||India||Want to see progress on Taliban’s commitments on counterterror: EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson||The European Union (EU) wants to see movement on commitments made by the Taliban set up in Kabul, including on humanitarian access, counterterrorism and the formation of an inclusive government, EU special envoy for Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson said on Friday. The EU and India are close on most issues related to Afghanistan, including the need not to isolate the Afghan people even as there is no recognition of the interim government formed by the Taliban, Niklasson said in an interview. The two sides are also on the same page regarding the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people, he said. Though the Taliban setup has revoked Afghanistan’s constitution, broken promises it made while negotiating an agreement with the US and is unclear about its international obligations, the EU believes the interim government is a “reality for now” and it is better to have a dialogue with the Taliban than to close all doors, he said. “Afghanistan cannot [and] must not be allowed to become a threat to its neighbours or other countries. And this is not something we are waiting to see happen. It takes decisions, it takes action from the de facto authorities,” Niklasson said. Referring to his talks in Doha with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi over the weekend, Niklasson said he had talked about humanitarian access, the importance of having women aid workers, safe passage for Afghans who feel threatened and want to leave the country, and human rights, where “a lot needs to be done”. “We talked about girls’ education, where there’s a strong commitment now at least on paper...This needs to be translated, it needs to happen,” he said. “Where I see less movement is on inclusivity, of having a government representing minorities or ethnic communities, having women in the government or a government representing different political affiliations,” he added. Though India and the EU are far away geographically and very different entities, there has been “strong convergence or even an overlap” in the position of both sides on Afghanistan, especially on human rights and the call for the Afghan people to shape their future, Niklasson said. “I thought perhaps before my visit that India would be even more focused on the security aspects and that would be very understandable...but I also find that there is quite a lot of similarity...None of us wants to isolate the Afghan people, [and] none of us is ready to recognise the interim government,” he said. “But we both, in different ways, try to see that dialogue in some form is still needed. We both focus on humanitarian assistance as a first and immediate priority,” he said, adding that the EU had increased its humanitarian aid fivefold, from 60 million euros to 300 million euros while member states have pledged an additional 400 million euros. “Afghanistan is in a rough winter because winter is already here... But the needs are enormous, and the projections for next year are even bigger,” he said. Niklasson acknowledged there are numerous problems associated with the unfreezing of Afghan assets in countries such as the US, the UK, Germany and Switzerland, but said discussions are ongoing to find a solution that benefits the Afghan people. Niklasson also noted the threat posed by Islamic State-Khorasan, which has been blamed for a series of high-profile terror attacks across Afghanistan, many of them targeting the Shia minority. He said it was unclear if the IS affiliate was a single movement or a set of movements. “First of all, (there is) the risk (or) the potential breeding ground, if you like. The market for recruiting fighters will be there. We have disgruntled or disappointed Taliban, who have known for months or years, or sometimes longer, how to use a gun. And suddenly they’re more or less out of a job,” he said. “I don’t want to exaggerate it, but we have members of the former Afghan national security forces who certainly know how to use a gun, or some of them would certainly hold a grudge against the Taliban. And some of them would certainly be looking for an income,” he added. 
04-12-2021||India||‘Evacuate, follow protocols’: Union secretary to states ahead of cyclone Jawad||Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday chaired the second meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) to review the preparedness of the states and central ministries or agencies ahead of cyclone Jawad's landfall. This comes after his meeting on Wednesday wherein Gauba emphasised on fishermen and vessels at sea to immediately return to the coast and evacuation of people from vulnerable areas at the earliest.During the meeting, chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands informed the NCMC that all efforts are currently underway to make sure fishermen at sea safely return before the landfall of cyclone Jawad. They said that cyclone shelters have been readied and evacuation process of people living in low-lying regions are also ongoing.Meanwhile, arrangements to “stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies” have also been made. “Team for maintenance and restoration of power, roads and water supply, and other essential services have also been positioned,” an official release stated, adding that harvesting of standing crops is also underway to curtail damages of the cyclone.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also deployed teams across the three states, of which, some have been kept on standby as well. Apart from them, rescue and relief teams of the Indian Army and Navy along with aircrafts and ships have also been readied for relief operations.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad landfall: Trains cancelled and schools shut in Andhra, 46 NDRF teams deployed in 3 statesGauba emphasised on obeying of all protocols to ensure there is no scope for loss of lives and damage to property is minimised. He added that fishermen and vessels that are out at the sea currently “must be accounted for by the concerned states” for which Coast Guard and other central agencies would assist them, according to the official release.The Union cabinet secretary asked authorities to carry out public messaging in order to make sure that people living in the path of cyclone Jawad are given suitable instructions and guidance during the period of the storm. Furthermore, the states were directed to ensure all of their Covid-19 hospitals function without interruption during the landfall process and aftermath of cyclone Jawad.Senior officers and secretaries from ministries or department of home affairs, civil aviation, ports, railways, NDRF, and India Meteorological Department (IMD), among others, also attended the meeting.A deep depression over Bay of Bengal turned into cyclone Jawad at 11.30am on Friday. According to the IMD, the cyclone will pass the coasts of north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha on Saturday before changing its course and making a landfall near Odisha's Puri on Sunday noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evacuate-follow-protocols-union-secretary-to-states-ahead-of-cyclone-jawad-101638558074050.html
04-12-2021||India||BJP inducts Goa Forward Party’s ex-MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar, says more are coming||PANAJI: Goa Forward legislator Jayesh Salgaonkar was formally inducted into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday by Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade and other leaders. His entry into the BJP will be the first of many in the runup to the Goa elections early next year, Sawant has claimed. “There are still many who are scheduled to join us. They are asking us, when should we join? We have asked them to wait for some time, as we are inducting people one by one,” Sawant said addressing the group of Jayesh’ supporters who gathered outside the Goa BJP headquarters where the formal induction took place. “Over the next two, two-and-a-half months there will be many who will join the BJP. BJP doors are open for all workers and leaders,” Sawant added. His comments come amid reports that Congress MLA Ravi Naik, whose sons Ritesh and Roy joined the BJP last year, is looking to switch sides to the BJP. Salgaonkar was inducted as a minister in the state cabinet after the Vijai Sardesai-led Goa Forward Party (GFP) extended support to the BJP to enable it to form the government back in 2017. He was dropped from Pramod Sawant’s council of ministers after 10 Congress lawmakers joined the BJP in 2019 and the BJP didn’t need Sardesai’s party. Before he resigned, Salgaonkar represented the Saligao constituency in north Goa which he wrested from the BJP in 2017 defeating then sitting minister Dilip Parulekar on a GFP ticket.But his entry into the BJP is expected to lead to some complications on the Saligao seat where local party leaders expect his induction to make it impossible for any of the local party leaders to qualify for a party ticket.The opposition to Salgaonkar’s entry forced state BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade to dissolve a local block unit as its members gathered at the party headquarters and raised slogans against the leadership. The members accused the leadership of “using and throwing” the hardworking functionaries and betraying the party principles.Salgaonkar, however, said he was eager to work with the existing block members and would reach out to them to resolve differences if any. On Thursday, GFP issued a notice to Salgaonkar asking him to respond to his “constant anti-party activities.” It cited his “behaviour and conduct” and said it clearly indicates his intent is to work with the BJP “for personal gains thereby compromising the values and policies of the party”. He was given 24 hours to respond.Salgaonkar is the second lawmaker to resign from the assembly since Congress’s Luizinho Faleiro quit to defect to the Trinamool Congress in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-inducts-goa-forward-party-s-ex-mla-jayesh-salgaonkar-says-more-are-coming-101638560094064.html
04-12-2021||India||Kerala to pull up 5,000 unvaccinated teachers||The Kerala government on Monday decided to go after 5000-odd teachers and school staff who refused to take Covid-19 vaccine citing flimsy reasons including their belief. The education ministry has issued a circular asking them to appear before a medical board and furnish exact details for not taking vaccine. Most of them have cited health reasons to bypass the jab and some of them openly said it was against their belief. The ministry has warned strict action against them if the reason given is invalid or flimsy. The HT had carried a detailed report on this on Sunday. “We will constitute medical team and they will have to appear before them. We will take action against those who take flimsy reasons like belief. For the government safety of children is utmost,” a senior official of the health ministry said. Education Minister V Sivankutty on Sunday warned strict action against them. Many health activists and teacher’ organisations have asked the government to create proper awareness among the reluctant and force them to take vaccine in the larger interest of the state and safety of children. In some Muslim-dominated areas in north Kerala there is opposition to vaccine from orthodox sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-pull-up-5-000-unvaccinated-teachers-101638560034107.html
04-12-2021||India||Landslide-hit Tirumala road may take up to a month to repair||The landslides triggered by heavy rains on the hills of Tirumala, a major pilgrim centre in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, in the early hours of Wednesday caused extensive damage to the ghat road so much so that it would take at least three to four weeks to bring it back to normalcy, officials said.The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the temple of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala, has roped in a team of engineering experts from Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and Chennai, to find a permanent solution to prevent landslides in future, as thousands of pilgrims travel on the ghat road every day.TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy, who held a meeting with the experts from the IITs and engineering officials on Friday, said the second ghat road (used for upward journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to the hill shrine of Tirumala), and its retaining walls, which suffered huge damages due to the Wednesday’s landslides, would be restored at least by December end.Reddy asked the experts and engineers to suggest measures to ensure that the remaining part of the hill which caved in resulting in massive boulders falling on the ghat road, should not witness further landslides.This is the second time in less than two weeks that the ghat road was closed for traffic due to landslides caused by heavy rains. “The parts of the hill, identified as potential threat to the pilgrims travelling on the ghat road be sealed using chemical technology or removed carefully. The safety of the pilgrims is paramount and we are prepared to spend any amount of money to prevent further landslides,” the TTD chairman said.He asked the experts – K S Rao from IIT, Delhi and S Sripad from IIT Madras, along with retired chief engineer of TTD Ramachandra Reddy – to come up with a report on how to avert further landslides in future.A senior official of the TTD said the team of experts, who went round the areas where landslides occurred to study the nature of rocks and the causes for the landslides, is expected to submit the report to the TTD by Tuesday.“According to preliminary assessment, it would take at least three months to come up with a lasting solution for the landslides on Tirumala,” the official said.Expert from Delhi IIT K S Rao told reporters that unprecedented rains on the Tirumala hills for over a week, resulted in the landslides. “The rocks that rolled down the hills were of the weight of 30-40 tons each and hence caused extensive damage to the ghat road and the retainer walls at four to five places. There is a likelihood of rock falls in five to six other spots in future,” he said.Rao said there were rain-triggered landslides on the Tirumala ghat road in 2017, too, but this time, the magnitude was high. “During 2017, critical spots were cushioned with mesh fencing, rock belting and other such means of technology,” he said.The experts call for creation of a proper drainage system along the ghat roads and the Seshachalam forest and hill ranges. Meanwhile, the TTD chairman directed that the authorities take steps for allowing traffic through a link road that connects the second ghat road.
04-12-2021||India||Bengaluru civic body expands contact tracing to locate Omicron variant source||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials on Friday said the civic agency will expand contact tracing of patient number two to identify the source of Omicron variant in him. A day after the new Covid-19 variant was identified in two patients, officials of the health department and BBMP remain clueless about how a person got infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus any history of international travel. Talking to HT, KV Trilok Chandra, special commissioner (health), said since the officials have not been able to identify the source of the infection, the civic agency will increase the contact tracing of the patient. “The contacts traced so far are for a few days before his infection. We will now expand to a few more weeks and if need be, we will track his contacts for the last month. We will have to trace to contacts of his contacts as well. We will be doing this in the coming days,” said the official. The second case of Omicron reported in Karnataka was that of a 46-year-old resident of Bengaluru and was working as a health care worker. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta told HT that patient number two didn’t have any contact with the South African national, who was patient number one. Health minister Dr K Sudhakar further confirmed that he was a doctor working with a private hospital in the city. He developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing. This patient had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of which, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. The five contacts of patient number two have no travel history didn’t have any travel history either. A health care expert, who is aware of the developments, said the patient is a doctor with a renowned hospital in the city. While he confirmed that he hadn’t travelled abroad, he had participated in an international conference at a five-star hotel on November 20, however, there were no overseas delegates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-civic-body-expands-contact-tracing-to-locate-omicron-variant-source-101638559797672.html
04-12-2021||India||After 2 Omicron cases, Karnataka government says 57 African passengers missing||A day after two cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus was detected in Karnataka, the government said that 57 international passengers, who arrived from African countries, remained untraceable after arrival at Bengaluru airport.Officials said efforts were on to trace them, and that expressed confidence that they would be tracked down soon.“Priority has been given to trace those 57 passengers from Africa. In the past, our police department has done a good job of tracking down those who have escaped. And our police demonstrate their efficiency and will track them all. But I urge the passengers to act responsibly and with social concern,” health minister Dr K Sudhakar said.These African nationals arrived in Bengaluru between November 12 and 22, according to officials from BBMP (the Bengaluru municipal corporation), who said that several of them switched off their phones or provided false addresses.The officials realised they were incommunicado when they tried contacting them to send samples for genomic sequencing to ascertain if they had the Omicron variant.Talking to reporters after the high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, revenue minister R Ashok said the missing international passengers will be tracked down Friday midnight. “They will be tracked and tested. The authorities have been given directions in this regard,” he said. Even in the case of patient number one, the authorities had failed to track him. While talking to the media on Friday, health minister Sudhakar had said that the government was aware of patient number one leaving the country. However, a statement from police officers tasked with tracking him said that he left the country without informing authorities. India’s Omicron patient number one is a South African who landed in Bengaluru on November 20. The p 66-year-old patient had his samples were collected on November 20 at the Kempegowda international airport on the day of his arrival from South Africa via Dubai. A report from BBMP said that after the Covid test, he checked into a hotel in the city. After he tested positive, a doctor from the Urban Primary Health Care Centre visited him for a physical triage and found him to be asymptomatic. He was asked to isolate himself at the hotel. “On November 22, his test samples were collected and sent for genomic sequencing via BBMP,” said the report. It further added that the patient took a self-examination on November 23 and was tested negative. On getting this negative report at 12.34 am on November 28, he left for Dubai from where he had come to the country. A senior Bengaluru police officer said that on November 27, health department officials had asked police to track this South African national, since his genome sequencing report was still awaited, and he was incommunicado. “That night we tracked him and by the time we got his location he was already on the flight to Dubai,” said the senior officer who requested anonymity. The revenue minister claimed they were aware of his departure, however, on Friday afternoon summoned the Bengaluru police commissioner to Chief Minister’s residence. Hours later Ashok told reporters that a case will be filed with the High Court police station in Bengaluru to investigate which lab issued the negative certificate to patient number one and if the hotel authorities violated any norms. “We’ve lodged a complaint with the police, and they will see what went wrong at the Shangri-La hotel, from where the person escaped,” said Ashok. A senior BBMP official admitted that there have been “slip-ups from authorities”. “We still don’t know from where patient number one got the variant. The lack of answers could only mean that the variant is already present in the city. It is possible that before the variant was first detected in South Africa, it arrived in Bengaluru. There is nothing much we can do in such a situation because we didn’t know about this variant,” said the official who didn’t want to be named.“But officials who were responsible for tracking international passengers have failed because a patient left the country without permission and now international passengers are missing. We can’t point fingers at anyone, it is a collective failure,” the officer added. Ashok told media on Friday that the BBMP or any other agencies have not been able to identify how the 44-year-old man without travel history got the new variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-2-omicron-cases-karnataka-government-says-57-african-passengers-missing-101638559677586.html
04-12-2021||India||Onus of withdrawing cases on farmers lies with Centre, says Samyukt Kisan Morcha||The onus of withdrawing cases registered against farmers during the course of their year-long agitation since last year lies with the Union government, even though the cultivators have been booked by state governments, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Friday.The SKM, which is a platform of over 40 farm unions, claimed that states such as Haryana, which is governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were waiting for a signal from the Centre to decide on the criminal cases against the cultivators.“(The) SKM notes that Haryana government’s representatives are repeatedly saying that they will act on the Centre’s instructions, when it comes to withdrawing hundreds of cases filed against tens of thousands of farmers,” a statement released by the platform said.The SKM asks the “government of India to move forward formally in this matter”, it added.Haryana alone has slapped over 300 cases on farmers on various charges, a prominent leader of movement, Gurnam Singh Chaduni said.The SKM’s remarks came a day ahead of a crucial meeting on their future course of action, after the Centre repealed the three contentious agricultural laws on November 29. There is an expectation in some quarters that the farmers could call off their protest and engage with the government on the issue of codifying minimum support prices, another of their demands.A day after the farm laws were repealed, Chaduni said farm unions may decide to participate in a committee proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into issues related to cultivation and minimum support prices (MSPs) if it is a “concrete” step towards guaranteeing prices of agricultural produce. If this happens, it could be a much-needed breakthrough in the deadlock between tens of thousands of protesting farmers and the Modi government.Farm unions termed the repeal as their “first major victory” but wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 22, listing their remaining demands which include bringing a law to ensure minimum support prices for farm produce, revocation of a proposed electricity bill, which farmers said would make power costlier, and compensation for all farmers who died during protests.In the statement on Friday, the farm unions reiterated their demand for compensation even as the Union government, on Wednesday, told Parliament that it has no data on farmers who died during the year-long protests, and hence, the question of compensation did not arise.“Over 700 farmers have died during the protests, whose families must be compensated because they have lost an earning member of their families,” Chaduni said.The SKM said farmers would continue to prevent BJP leaders from visiting their villages if their demands were not met. On Wednesday, several farmers gathered in Dhrauli Khera village of Uchana in Jind (Haryana) to ensure that Haryana deputy chief Dushyant Chautala did not enter the area, it added.Farm leaders said they were waiting for the Centre’s response on their demands as the repeal of what they called “black laws” were not sufficient to assuage the peasants.“We haven’t received any information or signal from the government on what it is doing to meet our pending demands. In tomorrow’s meeting, all these matters will be discussed,” Charuni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onus-of-withdrawing-cases-on-farmers-lies-with-centre-says-samyukt-kisan-morcha-101638559617614.html
04-12-2021||India||Madras high court refuses to pass order on AIADMK internal elections||The Madras high court on Wednesday refused to pass any interim order in connection with the AIADMK’s internal organisational elections to be held on December 7 which was challenged by an expelled member K C Palanisamy. Justice Abdul Quddhose said that the court cannot interfere at this stage and adjourned the case to January 7 for AIADMK’s coordinator, O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami to file counter affidavits. K C Palanisamy is a former MP who was removed from the party in March 2018. In his petition, Palanisamy claimed that declaring elections for the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator is against the bylaws of the party and illegal, unenforceable in the eyes of the law. “Notably, the defendants have flouted the mandatory requirement of 21 days notice prior to the announcement of elections,” the petition read. “The said illegal actions of the Defendants clearly evince the malafide intention to pull wool over the eyes of the the primary members including the Plaintiff by conducting election albeit in an illegal, unfair and undemocratic manner.” He further charged that O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswamy are trying to usurp the power of the General Secretary without following the electoral process which is against the Societies Registration Act, 1860.On December 1, during its executive committee meeting, the AIADMK formalised its dual leadership by making a vital change to the bylaws in the party constitution. Now, the coordinator Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Palaniswami will be internally elected by a ‘single voting system’ directly by the primary members, who have been associated with the party for five continuous years. This change has now solidified AIADMK’s dual leadership arrangement which has been in place since J Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and to keep expelled leader V K Sasikala and her supporters out. And on the following day, the AIADMK announced the elections to these top posts-coordinator and joint coordinator -- to be held on December 7. Except for Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, no other pair is expected to contest for these posts. Both Sasikala and K C Palanisamy have cases pending in court regarding previous changes made by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami. Sasikala had moved a city court against a 2017 general council meeting in which she was removed as interim general secretary and from the party while she was in prison. K C Palanisamy had challenged the appointment of Sasikala as interim general secretary and as well as the same 2017 meeting where Jayalalithaa was made AIADMK’s eternal general secretary and the power of the post was transferred to newly created posts coordinator and joint coordinator occupied by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami.
04-12-2021||India||Karnataka to allow only fully vaccinated people in public spaces amid Omicron scare||The Karnataka government on Friday announced that only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in public spaces like theatres and cinema halls, as fresh restrictions were announced to contain the growing threat of the new variant of novel coronavirus, Omicron. “The entry to malls, cinema halls/theatres shall be allowed only to the persons who are vaccinated with two dates of Covid-19 vaccine,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue said on Friday in Bengaluru. The minister added that parents of children below 18 years will have to “mandatorily be vaccinated” in order for their wards to attend physical classes. “It is reiterated that there shall be strict implementation of a five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and enforcing adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour,” according to the state’s new guidelines, which came into effect from Friday evening. The statements come a day after the Union government confirmed the first two known cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. Two cases of Omicron have been found positive in a 66-year-old man and a 46-year-old man. The fresh restrictions have raised apprehensions in the southern state where unverified WhatsApp forwards of a possible lockdown have been doing the rounds. Cabinet ministers have taken turns to give their views on the lockdown and its possible implementation in front of media cameras, adding to the confusion and apprehension of the population. The state government, meanwhile, reiterated that all events in schools and other public places have to be put off at least until January 15, 2022. However, the government said the winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi, about 500 km from Bengaluru, will start as per the schedule on December 13. “The cultural activities/fests and functions in all educational institutions should be postponed till 15th January 2022. Compulsory testing of health workers, old persons above 65 years and persons with comorbidities will be undertaken by the government,” according to the guidelines issued by the state government. The new guidelines also said that gatherings in marriages will be limited to below 500. All government officials have been asked to get fully vaccinated. “There shall be intensive containment (micro containment measures) and active surveillance in clusters/area reporting higher cases to contain the spread locally,” according to the government. According to health officials, the state government has been trying to increase its Covid-19 vaccination coverage to help reduce the impact of a possible third wave in the state. According to government data, coverage for the second dose in the state has increased to 62% while 92% eligible population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. A total of 75 million doses of vaccine have been administered till date, data said. On Friday, Karnataka and Bengaluru reported 413 and 212 new cases, taking the active caseload to 6,896 and 5,049 in the state and city, respectively, according to the government bulletin.Four more people died in a 24 hour period due to Covid- 19 which takes the toll to 38,220 so far. The state has already put in place strict guidelines, including mandatory negative RT-PCR test not more than 48 hours, for people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra. The government also made testing mandatory for all international passengers at Bengaluru and other airports in the state. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education and information technology, on Friday said several countries have implemented such restrictions. “Many countries have put some restrictions for unvaccinated people in public spaces like malls, cinema halls, schools, colleges and offices,” Narayana said. Meanwhile, health experts sounded caution over gatherings at election campaigning ahead of the polls for the state legislative council on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-allow-only-fully-vaccinated-people-in-public-spaces-amid-omicron-scare-101638559493921.html
04-12-2021||India||Bills to extend tenures of CBI, ED directors introduced in Lok Sabha||The Union government on Friday introduced two bills in the Lok Sabha to extend the terms of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) up to five years, from the current two years, even as the Opposition alleged that the amendments were done with “mala fide” intentions. Union minister of state for personnel Jitendra Singh introduced The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill 2021, and defended the amendments by saying that the “upper limit” in the tenures of the two services will not only maintain independence but also provide “continuum” in sensitive cases and legal processes like extradition of fugitives. A statement of object and reasons for the two bills said that money-laundering and corruption activities are often interlinked and unravelling the nexus through ED and CBI has not only become complex, but also has international ramifications. “Thus, investigation of such crimes requires the two investigating agencies to have robust processes and senior personnel in position for sufficiently long tenures. As such, enhancing capacity and resources for continuing oversight by the senior officers, especially the heads of the two agencies, is fundamental to the proposed re-strengthening,” it said. The bills also said that the heads of the two central agencies are an integral part of the concerted global actions against corruption and money-laundering and any legal provision or service rule restricting their tenure may prove to be “counterproductive”.The government also cited the conditions of United Nation Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to prevent corruption, combat money laundering and terror financing, which demands India to significantly enhance its capacity and resources in the agencies.“The positive outcome in India’s mutual evaluation (at FATF) is critical for the financial future of the country,” the bills said, pointing that major countries already had an established practice of longer tenures.The government further justified its move of bringing in two ordinances, last month, to empower itself to post the chiefs of the two premier investigating agencies for up to five years, saying “Parliament was not in session and there was an immediate need of legislation”.Singh said the ordinances were necessitated as Parliament remained disrupted. “Should the government stop working if the House doesn’t work,” he asked.Opposing the bills, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said the extensions were flagrant disregard of the Supreme Court observations. The Thiruvananthapuram MP said the apex court had made it clear that the extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases and the government move was “mala fide”.Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Saugata Roy contended that the two agencies were two arms of the government used to harass Opposition leaders.Congress members K Suresh, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and RSP member N K Premachandran also opposed the introduction of the bill. The members said piecemeal extensions would lead to officers’ loyalty to the government.The ED director is appointed by the central government on the recommendation of a committee chaired by the central vigilance commissioner and members comprising vigilance commissioners, home secretary, secretary DOPT and revenue secretary.The CBI chief is selected on the basis of the recommendation of a committee consisting of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Justice of India and the leader of the Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-bills-to-extend-tenures-of-cbi-ed-directors-introduced-in-lok-sabha-101638559314102.html
04-12-2021||India||Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returns as Kerala CPI(M) state secretary||Senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returned to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary’s post on Friday after a year, the party secretariat said. Balakrishnan was on leave for one year citing health reasons. Suffering from cancer, he went to the United States for treatment in December 2020 and returned after a month.Balakrishnan, a member of the party politburo, rose from the ranks--started his career as a student activist. He later was the party’s Kannur district secretary and was home minister in the V S Achuthanandan-led government. Close to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Balakrishnan is known for his organisational prowess. The main reason behind his long leave was the arrest of his second son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a drug haul in Bengaluru last year, party insiders said.Bineesh spent one-year in the jail and was granted bail by Karnataka high court last month. After his son’s arrest he offered to quit in November last year but the party granted him long leave citing his health conditions, people familiar with the developments said.Bineesh was arrested in August 2020 after the arrest of alleged drug peddler Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru, and Mohammad reportedly took Bineesh name as his business partner. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) took over the case and Bineesh was arrested and charged under Section 19 (1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. In the charge sheet, the ED said Bineesh pumped in unaccounted money into the bank account of Mohammad and took heavy returns.[Unsure if below bit has to be included] Balakrishnan’s sons have been allegedly involved in controversial rows.Balakrishnan’s first son, Binoy Kodiyeri, is also mired in a paternity case. A Mumbai-based woman accused Binoy of allegedly raping her for years on the pretext of marrying her. In her complaint with Mumbai Police, she said Binoy was exploiting her and she has an eight-year-old son out of their relationship. She said that she did not know Binoy was already married and that he repeatedly lied and promised that he would marry her. The case is pending before the Maharashtra high court now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodiyeri-balakrishnan-returns-as-kerala-cpi-m-state-secretary-101638559253334.html
04-12-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav backs Mamata Banerjee in Opposition jigsaw||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday welcomed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s initiative to forge a national front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), appearing to throw his weight behind the Trinamool Congress (TMC) that kept up its high-decibel attack on the Congress for a third straight day.Yadav, who is touring the poll-bound state to galvanise support for his party, was asked in Jhansi whether he will consider joining the Opposition alliance as envisioned by Banerjee.“I welcome Mamata Banerjee; the way she finished the BJP in Bengal, the SP will finish the BJP in Uttar Pradesh,” he said, a day after party leaders indicated that Banerjee was likely to join his statewide tour and campaign for the SP.“We will talk about this when the time comes,” he said in response to a question about when the Bengal CM was likely to join the campaign.Yadav, who was in alliance with the Congress in the previous assembly elections in UP only to slump to a miserable defeat, also said that the Congress is likely to get zero seats in the 2022 assembly elections.“I don’t know the role of the party in UP politics but the people will reject it,” he said.The TMC, too, kept up its attack on the Congress and wrote in its mouthpiece, Bengali newspaper Jago Bangla, that the Congress was in the “deep freezer”.“The TMC has been saying this for a long time that the Congress is a spent force. They don’t have the zeal to fight the BJP. The party is so bogged down by infighting that it hardly has time or energy to build an opposition,” the article titled ‘Congress in deep freezer’ said.“The country currently needs an alternative front and opposition parties have given that responsibility to Mamata Banerjee. They are looking up to her to fill the vacuum. She is presently the most popular opposition face in the country,” it said.The remarks came amid mounting tensions between the Congress and the TMC, which has been looking to aggressively expand its national footprint since its victory in the West Bengal assembly elections in May.On Wednesday, Banerjee launched an unprecedented, though veiled, attack on the Congress and said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a coalition she was a part of, didn’t exist anymore. She said if someone stayed abroad “half the time” and wasn’t on the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”, ostensibly a reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.She also pitched for Opposition unity to take on the BJP in the 2024 general election, with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar by her side.A day later, TMC poll strategist Prashant Kishor, widely credited for the TMC’s victory in Bengal, appeared to expand on the idea. “The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years,” he tweeted. “Let opposition leadership be decided democratically,” he addedIn the last three months, the TMC engineered high-profile defections from the Congress, including former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and ex-Assam MP Sushmita Dev. Last week, the TMC poached 12 lawmakers from the Congress in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma.The frenetic moves underlined the listlessness within the Congress that has been roiled by infighting, exit of senior leaders and open dissension on the party’s leadership and direction.The Congress sought to paint Banerjee as a political opportunist who had no ideological convictions and had forged alliances with the BJP in the past. “The TMC is a broker of the BJP. Every day it is coming up with some things to appease the BJP,” said Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-backs-mamata-in-opposition-jigsaw-101638559074035.html
04-12-2021||India||Help implement Constitution’s spirit: Amit Shah to IPS probationers||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday interacted with 122 IPS probationers in Delhi during which he asked them to discharge their duties by rising above the attitude of ‘what is there for me, why should I care’ and never avoid basic policing. “If you rid yourself of this attitude you will be able to handle any situation with ease,” Shah said, while addressing the officers of 2020 batch. He told the new IPS officers that the focus of their policing activities should be the police station and the focus of information should be the Beat Officer in a police station, which will help them a great deal“When an IPS officer will understand the language, history and social structure of the state of his cadre properly, only then he will be able to discharge his duties well,” he added. He further asked all the police officers to pay attention to issues related to the internal security of the country in totality. “There is a need for coordination at the national level without interfering with the rights of the States and respecting the spirit of the Constitution to prevent crimes such as smuggling of fake currency, arms smuggling, and narcotics,” Shah said. “Our constitution has placed its trust on you to serve the country for 30 to 35 years and you should try to bring the spirit of the Constitution to the ground level fearlessly, because those who take a stand become societal agents of change,” he told the probationers. He further asked them to be good team leaders and take everyone in the team along to bring about a change in the image of the policeHe asked female police officers to visit schools and interact regularly with the girl child so that the girls in the country are inspired to come forward in the service of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/help-implement-constitution-s-spirit-shah-to-ips-probationers-101638558895194.html
04-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over no data on farmer deaths during agitation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Union government, calling it “arrogant” for admitting in Parliament that it had no official record of the number of farmers who died during their year-long agitation against the now-repealed three central farm laws. Claiming that he has a list of 700-odd farmers who died during their agitation, Gandhi said he will submit the list in Parliament on Monday.“The Centre said that the ministry of agriculture has no record of these 700 martyred farmers. But we did some homework and as it turns out, there are 403 people who the government of Punjab has compensated ₹5 lakh (each) with... Why doesn’t the Government of India have the decency to give compensation to the families of the martyred?” Gandhi said, while addressing a press conference, adding if the government could not get the names of dead farmers it could refer to the Congress’s list and provide the families with ex gratia.The Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad said, “The Prime Minister admitted his mistake and apologised to the nation. As a result of that “mistake”, 700 people have died. The government should at least pay compensation for the sacrifices they (farmers) made.”Besides the list of 403 deceased farmers in Punjab, he said, the Congress has a list of 100 farmers from outside Punjab who died during the agitation and another list of about 200 deceased farmers has been compiled based on public records.Later in the day, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Modi ji only has the numbers of his industrialist friends. We have the names and numbers of the farmers who died during the agitation.”In a written reply to the Lok Sabha on December 1 during the ongoing winter session, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protest and therefore there was no question of compensation to the families. This is the second time the Union government has informed Parliament it had no information on farmers’ death at various protest sites. During the monsoon session too, held in July and August, the government said it had no data.“What is the big issue in paying compensation to these people? We are doing it. The Punjab government had nothing to do with the death of these farmers. But it has paid ₹5 lakh to each victim’s families,” the former Congress president said.“They are today facing an environment, where there is huge joblessness. You have not let them work for one year. You have taken away their livelihood, now you are saying to them, you don’t exist,” Gandhi added.Union minister Tomar brushed aside the Congress leader’s allegations, saying “even Congressmen don’t believe in Rahul Gandhi’s statements”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-over-no-data-on-farmer-deaths-during-agitation-101638558894018.html
04-12-2021||India||Punjab: 4 hand grenades, tiffin bomb found in Gurdaspur; border police on alert||Four hand-grenades and a tiffin bomb were recovered in Gurdaspur district, days after two terror modules sponsored by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence was busted, Punjab Police said on Friday. The hand-grenades and tiffin bomb, which was hidden in a sack, was recovered from Salempur Araiyan village of the border district, prompting the state police, especially the border district police forces, to maintain strong vigilance in the district.Two days ago, police seized a kilogram of RDX from Punjab’s Dinanagar.According to Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, the latest recoveries came to light during a search by the Gurdaspur Sadar station house officer at a T-point near Salempur Araiyan. On checking the sach which was hidden under a bush, he found hand grenades and a tiffin bomb concealed in it, Sahota said.The bomb detection and disposal teams were subsequently summoned to defuse the explosive, he added. The Punjab Police, especially the border district police forces, are on high alert and night duty domination operations are being carried out on the directions of Deputy Chief Minister Sukjhinder Singh Randhawa, the DGP said. 
04-12-2021||India||Require global mechanism to regulate crypto: Finance minister Sitharaman||A “global mechanism” is required for effective regulation of evolving technologies and tech-driven products such as cryptocurrencies, digital payments, and data, even as India is in the process of framing laws on these matters, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday.Speaking at the InFinity Forum virtually, the finance minister said technology is ever evolving and respects no physical borders. Hence, “global action” is the only way to effectively regulate technology, she added.Replying to a specific query on regulating cryptocurrency, Sitharaman said: “So on that question... even as we’re thinking about [it]... at [the] national level, there should simultaneously be a global mechanism through which we are constantly monitoring the movement of technology...” She said such coordinated global actions are required for several digital innovations such as cryptocurrencies, technology-driven payment systems, and data privacy.Terming data a revenue stream, the finance minister said its ethical use must be ensured. “But, when you’re looking at data itself as one of the revenue-generating options to regulate, it will have to be a collective effort,” she added.Sitharaman said that because technology is evolving fast there cannot always be an immediate legislative response “for every incremental change”, and there should be some kind of independence for regulators to address emerging issues.The finance minister’s comments assume significance in the backdrop of government’s plan to frame a legislation on the matters related to virtual currencies (VCs) and regulation of private cryptocurrencies.In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, Sitharaman said, “A Bill on Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency for introduction in the Lok Sabha has been included in the Lok Sabha Bulletin-Part II as part of Government Business expected to be taken up during the Seventh Session of Seventeenth Lok Sabha, 2021.” The winter session that started on November 29 will continue till December 23.The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 seeks “to create a facilitative framework for creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India; however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses,” according to a bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha.(A line on InFinity Forum)Speaking at the fintech conference, Sitharaman said India’s digital policy is inclusive and has empowered the common man. She said 1.29 billion biometric Aadhaar identities are the prime driver in providing direct benefits to the poor. India has 1 billion wireless internet users, 700 million people using internet on phones and 600 million smartphones, she said.Speaking about the digital revolution, she said brick and mortar bank branches are not necessary to service people , as even “not so smart” phones that the poor have, are now providing them the technological platform to access their banking service without any hitch.“The technology has helped us achieve what we couldn’t achieve over the decades,” she said referring to the Modi government’s policy drive to empowering the poor through financial inclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/require-global-mechanism-to-regulate-crypto-finance-minister-sitharaman-101638558773999.html
04-12-2021||India||S-400 purchase is based on threat perception, government tells Parliament||As the Indian Air Force lays the groundwork to deploy its first S-400 air defence system being imported from Russia, the government on Friday told Parliament that the $5.4-billion purchase of five such systems was a sovereign decision based on threat perception even as Washington has warned New Delhi of possible secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).“The government takes sovereign decisions based on threat perception, operational and technological aspects to keep the armed forces in a state of readiness to meet the entire spectrum of security challenges. The deliveries are as per contractual timelines,” minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt said in a written reply to question Lok Sabha today.He said the S-400 was a potent system with operational capability to provide continuous and effective air defence to a very large area. “With the induction of this system, air defence capability of the nation will be significantly enhanced,” he said.The government’s take on the S-400 comes ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two-day visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.India and Russia last week announced they would hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit.India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by PM Modi, on Wednesday took up a ₹5,100-crore deal with Russia to jointly manufacture AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi.India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s400-purchase-is-based-on-threat-perception-government-tells-parliament-101638558655547.html
04-12-2021||India||Funds released for POSHAN, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao schemes underutilised: Centre||Funds released for the Union government’s flagship programmes — POSHAN Abhiyaan and Beti Bachao Beti Padhao — remained underutilised, according to data shared by the women and child development (WCD) ministry in Parliament on Friday.In a written reply to a question seeking details of funds released and utilised for various schemes being implemented for empowerment of women and development of children in the country, WCD minister Smriti Irani tabled the data in the Lok Sabha.According to the WCD data, of the ₹5,31,279.08 lakh released for POSHAN Abhiyan -- aimed at improving nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers -- between 2018-19 and 2020-21, only ₹2,98,555.92 lakh has been utilised. The data was collected from across 36 states and Union territories in the country.Similarly, of the ₹12, 359.65 lakh released for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme, which aims at addressing declining child sex ratio (CSR) and related issues of empowerment of girls and women over a life cycle continuum, in 2019-20, only ₹7,409.85 lakh has been utilised.In terms of state-wise data, Dadra Nagar Haveli utilised only ₹3 lakh out of ₹25 lakh released to it for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao during this period while Goa utilised only ₹4 lakh out of ₹25 lakh released to it. Only Sikkim utilised 100% funds released to it for the scheme in 2019-20, WCD data said.For the POSHAN Scheme, none of the states and UTs utilised 100% funds released to it between 2018-19 and 2020-21. Chandigarh utilised ₹513.96 lakh out of ₹1,099.87 lakh released to it during this period; Chhattisgarh utilised ₹6,505.25 lakh out of ₹12,137.21 lakh released to it; and West Bengal did not utilise any amount out of ₹26,751.08 lakh released to it during this period, the data revealed.The matter of underutilisation of funds released by the WCD ministry for various schemes has also been raised by a Parliamentary Standing Committee led by BJP Rajya Sabha memberVinay Sahasrabuddhe in its 333rd report titled “Action Taken by the Government on the Observations/Recommendations contained in the Three Hundred and Twenty Sixth Report on the Demands For Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Women and Child Development” submitted in both the Houses in March this year, and again on November 30.“The Committee recommends that the Ministry should look into this matter seriously and to exercise financial prudence and use the allocated funds optimally and judiciously and also provide the state-wise list for underutilisation of funds along with the reasons, for other schemes like Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao etc. Unless the utilisation of funds on its key schemes goes up, the allocation has little meaning,” the committee recommended.In its response, the WCD ministry told the committee, “In order to efficiently utilise the funds allocated under various heads to the fullest extent by achieving results up to the grassroots level, ministry of women and child development has designed ‘SAKSHAM ANGANWADI and POSHAN 2.0’ for 2021-22 to 2025-26 (five years) with the ‘outcome based monitoring framework with respective indicators for the year 2021-22 is also indicated in the Scheme’s EFC.”“It has been observed that the Ministry has stated the reasons for gross underutilisation of funds for the scheme of POSHAN Abhiyaan only, while the reasons for underutilisation of funds for other schemes like Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao etc. have been left out,” the committee said.
04-12-2021||India||Polavaram project: NGT imposes ₹243 crore fine on Andhra Pradesh government||The National Green Tribunal on Thursday imposed a penalty of ₹243 crores on the Andhra Pradesh government for violating environmental norms while executing the construction of the Polavaram multi-purpose irrigation project and three of its associated schemes built on the Godavari river.Acting on a batch of petitions filed since 2018, Justice Sudhir Agarwal of the principal bench of NGT in New Delhi, who reserved his judgment on August 9, pronounced his 426-page order on Thursday.The tribunal imposed a penalty of ₹120 crores towards environmental compensation on Polavaram major irrigation project, ₹24.56 crores on Purushottapatnam lift irrigation scheme, ₹24.90 crores on Pattiseema lift irrigation scheme and ₹73.63 crores on Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme – all on Godavari river in East and West Godavari districts.The tribunal said the penalty was 1.5% of the total project cost of the three lift irrigation schemes. The project cost for the Purushottapatnam lift scheme is ₹1,637 crore, Pattiseema, ₹1,660 crores and that of Chintalapudi, ₹4,909 crores. The first two lift schemes were completed during the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government before 2019 and the Chintalapudi lift scheme is half complete. .For the Polavaram major irrigation project, the environmental compensation was fixed at only 0.75% of the original project cost of ₹16,010 crores, as there was no violation regarding obtaining environmental clearance, but there were violations in other environmental aspects, the tribunal said.The tribunal dealt with the damage caused to the environment by these projects, such as erosion of huge quantity of top soil, sand and rock all along the project canals and unscientific way of dumping the excavated material without taking any requisite precautions, apart from affecting the flora and fauna in submergence areas of the Polavaram major irrigation project.The tribunal directed that the state government pay environmental compensation to the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board within three months. The amount is to be utilised for remediation and restoration of the environment under the guidance and supervision of a committee comprising experts from the Union ministry of environment and forests, central pollution control board and AP pollution control board.“The committee should be constituted within a month from now, and the plan for restoration of the environment should be prepared within two months and executed within the next six months,” the tribunal said.NGT ordered that the state government might go ahead with the remaining 50% work on the Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme, but only after obtaining all statutory clearances, consent and a no-objection certificate within three months.NGT also took serious note of the proposed Krishna-Godavari-Pennar river linking project by the state government for which a detailed project report was submitted to the Union government last year. The tribunal said the project should not be executed or commenced unless statutory clearances, consents and permissions are obtained under relevant environmental and other laws.The tribunal found fault with the state government for commissioning the irrigation projects on the Godavari river and the river-linking project without following and observing mandatory laws relating to the environment. “These laws have been given a complete go-bye in one or the other manner. The government has adopted a stubborn and adamant attitude in going ahead with the projects,” the tribunal said in the judgment.Since there is no profit motive involved except public benefit in the execution of the projects, the tribunal said, it has confined itself to imposing environmental compensation on the state government.A senior official of the state irrigation department said on condition of anonymity that the government is contemplating challenging the NGT order in the Supreme Court. “However, a final decision will be taken by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he added.Prominent environmentalist Prof K Purushottam Reddy hailed the verdict of the NGT on Polavaram and three lift schemes. “It clearly upholds the principle that the state has to follow the rule of law in taking up such huge projects. It should be an eye-opener for other states as well,” he said.
04-12-2021||India||Singer Moosewala joins Congress ahead of Punjab polls||Months ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, who was booked last year for allegedly promoting gun culture through one of his songs, joined the Congress on Friday.The 28-year-old singer joined the party here in the presence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab party affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and cabinet ministers Raj Kumar Verka and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. He, along with Sidhu, Chaudhary and Warring, later met party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. “I am joining the Congress to correct the system. One has to be in the system to bring about changes. I have joined politics to give representation to the underprivileged sections of society,” Moosewala said after being inducted into the party. Welcoming the singer on board, Channi said Moosewala, who belongs to a village in Mansa district, knows the aspiration of the youth in Punjab. “It is an honour for the party. He will bring youngsters along for the party’s victory in the upcoming elections,” he said. Sidhu said Moosewala had earned a name in the music industry and was keen on performing equally well in politics. “Not only youngsters, people of all age groups like Moosewala. He has a unique style and is a youth icon,” Sidhu said. Later in the day, Sidhu shared on Twitter a picture of their meeting with Gandhi and said, “Brothers in arms with Boss”. Chaudhary said Moosewala “will raise a voice for the under-privileged”. Moosewala was booked last year for allegedly promoting violence and gun culture through his song “Sanju”. He was earlier booked under various provisions of the Arms Act and the Disaster Management Act in Barnala after his photographs of firing an AK-47 rifle at a firing range during the Covid lockdown surfaced on social media. A case registered against him in this regard is pending. Asked how Moosewala, who faced allegations of promoting gun culture in his songs, will give direction to the youth, Warring said, “The person who has 10 crore followers means he has already given direction to the youth, that’s why people are following him.”BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh took strong exception to the induction of Moosewala. In a statement, he said the Congress support to “such criminal elements” in society was a warning bell for the state. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singer-moosewala-joins-congress-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101638558473902.html
04-12-2021||India||Kerala HC sets aside order on early 2nd Covishield dose||In a relief for the Union government, the Kerala high court on Friday set aside its earlier order that directed the Centre to allow eligible people take the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, after a gap of four weeks, instead of the mandatory 84 days.Setting aside the September 3 judgment of a single bench of justice PB Suresh Kumar on the appeal filed by the Union government, a division bench of chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly allowed the Centre’s contention that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covid-19 jabs was fixed as per the advice of the global advisory committee on vaccine safety.The Centre also contended that the single bench’s intervention was against the government’s vaccine policy and triggered enough confusion.“Once it is established that the government acted on the basis of such advice, it is for it (the Centre) to decide how to go about it, in order to get rid of the emergent Covid-19 situation…such expert advice, on the basis of scientific study, cannot possibly be substituted by a judgment of constitutional courts, especially when no materials are produced before the court to show that the expert and scientific advices given are hasty, bad or ill advised,” the division bench said in its judgment.The high court also agreed to the Centre’s argument that the earlier verdict was against the settled norm that the court cannot interfere with policy decision of the Union government.“The order, if allowed, would set at naught the national policy for vaccine and would cause serious prejudice for the larger segment. The judgment would militate against the settled position that in matters related to government supported by scientific study, the court shall not meddle with it to substitute its view,” the Union government argued in the court, adding that if the single judge’s decision is not set aside, it could derail the vaccination policy of the country and would result in disorder in the implementation of its strategy to fight Covid-19.On September 3, justice Kumar ruled that the second dose of Covishield vaccine can be given after a gap of four weeks for those who want to take it early and directed the Union government to make necessary changes on CoWin portal. The verdict came on a petition filed by the Kitex Garments Ltd, a Kochi-based apparel making unit, questioning the long gap between two doses of vaccine.In its appeal, Kitex had said it has vaccinated at least 5,000 of its workers with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly ₹93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions.The single bench had also observed that if the central and state governments can permit persons travelling abroad to take early second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the same privilege can be extended to others who need it. But it was not applicable to the free vaccine distribution being carried out by the government, it had ruled.With the latest judgment, now second dose can only be administered after the completion of the prescribed 84-day gap. According to health officials, after the September 3 judgment, there was a rush for early second dose at many vaccine centres.“It is always good to have a uniform gap between two doses,” said public health and internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun.
04-12-2021||India||Courts should uphold spirit of right against sexual harassment: Supreme Court||Sexual harassment at workplace complaints should not be defeated by hyper-technical interpretation of service rules, the Supreme Court on Friday held while reminding courts that they should uphold the spirit of the law that seeks to protect the victims against sexual harassment.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna said: “We would also like to highlight a rising trend of invalidation of proceedings inquiring into sexual misconduct, on hyper-technical interpretations of the applicable service rules… It is important that courts uphold the spirit of the right against sexual harassment, which is vested in all persons as a part of their right to life and right to dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution.”The court made the observation while dealing with an appeal filed by the Border Security Force (BSF) challenging a 2018 order of the Calcutta high court, which set aside the disciplinary proceedings against a head constable who sexually assaulted a male constable under him, and directed the head constable’s reinstatement. The alleged act was categorised as a “disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind” for which a summary security force court held that head constable guilty, and demoted him to the post of constable as punishment. The high court order later relied on technical arguments raised by the accused -- the principal among them that the original record of evidence (RoE) was insufficient to prove the charge and the order of the commandant, who ordered a summary enquiry, did not have jurisdiction to prepare an additional RoE.The top court bench said: “It is important to be mindful of the power dynamics that are mired in sexual harassment at the workplace. There are several considerations and deterrents that a subordinate aggrieved of sexual harassment has to face when they consider reporting sexual misconduct of their superior. In the present case, the complainant was a constable complaining against the respondent who was the head constable – his superior.”The bench was of the view that the existence of transformative legislation may not come to the aid of persons aggrieved of sexual harassment if the appellate mechanisms turn the process into a punishment. The judgment implored courts to interpret service rules and statutory regulations governing the prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace in a manner that metes out procedural and substantive justice to all the parties.The bench found the conclusion arrived at by the high court to be erroneous, and set it aside by saying, “It is evident that the discrepancy regarding the date of occurrence was of a minor nature since the event occurred soon after midnight and on the next day. Deeming such a trivial aspect to be of monumental relevance, while invalidating the entirety of the disciplinary proceedings against the respondent and reinstating him to his position renders the complainant‘s remedy at naught.”The complaint by the constable dated back to April 2006. The victim alleged that while he was on duty at his night post, his superior of the 72nd Battalion came and assaulted him sexually. Under the BSF Act, such conduct is punishable with a jail term of up to seven years. After the security force court reduced his rank, the BSF DGP, on appeal, restored his rank but reprimanded him with a forfeiture of five years of service for promotion and seven years of service for pension.“The history of legal proceedings such as these is a major factor that contributes to the deterrence that civil and criminal mechanisms pose to persons aggrieved of sexual harassment,” the bench noted, referring to the 15 years that this matter took from the time of filing of complaint till the decision in Supreme Court. The accused had got two favourable orders from a single-judge bench of Calcutta high court in May 2009, followed by the division bench order that was now under challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-should-uphold-spirit-of-right-against-sexual-harassment-supreme-court-101638558295239.html
04-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik finally speaks on demand to axe minister, asks where’s the proof||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday rejected opposition demands for the removal of the minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra over his alleged link to the prime accused in the murder of private school teacher Mamita Meher, wondering if there was any evidence against the minister. Patnaik also dared the opposition parties to bring any evidence they have against the minister to the notice of the Orissa high court, which is hearing petitions on the murder investigations and has appointed a retired judge to oversee the police probe.Mamita Meher, 26 was allegedly killed by Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling gram panchayat of Kalahandi district on October 8 after she is reported to have threatened to expose a sex racket in the school.According to police, Sahu dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. He was arrested on October 19 and is now in judicial custody. Since then the opposition has been stridently demanding the sacking of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra alleging his complicity in the case.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik finally decided to speak out on the controversy as opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress lawmakers continued to stall assembly proceedings for the third day on Friday.“The death of Mamita Meher was a very sad and unfortunate incident and we are all deeply anguished and pained by this heinous crime. She was a young and bright daughter of Odisha, having a brilliant future. Her death is a terrible and irreparable loss. My heart goes out to the family of the victim. My Government will ensure that no stone is left unturned to see that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice as per law in the shortest possible time,” Patnaik said in his speech to the assembly via video conferencing from Naveen Niwas.The chief minister said he has always ensured that the police have full functional autonomy and take legal action without fear or favour against anybody if there is evidence, no matter how high and mighty he is.“Wherever there has been delinquency or negligence, stringent and exemplary action has been taken against erring police officers. In the past, there have been such sensitive cases against women,” he said.Patnaik said when Odisha is facing a looming threat of a winter cyclone in the next 48 hours and there is a looming Covid crisis and the Food Corporation of India is not lifting enough paddy, the opposition BJP and Congress should cooperate in the smooth functioning of the House.“I am deeply concerned that there are attempts to prevent a member of the House from discharging his duties. The Indian Constitution has given crucial responsibility to the legislature and its members enjoy certain safeguards and privileges for helping them discharge their duties without fear, intimidation and pressure. It will be a travesty if the members of the House are not allowed to discharge their constitutional duties,” he said, a reference to the many attempts by opposition parties to embarrass his government.On Wednesday, the winter session’s first day, Congress MLAs led by Mohammed Moquim and Santosh Singh Saluja staged a sit-in at the assembly’s two entrances in an effort to prevent the minister from entering the House. Shouting slogans and holding placards that read “Go back MoS (Home)” and “Give Justice to Mamita Meher”, the legislators demanded an answer from chief minister Naveen Patnaik over the issue.On Friday, a group of BJP MLAs, sprinkled what they said was water from the Ganges and cow-dung claiming that Mishra’s entry desecrated the state assembly. “The presence of the minister during the proceedings in the last two days has made the holy House impure,” said BJP chief whip Mohan Majhi.Chief whip of the ruling BJD Pramila Mallick dismissed such protests as antics by the BJP, which she said, were aimed at the upcoming panchayat elections scheduled next year. “Instead of coming for a discussion, they are busy with propaganda over different issues to stage protests disrupting the House proceedings. If the din continues, the Speaker will take steps to restore normalcy in the House,” she said.The state’s junior home minister’s alleged proximity to the man accused of the school teacher’s gruesome murder has been used by the BJP and Congress to power its campaign against the government. There have been nearly a dozen instances of workers from opposition parties throwing eggs at vehicles of BJD ministers; once even chief minister Patnaik’s vehicle was targeted. During Patnaik’s recent visit to Balasore town, police went to the extent of stopping anyone wearing black clothes near the venue.Last month, Mamita Meher’s father and brother petitioned the Orissa high court to put the trial on the fast track. On Tuesday, the high court assigned retired district Judge ABS Naidu to supervise the probe into the murder case that is being conducted by police in Bolangir district where the girl’s family lives.The state government on Friday submitted a status report on its investigations into the murder case.Meanwhile, a Kalahandi-based weavers organisation on Friday filed an intervention petition in the Orissa high court alleging that instead of conducting a fair and impartial investigation and to unearth the real conspiracy behind the crime, the Odisha police appears to have been acting in a manner that is against the principles of a fair and impartial investigation.Santosh Kumar Meher, working president of Kalahandi Meher Samaj, that works for the welfare of the Meher community in western Odisha, alleged that the police probe wasn’t being conducted in accordance with law, and that a deliberate attempt is being made by investigators to suppress the crime and protect the offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-finally-speaks-on-demand-to-axe-minister-asks-where-s-the-proof-101638558177652.html
04-12-2021||India||Winter session: No disruption in Rajya Sabha but protests continue over MPs’ suspension||New Delhi: There was no let up in the acrimony between the government and the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha over the suspension of 12 lawmakers for the remainer of the winter session, but the differences did not come in the way of proceedings in the Upper House on Friday. Neither side, however, climbed down from its respective position -- the government repeated the demand for an apology from the opposition MPs over the conduct during the monsoon session, while the latter remained defiant about their angst at the suspension.Leader of the House Piyush Goyal lashed out at the Opposition for refusing to apologise, and said that some “provocative statements” made by leaders of some political parties whose members were involved in the “ugly scenes” witnessed in the House seemed to suggest that they endorsed the behaviour. “…The behaviour of the members outside the House even during these last few days, the way the leaders of the parties have been saying, ‘maafi kis baat k’i (apology for what), it seems as if they endorse all the attack on the marshals and the unruly scenes in the House. After that, we would like to understand…what the Opposition expects from us?” While Opposition leaders have maintained that there is a breakdown in communication over this issue, Goyal said: “I was approached by certain members of the Opposition. I said that I am happy to meet everybody, but broad parameters should be that, at least, as courtesy to the chair and House, what is required is an apology… They said, no, we cannot apologise.” The Union minister also said that he “showed instances in the past” when BJP leaders “apologised on very minor things”. “…But, they feel that what they have done is legitimate and very noble. Under these circumstances, what do we talk to the Opposition?” he asked. Responding to this, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader Kesava Rao said the government should make efforts to break the deadlock with the opposition. “They have to take the initiative,” he said. Before the House convened for business on Friday, members from both sides assembled at the Mahatma Gandhi statute in the complex for parallel agitations. While opposition leaders have been sitting in front of the statue since Wednesday to protest against their suspension from the Upper House for the duration of the winter session; a BJP contingent carrying placards chose the same spot to protest against the opposition MP’s actions in the House in August. The collision of the two protests spilled over in the Lok Sabha proceedings as well. Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury alleged that when the Opposition parties were protesting at the Gandhi statue, some “friends from BJP” created a ruckus there. Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal countered Chowdhary: “It’s not you’re your rights alone to protest there. If any one our members want to go and protest, they too, can go at the Gandhi statue.” Meghwal added that the BJP leaders were protesting against the assault of a security personnel. “You were trying to remove the BJP leaders but the BJP leaders didn’t try to remove you.” Rashtita Janata Dal’s Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha, on his part, referred to the protest as “gatecrashing”; TMC’s Dola Sen, who is among the suspended MPs, tweeted: “Today morning, BJP RS MPs have come to Gandhi Statue in the name of ‘save constitution’ jatra, tried to ransack the dharna of ours. Shame on them. We have to fight to save our country & our Constitution.” In August when the House took up a discussion on farmers’ protest against the new reform laws a ruckus had broken out after some opposition MPs climbed onto Rajya Sabha officials’ table, raised slogans and threw files. 12 MPs—six from the Congress, two each from the Shiv Sena and the TMC and one each from CPM and CPI-were subsequently suspended for the duration of the winter session. 
04-12-2021||India||Pakistan allows delivery of India aid to Afghanistan||Pakistan said on Friday it will allow 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines to be shipped from India to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, ending an impasse over the transportation of the humanitarian aid. India had said on Thursday it is engaged in discussions with Pakistan to work out modalities for supplying the life-saving medicines and wheat to Afghanistan and insisted that no conditions should be attached to the shipping of the relief materials. The Pakistan government’s decision was conveyed to the charge d’affaires of the Indian high commission at the Foreign Office in Islamabad. “The Indian government was also urged to proceed quickly to take necessary steps to expeditiously undertake the delivery of the humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan,” said a statement from Pakistan’s foreign ministry. There was no word on the development from the Indian side. The Pakistani statement said the government had decided to “allow the use of Afghan trucks for transportation from Wagah border to Torkham”, a key border crossing between Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province and Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province. The statement reiterated the Pakistani side’s position that it would allow the transportation of the wheat and medicines from India via the Wagah border crossing on an “exceptional basis for humanitarian purposes”. The statement added that Friday’s decision reflected the Pakistan government’s commitment and seriousness to facilitate the proposed humanitarian aid. Pakistan had earlier linked its decision to allow the transportation of the relief materials to the condition that the goods be moved only by Pakistani trucks. India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and medicines to the Afghan people via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from the Pakistan government only on November 24. “Since then, we have had discussions with Pakistan on the modalities of this supply...Let me reiterate our belief that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. The Indian side was keen on using its own trucks or Afghan vehicles in order to ensure that the relief materials directly reached the Afghan people without being diverted. The Indian side also envisages the aid will be distributed only through the UN and its agencies. 
04-12-2021||India||Some states moved court with inflated oxygen demand: Mandaviya in Parliament||Punjab reported four suspected deaths due to lack of oxygen during the second Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wave, of the 19 states that responded to Union government’s request to share the number of such deaths, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Parliament on Friday.He hit out at the opposition over claims that the Centre hid deaths due to oxygen shortage during the bruising second wave of the pandemic, and said the government sought data from all states on the matter.“Government made all efforts possible to ensure oxygen supplies reached to states but some did not stop from politicizing the issue even during this crisis. They approached Court showing inflated oxygen requirements and elicited orders for more supplies. Even deaths due to lack of oxygen were politicized”, said the health minister.“I want to say that the Prime Minister said at the chief ministers’ meeting that there was no need to hide the number of deaths. The Centre always said during all the meetings with states that there is no need to hide the deaths due to oxygen shortage or Covid in general; all deaths should be reported. The Centre wrote several letters to states asking relevant information, of which… only Punjab said in writing that the state reported four suspected deaths and those were being investigated. We have worked sincerely and made it all public,” said the health minister. He also asked the opposition parties to stop politicising the issue, and take note of the Centre’s efforts to ramp up oxygen production to meet the increased demand during the surge.Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made “all possible efforts” to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic. “In various states 1225 PSA oxygen plants are already functional; and 3829 PSA plants are currently being established. I have begun taking certificates of successful installation from states so that we know for sure the plants are working well,” he added during the discussion on Covid in Lok Sabha. PSA stands for pressure swing adsorption, a technology that extracts oxygen from ambient air. An oxygen digital tracking system to track the daily allocation of oxygen, their dispatch and deliveries, including movement of oxygen tankers has also been developed and put in place, the minister informed. Mandaviya admitted that India’s public health care delivery system was weak, and the pandemic exposed the lacunae in the system. The Modi-led government refrained from blaming previous governments for the weak health infrastructure, he added, and has been working to strengthen it. India-made Covid-19 vaccines, said the health minister, were ready within a year, and the government provided a lot of support in the research and development of these, including financial assistance. “There was a time when it took three years for approval if someone did research on a vaccine. So, nobody used to do research. We scrapped those rules and the nation got a vaccine after research within a year -- this facility has been given by PM Modi,” he said.He also mentioned that at the start of the pandemic, India had 16,000 ventilators in all. At the begining of the pandemic, experts forecast that the country could need 75000 ventilators more.  “The government acted fast on it. The states have been provided 50,200 ventilators, of which 48,000 ventilators were installed,” said Mandaviya. The health minister also talked about ensuring supply of medicines prescribed under the Covid protocol.“Injections such as Tocilizumab and Amphotericin were not manufactured in India, but now they are. We created a buffer stock of medicines to deal with any surges,” he said.Commenting on mucormycosis , the health minister informed the parliament that a total of 51,775 cases have been reported till November 29.He said in a written reply that health ministry proactively supported states to tackle the challenge posed by cases of mucormycosis during the second surge of Covid-19. According to the government data shared by the health minister, 34.6 million corona cases have been reported in India and 460,000 people died, a 1.36% case fatality rate.“Also, 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million population have been reported in India, which is one of the lowest in the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-moved-court-with-inflated-oxygen-demand-mandaviya-in-parliament-101638557936405.html
04-12-2021||India||Farmers’ group stops Kangana’s car in Punjab||A group of farmers on Friday stopped actor Kangana Ranaut’s car in Punjab’s Rupnagar district, demanding an apology from her over her remarks on those who protested against Centre’s farm laws. In November last year, Kangana tweeted a photo of an elderly woman agitator, stating that she was available for ₹100 to protest. The actor, while sitting in her car, made a video of the incident. “A mob surrounded me as I entered Punjab. They are calling themselves farmers. They are attacking me, abusing me, and threatening to kill me,” she said in the video posted on her Instagram account. Vir Singh Barwa, farm outfit Kirti Kisan Morcha’s Ropar chief, said they gheraoed Ranaut’s car to question her over her statement. “As we got information that Kangana will go via our town, we made a plan to gherao her. We stopped her cavalcade at 2pm. Our activist Jarnail Kaur told her that ‘you have said that we get ₹100 for participation in the protest, we will give you ₹2500 for work in our fields,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-stops-kangana-s-car-in-punjab-101638557814044.html
04-12-2021||India||Omicron in India: Consider vaccine booster shots for 40+, says expert panel||India’s genomic sequencing consortium has suggested that booster shots of the Covid-19 vaccines be administered to people over the age of 40 years, targeting those who are at the highest risk of exposure and severe disease, as one response to the new Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Low levels of neutralising antibodies from the current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although the risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced. Based on the preliminary data, it is likely that population immunity and vaccine-induced immunity may not sufficiently block its propagation,” said the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) in its weekly bulletin for November 29 released by the country’s department of biotechnology on Friday.Since the bulletin was prepared, two cases of infection by the Omicron variant have been identified in India, and experts say many more could emerge in coming days.A booster dose is an additional dose of the Covid-19 vaccine administered after completing the two-dose schedule of the vaccines currently in use to further increase the level of protection. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), which recommends the vaccine use and its schedule to the central government, is to discuss the issue of booster dose in its recent meetings, as per government officials.“Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced,” the INSACOG bulletin said.A researcher whose institution is part of INSACOG said there is no explicit recommendation.“INSACOG is not recommending a booster dose; the document says vaccinate the unvaccinated and consider boosters for high-risk groups. There is no actual recommendation for booster; just a possibility as we get evidence for immune escape,” this person added on condition of anonymity.Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, said in parliament on Friday that the government will go by scientific advice to decide on boosters.“We have two types of decision here: political and scientific. There is no solution to the political part of it but our decision has to be based on science,” said Mandaviya in Lok Sabha, during the discussion on Covid-19.Several members sought clarity from the government on boosters, which have become the norm in the US and most European nations. They also asked about vaccination for children.Mandaviya said 75 members took part in Thursday’s debate that lasted nearly 12 hours. The debate concluded past midnight and the minister gave his reply on Friday.Senior government officials have also maintained since September, before the Omicron variant was detected, that the only question regarding boosters was “when” not “if”. . But experts and government officials have maintained that the priority was to vaccinate all adults first.In addition, the fourth national round of sero-surveillance conducted in June-July showed that 67% of the population had antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus.The consortium in its bulletin has also said early detection and genomic sequencing, monitoring travel to and from known affected areas, and contact tracing of Covid-19 cases linked to the Omicron affected areas are important in ensuring that the infection does not spread.INSACOG has also suggested increasing testing and looking out for S-gene dropout as a proxy for detecting Omicron cases in India. The RT-PCR kits look for a few target genes of the virus in a patient sample . Kits that use S-gene or regions of the spike protein, along with other targets, to look for the virus might register a false negative for the S gene and positive for the others because of the high number of mutations in the spike protein of the omicron virus.“In some PCR tests one of the three target genes is not detected (called S gene dropout or S gene target failure). Such a phenomenon was previously seen for Alpha, which is currently not in active circulation and thus SGTF can be used as marker for this variant, pending sequencing confirmation,” INSACOG said in its bulletin.According to the consortium, the Omicron variant has 15 mutations in the receptor binding domain that helps it connect with human cells.“This is the highest number of mutations yet seen, many of which are at antibody binding sites and may reduce the effectiveness of neutralizing antibodies (antibodies that specifically target the virus and either destroy it or prevent it from entering the human cell),” INSACOG said.Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonology department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the chairman of PSRI Institute of pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine, said, “We have to vaccinate the unvaccinated fast and also consider booster shot for others now.”He added, “A study from Frace in 159 kidney transplant patients showed that they did not mount an immune response after receiving two doses of the vaccine, but after three 49% of them did. What this means is that those who are immunocompromised (such as people who have undergone transplant, have HIV/AIDS, or have cancers) a third dose must be administered even before six months and for all others after six months.”But there is also an ethical issue here, he indicated.“There are countries that have been able to vaccinate only 3% of the population and there are countries that have vaccinated over 80%. It has to be a global responsibility otherwise the virus will continue circulating.”
04-12-2021||India||Farm fires gone, weather now polluting Delhi’s air?||The Union government told the Supreme Court on Friday that it is constituting an enforcement task force and 17 flying squads to implement pollution control measures through surprise checks, inspection and closure of polluting units. On Thursday, the top court observed that it could set up a task force itself since “nothing is really happening to control pollution”.The court is not wrong about the pollution problem. Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has been in the “severe” category in four out of the last seven days ending December 2, according to 24-hour bulletins issued by the Central Pollution Control Board at 4pm. PM2.5 concentration level – it is the most harmful pollutant – has been above the “severe” benchmark for five of seven days ending December 1. Even the light rain on December 2, did little to bring down pollution levels with AQI remaining in the “very poor” category (346) according to the 24-hour average at 4pm on December 3.The recent spike in pollution comes despite a fall in the contribution of pollutants from stubble burning. According to data from VIIRS instrument aboard the Suomi-NPP satellite, the number of farm fires fell every week after the second week of November. The spike in pollution, even though farm fires have fallen, underlines the importance of climatic conditions in pollution levels in not just in Delhi but entire north India. This also highlights the need for a holistic pollution policy instead of ad-hoc measures. Here are four charts which explain this argument in detail.Latest spike in Delhi pollution despite decline in farm firesThe daily average of PM2.5 levels in Delhi was very high in the first week of November. The situation improved over the month, only to worsen again towards the end. A weekly classification of days by PM 2.5 levels shows this clearly. There were nine ‘severe’ days in the first half of November. This came down to just one day in the third week, but increased to four again in the last eight days of the month.Data from the SAFAR database shows that the farm fires had a very different role to play in the spike in overall pollution levels in the beginning and end of November. Stubble burning contributed to 8% of the PM2.5 concentration in the period between October 30 and November 3. This increased to 30% between November 9 and 13. The average contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 levels was 4% in the last week of November. This data corroborates a satellite-based count of number of farm fires in the adjoining states.To be sure, there need not be a one-to-one correspondence between farm fires and their polluting impact on Delhi, as was explained by HT on November 16.What explains the recent spike in pollution?Probably it’s the weather. There has been very little rain, low wind speed and day time temperatures have been lower than average.Low rains in November didn’t helpOne reason why October air in Delhi and large parts of north India was cleaner than usual was the very high rainfall washing away the pollutants in air in the literal sense. The tables have turned in November, with most north-Indian states experiencing lower than normal rainfall in November. Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar – all received rainfall 150% or more above the long period average or LPA (the average of rainfall in 1961-2010 period) for October. This was among the top 10 years of highest October rainfall since 1901 in all these states except Haryana, where it was the 18th highest. This helped these states in October, as rainfall washes away the pollutants. This advantage vanished in November. None of these states received even half a millimetre of rainfall when the LPA for November ranges from 3.6 mm in Haryana to 6.2 mm in Bihar.Neither did low day-time temperaturesHigher day-time temperatures can prevent accumulation of pollutants close to the ground during the day when vehicular and industrial pollutants are more likely to be added to the air. While November in itself is colder than October, this year the day-time temperatures in November also deviated further below normal. Average maximum temperature for November in Delhi was 6.1% below the 1981-2010 average in the month of November.The statistics described above show clearly how Delhi’s pollution levels remain at the mercy of meteorological factors. The December 2 air quality forecast on the SAFAR website speaks for itself, “The AQI today (December 2) indicates ‘very poor’ air quality. For the next three days, winds are likely to be calm reducing ventilation leading to deterioration of air quality but within the same category. From 6th Dec onwards winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but AQI likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Partly cloudy sky and low mixing layer height are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants”, the forecast says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-gone-weather-now-polluting-delhi-s-air-101638557635088.html
04-12-2021||India||Cabinet secretary asks states to ensure nocasualties take place as Jawad nears||Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday directed all state and central agencies to follow all necessary protocols to ensure “no scope for loss of lives and to minimize the damage of property” from cyclonic storm Jawad, which is expected to cross the coast between north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning.Reviewing the preparedness of states, central ministries and other agencies to deal with the impending cyclonic storm in a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), Gauba stressed on the restoration of essential services in the shortest possible time with minimum disruption and uninterrupted functioning of Covid-19 hospitals.According to a statement released by the committee, the meeting was attended by chief secretaries and senior officers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Andaman & Nicobar Islands who apprised it of preparatory measures put in place to deal with the storm.The Cabinet secretary directed that all fishermen and vessels, which are out at sea, must be accounted for by the concerned states for which required assistance will be provided by Coast Guard and other central agencies in this regard.“Public messaging may be carried out to ensure that people in the path of the cyclone are provided with suitable instructions and guidance during the period,” he said.State officials said that cyclone shelters have been readied, and efforts were underway to ensure the safe return of fishermen from the sea and evacuation of people from low lying areas. Action has been taken to stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies, they added.Teams for maintenance and restoration of power, roads, water supply and other essential services have also been positioned, and harvesting of standing crops is also being done to minimise damages, they said.Officials from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who also attended the meeting, informed the committee that an adequate number of teams have been deployed in the states that were likely to be affected and additional teams are on standby. Rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircraft are ready for deployment as required, they added.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclonic storm is likely to reach west-central Bay of Bengal off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning. Thereafter, it is likely to recurve north-northeastwwards, move along the coast of Odisha and adjoining Andhra Pradesh and cross the coast around Puri by December 5 noon.Squally wind, gusting up to 65 kmph, is likely to start along and off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha from Friday midnight, the weather office said. Wind speeds will increase up to 100 kmph from Saturday evening for the subsequent 12 hours, it added.The weather bureau has also forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over West Bengal on Saturday and Sunday, and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura on Sunday and Monday.Secretaries and senior officers from ministries/department of home affairs, civil aviation, ports, railways, shipping and waterways, petroleum & natural gas, power and fisheries along with those from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), IMD, and National Disaster Management Authority also attended the meeting.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-secretary-asks-states-to-ensure-nocasualties-take-place-as-jawad-nears-101638557333696.html
04-12-2021||India||Omicron scare in India: 51 foreign returnees under lens in 7 states||Fifty one passengers who came from “high risk” countries have tested positive for Covid-19 in seven states and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to health ministry accredited laboratories to confirm whether they have been infected by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, officials in these states said.Most of them have come to India from some high-risk African countries in the past fortnight or so, officials said. Of them, nine each are in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, 13 in Telangana, two in Tamil Nadu, eight in Delhi and one in Gujarat. According to officials in these states, most of them are asymptomatic, some have mild Covid, and the process of tracing their contacts is on. Their experience fits with the global narrative emerging around Omicron -- high transmissibility but milder symptoms when compared to the Delta variant.The first cases of the Omicron variant in India were confirmed in two people in Bengaluru city in Karnataka on Thursday. One of them, a South African, flew to Dubai on November 27, without informing the local authorities. The other is a Bengaluru based doctor, whose contract tracing is being done, officials in the Karnataka health department said.According to Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, swab samples of 28 people, who returned from high risk countries, in the past one month have been sent for genome sequencing with nine of them having tested positive for Covid.“We are yet to establish whether they are carrying the new Omicron variant,” he said, adding that 2,868 passengers have entered the state from different countries between November 10 and November 30 and of them, 485 have been tested. Chief medical officer, Jaipur, Narottam Sharma said that nine of a family, including four who arrived from South Africa, have tested positive for Covid. “They have been quarantined and samples have been sent for genome sequencing,” he added.The four came to their ancestral home in Sikar district on November 25 to attend a marriage that took place in Delhi about a week ago. Sharma said the Delhi government has been informed about the cases as the bride’s family is from Delhi. The four came to India via Dubai and had Covid-19 negative test reports, he said.The nine have been admitted in Rajasthan University of Health Science (RUHS), a dedicated government hospital for Covid-19 patients. Currently, Rajasthan has 213 active cases, of which 114 are from Jaipur alone.Uttar Pradesh government officials said nine foreigners, including a 13-year-old, have tested positive for Covid-19. They visited an ashram in Vrindavan in Mathura district. While three of them have left India, officials said, the remaining are in quarantine at ashram itself. All reached India mid-November.Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian told reporters that two passengers from high risk countries have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival on Friday morning and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. The patients under suspicion of carrying the new variant are a 10-year-old child who travelled from the UK to Chennai and a 56-year-old man who travelled from Singapore to Trichy, he added.A Gujarat health department official said that a person in Surat, who landed from South Africa, tested positive for Covid. His swab samples have been sent for genome sequencing.In several states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Karnataka, efforts are being made to trace passengers who have come from high risk countries where Omicron cases have been reported. In Karnataka, police have been asked to search for 57 African students, who arrived in the state over the past month, but whose mobile phones appear to be switched off, state health department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-in-india-43-foreign-returnees-under-lens-in-6-states-101638557216432.html
04-12-2021||India||Breaching barriers: Navy to deploy more women on warships||The Indian Navy is going ahead with a plan to give women officers more opportunities to serve aboard warships alongside their male counterparts, with several women already assigned to front-line ships operating in the broad expanse of the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), navy officials familiar with the matter said on Friday.The count of women serving aboard warships has gone up from just four earlier this year to 28 as of December as a result of the navy sharpening its focus on the plan, said one of the officials cited above.The navy deployed four women officers on warships in early 2021 after a hiatus of almost 25 years, opening more roles to them and crushing gender barriers that limited opportunity.“The number of women on warship duties is steadily increasing. We are looking at deploying two to three women officers on every warship. Currently, 28 women are serving aboard around 15 warships,” said a second senior officer. The women are serving as pilots, observers, logistics officers and doctors on warships.Excluding the medical wing, in which women have served for decades, the navy accounted for more than 700 women officers who formed 6.5% of its overall officer cadre (as of March 2021).Submarines, however, are still off limits to women.In early 2021, India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and fleet tanker INS Shakti became the navy’s first warships to be assigned women crewmembers (two each) since the late 1990s. In a short-lived experiment, women from the navy’s logistics and medical branches were deployed on fleet tanker INS Jyoti in 1997.Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar on Friday said the navy was taking initiatives to give women more opportunities in consonance with the government’s objective to empower them.“We have taken measures towards providing additional opportunities for women officers. They have been appointed on board almost all major warships. Induction of women officers into the information technology branch will commence in June 2022,” Kumar said at his annual press briefing on the eve of Navy Day.“The women who join the navy are of very high calibre and they have been performing on par with their male counterparts. Sometimes even better,” the navy chief said.He said the modalities for downstream training of women cadets at the National Defence Academy (NDA) were being worked out, and the navy was fully prepared to induct women across a spectrum of roles and responsibilities.A third of the over 500,000 candidates who took the NDA examination last month for entry into the premier joint services training institution near Pune were women.It was their maiden attempt at cracking the entrance exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on November 14, after the Supreme Court opened the doors of the academy to women in a landmark order in October.The apex court’s order making women eligible to join NDA -- formally inaugurated 66 years ago and has thus far been a male preserve -- came almost three decades after they were first allowed to serve in select branches of the army, air force and navy as short-service commission (SSC) officers. Women in the military are now eligible for permanent commission.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost threefold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, 9,118 women were serving in the three services.One of the turning points for women came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. But tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women.
04-12-2021||India||Took US 50 yrs, integration needs time, says navy chief||The US military took almost 50 years to fine-tune its current joint command and control structures after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor during World War II highlighted the need for greater coordination among American forces, India’s new navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said on Friday.His comments, in response to a question on jointness in the armed forces, were a broader attempt to put across the complications associated with creating integrated commands at a time when India is inching towards rolling out its theaterisation plan to enhance the military’s effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations.“Jointness and integration can’t happen in a very, very short time. If you look at the US military, it has taken almost 50 years,” the navy chief said at his annual press briefing on the eve of Navy Day. “The thrust for jointness came after the Pearl Harbor attack (in 1941). I am not saying that we should take a similar time but it’s a complicated process, and it’s not something which can just be put together in a short time,” the navy chief said.The US military’s joint command and control model is the outcome of the Goldwater-Nichols Defense Reorganization Act passed by Congress in 1986.Kumar said the navy fully supported the ongoing defence reforms to enhance tri-service synergy. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four integrated commands --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.“We are looking at the establishment of the Maritime Theatre Command shortly, which would further buttress joint planning and joint application of force. The details are being worked out and may be finalised by the middle of next year,” said Kumar, who took over as navy chief on November 30.He was closely associated with the theaterisation drive in his former role as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee (COSC).The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who is spearheading the theaterisation drive, last month asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of theatre commands and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports was advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.Elaborating on the proposed Maritime Theatre Command, Kumar said the existing command and control structures would largely remain intact with a lean “theatre command organisation superimposed on them.”The charter of the Maritime Theatre Commander will largely be operations, with little administration or maintenance role, he said. “The navy chief at some point will be responsible only for raising, training and sustaining forces. But certainly, the chief will be in the loop for operations as well because he will be part of the COSC,” Kumar said.“These are the broad contours that we are looking at. It may happen in six months...it may take a little longer. The time-frame will depend on how we resolve the complexities involved and the nitty-gritty of theatre commands,” Kumar said.Any structural change to an effective organisation to ensure future readiness requires detailed deliberations among stakeholders and smooth transition management, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), the former director of the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies. “Security challenges dictate that we set up theatre commands at the earliest,” Bhatia added.The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands.The army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir.Kumar said the creation of DMA and the post of CDS two years ago was “the single most important” higher defence organisation reform in the Indian military since Independence.“The benefits include clear dissemination of national policy objectives to the military, greater awareness of national challenges, direct responsibility and accountability to the political executive, faster decisions and approvals and fewer layers of bureaucracy,” the navy chief said.The appointment of a CDS was one of the most significant recommendations made by the K Subrahmanyam-led Kargil Review Committee (KRC) that was constituted in the immediate aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war to examine lapses that allowed Pakistani soldiers to occupy strategic heights, the initial sluggish Indian response, and suggest measures to strengthen national security.On the challenge posed by the Chinese navy seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region, Kumar said the Indian Navy was keeping the region under constant surveillance and tracking the deployments of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN).“We have our plans in place. There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and mission-based deployed ships. The Chinese activities and deployments are kept under close watch,” he added.
04-12-2021||India||States step up guard, announce new rules amid Omicron scare||A day after India’s first two cases of the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV2 were detected in Karnataka, the state government ordered that only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in public spaces such as theatres and educational institutions.Several other states also stepped up checks and restrictions in the wake of the potential threat from the coronavirus variant that has now spread to over 30 countries.The new restrictions in Karnataka came as authorities increased contact tracing to identify those who came in contact with two people infected with Omicron. One of them, a 66-year-old South African national, left India on November 27; the second, a doctor, tested negative for Covid in last week of November before his next sample came out as positive.“The entry to malls, cinema halls/theatres shall be allowed only to the persons who are vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue, said on Friday in Bengaluru. The minister added that children whose parents have not taken both doses will not be allowed to attend physical classes in schools.The government also said that all events at public places have to be put off at least until January 15, 2022. The minister, however, ruled out imposing lockdowns, asking people not to believe social media rumours.“There shall be strict implementation of a five-fold strategy of test, track, treat, vaccinate and enforce adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” according to the new guidelines.The government said that gatherings in marriages will be limited to less than 500. It announced, however, that the winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi, about 500km from Bengaluru, will start as scheduled from December 13.The new guidelines also said that the government will start the compulsory testing of health workers, people above 65 years of age, and people with comorbidities, and that all government officials must be fully vaccinated to attend office.A total of 76.5 million vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far. This means that around 29.3% of the state’s 48.9 million eligible for vaccination have been partially vaccinated, and 63.5% have got both jabs.Outside of Karnataka, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines for travellers, emphasising on screening, and isolation of people with symptoms. An order issued by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi made district officials responsible for the spread of Covid-19 due to travellers. “If Covid infection spreads in any district due to travellers, then the officers concerned for the district will be held accountable,” the order said.The UP government asked district magistrates of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad to coordinate with the Delhi government to track international travellers coming to these districts, and the district magistrates and police commissioners of Lucknow and Varanasi to ensure systems were in place for the compulsory thermal scanning of all international arrivals.The Madhya Pradesh health department also issued instructions for the mandatory screening of passengers at airports, railway stations and bus terminals.“We are tracing all the people who returned from ‘at risk’ countries and conducting their RT-PCR tests. District administration have been asked to follow their health condition for 15 days and ensure genome testing of every positive person who came from foreign countries. There are no interstate travel restrictions in MP,” the state’s additional chief secretary (health) Mohammad Suleman said.The Union government has marked 11 regions, including all of Europe and several African countries, as “at-risk” based on their caseloads and the prevalence of Omicron cases.Rajasthan, where nine members of a family, four of whom came from South Africa, tested positive for Covid -- their samples have been sent for genome testing -- has started random testing at public places. State health minister Parsadi Lal Meena said the number of tests per day will be increased from 28,000 samples to 100,000 in the next few days.In Haryana, health minister Anil Vij instructed district police officials to book people found not wearing masks in public places.He also asked health officials to increase testing and re-enforce contact tracing.Several other states, including Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra, reiterated earlier orders of mandatory testing of all international passengers. These states have made mandatory a week’s home quarantine for passengers testing negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-step-up-guard-announce-new-rules-amid-omicron-scare-101638556733880.html
04-12-2021||India||Fully prepared to deal with Omicron: Centre||The government is fully prepared to address any threat from the Omicron variant and is taking necessary steps to ensure it does not spread in the country, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Parliament on Friday, as he stressed that the Centre will only go by scientific advice to decide on crucial issues of booster doses and starting vaccination for children.The health minister’s remarks in Lok Sabha came on a day India’s mass inoculation programme touched a major milestone: half of eligible Indians are now fully vaccinated. Another 34.8% have been partly vaccinated, according to data as of Friday evening.India has administered 1.26 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 796 million people — 469 million fully vaccinated and 327 million partially.Mandaviya said that of the 16,000 international passengers from “at-risk” countries that have landed in India since Wednesday, 18 tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check if they have the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2.The health minister’s statement in Lok Sabha was made in the afternoon and by the end of the day, the number of foreign returnees from “at-risk” countries who tested Covid positive had risen to at least 43 across four states, according to officials in these regions.
04-12-2021||India||Ahead of Cyclone Jawad, Odisha preps for evacuation, shuts schools||The Odisha government on Friday ordered closure of schools in 19 out of the state’s 30 districts and asked all government officials to report for duty on Sunday ahead of Cyclone Jawad. It also sent directives to district collectors in Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Khordha and Kendrapara to start evacuating people living in low-lying areas and those living in kutcha houses after the India Meteorological Department predicted that cyclonic storm Jawad is likely to make landfall in Puri on December 5.The cyclonic storm with wind speed ranging between 90 and 100 kmph, lay over westcentral Bay of Bengal about 480 km south-southwest of Puri, as it continued to move north-north-westwards with a speed of 20 kmph.Pronounced as Jowad (Arabic for horse), the deep depression developed into a cyclonic circulation over west-central and adjoining south Bay of Bengal at 11.30 am on Friday and lay at around 700 km south-southwest of Paradip. Later in the evening, it continued to move north-westwards.“The storm will move north-westwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh–south Odisha coasts by the morning of December 4. Thereafter it would recurve north-northeastwards and move along the Odisha coast and reach Puri around December 5 noon,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of IMD. Met officials estimated that Cyclone Jawad will make landfall to the south of Puri at around 11:30 am on Sunday.If Cyclone Jawad makes landfall in Puri, this would be the second cyclone in the last two and half years to strike the coastal district. On May 3, 2019 very severe cyclonic storm Fani hit Puri with wind speed of 200 kilometres per hour affecting about 16.5 million people in Puri, Khorda and Cuttack districts that left 64 dead. An estimated 3.6 lakh houses were damaged in about 18,000 villages.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said as per IMD’s forecasted track, the cyclone may just brush the Odisha coast near Puri or it may slightly enter the landmass. “However, the Odisha government has prepared itself for possible landfall in Ganjam or Puri or Jagatsinghpur and readied the response measures accordingly. At the time of landfall or when it passes close to the coast, the associated wind speed will be 80 to 90 kmph, gusting to 100 kmph.” After making landfall, the system will pass over Jagatsinghpur and adjoining Kendrapara districts and then re-emerge into the northwest Bay of Bengal before the weakened system heads for West Bengal.Jena said Sunday’s weekly-off for all govt employees had been cancelled and officials directed not to leave headquarters. Those on leave have been asked to cancel their leave and join duty as early as possible. The government also cancelled the popular Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival that began on December 1. The UGC/NET examination scheduled to be held on December 3 and 4 has been postponed in Odisha and adjoining Andhra Pradesh in view of the cyclone.All 6077 boats from the state that had gone out to sea for fishing have returned to shore. The authorities of Krushnaprasad block in Puri district announced the closure of all ghats across Chilika Lake till December 6.Ahead of the cyclonic storm, NDRF has mobilised 64 teams, state fire services have prepared 172 teams for the coastal districts of Ganjam, Gajapati, Puri, Khordha, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore. “We have additional forces on standby to send if any district faces severe damages due to the cyclonic storm,” said Bhagirathi Ghadei, Chief Fire Officer, Cuttack.Met officials said from December 4 morning, very heavy rainfall will start in Odisha’s Ganjam district with an estimated 10 cm rain in over 24 hours. From December 4 night, very heavy rain will start in Puri district with weather officials estimating 10-20 cm rainfall during the night hours. The wind speed will be gusting at around 90-100 kmph from about midnight till Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cyclone-jawad-odisha-preps-for-evacuation-shuts-schools-101638553253280.html
04-12-2021||India||There's freedom of expression, but can't hurt others: MP CM on comedian row at HTLS||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that while everyone has the right to freedom of expression, they cannot hurt the sentiments of others. He said this while speaking on the latest controversy over performances of stand-up comedians, including Vir Das and Munawar Faruqui, at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.In conversation with Sunetra Choudhury, the national political editor of Hindustan Times, Chouhan said any tweet or post on social media can create unrest in the state. Also read | PM Modi inspires us to work hard, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan at HTLSWhen asked about Faruqui being jailed in MP or comedians not being allowed to perform as recently conveyed by a minister in his government, the chief minister said, “We are not scared, but social media posts and tweets can create unrest. Our effort is to ensure there is no unnecessary controversy." Also read | Chouhan jabs Congress, tackles question on ‘changing culture’ of BJP"While everybody has the right to express themselves, that freedom of expression must not hurt others’ sentiments. In such situations, the government has to ensure that law and order prevails. But anybody can come and express themselves in Madhya Pradesh.”
04-12-2021||India||I don't take Rahul Gandhi seriously, says MP CM Chouhan at HTLS||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said he never takes Congress leader Rahul Gandhi seriously, including his comments on the farmers’ issues as he is someone who has never seen the rural world or how the farming world operates.
04-12-2021||India||Privacy foundational, govts use more data than anyone else: Sundar Pichai at HTLS||Sundar Pichai, the chief executive officer of Google and its parent, Alphabet Inc, said on Friday privacy is foundational and the internet giant works hard to protect user data, adding that over time artificial intelligence will give more privacy.Joining in conversation with R Sukumar, the editor-in-chief of Hindustan Times, at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, the Google CEO said governments have access to more data than anyone else. “Like for managing traffic in cities and reducing pollution,” he said.Check here for LIVE updatesHe said people’s privacy expectations are constantly evolving and all of us need to challenge ourselves to provide people with the experience they are seeking for while enhancing privacy.Also read | Want to provide Indian companies with AI, tech to help scale up ideas: Pichai“We have been working hard on techniques like that,” he said while sharing examples of privacy preserving techniques.
04-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Fully prepared to fight Omicron , says Haryana minister||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Fully prepared to fight Omicron variant, says Haryana ministerHaryana health minister Anil Vij said on Friday that the state is fully prepared to fight the Omicron variant of Covid-19. "The health department has the experience of fighting the Coronavirus. The officers and employees of our health department have worked successfully in the last two waves of coronavirus," Vij told news agency ANI. MSP for crops was already there and will be there: Agri ministerUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the minimum support price (MSP) for crops was “already there and will be there in the days to come.” “Besides, to make it more effective and transparent, PM [Narendra Modi] has constituted a committee,” he told ANI in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh.‘Before 2017, how many lungi-clad goons used to roam here?’: UP Dy CM asks at an event in Prayagraj#WATCH| Before 2017, how many lungi-clad goons used to roam here? Who in skull caps used to threaten the traders while carrying guns? Who used to encroach upon your land&threaten you to not go to Police? Remember all this:UP Dy CM KP Maurya at 'Vyapari sammelan' in Prayagraj pic.twitter.com/xsw7OBgziVUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister KP Maurya at Vyapari sammelan' in Prayagraj asked the people if they remember the “lungi-clad goons” who used to roam before 2017 in the state. “Who in skull caps used to threaten the traders while carrying guns? Who used to encroach upon your land and threaten you to not go to [the] police? Remember all this,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.IIFT MBA exams scheduled on Dec 5 postponed due to cyclone Jawad in 7 cities of Andhra, Odisha and BengalThe MBA (IB) 2022-24 of the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), which was scheduled for December 5, has been postponed in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur and Cuttack in Odisha, and Kolkata and Durgapur in West Bengal, ANI reported citing a release. The revised dates for the exam will be announced later.Biden says preparing 'set of initiatives' to protect Ukraine from Russian attackUS President Joe Biden said that the country is preparing 'set of initiatives' to protect Ukraine from Russian attack, AFP reported.5 students aged between 13 and 14 test positive for Covid-19 in UPFive students aged between 13 and 14 test positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Mainpuri district.UAE signs mega weapons deal with France, buys 80 Rafale fighter jetsFrance on Friday announced the signing of a USD 18 billion armaments mega-contract for the sale of 80 of its upgraded Rafale warplanes to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), reports the Associated Press. Read more here.NDRF teams march and make announcements in Andhra's Visakhapatnam ahead of cyclone Jawad's landfallNDRF teams on Friday were seen marching at Kailasagiri in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam and make announcements for people, alerting them about cyclone Jawad. Notably, the IMD said that the cyclone is expected to make landfall near Odisha's Puri on Sunday noon.Kangana Ranaut alleges her car was attacked by farmers in PunjabBollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday took to Instagram to claim that her car was attacked by farmers in Punjab. The incident happened in Anandpur Sahib as she was going to Himachal Pradesh to attend her sister's birthday celebration.Karnataka orders inquiry on India's 1st Omicron patient over RT-PCR test report: State minister R AshokaKarnataka government has ordered an inquiry on India's first Omicron Covid-19 patient over RT-PCR test reports. State minister R Ashoka told ANI that the person, “stayed at a hotel and held some meetings there.” “After that, he went away to Dubai, so there're two reports, one positive and [another] negative, which is doubtful, lab must be investigated,” the minister added to ANI.The patient is a South African national, who has already returned to his home country. India detected Omicron cases on Thursday after two were found to be infected with the strain.16,000 passengers from ‘at risk’ nations tested for Covid-19 in India, 18 found positive: MandaviyaUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said that a total of16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries have been tested for Covid-19 in India, and 18 have been found positive. “Genome sequencing for Omicron underway,” PTI reported quoting him.Konark Sand Art Festival called off due to cyclone Jawad, says Odisha tourismAs per the reports of IMD and advisories issued by Special Relief Commissioner on Cyclonic Storm Jawad reaching the coasts of Odisha, we regret to inform that the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival held in Konark are being called off with immediate effect.Odisha Tourism has called off the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival held in Konark due to the cyclonic storm Jawad. Ukraine urges NATO to reject Russian demand for ‘guarantees’Ukraine urges NATO to reject Russian demand for 'guarantees', reports AFP. ‘Any kind of violence threat to democracy’, says Kerala governor on murder of CPM leaderKerala governor Mohammad Arif Khan said, “Any kind of violence is a threat to democracy. These matters should be settled in a civilized manner. The law enforcement agencies must do everything to bring the culprits to trial,” regarding the murder of a local CPI (M) leader, reports ANI.  Covid-19 cases, deaths per million in India ‘lowest in world’, says MandaviyaHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that 3.46 crore Covid-19 cases have been reported in India and 4.6 lakh people have died so far. He also said that 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million have been reported in India, reports ANI. “This is one of the lowest in the world,” he said.Gopal Rai writes to Centre for calling neeting of NCR states in view of pollutionDelhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai writes to Centre for calling meeting of environment ministers of states in NCR in view of pollutionDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai wrote to the Centre for calling a meeting of the environment ministers of the states in the National Capital Region (NCR) states in view of pollution, reports PTI. Karnataka CM chairs meeting on Covid-19 situation in state, 2 Omicron casesBengaluru | Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai chairs meeting related to COVID19 situation and the two Omicron cases(Source: CMO) pic.twitter.com/J3Ka7U9Ei7Meeting underway in Karnataka as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai discusses the Covid-19 situation in the state and the two cases of the Omicron variant that have been detected so far, reports ANI. Cyclone Jawad: 46 NDRF teams positioned at Odisha, WB, AP, 18 teams on standbyIn view of cyclone Jawad, director general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that 46 teams have been sent to Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh and are prepositioned there, reports ANI. “IDS is on alert if the situation arises to airlift any of the teams. 18 more teams are on standby,” he added. Bombay HC rejects former Shiv Sena MP Anandrao Adsul's anticipatory bail plea in money laundering caseThe Bombay High Court has rejected the anticipatory bail plea filed by former Shiv Sena MP Anandrao Adsul in a money laundering case, reports ANI. Congress appoints Jagdish Thakor as Gujarat unit chiefHon'ble Congress President has appointed Shri Jagdish Thakor as the President , Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee, with immediate effect. The Party appreciates the contribution of outgoing PCC President, Shri Amit Chavda pic.twitter.com/Pj0iPHijAmJagdish Thakor appointed as president of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the state assembly polls next year. Haryana orders school closure in 4 NCR districts due to worsening air qualityThe Haryana government has ordered the closure of schools in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar, the four national capital region (NCR) districts, due to the deterioration of air quality.Chinese Navy present in IOR since 2008, their activities under close watch, says Navy chiefNavy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said that the Chinese navy has been present in the Indian Ocean Region since 2008 and there were seven to eight warships in the region, reports ANI. “There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and ships and their activities are kept under close watch,” he said.Delhi govt to install 140,000 CCTV cameras in city, says CM KejriwalDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said that 140,000 CCTV cameras would be installed in the city, reports ANI. So far, his government has installed 275,000 CCTV cameras, he added. “Today, Delhi is world number 1 in CCTV coverage per square km,” he added.People in UP going to change Yogi govt very soon, says SP chief Akhilesh YadavYogi gov has only changed the names of places, very soon people in UP are going to change their government. Young people, farmers & businessmen in UP have decided to get rid of the Yogi gov. Farmers in UP are going to benefit if Samajwadi Party comes here: SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav pic.twitter.com/PmDToCgECKSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said that the people of Uttar Pradesh will “very soon” change the Yogi Adityanath government in the state, reports ANI. “Yogi (Adityanath) government has only changed the names of places, very soon people in UP are going to change their government. Young people, farmers and businessmen in UP have decided to get rid of the Yogi government. Farmers in UP are going to benefit if Samajwadi Party comes here,” he said.‘Punjab reported 4 ‘suspected’ deaths due to oxygen shortage’: Mandaviya tells ParliamentUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the Centre wrote to all states asking for data regarding deaths due to oxygen shortage during second wave. “19 States responded, only Punjab reported four 'suspected' deaths due to oxygen shortage,” he said. SC gives nod to hospitals' construction workThe Supreme Court on Friday expressed satisfaction over fresh steps by CAQM, It also gave go-ahead to Delhi govt for hospitals' construction work. Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala joins the Congress ahead of state elections9 international travellers test positive for Covid-19 at Mumbai airportNine international travellers including one from South Africa who arrived at Mumbai International Airport between 10th Nov -2nd Dec have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing: Brihanmumbai Municipal CorporationIndia reports 9,216 fresh Covid cases in last 24 hours amid Omicron scareIndia reports 9,216 fresh Covid cases in last 24 hours amid Omicron scare. ‘Coronavirus variants will keep coming, but…': DoctorCoronavirus variants will keep coming. We don't need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from any variant if we're fully vaccinated and observe Covid appropriate behaviour, says Dr Ashok Seth, Executive Director, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Delhi.Omicron variant found in multiple US statesThe omicron variant of Covid-19, which had been undetected in the US before the middle of this week, had been discovered in at least five states by the end of Thursday.Enforcement task force formed to monitor compliance of anti-air pollution measuresCommission for Air Quality Management constitutes enforcement task force to monitor compliance, Supreme Court toldCertificate may be true: How man with Omicron left India after testing positiveThe 66-year-old South African man who became India's one of the first two confirmed cases of Omicron, the new variant of Covid, has already left India within a week of testing Covid positive. Read MoreNepal bans entry from nine countries amid Omicron scareNepal imposes ban on entry from nine countries including Hong Kong, in view of emergence of Omicron variant of Covid-19Gadkari says he will drive his green hydrogen car in Delhi to show it's possibleUnion minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he has bought a car on a pilot basis that will run on green hydrogen. Addressing the 6th National Summit 2021 on financial inclusion, the transport minister said he will drive that car in Delhi so that people believe it's possible to get hydrogen from water. Read MoreStates brace as Cyclone Jawad nears, PM holds review meetA cyclonic storm, named Cyclone Jawad, is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal but it may not intensify into severe category as expected earlier, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, adding that it still has the potential to cause widespread damage over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-3-2021-101638492251133.html
04-12-2021||Today's||The crisis in SAU is a symbol of the crisis of SAARC||On December 8, 1985, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) was established by Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. The objective of SAARC is to promote economic growth, social progress, and cultural development in South Asia — one of the world’s poorest regions marred by conflicts and political differences.
04-12-2021||Today's||Denying Munawar Faruqui his rights||When I think of what’s been done to Munawar Faruqui, I want to hang my head in shame. I feel embarrassed, and India has been diminished. It’s nothing short of persecution. It seems the worst was perpetrated by the governments of Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Karnataka. We elected them to protect our rights — that is their beholden duty — but they’ve turned on us like tyrants. It seems Faruqui’s existence, liberties, and rights are to be determined by them and not our Constitution.
04-12-2021||Today's||An integrated method to measure poverty||How many people in India are so poor that they are deprived of the basic needs of modern life? India now has the means to get a more meaningful idea of what that figure is, as a guide to the goals that the country must set for its economic growth.
04-12-2021||Today's||75 years later, the quest to understand Partition||The 75th year of South Asia’s decolonisation has seen the revival of an old unease with India’s Partition. It was recently suggested that the pain of Partition can only be addressed when the division of 1947 is undone. The sentiment calls to mind the announcement made earlier this year that August 14, the day Pakistan celebrates its independence, would henceforth be observed in India as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.
