06-12-2021||Pune||Thief breaks into seven houses in Katraj||A thief travelling in a car is on the run from the police for breaking into seven houses in one locality in Katraj and fleeing with cash and valuables worth ₹97,000 form one of them, said officials on Monday. The suspect broke into three houses in Wonder City and two houses each in Sunita Residency and Torna Society. The car that was damaged was parked in Karan Bharti Society, said police. “We have the CCTV footage that shows the same car driving into three societies in the area. The thief in the car also brushed past a past a vehicle parked in the fourth society. We have a suspect and we will arrest him soon,” said Police sub-inspector Dheeraj Gupta of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. A complaint in the matter has been lodged by a 58-year-old resident of Wonder City who lost ₹17,000 in cash and gold jewellery worth ₹80,000. A case under sections 457, 380, and 427 of the Indian Penal Code has registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/thief-breaks-into-seven-houses-in-katraj-101638815390551.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Babri Masjid demolition anniv: Ayodhya, Mathura remain peaceful||Ayodhya and Mathura remained peaceful on the 29th anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition on Monday. While Ayodhya sent a clear message that the temple town had moved ahead of the Mandir–Masjid controversy, five people, including a sadhu and a Karni Sena activists, were detained in Mathura during the day after they raised slogans at the gates of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi.The Vishva Hindu Parishad had already called December 6 as a “routine day” and had decided against convening any special event on the day. However, cops were deployed across Ayodhya city. Security measures were tightened and random frisking of commuters was carried out. Local intelligence unit (LIU) also kept a vigil in busy market places. Civil police along with PAC personnel and central forces was deployed across the city. Senior superintendent of police, Ayodhya, Shailesh Kumar Pandey monitored the situation throughout the day. No public event was organised at Karsevakpuram—the epicentre of Ram Mandir movement in Ayodhya. Devotees turned up at Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanuman Garhi in large numbers. “After the Supreme Court’s verdict in favour of Ram Mandir on November 9, 2019, December 6 has no meaning for the VHP. Now, it is just a routine day for us like any other day,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson for VHP, who operates from Karsevakpuram. Moreover, security had been tightened in Mathura too after many organisations gave a call for protests/marches up to Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi there. “The day passed off peacefully. Several organisations and individuals who had given a call for protest march or assembling at the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi withdrew their call,” said Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover.“Five people raising slogans at the gates of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi were detained and taken to the Govind Nagar police station. One of them is a sadhu while another claims himself to be an activist of Karni Sena,” said the SSP. As usual, CRPF personnel manned red zone of Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi and Shahi Eidgah. Mathura police was assisted by the Rapid Action Force (RAF), PAC and extra force was mobilised from adjoining districts. “Around 3000 police personnel were on duty today. Entire city was divided in two super zones, four zones and eight sectors. Traffic diversions were strictly enforced,” said the SSP. Across Mathura city, 143 security points were created and those moving towards Shahi Eidgah were allowed only after verification of identity proofs. Drone cameras were used to maintain vigil in localities around the temple. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC were issued in Mathura city. The district administrations of adjoining Agra and Aligarh cities also remained alert. Sanjay Jat, national spokesperson of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha in Agra, stated that cops reached his house on Sunday and remained there till Monday. Five dozen activists from various organisations were on the radar of the Aligarh police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/babri-masjid-demolition-anniv-ayodhya-mathura-remain-peaceful-101638815335818.html
06-12-2021||Other||Prayagraj:Two suspects in Phaphamau multiple murder case sent to jail||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj police on Monday sent two suspects to jail in connection with murder of four members of a Dalit family in Phaphamau’s trans-Ganga area, whose bodies were found at their home on November 24. Circle officer of Soraon, Sudhir Kumar, said that the two suspects in the multiple-murder, Shashi Patel, 24, of Sarai Bhogi Shivgarh and his cousin Rajneesh Patel, 24, of Iehra village were arrested and sent to jail. “Evidences have been found indicating that Shashi was in contact with the woman who was raped and killed. Some objectionable contents, including photographs of the woman, have been found in his mobile while most of her messages and chats in his mobile were deleted by him. Further investigation into the case to establish their involvement is underway,” the CO added. The officials said that Shashi and the woman had an affair after they met at a coaching institute. However, Shashi was reluctant to marry the woman as she belonged to another community. Shashi planned to kill her when she started pressurizing him for marriage. As per the plan, Shashi came to Phaphamau from Gurgaon where he worked in a private company. With the help of his cousin Rajneesh, he killed the woman and her other family members and then returned to Gurgaon the same night on November 21, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagrajtwo-suspects-in-phaphamau-multiple-murder-case-sent-to-jail-101638815149308.html
06-12-2021||Pune||Pune builder shot dead as killers fire 6 bullets; four arrested||A local builder was shot dead on Monday, in a crowded road in south Pune’s Katraj area by four men who escaped on a two-wheeler. The unidentified assailants fired at least six bullets at Sameer Manoor Shaikh, 28, who died on the spot, police said. Within hours, police arrested all the four assailants including the one to whom Shaikh is suspected to have a financial dispute. Police said the attack took place a little after 11.30am outside Rohit Wadwewale, a local eatery, not far away from Bharati Vidyapeeth police chowky. The assailants on two, two-wheeler vehicles were following the now-deceased from Kalubainagar locality in Phalenagar area of Ambegaon Pathar in Katraj.According to the police, the attackers, came on two motorbikes. “Two of them on a motorbike fired bullets at Shaikh while others were waiting nearby,” said Jagannath Kalaskar, senior police inspector of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station. Onlookers who were eating at the eatery said that the six bullets were fired in the upper part of Shaikh’s body, close to his head. Five out of six bullets hit him. Shaikh was instantly found lying in pool of blood. According to a worker at an optical store next to the eatery, the assailants rushed towards Katraj Dairy post the shooting. Shaikh was later rushed to the local hospital but did not survive. A police officer said his body has been sent to Sassoon general hospital for an autopsy. “During the probe, one person, Mehboob Bulargi, who had a continuing dispute with Shaikh for the last 5-7 months was first detained and later arrested. By evening, our team of our officials arrested other three assailants from different locations in the city,” said Kalaskar. Along with Bulargi, a minor boy claiming to be 17 years of age, and two men identified as Nilesh Kumbhar and Sufian Jauri have been arrested and an illegal weapon has been recovered from them.“Mehboob Bulargi had given a construction project to Shaikh and had paid ₹17 lakh for it. Work of ₹10 lakh was completed and Shaikh returned ₹5 lakh through irregular payments. But Bulargi was asking for the final payment of ₹2.5 lakh which Shaikh was avoiding. Their dispute started when they both lived in Janata Vasahat,” added Kalaskar. Police said Shaikh was sitting on a red Royal Enfield Bullet in front of the eatery when the two suspects are believed to have fired at him. The police have found six empty bullet shells near where he was shot. There were five other vehicles which were parked flanked to Shaikh’s bike. Police officer Kalaskar said the suspects are believed to have followed Shaikh from his house in Ambegaon Pathar, about 3-5km from the place where he was killed. “They followed him there and shot him from behind as he sat on his two-wheeler,” Kalaskar said, citing initial statements from witnesses. There are three CCTV cameras in the area including one that covers the spot where Shaikh’s body and his blood-stained motorcycle were found and one pointing towards where the assailants fled. The police officer added that were scanning footage from CCTV cameras along the way to verify more information. Multiple incidents of gun-violence in Pune city this yearThe brutal murder by shooting of small-time builder in Katraj, on Monday, is only the latest in a series of gun-violence cases in the city this year. Here is a recap of some of the other incidents.November 27: A man named Amar Chavan was injured after a gun in possession of his friend Gaurav Birungikar misfired and lodged in his stomach while they were near Warje Malwadi bridge.October 22: Two people were killed, and two others were seriously injured when a group of men opened fire at a man in a restaurant in Uruli Kanchan area of Pune. The deceased were identified as Santosh Jagtap and Swagat Khaire. Among the two injured, Monu Singh, succumbed to his injuries later.October 2021: In another incident three friends, one of them a software engineer, managed to procure a gun and two of them accidentally shot dead the third one in his house in Kondhwa Khurd. The deceased was identified as Ganesh Taralekar while the two arrested were Sagar Binwant and Datta Hazare.September 2: A murder convict on parole from Nashik prison, shot two rounds at a youngster who tried to stop him from stealing in a residential building in Ghorpade peth. The injured was identified as Awaiz Salim Ansari while the convict was identified as Vithal Bhole.March 2021: A grocery shop owner named Vishal Punjabi was injured when a man named Ashok Gavai open fired into the shop located on Dattanagar-Katraj road in Ambegaon Khurd.These incidents beg the question, where are the citizens from various walks of life getting access to illegal weapons? While police issue statements about multiple illegal weapon seizures in the city, the supply is refusing to cease||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-builder-shot-dead-as-killers-fire-6-bullets-four-arrested-101638815031635.html
06-12-2021||Bangalore||One more Covid-19 cluster reported in Karnataka after 9 students of Mangaluru college test positive||A fresh Covid-19 cluster was reported in Karnataka on Monday after nine students tested positive for the infection, news agency ANI reported. The incident occurred in a college in Mangaluru, and the positive results arrived after a total of 173 samples were tested for the virus.The college has now been declared a containment zone. “We have sent samples for genomic sequencing to detect the variant,” deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district Rajendra KV was quoted as saying.This development comes only hours after the cluster Covid-19 cases reported in Chikkamagaluru district on Saturday witnessed a rise in the number of affected people, with 21 more students and one staffer testing positive for the virus.Following testing of 457 samples of both students and staff members in the Jawahar Navodaya School in Seegodu in Chikkamagaluru district, as many as 69 individuals, including 59 students and 10 staffers, were found to be infected with coronavirus. On Monday, the number of cases rose to 101, with the total number of students carrying coronavirus climbing to 90 and the staff members to 11.The Chikkamagaluru district health officer Dr SN Umesh said that the school was directed to be sealed and stay closed for the next seven days.Also Read| Amid Omicron threat, 90 students test positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka schoolThere has been a consistent uptick of Covid-19 clusters in the southern state, which led the state government to issue guidelines to combat the situation. According to the new norms, any area reporting three Covid-19 cases will be declared a cluster, as opposed to the earlier 10. Furthermore, both doses of Covid-19 vaccine shots have been made mandatory for people to visit apartment complexes, and if one has been marked a cluster, no one will be permitted to enter the building.The new rules hold even more significance as the country along with the world currently grapples with the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, which was first discovered in South Africa last month. India has confirmed 23 cases of the strain so far, with the latest coming from Mumbai wherein two men aged 37 and 36, were found to be infected. With this Maharashtra's overall tally of Omicron has also risen to 10.Karnataka has so far confirmed two cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/one-more-covid-19-cluster-in-karnataka-as-9-college-students-test-positive-101638805617471.html
06-12-2021||Pune||Committee to submit report to state to draw water from Mulshi dam||With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and state Irrigation department in a tussle with regards to the reduced water supply in the city, there is a development to seek an alternate water supply to Pune city from Mulshi dam. The state-appointed committee has reached the final stages of this report and will submit it to the government in a few months. Avinash Surve, committee chairman said, “The report includes all technical parts and findings. We will submit it either at the end of December or first week of January.” PMC has also raised the demand of five thousand million cubic feet (TMC) water from Mulshi dam. The proposal was sent to the state government’s water resource department in July this year. After getting a report from the committee, the state government will take the final decision. The committee has been awaiting two reports, one from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) and the other from the Tata Power Company. PMC checking for alternate source The PMC is also looking out for alternate routes to get the increased water supply in the district. The task has been assigned to a consultant appointed for the 24x7 regular and equitable water project for the newly merged 34 villages in PMC limit. Aniruddha Pawaskar, chief superintendent engineer of PMC water supply department said, “Though, we will get permission to fetch water from Mulshi Dam, it will take time to complete the project. After the merger of 34 villages, it is necessary to find an alternate water source from which Pune will get water in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/committee-to-submit-report-to-state-to-draw-water-from-mulshi-dam-101638814729823.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Cong poll manifesto to chart roadmap for UP’s growth: Priyanka||Congress national general secretary and UP incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said her party’s poll manifesto for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls will be a roadmap for all-inclusive and all-round growth of the state.While quoting her as saying so, a release issued by UP Congress said Priyanka made the statement at the party’s manifesto committee meeting held at the party’s state headquarters soon after she reached Lucknow on Monday morning.She also said the manifesto will pay special attention to all sections of the society, be it youths, women, farmers, traders or various deprived sections. Priyanka later participated in the meetings of the manifesto, coordination, election and campaign committees of the party, the release said. A party spokesman said the Congress leader also held discussions over giving a final shape to the election manifesto prepared on the basis of people’s views.Several senior leaders, including ex-MP and former state president Nirmal Khatri, former union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya, former MP PL Punia, leader of the UP legislature party Aradhana Mishra, leader of UP legislative council Deepak Singh and Supriya Shrinet, among others attended the meetings.Before attending the meetings, she garlanded a portrait of Dr BR Ambedkar on his death anniversary while paying tribute to him and recalling his contribution in the making of the Indian Constitution, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-poll-manifesto-to-chart-roadmap-for-up-s-growth-priyanka-101638814670473.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC asks citizens to stay calm, follow guidelines||Mumbai The first Omicron cases were reported in Mumbai on Monday, prompting authorities to trace up to 320 people who came in contact with the two infected.Civic authorities requested people not to panic and strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also asked people to get fully vaccinated at the earliest.Both these patients have been admitted to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run Seven Hills Hospital located in Andheri in the western suburbs, and both of them are asymptomatic, according to a statement issued from the Maharashtra government’s public health department on Monday evening. A total of 320 contacts of both these patients have been traced, of which five are high-risk contacts, and the other 315 are low-risk contacts. Meanwhile, further contact tracing for both patients is still going on.In light of the detection of the two Omicron cases in the city, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department said, “Medical infrastructure wise, Mumbai is fully prepared. Even at present, we have around 90%-95% of beds vacant. Our active initiative early on, to check all international passengers arriving in Mumbai for Covid-19 and its symptoms, and rigorous contact tracing efforts of people who came in contact with these travellers as given us the chance to quarantine them in time and prevent further spread.”Kakani said no new restrictions will be introduced in the city as yet. “We will go ahead with the same regulations that are there in the city at present,” Kakani said.“Do not panic. Go about your usual routine by strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including maintaining social distancing, wearing masks in public places, frequent washing and sanitising hands. Those who have international travel history within the past month should approach their nearest public health centre or ward office and inform authorities, and monitor for symptoms,” appealed BMC.According to BMC, so far 16 residents of Mumbai, who have international travel history, have tested positive. One of these passengers is among those who tested positive for the Omicron variant on Monday. Overall, nine high-risk contacts of these patients have tested positive for Covid-19. One out of them tested positive for the Omicron variant on Monday.Until December 5, 2021, a total of 4,480 passengers have arrived in Mumbai from high-risk countries. These have been categorised by the Maharashtra government in its order of December 2, and are South Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-asks-citizens-to-stay-calm-follow-guidelines-101638814669471.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Kovind pays tribute to Shivaji Maharaj at Raigad Fort||Mumbai The President of India Ram Nath Kovind, who is on a four-day tour of Maharashtra, visited Raigad Fort on Monday and paid tribute to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. The President will visit the Air Force Station, Lohegaon, Pune on Tuesday and will present President’s Standard to the 22nd Missile Vessel Squadron in Mumbai on Wednesday.The President said that he considered himself fortunate for getting an opportunity to pay his respect to Shivaji Maharaj and the visit is like a pilgrimage for him. “Under the able leadership of Shivaji Maharaj, the glory of the entire region increased while patriotic feelings re-emerged. The character of Shivaji Maharaj has been described very effectively in the 19th century Sanskrit work ‘Shivraj-Vijayah’. This book could be translated into various Indian languages so that people, especially the younger generation, can get acquainted with the great personality and unique work of Maharaj.”Kovind arrived at Pune airport in an Indian Air Force chopper on Monday. He was welcomed by Maharashtra governor BS Koshyari, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil, minister of state for protocol Aditi Tatkare at the airport.In deference to peoples’ sentiments, the President’s chopper landed at the foothill of Raigad Fort. “The President used the ropeway and walked the remaining path up the hill. He visited the historic coronation site of Shivaji Maharaj and paid tributes at the Samadhi,” a statement issued by the press information bureau stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kovind-pays-tribute-to-shivaji-maharaj-at-raigad-fort-101638814371085.html
06-12-2021||Pune||BJP’s door-to-door appeal for votes in Pune on Dec 25||Considering the upcoming municipal elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party has gone back to using the traditional method of asking votes, which is knocking on everyone’s doorstep. The party has activated its cadre for this exercise and have also launched an app for the party workers. The target is to reach 1.5 lakh homes on December 25, which also marks Atal Bihari Vajpayee birthday. For this exercise, 33,000 party workers will participate. BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil said, “BJPs 33,000 workers will join the drive. Very worker will visit only five homes on that day and handout the booklet published by the BJP. This will make people aware of the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” According to BJPs city unit president Jadgdish Mulik, the city unit will visit six lakh people in a single day. BJP leader Rajesh Pande who initiated this drive said, “We designed an app for the workers. All information will be uploaded here. Once a party worker visits a home, our control room will be notified via the app and it will reflect on the dashboard. The app also has updated voter list, contact name and email ids. We will also launch a call centre to give information about various schemes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjps-door-to-door-appeal-for-votes-in-pune-on-dec-25-101638814369338.html
06-12-2021||Pune||Fadnavis blames media for neglecting party’s work in Pune Municipal Corporation||Former chief minister and member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Devendra Fadnavis, on Monday blamed the media for neglecting the work carried out by the BJP in the Pune Municipal Corporation. Considering the upcoming municipal elections, the BJP has gone back to using the traditional method of asking votes, which is knocking on everyone’s doorstep. For this, the party conducted a workshop and launched ‘AtalShakti Mahaabiyaan’ to reach every voter. The target is to reach 1.5 lakh homes on December 25 and make people aware of the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. For this exercise, 33,000 party workers will participate, said officials. “Addressing party workers in Pune on Monday, Fadnavis said, “The mainstream media is neglecting and not giving enough publicity to the work carried out by the BJP. Out traditional strength has always been man to man and heart to heart contact. We need to replicate it during the municipal election. It is good that Pune city unit has decided to carry this drive.” “The BJP will reach to every part of Pune. If we can create a positive atmosphere among voters, BJP would able to get more seats than 2017 elections,” added Fadnavis. Union minister Narayan Rane also addressed the party workers. He said, “If we work hard and reach each voter, we would get more than 97 seats in the municipal election.” PMC submits draft ward structure to state election commissionThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday submitted the draft ward structure to the state election commission.An officer on anonymity said, “Earlier the state election commission gave a deadline of November 30, but we asked for a two-week extension. Considering our request, the election commission granted us a week’s extension till December 5.”The ward structures is important as it decides the geographical area of the ward. Every party wants a ward structure as per their wish as they are aware about the geographical pockets from where they get maximum votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fadnavis-blames-media-for-neglecting-party-s-work-in-pune-municipal-corporation-101638814189289.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Congress protests across UP over fertiliser for farmers||In support of their demand for fertiliser for farmers, the Congress cadre protested at district headquarters across the state on Monday. During the protests, they also shouted slogans against the state government saying “either supply fertilisers or else quit UP”. UP Congress committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu had given the call for the protest, said a UPCC spokesperson in a statement.“Today (Monday), the Congress cadre protested at tehsils and blocks in all the districts (of the state). If this government can’t give fertiliser to farmers, it should quit. Today farmers have been standing in long queues to get fertiliser. Still, they are not getting it. Consequently, the farmers are forced to buy fertiliser from the black market where its price is manifold. Already, the farmers are distressed over the risen prices of diesel,” the statement quoted UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu as saying. “The Yogi government which came to power in 2017 with a promise to double farmers’ income should now tell that how the agriculture input costs increased four-fold since then. Who is responsible for this? So, the reality is that the income did not increase but the input costs certainly increased,” Lallu said as per the statement issued.The statement further said the BJP government had issued a “jumla” (rhetoric) that it will double farmers’ income. On the contrary, the farmers were facing scarcity of fertilisers, it said. As per the statement, the UP government was trying to paint a rosy picture of itself through giant advertisements but the truth was that the farmers were distressed over fertilisers—a basic requirement for farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-protests-across-up-over-fertiliser-for-farmers-101638814009186.html
06-12-2021||Pune||In memory of the late Indian bison, a ‘remorse meet’ to be organised in Kothrud||A remorse meet is being organised in Bhusari colony, Kothrud, on December 9 in memory of the Gaur (Indian bison) that strayed into Kothrud’s Mahatma Society and died due exhaustion on December 9, 2020 after running non-stop for five hours. The meet is being held to spread awareness about man and animal cohabitation and to pay homage to the lost life. Sachin Dhankude, a resident of Kothrud who has initiated this meet with Change India Foundation said, “That day the situation was reversed. Humans acted like animals and that helpless animal was running with fear. Through this sabha (remorse meet) I want to express regret for our behaviour and give an oath to animal lovers that such incidents will not be repeated. We should know how to behave responsibly when such a situation arrives. Authorities also need to respond in time.” A Gaur (Indian bison) had strayed into Kothrud’s Mahatma Society on the morning of Dec 9, 2020. By noon, the gaur had been tranquillised by forest officials, who took him for medical examination. During the tranquilisation, the gaur sustained it tried to escape. However, the gaur died while being taken to the forest. The officials said that after running non-stop for five hours, the animal died due to exhaustion. Bharat Kurape, a resident of Sahakarnagar said that he will attend this meet. “I got to know about it through a friend. What happened on that day was wrong and we should be sensible towards animals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-memory-of-the-late-indian-bison-a-remorse-meet-to-be-organised-in-kothrud-101638813956799.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Nearly 95K devotees throng Chaitya Bhoomi despite Omicron scare||MUMBAI Despite the Omicron threat looming large over the state, nearly 95,000 devotees visited Chaitya Bhoomi memorial at Dadar to pay tribute to Dr BR Ambedkar on the occasion of the 66th death anniversary on Monday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had appealed to the people to avoid visiting the memorial physically and pay their respects virtually instead.Harshad Kale, deputy municipal commissioner (DMC), who supervised the preparations at Chaitya Bhoomi, said that they had even reached out to the leaders of various communities to urge their respective community members not to visit the grounds.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “A total of 95,000 people visited the memorial on Monday and the number of people outside was even more. We set up health camps and provided all sanitation facilities around the Bhoomi. Many marshals were also deployed to ensure that people wore masks and followed rules.”The followers who visited Chaitya Bhoomi on Monday said that a majority of them reached Dadar by Sunday evening and had to spend the night at the Shivaji Park ground. Some of them even staged a protest at Shivaji Park, condemning the BMC for the lack of amenities at the memorial. As the day progressed on Monday, more people started showing up carrying blue flags and pictures of Dr Ambedkar.Raju Sonar, who travelled to Dadar from Palghar along with five other followers said, “We thought that there will be very few people this year and that we might be sent back. However, there were thousands of people like us who came to pay respect to Babasaheb.”Later in the day on Monday, a group of volunteers from the All India Panther Sena (AIPS), created ruckus outside Chaitya Bhoomi. They raised slogans and blamed the civic authorities for mismanagement and overcrowding outside the ground. Saurav Sarode, district president of the AIPS, said, “People from different parts of the country come here to pay homage. Every year, the administration used to provide all basic facilities but since last year, everything has stopped. This is really insensitive on their part as people come from faraway places like Karnataka and are not allowed to enter the memorial while VIPs are allowed inside.” However, civic officials rubbished all such claims and said that there were enough facilities available and more mobile toilets were set up in the afternoon.Meanwhile, dalit leader and great-grandson of Dr B R Ambedkar, Prakash Ambedkar, maintained that Monday’s event was observed peacefully throughout the state. He said that he had already appealed to people not to travel in large numbers for their own safety. He slammed the AIPS protest as a political gimmick. “The BMC elections are round-the-corner and the members of the outfit created such a nuisance simply to garner attention,” he said.On Monday morning, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, along with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, MP Rahul Shewale, and state minister Sanjay Bansode visited the Chaitya Bhoomi along with municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nearly-95k-devotees-throng-chaitya-bhoomi-despite-omicron-scare-101638813649330.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||JJP MLA in a soup after promising ‘liquor, snacks’ at Dec 9 rally||ROHTAK Jannayak Janata Party’s (JJP) Julana MLA Amarjeet Dhanda landed in a controversy on Monday after he asked people of his constituency to reach the December 9 Jhajjar rally, which marks the party’s third foundation day, in large numbers and he will make arrangements of “liquor and snacks” for them.In a widely-circulated video, the JJP MLA can be seem saying: “ With your support, I have been getting enough MLA’s salary and am ready to invest some of it for the Jhajjar rally. I want at least two to three vehicles from each village of Julana constituency to reach Jhajjar. After the rally, you can consume liquor and making some noise. You will not have to worry about money as I will arrange for everything.”Despite repeated attempts via calls and texts, the JJP MLA remained unavailable for a comment on the matter.Farmers to oppose Dec 9 rallyBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state vice-president Satywan Narwal said they will oppose the JJP’s December 9 rally as their pending demands are yet to be accepted by the Union government.“We will continue to protest against the BJP-JJP leaders until our six demands, which were highlighted in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are fulfilled,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-mla-in-a-soup-after-promising-liquor-snacks-at-dec-9-rally-101638813229456.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Industrial units asked to follow waste water reuse norms||Haryana Water Resources Authority chairperson Keshni Anand Arora has directed representatives of industrial units and infrastructure sector of Gurugram to strictly follow the norms related to reuse of treated waste water.Addressing a meeting of representatives and officers of industrial units and infrastructure sectors in Gurugram, Arora said action will be taken against those not complying with the rules and directed representatives from industrial units and infrastructure sectors to use the treated water as per rules laid for construction activities, including industrial parks.Arora said rapidly depleting groundwater levels in 14 districts, including Gurugram, of the state is a matter of concern. For a permanent solution to this problem, she said, irrigation, agriculture, horticulture, forest and fisheries departments and other departments concerned have been directed to work towards preparing an action plan.She said directions have been given to all industrial units in state to obtain no-objection certificate for extraction of groundwater. Earlier in the state, no-objection certificates for groundwater extraction was issued by the Central Ground Water Board, but now it is being issued by the Haryana Water Resources Authority.She added that so far, more than 200 applicants have been given NOC across state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industrial-units-asked-to-follow-waste-water-reuse-norms-101638813049736.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Some parties recalling Babasaheb’s contribution for vested interests: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said the weaker sections of the society will be empowered and their rights in the Constitution protected with the change of power at the Centre and in the state. Addressing a press conference at her party’s state unit office after paying tribute to Dr BR Ambedkar (1891-1956) on his 65th death anniversary, she said, “Babasaheb Ambedkar had called upon the suppressed community to get united to capture political power for their emancipation and upliftment. Those against the ideals of Ambedkar are in power today. Rather than taking to the street, the BSP believes in changing power at the Centre and in the state.” “The four BSP governments (1995, 1997, 2002 and 2007) in Uttar Pradesh had launched several schemes for the welfare and empowerment of weaker sections. The BSP government launched several schemes and projects in the name of Babasaheb Ambedkar. The rival political parties are unable to digest the honour that was given to Ambedkar under the BSP regime,” she said.“Dr Ambedkar devoted his life to and struggled for the empowerment of the weaker sections. He also ensured that the legal rights of the weaker sections were protected in the Constitution. Due to the casteist government at the Centre and in the state, the weaker sections are not able to get the benefits of their legal rights,” the BSP chief added. “There are some political parties and organisations in the country that had opposed the humanitarian thoughts of Dr Ambedkar. When in power, these parties ignored Ambedkar but to serve their vested political interests these parties are recalling contribution of Babasaheb Ambedkar these days,” she alleged. “The BSP has worked according to the ideals of Dr Ambedkar to create awareness among the suppressed communities and to free them from slave mentality. The movement launched by the BSP for the self-respect and empowerment of the weaker sections is continuing across the country. This movement will neither stop nor bow down to any political power,” the former UP chief minister said. “The people have full faith in the leadership of the BSP. Some people and organisations are trying to divide the votes of Schedule Castes and Scheduled Tribes to serve their interests. They are trying to weaken the movement launched by the BSP for the empowerment of the weaker sections but people will reject them in the election. The BSP has full faith in its cadre. They will fight the ploy of the rivals to pave way for the formation of the BSP government. The BSP will also do well in Uttarakhand where it is contesting election on its own. It will form government in Punjab where it is contesting assembly election in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD),” she claimed. Slamming the Samajwadi Party (SP), the BSP chief said, “The SP has not secured victory in the assembly election yet but it has launched Vijay Rath Yatra. An SP MLA beat up a police officer at Chandauli. Under the SP rule, the goonda and mafia elements ruled the roost. The people can see that leaders of SP are taking law into their hand. There was complete lawlessness under the SP rule whereas rule of law prevailed in UP under the BSP government.” “Under the BJP government, atrocities are being inflicted on the weaker sections but it is not being reported in the media,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/some-parties-recalling-babasaheb-s-contribution-for-vested-interests-mayawati-101638812689496.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bride shot at: Main accused sent to 3-day police remand||Four days after three persons shot at a bride after her wedding on December 2, police on Monday produced the main accused before a local court in Rohtak which sent him to three-day police remand.Accused, Sahil Kumar, of Sampla village in Rohtak, was arrested from Paldi village in Sonepat a day earlier.Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Uday Singh Meena said they will ascertain the reasons behind the incident from the accused during the remand period.“The accused had fired shots at the bride, of Sampla village, at Rohtak’s Bhali Anandpur village, just hours after her marriage on December 2. She is undergoing treatment at PGIMS, Rohtak and her condition is critical,” the SP said.“Two minors accused, who had earlier been arrested, had confessed to providing minute-to-minute details of the victim’s marriage to the main accused. They had dropped him on a bike at Kharkhauda road in Sampla, snatched a car and used it to commit the crime. We have recovered the bike and car used in the crime,” police said.Meanwhile, police have also arrested fourth accused Ajay alias Aalu of Sampla.In his complaint, victim’s husband, Mohan, of Bhali Anandpur village, said after their marriage, he, along with his wife and brother, was returning home.“When we reached near a temple in my village, three persons in a Toyota Innova intercepted our car. They fired shots at my wife and snatched my brother’s gold chain before fleeing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bride-shot-at-main-accused-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-101638812628950.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||70% of country’s agriculture land to be brought under cereals crop by 2050: Haryana horticulture varsity V-C||Around 70% agricultural land of the country needs to be brought under cereals crop cultivation by 2050 in order to feed the country’s population, said Maharana Pratap Horticulture University vice chancellor Prof Samar Singh.“By 2050, India will witness one-third increase in its population and there will be more pressure to grow foodgrains. There will be need to increase the cultivation of cereals crop to 70%,” the V-C said in his address in a webinar organised by the university on the occasion of International Soil Day.He expressed concerns over decreasing area under cultivation and depleting groundwater levels in country.“We need to increase production of foodgrains. Also, diversification from agriculture to horticulture is the only option to meet the demand and increase the income of farmers,” he added.The V-C called upon farmers to adopt new methods of farming without disturbing fertility of the soil.In his address, Kisan Club general secretary Vijay Kapoor said models should be displayed and small training courses should be conducted so that farmers can get better benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/70-of-country-s-agriculture-land-to-be-brought-under-cereals-crop-by-2050-haryana-horticulture-varsity-vc-101638812509107.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Placement 2021: IIT-Kanpur gets 940 offers till Day 4, ₹1.2 cr highest domestic package||The Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, (IIT-K) on Monday said this year it had recorded highest placement offers with the maximum annual packages of USD 274,250 for international and ₹1.2 crore for domestic offers. In total, 49 offers above ₹1 crore have been received so far.In the placement season 2021-22, IIT-K has witnessed new highs in offers made by recruiters. Starting the season virtually on December 1, the institute received a total of 940 offers at the end of Day 4, out of which, 773 were accepted. This is in addition to the 156 pre-placement offers (PPOs) those have already been accepted.In 2020-21, at the end of Day 3, 665 offers were made whereas in 2019-20, 594 offers were made. This shows a significant increase of 32.5% in the number of offers made till Day 3 this year, which is 887. At the end of Day 4, 109 offers in core sector companies were made to 97 students. This constitutes over 11.5% of the total jobs offered. On the other hand, 16 start-ups offered 45 jobs until Day 4.Director, IIT Kanpur, Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “The new highs we are witnessing so far this year is indicative of the growing trust recruiters are bestowing upon the institute and its students despite the pandemic-induced challenges. We are confident and hopeful that we would end the remainder of the season on a high as well.”So far, at the end of Day 4, the institute received 47 international offers. This is a big jump of 150% over last year when 19 international offers were received. Of the total 773 students placed, about 55% are undergraduates and 45% are postgraduates. So far, 216 companies have finished their recruitment process and more are lined up for next few days.IIT Kanpur has pulled in top recruiters like Axtria, EXL, Graviton, Goldman Sachs, ICICI Bank, Intel, Microsoft, OLA, Rubrik, Samsung, Quadeye, Uber, among others this season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/placement-2021-iit-kanpur-gets-940-offers-till-day-4-rs-1-2-cr-highest-domestic-package-101638812209336.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||30% decline in farm fires in Haryana this year, zero stubble burning still a challenge||Even as Haryana has reported nearly 30% decline in stubble burning cases this year, putting a complete check on the practice still remains a challenge for the authorities.As per the Haryana Space Application Centre’s data of rice residue burning events, the state had reported 6,987 incidents of farm fires during this harvesting season ending on November 30, against 9,898 reported last Kharif harvesting season from September 15 to November 30.The figures revealed that the farm fires were reported in 16 districts of Haryana. Over 67% cases were reported in five districts. Fatehabad is at the top with 1,479 incidents of farm fires, followed by 1,163 in Kaithal, 956 in Karnal, 551 in Sirsa, and 538 in Kurukshetra.However, officials of the state agriculture department are of the view that the actual number of farm fires was lesser than the incidents reported in the satellite monitoring data as several incidents reported by the HARSAC could not be traced during physical verification on the ground.Karam Chand, deputy director agriculture (Kaithal) said of 1,163 incidents of farm fires traced by the HARSAC, only 636 could be verified during the physical verification.He said they have taken action against the erring farmers as eight FIRs have been registered and a fine of ₹15.90 lakh has been imposed on the erring farmers.Similarly, DDA Kurukshetra Pradeep Meel said 405 incidents of stubble burning were reported in district during this season and a fine of ₹9 lakh has been charged from 341 farmers.Officials said next year they need to increase focus on four to five districts where maximum cases were reported.Director general Haryana agriculture and farmers welfare department Hardeep Singh told HT that number of stubble burning cases had come down due to efforts of the government and subsidised machines provided to the farmers.“But the challenge for the department and the government is to bring the number of stubble burning to zero and there is need to make the crop waste useful and profitable for the farmers,” he added.S Narayanan, member secretary Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said, “This is an achievement and the result of the efforts of multiple departments and farmers.”He said, “The government has been trying sincerely to prevent crop residue burning and focusing on both in-situ and ex-situ methods for management of crop waste.”On how zero stubble burning can be achieved, he said, “With introduction of more projects for ex-situ use of straw, we are hopeful to achieve significant success in the coming years.”
06-12-2021||Lucknow||If not in Mathura, will Krishna temple be built in Lahore, asks UP minister||AGRA After UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s pitch for a grand temple at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, cabinet minister and Mathura MLA Laxmi Narain Chaudhary advocated for the same, saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will make it a reality.“If a temple in the name of Sri Krishna will not be built in Mathura, would it be built in Lahore or Rawalpindi in Pakistan? Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will jointly make the grand temple at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi a reality, but at the appropriate time,” said the minister in a statement on Monday.He said the grand temple of Ramlalla in Ayodhya was becoming a reality only after due compliance of law and procedure. “Similarly, an apt opportunity would surface for the creation of grand temple of Lord Sri Krishna at the janmabhoomi site in Mathura,” said Chaudhary.“We claim to be descendents of Lord Krishna and thus want a grand temple of Sri Krishna at the Janmabhoomi site in Mathura. Those who are against such temple should say so and get their DNA tested to prove that they are actually descendents of Sri Krishna,” Chaudhary told HT on phone.“Keshav Prasad Maurya is a senior leader of our party and his statement in favour of a temple of Lord Sri Krishna at janmabhoomi site in Mathura is totally justified,” added the cabinet minister.“I hope the temple at Sri Krishna janmabhoomi site will be more magnificent than the one coming up at Ayodhya,” he added.
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Asha workers protest outside Vij’s residence in Ambala||Asha workers from across Haryana gathered near the residence of state health minister Anil Vij here on Monday, to protest over their demands.The workers, under the union banner, started assembling outside the Indian Oil refinery on NH-44 early morning, while police placed barricades at the entry gate of Shastri Colony, where the minister lives.A heavy police force was deployed to avert any law and order situation on the highway, DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar said.State general secretary of the asha workers’ union, Sunita, said, “We are the backbone of the health department. We are demanding permanent jobs, an increase in pay as per the NHM employees, and other incentives.”State president of the union, Surekha alleged that while the pay of NHM employees was raised under the seventh Pay Commission, their file was returned by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Workers from different parts of the state carried warm clothes and food packets with them for a long haul, and remained adamant to meet Vij.On his return from Chandigarh, Vij met a batch of the asha workers at his residence at around 7pm and assured them of conducting a meeting with officials concerned to look into their demands.The asha workers lifted the protest after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asha-workers-protest-outside-vij-s-residence-in-ambala-101638811610552.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Authorities demand enhanced security at shelter homes in Prayagraj||Security at the children shelters, including girl shelter homes, in Prayagraj, will be beefed up following recent incidents of inmates escaping from its premises. Shelter home authorities have written a letter to SSP making a formal request in this regard. The shelters come under Women and Child Development and house minor girls and boys. In the last four months, at least six inmates, including girls, have escaped due to negligence in security at the premises. Among those who fled, only one has been traced, while the rest are still at large. Some of the inmates escaped from the hospital while undergoing treatment. Others managed to escape from the shelter homes. In a few cases, negligence and even involvement of the staff have surfaced, which is under investigation. In one of the incidents, a teenage girl was handed over to her father but she escaped while on her way home. Shelter home authorities, including superintendents, wrote a letter to concerned officials, following which police officials have been asked to enhance security. In between August and November, many inmates have fled from the shelter homes. Two boys escaped from child shelter at Rajruppur and have remained untraced despite efforts made by police. Negligence of the shelter staff was found in the incident. Two girls managed to escape from a woman shelter at Civil Lines and are still at large. In another incident, two teenage boys fled from a child shelter at the Baluaghat locality. Meanwhile, a young girl of the state girl shelter at Khuldabad was admitted to Dufferin Hospital after she fell ill. Two home guards were deployed for her security, but the girl managed to escape. District probationary officer Pankaj Mishra said steps have been taken in this direction, and a letter has been written to SSP for increasing security at the shelter homes. While no mobiles are allowed inside shelters, many inmates have been caught using them. In one of the incidents, Khuldabad police arrested a youth for presenting fake educational documents to secure the release of a minor girl. However, the girl, who was still at the shelter called the police and said that she was responsible for making the fake documents and demanded the police to record her statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/authorities-demand-enhanced-security-at-shelter-homes-in-prayagraj-101638811609095.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rain, hailstorm damage crops in Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur||Unseasonal rain and hailstorm was reported in Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur region Sunday night, almost 20km away from the district headquarters, resulting in damage to several acres of crops.This comes hours after winter season’s first snowfall was reported in the Himalayas. Bilaspur region is situated on the foothills of Shivalik mountain range.Yamunanagar farmers claimed severe damage to freshly sown crops of wheat, mustard, potato, along with fields of mango trees.Karnail Singh, a farmer from Fakeer Majra village, said almost 18 acre of his mustard crop got damaged due to the calamity.Sarpanch Narender Singh said, “An hour of hailstorm damaged the crops of a large number of farmers in his village. We’ve never seen this kind of weather in our lives. Despite it being sunny on Monday morning, the lumps of ice could be spotted till noon. The area patwari came to check the fields and we have demanded appropriate compensation.”Sub-divisional magistrate (Bilaspur) Jaspal Singh Gill said to ascertain the extent of damage, a tehsildar has been asked to conduct survey and submit a report. “Appropriate action will be taken accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-hailstorm-damage-crops-in-yamunanagar-s-bilaspur-101638811369134.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||OP Chautala rules out reconciliation with grandson Dushyant||Hopes of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala of a reconciliation with his estranged grandfather and former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala were dashed on Monday. Dushyant’s gesture of bowing before his grandfather at a wedding event in Gurugram on Sunday, seeking his blessings seems to have cut no ice with the patriarch.The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) chief on Monday responded strongly to the overtures made by Dushyant and his father Ajay Singh for reuniting the Chautala family by stating that they were “traitors” and no agreement can be reached with them.The former chief minister, in a statement, said Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which was formed on the foundation of falsehoods, is on a speedy decline. “The office bearers and workers of the party are scampering. Such overtures are being made to stem the desertions,’’ Chautala said.The JJP, which is an offshoot of the INLD, was formed by OP Chautala’s elder son Ajay Singh and grandsons, Dushyant and Digvijay, after a split in the party in 2018.The INLD chief said these people (Dushyant and family) conspired to harm the INLD. “Post-assembly elections, they joined hands with a party (the BJP) against whom they sought votes in the 2019 polls. This showed how power hungry they are,’’ Chautala said.“I have never compromised on my principles, be it in my personal or political life. Those indulging in indiscipline and anti-party activities will not be tolerated at all. People of Haryana will also not forgive them (the JJP) for their high-handed approach during the farmers’ agitation,’’ Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/op-chautala-rules-out-reconciliation-with-grandson-dushyant-101638811136359.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||NCC honours 1971 war widows in Lucknow University||As part of ‘Swarnim Vijay Diwas’ and ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, NCC group headquarters, Lucknow, held a felicitation ceremony for Veer Naris (war widows) of the soldiers of the 1971 Indo-Pak war at Malaviya Hall of Lucknow University on Monday.Three widows of war heroes (soldiers), who died in the 1971 war, were honoured. Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash was the chief guest. He honoured the widows as a mark of respect and gratitude. Brig Ravi Kapoor, group commander, NCC group headquarters, and Col Sumeet Puri, commanding officer of 63 UP NCC Battalion, were also present.The NCC cadets of 63 UP NCC Battalion gave a guard of honour to pay homage and tribute to the 1971 war heroes. Three widows of the soldiers, who died in the 1971 war and residing in Lucknow, namely — Manju Mishra, wife of craftsman Pashupati Narayan Mishra, Chandra Devi wife of Naik Raja Singh and Lila Devi wife of Sowar Jit Singh — were felicitated and presented with a shawl and gifts.The event was organised and conducted by the cadets of 63 UP NCC Battalion and who also took part in a cultural programme, which included dance, skit and a song.Brigadier Ravi Kapoor motivated the young cadets and explained the importance and the duties of being a soldier. “The 1971 war was unique as it was the first war where all three forces of the nation— army, navy and the air force— fought together for a swift and spectacular victory in a short span of 13 days,” said Col PP Kishore.He added that a total of 93,000 Pakistani soldiers surrendered on December 16, 1971, and the war resulted in the birth of a powerful India, which wouldn’t have been possible without the support of the soldiers who gave supreme sacrifice and their brave family members.“The sacrifices of the families of the soldiers help in winning wars and ensure the safety of the nation. The widows of soldiers carry on with their lives with strength have my utmost respect,” said Captain (Dr) Kiran Lata Dangwal. All three war widows lighted the lamp along with other guests as a tribute to the soldiers.Widows recall their spouses’ sacrifice In an informal talk with the scribe after the event, the war widows recalled the moment when they lost their spouses. “I was informed about the demise of my husband through a letter as there was no technology in 1971,” said Lila Devi, wife of Sawar Jit Singh.“I receive a pension of ₹12,000 from the government. However, there is no extra support. I have two daughters, and there was no assistance even at the time of their marriages,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ncc-honours-1971-war-widows-in-lucknow-university-101638811134893.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s PLPA amendment: Cong MLA Kiran Choudhry asks CM to withdraw affidavit filed in SC||Former Haryana forests minister Kiran Choudhry has asked chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to withdraw the “contentious” affidavit filed in the Supreme Court whereby the state government has contended that about 39.35% of total geographical spread of the state notified under Section 3 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) will have to be reckoned as forest as per the SC order in the Kant Enclave case.Citing a letter written to the CM on December 2, the Congress MLA from Tosham, at a press briefing on Monday said, the contention taken by the state government in the affidavit is an attempt to misconstrue the SC order by a cleverly crafted misrepresentation of the order in order to obfuscate the real issues.She said the categorical stance taken by the state government in its earlier affidavits before the SC and the clear understanding of the court in this matter has been that only the land notified under Sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA are to be treated as forest area.In such areas, commercial activities such as mining, construction, cattle pasturing, felling of trees are totally prohibited and precluded. Such lands comprise only 0.72% of the total area of the state, she claimed.Choudhry said the recent affidavit filed by state government in the apex court in the Kant Enclave case has raised “disquieting concerns among activists and right-thinking citizens of Haryana”. The about turn done by the state government in the latest affidavit from its earlier stance taken in various affidavits filed before the SC is stunning.“It has been perceived as an attempt by the environmentalist in state as a subterfuge to provide license to land and mining mafia and unscrupulous colonisers to continue their commercial activities unabated,” the Congress leader said, Choudhry said, “The CM can save his government a huge embarrassment by withdrawing the contentious affidavit filed in the SC and revisiting the insidious amendments made in the PLPA.”The former minister said hilly tracks of the Aravallis in the south west and Shivaliks in northern Haryana have evolved an ecosystem over thousands of years. To preserve this ecology, the PLPA legislation of the British vintage was enacted. The amendments in the PLPA made on February 27, 2019 have been stated by the SC on March 1, 2019. The impugned amendments aimed at giving sweeping powers to the state government to amend or assign any notification or order under the PLPA and exclude all lands notified under HUDA and municipal schemes or lands in infrastructure schemes from the purview of the PLPA, she said.“It anguishes me that the state government that uses zero-tolerance for corruption as a talisman has sought to aid and abet the unbridled deforestation and obnoxious commercial activities by colonisers and mining barons in Aravallis and Shivalik ranges first by diluting the provisions of the PLPA and now by filing an affidavit in the SC which negated its earlier stand,” Choudhry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-plpa-amendment-cong-mla-kiran-choudhry-asks-cm-to-withdraw-affidavit-filed-in-sc-101638810828775.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow crime: Case against five for attacking neighbour||Five men were booked for rioting and attacking a man in the Hussainganj area of Lucknow. The incident occurred on Sunday night, and a case regarding the incident was lodged on Monday, police said. According to police, one Mohammad Anwar was injured following a scuffle with five men from his neighbourhood on Sunday night. Anwar received injuries on his head, stomach and was admitted to a hospital. “Based on the complaint submitted by the victim, police have lodged an FIR against five of his neighbours under section 147 (Rioting), 323 (Voluntarily causing hurt) and other sections of IPC,” said Raghvendra Kumar Mishra, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central). According to the victim, who works with a delivery firm, the incident occurred when he rebuked the accused for passing objectionable comments. “I was returning home from a family function with my wife at around midnight when some people started passing objectionable comments. They attacked me when I rebuked them for this,” said Anwar. The attackers, who live in the same neighbourhood, just two houses away from Anwar, attacked the victim with punches and allegedly a sharp object. “I was taken to the hospital in a critical condition and was discharged in the morning,” Anwar said. Meanwhile, according to police sources, the incident occurred because of an old rivalry between Anwar and his neighbours. Police have detained one of the accused and efforts are on to arrest others, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-crime-case-against-five-for-attacking-neighbour-101638810649416.html
06-12-2021||Other||Odisha govt asks district collectors to assess damage to crops due to cyclonic rain||The Odisha government on Monday directed district collectors to furnish a report on losses suffered to the standing crop in their respective districts due to cyclone Jawad-induced rainfall.State minister of revenue and disaster management, Sudam Marndi, said, he has sought damage assessment reports from all district collectors following which compensation will be provided to the affected growers as per the relief code.“The department has already sought damage assessment report from the collectors. After a review on the damage caused due to the rainfall, financial aid will be provided to the affected persons as per the relief code norms,” said MarndiEarlier, Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said that crop loss caused by cyclone-induced rainfall will be assessed within a week’s time after the cyclone weakens.Odisha sustains agricultural damage as deep depression triggers heavy showers. The national weather forecaster and Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) have indicated the system might not brush coastal Odisha and move towards the West Bengal coast.Farmers across at least 10 districts of Odisha sustained major agricultural damage as heavy rainfall submerged ripened paddy crops dashing their hopes of a good harvest.Thousands of hectares of standing paddy have been inundated due to the heavy rains under the influence of the depression from December 3-5, 2021.Farmers in districts like Ganjam, Gajapati, Jagatsinghpur, Khordha, Puri, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Cuttack tried hard to save their paddy crop but could not harvest.“I had harvested paddy over four acres of land, but could not take it from threshing yard. The entire paddy has turned soggy,” said farmer Arun Jena from Balasore. “This year we started paddy crops late due to delayed rains, but now everything is gone.”Farmers in several areas were struggling to drain out the rainwater from the cultivated areas on December 6.Farmer Golekh Bihari Sahoo of Banki area in Cuttack District said he tried hard to save his standing paddy crop submerged in the rainwater. “All the paddy would now start stinking,” he said. Paddy was cultivated in over 3.5 million hectares of land across Odisha in Kharif 2021.Vegetable farmers have also suffered heavy losses due to the rains.Prakash Behera of Pipili block in Puri district said the cauliflowers that he had cultivated in his acre of land, were damaged.“I resorted to distress sale of some of my cauliflowers. I had to sell the cauliflowers at ₹3 per piece,” he said.A 57-year-old farmer in Ganjam district’s Uluma village under Patrapur block reportedly died by suicide after consuming pesticides on December 5.Kailash Sabar, a sharecropper, consumed pesticides after standing paddy over two acres were inundated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-govt-asks-district-collectors-to-assess-damage-to-crops-due-to-cyclonic-rain-101638810349867.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Agra metro rail project construction completes its first year||Agra Metro Project completed one year of civil construction work since its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath on December 7, 2020, stated a press statement issued by the public relations office of Agra Metro Rail Corporation. Currently, the project is under construction for the 3 kilometre-long elevated section in Agra from Taj East Gate to Fatehabad Road.The project will have two corridors, one running from Taj East Gate to Sikandara and the other from Agra Cantt to Kalindi Vihar in Agra city.The civil construction work has included construction of the piling the pile caps, piers, pier caps, Double T girders and U-Girders for the viaduct of Agra Metro Project’s priority stretch, which runs from Taj East Gate to Jama Masjid. Congratulating the entire team, MD UPMRCL Kumar Keshav said, “We have completed one year of Agra Metro project and in this one year, we have achieved many milestones and completed all the deadlines in the set time. Consistent efforts of the Agra Metro team are evident. We are committed to giving the people of Agra a world-class metro system, which will reflect the true heritage of this city.”“Till now, construction of 663 piles, 148 pile caps and 132 piers have been constructed. Similarly, 96 Double T Girders for the Station concourse area for three elevated stations have also been erected. Successful erection of 44 pier caps and 16 U-Girders for the viaduct section has also been completed,” informed the press statement.Three stations of the elevated section - Taj East Gate, Basai and Fatehabad Road have also started coming into shape and will soon be ready. The construction work in 15th Battalion PAC situated Metro Depot is also being carried out in full swing. Integrated workshop, stabling yard for the train and pit wheel lathe are being constructed at a fast pace in the metro depot. “The project is being executed at a fast pace, due to dedicated efforts of UP Metro Rail Corporation team working at the Agra Metro Project under the guidance of managing director Kumar Keshav,” claimed the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agra-metro-rail-project-construction-completes-its-first-year-101638810109254.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||KGMU convocation, foundation day: Women doctors dominate medals list||KGMU convocation, foundation day: Women docs dominate medals list The women doctors will receive more medals than their male counterparts at the 17th convocation and the 116th foundation day ceremony of the King George’s Medical University slated on December 17 and 18. Addressing a press conference on Monday, the vice-chancellor Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri said a total of 154 medals, 64 on convocation and 90 on foundation day shall be given to meritorious students of the medical university. “During the convocation ceremony, 64 medals, including 60 gold, two silver and two book prizes, will be given to 24 female and 18 male doctors. On the foundation day, 90 medals, including 44 gold, 33 silver, six bronze, three cash prizes, two book prizes and two sports prizes, will be awarded. These medals will be given to 19 male and 38 female candidates,” said the vice-chancellor. The medical university has also decided to award Honoria causa D. Sc (Honoris Causa) to Dr Soumya Swaminathan, who was appointed WHO’s first chief scientist in March 2019. A paediatrician, she is globally recognised for her research on tuberculosis. Dr Swaminathan was secretary to the Government of India for health research and director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research from 2015 to 2017. “Since she will be in Switzerland, she will join us virtually,” said the vice-chancellor. New medals KGMU will start two new medals for meritorious students this year. The GK Malik gold medal will be awarded to a PG student, who gets the highest mark in neonatology in final year theory. Also, the VN Dhawan gold medal has been instituted for a student with the highest marks in MD pharmacology. PM invited KGMU V-C Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited to be the chief guest at the convocation ceremony. “We have requested the PM to be the chief guest. We shall get clarity upon his programme in the next couple of days. The governor will preside over the convocation ceremony,” The V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-convocation-foundation-day-women-doctors-dominate-medals-list-101638809989033.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University students to get facility centre as New Year’s gift||Lucknow University will soon have its very own student facility centre (lounge) on the ground floor of the dean student welfare office located on the main campus, said dean students welfare, Professor Poonam Tandon here on Monday. “This special student lounge will be furnished with all kinds of setups for the students, including a water/coffee dispenser, comfortable furniture where students can relax, a reading desk with popular newspapers and magazines and many more,” said prof Tandon.LU vice-chancellor Prof AK Rai said that this facility is being created for the students and will consist of up to date features just as any international student centre should have. All student-related offices will be housed in the building, including the office of the dean of student affairs, the office of the chief provost, and international collaborations and international student advisors.The building earlier known as CPMT Bhawan will also have a meeting room of global standards where any department/ institute can hold their meetings and seminars. The third floor will have an administrative quality with a modular setup for staff, Prof Rai said.The blueprint of the entire project to recreate the correct utility of space will soon be realized and available as a New Year gift for students. Poonam Tandon is looking forward to student visitors who will add to the atmosphere of the space with their zest and charm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-university-students-to-get-facility-centre-as-new-year-s-gift-101638809688868.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Electrification of Sitamarhi to Raxaul rail route complete: Official||Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE), Prayagraj has achieved another milestone towards their target of attaining 100% electrification in all railway sections across the country. The electrification work of Sitamarhi to Raxaul (79.3 km) section under Samastipur Division of East Central Railway has been completed under its Kolkata project. Commissioner of railway security (CRS) inspection of the section was done on Sunday.The speed of trains running on this route will be from 130 to 160 km per hour. Along with this, the difficulty of moving trains with diesel engines will also end, informed CORE officials. The rail route is important, both in terms of passenger traffic as well as goods. With the electrification of this section, more than 11 mail and passenger express trains, going from Samastipur to Darbhanga, Raxaul via Sitamarhi, will now run on electrified traction ie electric engine. One end of this section is the Raxaul station, the gateway to Nepal and Bihar while the other end connects to Samastipur Junction. General manager of CORE, Prayagraj, Yashpal Singh said this electrified section is strategically important from the point of view of increasing traffic. “With electrification in this section, now there will be more convenience in the operation of trains and better use of available resources,” he added.The cost of electrification of the rail route was about ₹253.6 crore, the GM said and added that all the projects being handled by CORE are committed to electrify the broad gauge railways of India completely by 2023. K Sandeep Kumar 9415235145||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/electrification-of-sitamarhi-to-raxaul-rail-route-complete-official-101638809269047.html
06-12-2021||Other||Uttarakhand passes proposal on dissolution of Char Dham Devasthanam Board||Uttarakhand cabinet on Monday evening passed the proposal on the dissolution of Char Dham Devasthanam Board. Now, the proposal of repealing the Char Dham Devasthanam Board Act will be tabled in the two-day winter session of the state legislative assembly to be held on December 9 and 10, officials said. The cabinet also passed a proposal on providing ownership rights to occupants of Nazool land. The officials privy to the developments in the cabinet meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that those occupants who have made 100% payment for land by 2011 will be provided ownership rights while in case of those who have made 25% payment will be given ownership rights after payment on the current market rates. The development follows the stay of the Supreme Court on Friday on Uttarakhand high court’s June 2018 order in which the HC had struck down a particular clause of the government’s 2009 Nazool policy which allowed conversion of Nazool land in illegal occupation to freehold. The SC stay and the cabinet decision has brought respite to thousands of people who had built private and commercial structures on Nazool land in the state. Other proposals passed during the cabinet meeting included providing free medicines across all government hospitals and health centres, regularisation of contractual employees in polytechnic centres, guest teachers to be posted in their native districts, providing water connections to poor families living in plain areas of the state with the land of around 100 sq metres at ₹100, among others. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami announced the repeal of the Act on November 30. In December 2019, during the tenure of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, the state assembly passed the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Bill. Priests were opposed to it, alleging that they were kept in the dark about the law. They alleged that the government took such a step to side-line them and ensure full government control of temple-related issues. After Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned in March, amid the growing resentment in the priest community, the new chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced a month later that the state government will review the formation of the Char Dham Board. As nothing materialised on the ground and priests intensified their agitation, incoming chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, who assumed office in July, formed a high-power committee in the same month to review the Act and submit a report to the government to take a decision on it. On November 1, ahead of the November 5 Kedarnath visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Char Dham priests warned that they will not allow PM Modi to have darshan at the Kedarnath shrine if their main demand of scrapping of the Char Dham Board is not conceded by the state government. This prompted CM Dhami to visit Kedarnath on November 2, assuring the priests that the government will decide on the matter by November 30 after receiving the report from the committee. 
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors to resume OPD services from Tuesday||Resident doctors across several government and corporation hospitals in the state decided to reduce the intensity of their ongoing strike and have agreed to resume OPD services from Tuesday. The pan-India protest against the Supreme Court stay on PG medical admissions among other issues will now be carried on without letting it affect any work in the hospitals, said a statement released by the central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) late on Monday. While several other resident doctor associations across the country started their strike on December 1, central MARD withdrew from OPD work from Monday. A meeting of MARD representatives along with BMC officials and state cabinet minister Aditya Thackeray was organised on Monday evening following which the resident doctors decided to resume OPD services.One of the major concerns raised by these doctors has been of them being overburdened with extra work which is being shared by just two batches of resident doctors instead of three. “At a time when the country is witnessing the rise of a new Covid-19 variant, the least that needs to be done is strengthening the health care system. We need all hands on deck,” said one of the protesting doctors.NEET-PG 2021 exam which should take place in January was postponed to February first, then April this year. It was eventually delayed indefinitely due to increasing cases of Covid-19 registered across the country.The entrance test was finally conducted in the month of September this year, but admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of EWS and OBC quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats.Thackeray has assured the doctors that the state will start pre-admission registration process for PG admissions soon. He also assured help by approaching appropriate authorities in the central government to push for quashing of stay on admissions. Resident doctors in Mumbai had another reason to protest because recently, notices were issued to vacate the accommodation facilities provided by MHADA/MCGM which were given to decongest the already overcrowded hostels to avoid rise in Covid cases. Thackeray has assured help in this matter as well.“Considering the rise in the number of Omicron cases and our issues genuinely addressed by Aditya Thackeray and other BMC and GMC officials we as a team decided to reduce the intensity of agitation. We will resume our duties in OPDs considering patient care,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president, central MARD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-to-resume-opd-services-from-tuesday-101638808909034.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||‘RLD, SP joint rally in west UP to give message of parivartan’||MEERUT Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Choudhary and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav will hold a joint rally in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. The event in Dabathua village of the district is likely to infuse fresh vigour among supporters of both parties in western UP ahead of the Assembly elections, said party leaders. Both leaders will join each other at the Hindon airstrip and arrive at the rally venue in a helicopter. Party leaders have worked hard for weeks to mobilise people to attend the rally in large numbers. Supporters will reach the venue in over 2,000 tractors and 1,000 buses to listen to their leaders, claimed Rajpal Singh, SP district president in Meerut. The rally venue is spread over 30 bigha where 40,000 chairs will be placed while a large area has been left for people to sit on the ground. Nine parking spots have been made to ensure convenient parking of vehicles, said Sunil Rohta, RLD’s media in-charge. “The joint rally would give a message of ‘parivartan’ in western UP and across the state.” People are excited for the rally, which has been given the name ‘Parivartan Sandesh Rally’ and the presence of two leaders on the dais will propagate political change,” emphasised Rajpal Singh. Singh accused the district administration of putting many conditions for giving approval to the rally. “Four people were deputed only to seek permission for the rally. We got the nod on Monday afternoon after efforts of eight days,” he shared. Political analysts believe that the RLD-Samajwadi Party alliance will help in changing political and social equations after the communal riots of Muzaffarnagar in September 2013 created a Muslim-Jat divide on RLD’s homeground. A change in this equation would be a challenge for the ruling BJP to retain its 51 out of 71 constituencies in 14 districts of Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions, which the party won in the 2017 election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-sp-joint-rally-in-west-up-to-give-message-of-parivartan-101638808068778.html
06-12-2021||Patna||JMM unlikely to join TMC; to stick with Cong for 2024 Lok Sabha polls||The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the lead constituent in the United progressive Alliance (UPA) in Jharkhand, is unlikely to join forces with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is trying to form a national opposition alliance against the Narendra Modi-led BJP goverment without Congress being a part of it. The JMM, led by its working president and chief minister Hemant Soren, shares power with the Congress and RJD in Jharkhand, had backed Mamta Banerjee in West Bengal assembly polls and decided not to field candidates even in the tribal-dominated seats. Congress had contested the assembly polls in alliance with the Left in West Bengal polls that saw Mamata Banerjee returning to power with a huge mandate. Though Mamata has been pitching herself as the main opposition face against PM Narendra Modi, and lobbying with other regional parties for the same, JMM, however, in all likelihood would side with the Congress when it comes to 2024 general elections. “We are running a very strong and stable government in alliance with the Congress here. We have contested the last two elections, both general and assembly polls in 2019 together. I don’t see that equation changing here in 2024 as well,” said Supriyo Bhattacharya, principal general secretary and spokesperson, JMM. On the party’s stand of supporting Mamata instead of Congress in West Bengal polls, Bhattacharya said that was done with the sole aim of preventing BJP from coming to power in the neighbouring state. “Our target would be same in 2024 general elections as well. We want to unitedly dislodge BJP from the Centre. Moreover, unlike West Bengal, TMC hardly has any organisational base in Jharkhand. On the contrary, we have a stable alliance with Congress, which is the second biggest constituent in the government,” added Bhattacharya. The JMM and the Congress had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in alliance with the Congress contesting 10 of the 14 constituencies in the state, while the JMM contested in the remaining four. While the Congress lost all the 10 seats, JMM managed to win two of the four. In the assembly election six months later, the JMM contested as the lead constituent in the JMM-Congress-RJD pre-poll alliance. JMM contested in 43 assembly seats for the 81-member Jharkhand assembly, the Congress in 31 and the RJD contested from the remaining 7 seats. The pre-poll alliance together won 47 seats, well past the simple majority of 41.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jmm-unlikely-to-join-tmc-to-stick-with-cong-for-2024-lok-sabha-polls-101638807468684.html
06-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: 60 Covid positive cases in two days raises concerns||Jharkhand has reported 60 new cases of Covid-19 in the past two days, as per the health bulleting issued by the state government.While the state reported 35 positive cases on Saturday, 25 cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total active cases in the state back in three digits at 127. Ranchi and East Singhbhum district (Jamshedpur) have again contributed most to the recent spike in Covid numbers. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar said the numbers are increasing also because the testing numbers have increased in recent days. “There is an extra vigil at the airport, railway stations and the bus stands. We are testing aggressively, hence we are also getting more positive cases. We are now conducting around 7000 samples every day,” said the CS. The health officer said no case of Omicron has been reported to date. “As per the SOP, random samples from RIMs are being sent for genome sequencing to Bhubaneshwar. But no case of Omicron has been reported till now,” said the CS. Dr Manoj Kumar, head of department, microbiology, said around two dozen samples lifted in October and November from RIMS were sent for sequencing to Bhubaneshwar. New samples for December would be sent as per the set process, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-60-covid-positive-cases-in-two-days-raises-concerns-101638807228916.html
06-12-2021||Patna||PM, Union home minister ‘tested’ for Covid in Bihar’s Arwal||What’s common between Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Bollywood actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas?They all had undergone their RTPCR testing at Karpi Primary Health Centre at Bihar’s Naxal-infested Arwal district in October this year. Surprised?In a goof-up by the health department, names of the PM, Sonia Gandhi, etc., were in the list of persons tested for Covid at one of the health centres of Arwal in October this year.The discovery of names of prominent persons has shocked the health department and government mandarins.Taking cognizance of the lapses, district magistrate J Priyardashni has ordered a probe into the whole fiasco. “An FIR will be lodged against all those who are responsible for this lapse and action will be taken against them. This is indeed is a serious lapse and we are getting the vaccination list of the entire district checked,” she said.The DM said that the Civil Surgeon came across the list 22 days back and two operators of an outsourced company were immediately removed for this lapse. “But we need to investigate about others’ involvement as well,” she added.“I have asked the civil surgeon to constitute a committee to probe the matter and submit the report in three days,” she added.As per the records, the list is of October 27 at the Karpi Primary Health Center in Arwal.The two data operators, who were removed, while talking to local media, alleged that the block health manager forced them to put their names.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pm-union-home-minister-tested-for-covid-in-bihar-s-arwal-101638807048564.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||PM to unveil ₹10000 crore projects in Gorakhpur today||GORAKHPUR Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to dedicate projects worth ₹10,000 crore to east UP on Tuesday. In Gorakhpur, he will inaugurate a fertiliser factory worth ₹8,600 crore and an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that has been built at a cost of ₹1,010 crore. Modi will also open three high standard laboratories set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research at the BRD Medical College to test samples for the encephalitis virus (earlier samples were sent to Pune labs), said party leaders.The city will get another gift in the form of electric buses for the public. For this, the UP transport department has launched 15 electric buses for local commute. The PM’s visit to the region assumes political significance as UP Assembly elections are due early next year. In 2017, the BJP had managed to win 115 seats from Gorakhpur, Basti and Varanasi divisions in East UP. “The PM’s visit to Gorakhpur will infuse fresh energy in party workers who are on a mission to ensure a second term for Yogi Adityanathji,” said Satyendra Sinha, BJP spokesperson. The party has arranged several buses to ferry people from far flung areas to Manbela Ground, the venue for the PM’s programme. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who has been camping in the city since Friday to oversee the preparations for the PM’s programme, drove to the fertiliser factory and the rally ground to take stock of the security arrangements. As many as 53 battalions of paramilitary forces, including the PAC, the RAF, 4,000 policemen, 2 DIGs, 12 SSPs and 24 SPs, had been deployed to ensure tight security arrangements during the PM’s visit. Besides, the region close to the venue was identified as a ‘no flying zone’ and CCTVs cameras were installed to monitor activities, said SSP Vipin Tada. Prilling tower of Gkp fert factory tallest in worldAmong all the urea fertilizer factories built across the world, the prilling tower of Gorakhpur fertilizer factory is the tallest at 149.2 metres, almost twice the height of Delhi’s Qutab Minar (which is 72.5 m tall) .The tower is used to manufacture urea in pellets form. Set up on 600 acres, the factory has been set up by Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-to-unveil-rs-10000-crore-projects-in-gorakhpur-today-101638806868440.html
06-12-2021||Patna||‘Botched’ cataract surgeries: Bacteria caused eye infection, says medical report||A team headed by additional chief medical officer (ACMO) probing the reasons behind the loss of eyesight and subsequent removal of one of the eyes of at least 17 persons after a cataract surgery performed during a free camp held in Muzaffarpur on November 22, has found presence of “very infectious” bacteria as the reason which caused eye infections in the patients. The report has virtually, given a clean chit to doctors, who performed the operation.Nearly 65 persons were operated for cataract during the eye camp held at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital on November 22. After a hue and cry, 12 of them were shifted to IGIMS, Patna, for specialized treatment. The report, which was shared on Monday evening, said that two types of bacteria that are hazardous to human health have caused the tragedy. The report also mentions about improper sterlisation of instruments and suggested that the room used to conduct the operations was infected.According to the report, shared by Muzaffarpur ACMO Subhash Prasad Singh, instruments used in the camp were infected with Pseudomonas and Astaphylococcus Originosa. “Reports of swabs collected from the affected patients that were sent to the microbiology department have found presence of these two bacteria. Doctors who operated on the patients are nowhere at fault,” he said.When contacted, Muzaffapur’s district magistrate (DM) Pranav Kumar said, “The medical report would certainly be taken into consideration. However, the investigation into the matter is underway from all possible angles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/botched-cataract-surgeries-bacteria-caused-eye-infection-says-medical-report-101638806568515.html
06-12-2021||Patna||All-party meeting on caste census soon: CM||After the decision of the Central Government not to conduct the caste census, Bihar is all set to formalise ways and means to hold its own caste-based census.Putting rest to all speculations, chief minister Nitish Kumar said that an all-party meeting for holding caste census in the state would be organised soon. “We want to do it. I have asked the deputy chief minister to hold talks in his party, the BJP. I already have talked to other parties. Once the deputy CM discusses with his party, we will hold an all-party meeting on the issue,” said Kumar while talking to media on Monday after his weekly Janata darbar where he addresses the grievances of people.Kumar’s wait for the BJP’s response holds importance as BJP seems to be a divided house on holding the caste census. However, former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi recently clarified that the party was not against the caste census. “The BJP is not against caste census. Had this been the case, the BJP ministers would not have been included in the all-party delegation to meet the PM. Yes, it is also true that the census process has started two years back. Hence, it cannot be possible to add any other factor to it. Due to technical problems, the Central Government is not able to do this at present,” he had said. During the winter session of the Bihar assembly, opposition parties led by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had met the chief minister to press for caste census in the state.“The meeting will discuss how and through what medium to hold it. We have to get it done in such a manner so that nobody is left out, including all castes and sub-castes. We will soon hold an all-party meeting so that opinions of all parties are taken,” said Kumar. Facing the heat after the recovery of liquor bottles from the Assembly premises during the recently concluded winter session, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar while maintaining that there won’t be any compromise in enforcing the prohibition said that investigation on recovery of bottles and the motive behind it is on.“I won’t comment on the issue right now. Wait for some time and everything will be known. First, we have to see whether someone had drunk alcohol there or just threw the bottles. The matter is being investigated. But such types of incidents will keep happening and we have to be alert,” said Kumar.He said, “Action is being taken. We have to ensure that prohibition is enforced strictly in Patna. If it is enforced strictly in the state capital, it will have its impact everywhere,” he said and added that a close eye was being kept on all those who indulge in drinking or are involved in breaking rules. Chief Minister expressed his concern over the shortage of fertilisers in Bihar. “I spoke to the Union minister, who has promised to normalise the availability of fertilisers in the next one week,” said Kumar.Kumar said that the farmers of Bihar have to face a lot of problems due to the shortage of fertilisers. “We have informed the Centre. The assurance has been given by the Centre that the supply is being provided,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/allparty-meeting-on-caste-census-soon-cm-101638806389758.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Petition in HC seeks cancellation of 2% reservation for SBCs||Mumbai A petition seeking cancellation of the two per cent reservation granted to the Special Backward Class (SBC) category in public employment has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) on the grounds that the reservation violates constitutional provisions, as it also takes the total reservation percentage in the state beyond 50 per cent. The petition suggests that if the communities covered under SBC are found eligible for reservation, they should be included in the other backward classes (OBCs).The petition filed by advocate Sanjeet Shukla on behalf of NGO Youth for Equality has questioned the government notification of December 8, 1994, granting two per cent reservation to certain communities and castes under the SBC category, contending that it takes the total reservation in Maharashtra to 52 per cent. The petition states that in Maharashtra, the reservations include reservation for Scheduled Caste (SC) at 13 per cent, Scheduled Tribe (ST) at 7 per cent, de-notified tribes at 11 per cent, Other Backward Class (OBC) at 19 per cent and SBC at two per cent. Shukla has contended that as the Constitution permits reservations up to 50 per cent, the additional two percent reservation given to SBC is not valid. It adds that the two per cent reservation in public services was brought in after the cabinet observed that there was a need to provide reservation to some caste, but there was no intention to create a new class of reservation. The petition has stated that as no efforts were made to verify whether the castes and tribes included in SBC category were eligible for reservation. The petition added that if the concerned authorities find these castes and tribes in need of reservation, they should be included in the OBC category. The petition was listed for hearing before a division bench of Justice Gautam Patel and Justice Madhav Jamdar on Monday, but could not be heard because of the paucity of time. The petition will be heard in due course now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petition-in-hc-seeks-cancellation-of-2-reservation-for-sbcs-101638806388525.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Juvenile sent to children’s home for beheading sister||Mumbai/Pune: The juvenile justice board of Aurangabad district on Monday sent a 17-year-old boy to a children’s home for beheading his 19-year-old sister on Sunday reportedly as punishment for marrying a man of her choice. A local court sent his 38-year-old mother to police custody for assisting her son in the crime. The juvenile accused reportedly displayed the severed head of his sister to the neighbours and clicked a selfie with it. The police have seized the mobile in which the photo was clicked and preliminary investigation revealed that the accused deleted the picture. “The head of the 19-year-old sister by decapitated by her younger brother in the kitchen as she prepared tea for them. After the gruesome incident, the accused brother and his mother took a selfie with the head. We have seized the mobile phone and it will be sent for forensic analysis for recovering the deleted picture which will be used as a crucial piece of evidence in the court,” superintendent of police Nimit Goyal said. After beheading the victim, the 17-year-old and his mother hacked the victim to death and then surrendered at the Viajapur police. The victim’s husband was in the house when the murder occurred and managed to escape though the juvenile also sought to attack him. The woman was reportedly pregnant. “We have arrested the mother-son duo for murder. We are verifying the claims of the neighbours and trying to establish the sequence of events. The accused’s phone has been seized to check if he had clicked any photos or selfies,” a police officer with Vaijapur station said. The police said that the victim had married her husband, whom she had met while in junior college, in June. Vaijapur sub division officer Kailash Prajapati said that the victim’s family had registered a missing complaint after she had eloped in June. “She had a registered marriage on June 21 and the couple presented themselves at Vaijapur police station. Since then, she had been staying with her husband in Ladgaon. It was a marriage of her choice and they had informed the police about their marriage.” Last week, the victim’s mother visited her in an attempt at reconciliation. The mother and her juvenile son returned to the victim’s home on Sunday while she was working in the field near her home alongside her mother-in-law. Seeing her family members, the victim rushed to greet them and went into the house to prepare tea for them. While she was pouring out the tea, her brother and mother attacked her. The brother used a sickle that he had concealed in his shirt to sever the victim’s head. The victim’s husband went running to the kitchen after hearing the noise, and saw his wife’s body. The 17-year-old tried to attack him too, but the husband managed to escape. His statement to the police helped them piece together the sequence of events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/juvenile-sent-to-children-s-home-for-beheading-sister-101638806208483.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||5 arrested for trying to sell 10-day-old baby girl in Navi Mumbai||The NRI Coastal Police arrested five people including the mother of a 10-day-old baby girl for trying to sell the new-born for ₹2.5 lakh. The complainant, a 38-year-old woman from Ulwe, received a call offering her a baby following which she felt suspicious and informed NRI Coastal Police.Senior police inspector Ravindra Patil and police inspector Prithviraj Ghorpade laid a trap and nabbed the five accused. The accused arrested have been identified as Zarina Rahim Sheikh (33) from Mhada Colony, the baby’s mother, and mediators Jyoti Shahrukh Khan (28), her husband Shahrukh Khurshid Khan (26), Anita Anand Sashte (47) and her son Shubham Anand Sashte (24).“The mother already has four children and when she got pregnant with the fifth, abortion could not be done. She decided to give the baby for adoption,” DCP (zone I), Vivek Pansare, said. Sashte, who used to work as a caretaker, was known to Zarina. Zarina contacted Sashte from Kalyan and told her of the need. Sashte contacted Khan from Seawoods and told to look for a customer. Khan knew that the complainant was childless and used to always feed children from under-privileged families. Thinking that she might be looking to adopt a child, Khan contacted the complainant to offer the child. The complainant suspected that the child being sold could be a stolen one and hence informed the police.The five accused were asked to come near Nerul railway station on Sunday evening and were nabbed while accepting the money. They have been produced before the court and sent to police custody till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-10-day-old-baby-girl-in-navi-mumbai-101638805788437.html
06-12-2021||Kolkata||‘Want to hold 6-8 phase civic polls in May’: Bengal election commission tells Calcutta HC||The West Bengal state election commission (SEC) on Monday told a Calcutta high court division bench that it wants to hold elections in the state’s 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities in six to eight phases till May next year. The SEC submitted the tentative plan in an affidavit before the division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj which is hearing a petition filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state vice-president Pratap Banerjee seeking simultaneous election in all civic bodies on a single day.During the last hearing on December 1, the bench directed the SEC to file a report by December 6 on how it plans to hold civic body elections in the state’s remaining 22 districts after the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls are held on December 19.The bench also took on record the affidavit filed by the SEC and the state government that opposed the BJP’s demand, citing logistical problems and the Covid pandemic. The matter will be heard again on Tuesday since the petitioner did not receive a copy of the SEC’s response on time, lawyers said. Though there was no hearing on Monday, the chief justice inquired why the SEC wants to hold the polls in May since it had indicated during an earlier hearing that the process might be completed by April.The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) controls most of the civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over the last two years but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators as a stop-gap measure. The state government wants to hold the polls in phases. It had planned to hold the elections in Kolkata and Howrah town on December 19 but the BJP moved the high court demanding simultaneous polls in all civic bodies.The government also recently announced that the Howrah corporation zone will be split so that a new civic body can be formed at Bally. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, however, did not sign the bill that the state assembly passed to give effect to this decision. He sent it back to the assembly speaker with 18 queries. The civic polls have once again intensified the acrimony between the Raj Bhawan and the TMC government.On December 2, Dhankhar told state election commissioner Saurav Das for the second time that he should not play any partisan role in the coming elections and wanted to know if the SEC would deploy Central armed police forces, a demand the BJP has also made. Das was scheduled to report to the governor on Monday but the SEC sought time since the matter was being heard by the high court. The governor once again summoned Das, asking him to submit a full report on Tuesday, Raj Bhawan officials said.BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar alleged that the SEC is trying to postpone the civic polls till April because it suits the ruling party. “The SEC is completely controlled by the TMC government. We are not surprised by these tactics,” said Majumdar. The TMC, on the other hand, accused the governor of helping the BJP.“I beg the governor not to act at the behest of the BJP. You (Dhankhar) hold a prestigious post. Following the state BJP president and Suvendu Adhikari (leader of the opposition in the assembly) does not suit you,” said the transport minister and former Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim who is contesting the Kolkata polls. Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee accused the governor of delaying the polls in Howrah.“If the President of India can clear the three controversial farm bills overnight and also quickly give his assent to the withdrawal of these bills why cannot the governor clear a bill related to Howrah? It is because of him that the civic polls in Howrah could not be held,” said the speaker. The governor reacted to the speaker’s remark while interacting with the media on Monday.“It is most unfortunate that the speaker continues to ignore the Constitution and sense of propriety. In November, I had asked for some important documents regarding the Howrah municipal corporation bill. Why has he not produced these till now? ” said Dhankhar.On December 1, advocate Pinky Anand, who is representing BJP’s Pratap Banerjee, argued before the court that the SEC was deliberately staggering the election process at the behest of the state government. She argued that elections to the civic bodies were due before the Covid-19 pandemic started and hence these cannot be postponed citing health protocols as the situation has improved drastically. Appearing for the state government on that day, advocate general SN Mookherjee said the KMC polls were being held first because of the better vaccination status of Kolkata residents and healthcare facilities in the city. He also opposed the petition saying there is no constitutional provision that makes simultaneous polls mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/want-to-hold-6-8-phase-civic-polls-in-may-bengal-election-commission-tells-calcutta-hc-101638805610079.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||2 more Omicron variant cases reported in Maharashtra, this time from Mumbai||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Monday detected two more cases of Omicron, taking the tally to 10 now. The two new cases were found in Mumbai - the city’s first Omicron variant case - putting the state government and civic administration on alert.India has reported 23 confirmed cases of the Omicron variant prompting state governments across the country to step up contact tracing of passengers from abroad in the recent past.A 37-year-old man, who had come from Johannesburg, South Africa on November 25 tested positive for the Omicron variant along with his 36-year-old friend, who came from the USA on November 25. Both the patients have no symptoms and are admitted to the Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai, a statement from the state health department said. The infected persons had taken Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, the statement added.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is tracing both high-risk and low-risk contacts of the two infected persons. In all, five high-risk contacts and 315 low-risk contracts have been traced. So far, 6,262 passengers have arrived from the “at-risk countries” and 28,437 passengers have landed from other countries at the international airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. In all, the state has conducted RT-PCR tests of 6,989 passengers, and 11 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since November 1 is underway. Through airport and field surveillance, 34 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing.Maharashtra’s first Omicron case was found in Dombivali on Saturday, followed by seven cases confirmed in Pimpri-Chichwad and Pune on Sunday.
06-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron: Delhi airport updates testing capacity, 120 PCR machines installed||After chaotic scenes were witnessed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) due to new international air travel guidelines, introduced to keep at bay Omicron, the new Covid-19 variant, the airport authorities said on Monday that testing capacity has been updated to ensure smooth flow of the international arrival process.Also Read | Long queues at Delhi airport as checks to keep Omicron at bay kick in“We have updated testing capacity at international arrival with deployment of 120 Rapid PCR machines, taking hourly capacity to 500-600 per hour with a Turn Around Time of less than 60 mins. Further, there is provision for approx. 500 RTPCR tests/hr. This additional capacity will further smoothen the international arrival process,” the official Delhi Airport handle informed through Twitter. Further, there is provision for approx. 500 RTPCR tests per/hr. This additional capacity will further smoothen the international arrival process (2/2)#Delhi Airport #Flysafe pic.twitter.com/pdhYUH0WjtLast Saturday, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said that 20 dedicated counters have been set up at the countries busiest airport to facilitate a faster testing process for passengers arriving from countries classified by the Union health ministry as ‘high-risk’ for the Omicron variant.Also Read | 20 counters at Delhi airport to test passengers from ‘high-risk’ countriesLong queues have been witnessed at the IGIA since December 1, when the new guidelines kicked in. For several passengers, the on-arrival testing is reported to have taken as many as six hours. On Monday, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia directed DIAL, which operates the airport, to implement better crowd management strategies.Also Read | Omicron scare: Sisodia slams Covid tests rush at Delhi airportThus far, nearly two dozen cases of variant B.1.1.529 have been confirmed in India, including one in the national capital. The variant, which was classified as a Variant of Concern (VoC) by the World Health Organization (WHO) on November 26 and named ‘Omicron,’ also led to a delay in resumption of international regular commercial passenger flights, which was scheduled for December 15. International flight operations have been under suspension since March last year, when the first nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-delhi-airport-updates-testing-capacity-120-pcr-machines-installed-101638803710658.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps Raigad collector, Uran municipality over garbage dump in mangroves||The Bombay High Court on Monday strongly pulled up the Raigad district collector and Uran municipal corporation (UMC) for non-compliance with its own orders from three years ago, prohibiting the dumping of municipal waste from Uran city in mangroves at a 4ha (hectare) plot in Bori Pakhadi, about two kilometres from the heart of the city. The Court has requested the collector, along with the chief officer, Uran Municipal Council, the executive engineer (civil), CIDCO and the member secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, to be present today (December 7) for the matter’s next hearing.The UMC has been dumping city-waste in the area for at least 15 years, according to a December 2018 petition filed by the Uran-based Shri Hanuman Koliwada Macchimar Vikas Sanstha. In response, the HC on December 19, 2018, passed an order directing the UMC to divert its waste at an alternative site. In its order, the HC had noted, “The learned counsel appearing for the Uran Municipal Council submits that they have identified a plot where the solid-waste will be dumped. The learned counsel submits that the Municipal Council will not dump the solid waste in restricted area till the alternate arrangement is made.”In an affidavit submitted to the Court on February 19, 2019, the district collector had stated stated alternative land for solid waste dumping is yet to be identified and allotted. In a right to information (RTI) application in April this year, the Uran Municipal Council had informed Navi Mumbai-based NGO NatConnect that it has requested the Raigad collector for a five-hectare plot at Jasai. “However, there has been no move from the collector’s side to instruct CIDCO to hand over this plot so waste can be diverted away from mangroves,” said BN Kumar, founder, NatConnect.Now, responding to fresh geo-tagged photographs submitted by the petitioner showing continued dumping of waste in the region, the court noted that its previous instructions have been breached. “The statements made before the Court are not complied with since the last more than two years and the responsibility is sought to be shifted from one authority to another. Such conduct on the part of the Council and/or the Collector cannot be tolerated. It is their duty to abide by the statements made before the Court and also to comply with the directions of the Court,” Justices Milind N. Jadhav and S.J. Kathawalla said in their order.The Raigad district collector could not be reached for comment on Monday despite attempts. An official with the UMC’s solid waste management department declined to comment saying that the matter is sub-judice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-raigad-collector-uran-municipality-over-garbage-dump-in-mangroves-101638804348236.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron scare: 2 more close contacts of Nigeria returnee in Kalyan, Dombivli test positive||With two more close contacts of a Nigeria returnee found positive for Covid, the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli now have six international travellers and four of their close contacts positive.At a press conference here on Monday Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, claimed that the health employees will conduct surprise visits to those in home isolation and will take strict action against those not following norms under the Epidemic Act.Last week, six returnees – four from Nigeria, one from Russia and one from Nepal – tested positive for Covid. Four close contacts of the Nigeria returnees have also tested positive. All their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.“Two of the four close contacts are in Hyderabad while other two are in Kalyan,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.KDMC has received a list of 295 travellers who returned from foreign countries. It has carried out the RT-PCR of 88 returnees, of which 34 tested negative while the reports of the others are awaited.“We have not been able to reach out 109 travellers and our health department is working round the clock to trace them. We have prepared an SOP for returnees from at risk and high-risk countries. They should strictly home quarantine themselves. Our staff will call them regularly and give surprise visits to check if they are following the home isolation norms,” said Suryavanshi.“If any of them tests positive, they will be taken to institutional quarantine. Housing societies are requested to ensure home quarantine is followed strictly. Those not abiding by the norms will face action,” added Suryavanshi.The civic chief also urged people to come forward for Covid vaccination in the coming days. “We have managed to finish 72% of the first dose and 53% of the second. We want to increase this in the coming days for which people should come forward and also put forward requests for vaccination camps,” added Suryavanshi.Meanwhile, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has 654 passengers who have travelled from high-risk countries till now. Among these, 185 have been tested on the seventh day, all of them turning negative but continue to be under quarantine.
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Forest Dept: 4,431 trees for Mumbai-Pune E-way expansion cut under “inevitable circumstances”||The forest department has concluded, last month that the 4,431 trees that were cut down by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) in 2019, for the expansion of Mumbai-Pune Expressway was done under “inevitable circumstances”, as the trees could not be transplanted due to logistical challenges.On November 26, the union environment ministry’s Regional Empowered Committee (REC) in Nagpur accepted this internal inquiry report by the forest department and sent the matter to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC)’s Integrated Regional Office (IRO) for further consideration. The inquiry report, accepted by the REC, states that “there was no wilful disobedience” of the REC’s conditions by regional forest officers who allowed the tree felling to proceed. “It is found that the terrain conditions did not permit to move machinery and vehicles to translocate the trees. Thus, any attempt to that effect could have been too risky for the working staff handling such machinery,” read the formal report by the forest department to REC. MSRDC had been granted stage-1 clearance to divert 75 hectares of forest land for the development project in Raigad and Pune districts on February 6, 2019, as “subject to fulfilment of certain conditions”. The land is being diverted for the upcoming ‘missing link’ on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, from the Khopoli exit on the existing highway to Sinhgad Institutes near Lonavala, which will reduce travel time by about 20 minutes.“The maximum number of trees up to 60cm girth proposed to be felled may be translocated by the state government at the cost of the user agency,” the REC had instructed while granting in-principle, stage-1 approval. However, the minutes which is a recorded snippet of the REC meeting from June this year highlights that the trees were not translocated, but cut down after the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF), Pune, issued a work order for the same in 2019. In its meeting on June 24, this year, the REC noted that this was done “without giving any second thoughts”, and opined that the matter should have been brought to its notice and that a cogent justification for felling the trees should have been submitted to the Central government. “The committee recorded its displeasure over such negligence and labelled it as a direct violation of stage-I approval,” the minutes noted. A formal inquiry report in the matter was sought within three weeks from the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forest-dept-4-431-trees-for-mumbai-pune-e-way-expansion-cut-under-inevitable-circumstances-101638802788495.html
06-12-2021||Patna||Bottled up: Probe ordered into presence of liquor bottles in Bihar assembly||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said a probe was underway into the presence of empty liquor bottles in Bihar assembly premises.“An investigation is being done over the incident of empty liquor bottles found in Patna. Probe is underway on both angles, whether someone has really drunk alcohol there or bottles are just thrown away in the area. Officials are on alert. I'm reading all reports,” Nitish Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Last week, liquor bottles that were found on the premises of the legislative assembly. The empty liquor bottles, which were recovered from under a tree in the Bihar Vidhan Sabha premises earmarked as the parking lot for two-wheelers, come as a fresh embarrassment to the Nitish Kumar government – which had already been drawing flak over hooch tragedies that have claimed more than 40 lives.Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav had launched a missive on Nitish Kumar, suggesting that he and the state ministers are involved in the liquor trade. Tejashwi Yadav also claimed he saw a picture of Nitish Kumar with the “liquor mafia”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bottled-up-probe-ordered-into-presence-of-liquor-bottles-in-bihar-assembly-101638797099831.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||We are victims of a power game, Deshmukh’s son claims before court||Mumbai Hrishikesh Deshmukh, son of former home minister Anil Deshmukh, claimed before a special PMLA court on Monday that he has become a victim of a “power game.” Arguing Hrishikesh’s anticipatory bail plea in the money laundering case registered against his father, advocate Vikram Chaudhari said, “Everything was done to malign his father’s image. Dismissed API Sachin Vaze and former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who accused Deshmukh of hafta vasooli, became the tools and we (Deshmukh family members) have become victims in this political vendetta.” The court has now posted Hrishikesh’s plea for further hearing on December 10, when ED is expected to present its side of the case.Chaudhari further asked, “If the Supreme Court can protect former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who is a declared proclaimed offender and has multiple FIRs against him, why can’t this court protect Hrishikesh?” He also assured the court that if protected from arrest, Hrishikesh will appear before the enforcement directorate in response to the summons issued by the agency. The counsel said it is a matter of record that on account of the witch-hunt campaign launched at the instance of certain vested inimical interests, some blatantly false allegations have been levelled against the applicants. The agency claimed that they want to question Hrishikesh regarding the routing of cash of ₹4.18 crore through Delhi-based hawala operators as donations to an educational trust controlled by Deshmukh family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-are-victims-of-a-power-game-deshmukh-s-son-claims-before-court-101638798528250.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Conman posed as descendent of Shivaji Maharaj to lure women||Vijay Kumar Yadav Mumbai Pune resident Yuvraj Bhosale, 41, who has been recently arrested by the Mumbai cyber police for duping a city-based 31-year-old woman of ₹30 lakh through a matrimonial site, used to pose as a descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj to lure women, the police investigation has revealed. Police officials said that the serial fraudster also changed his surname to Bhosale. They added that Bhosale, booked in at least 11 criminal cases, also used to brag about himself by claiming that his mother is a doctor in London and his father, a senior IPS officer. During the investigation, the police identified 11 more of his victims and managed to convince three of them to lodge criminal cases against the purported fraudster, in order to ensure that he remains behind bars. “The three women are from Sewree, Kalyan and Airoli area in Navi Mumbai and have collectively lost over ₹1 crore to Bhosale,” said a police officer from central region cyber police station who is part of the investigation. “Bhosale is a smart guy. A graduate in psychology, he has a keen interest in criminology and has a law degree. He was well aware that he will come out on bail within a fortnight, even if he was arrested in a matrimonial fraud or cheating case, as most of the sections usually applied in such cases are bailable,” said the officer. Bhosale was arrested last week from Pune by a police team led by senior inspector Sanjay Govilkar. “He would mainly target divorcee women with a financially sound background. He would also trap those women who are looking for jobs and cheat them through job recruitment portals,” said Govilkar. Police sources said that Bhosale is suspected to have sexually assaulted some of his victims by blackmailing them. However, the police have not pressed charges of sexual assault on him as none of the victims has approached the police. Bhosale was arrested on December 3 for hacking into a Dadar woman’s phone, and later using her private photographs to blackmail her. He not only fraudulently diverted an amount of Rs. 30 lakh from her bank account, but also snatched her SUV worth ₹21 lakh away. He is in police custody till December 8. Police are likely to register more FIRs against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/conman-posed-as-descendent-of-shivaji-maharaj-to-lure-women-101638796307503.html
06-12-2021||City||‘When a CM is sand thief...’: Arvind Kejriwal's veiled dig at Charanjit Singh Channi?||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday took to Twitter to describe his counterpart from a certain state as a ‘sand thief.’ The veiled dig was apparently aimed at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, whom Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has accused of sheltering the sand mafia, and with whom the Delhi CM has, in recent days, had a public a war of words.Also Read | 'Biggest expose': AAP alleges illegal sand mining in Punjab CM's constituency“How can a state progress if its CM is a sand thief?” the AAP's national convenor tweeted in Hindi. किसी राज्य का CM अगर रेता चोर हो तो क्या उस राज्य की तरक़्क़ी हो सकती है? The tweet was made in the backdrop of a recent ‘expose’ by Raghav Chadha, the Punjab co-incharge of Delhi's ruling party. On Saturday, Chadha made a 'surprise' visit to Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib, which is Channi's assembly constituency. Later, speaking to reporters, the AAP MLA said, “Illegal sand mining in CM Channi's constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab's politics.”“Illegal sand mining is going on openly in Jindapur, which is in the chief minister's constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Sand is being illegally ferried in trucks,” he further said.On Sunday, after the Punjab CM dismissed the AAP's allegations as a ‘bundle of lies,’ Kejriwal questioned if Channi visited a ‘different’ mining site, and not the one which Chadha paid a visit to.Also Read | Now, Arvind Kejriwal questions Charanjit Channi on visit to 'different' mining siteThe two chief ministers, as well as their respective parties, have, in recent days, engaged in a war of words, with Kejriwal even describing Channi as a ‘fake Kejriwal’ for allegedly making the same promises as the AAP for poll-bound Punjab.The Aam Aadmi Party is tipped to be the prime challenger to the ruling Congress in the border state, where assembly elections are likely to take place early next year. While the Congress has 77 seats in the 117-member assembly, the AAP, at 20, has the second-highest number of legislators and is thus the principal opposition party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/when-a-state-s-cm-is-a-sand-thief-arvind-kejriwal-s-veiled-dig-at-charanjit-singh-channi-101638791769914.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||After Punjab govt crackdown, HC orders release of private buses||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday directed the Punjab government to release private buses it had impounded and permit transporters, including a firm of the Badal family, to ply its transport. Also read: Winnability sole criterion for Punjab Lok Congress ticket: Capt AmarinderThe high court bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain said the transporters deserved the opportunity of hearing or at least a show-cause notice before penal action of the cancellation of their permits was taken by the transport department. The court said though there were allegations of political vendetta, it had found the state’s action to be arbitrary and illegal. In one case, state transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring was made party, with allegations of political vendetta. On November 22, representatives of firms of Shiromani Akali Dal leader Hardeep Singh Dhillon, New Deep Bus Service and New Deep Motors, had approached the high court alleging that 24 buses were impounded on different dates in October. After some payment was made instead of releasing the buses, six buses released were re-impounded and later in some cases the permits were cancelled. As of the second set of petitions, that was filed by Badals owned Orbit Aviation Private Limited, the cancellation of permits on November 12 was challenged. The government has denied political vendetta and claimed that it acted according to law. The court said all three operators had paid up the tax liability. It also took note of an advisory issued by the Centre to all states regarding extension of the validity of documents related to the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, and further to consider relaxation in permit-fee/taxes in view of Covid-19 induced instructions. It observed that the state failed to show any provision of the Punjab Transport Scheme, 2018, under which the cancellation of permits was ordered. In fact, provisions go on to show that no permit shall be suspended or cancelled unless an opportunity has been given to the holder of the permit to furnish his explanation. The court refused to take note of the state’s allegations that the operators are guilty of having committed fraud as they were plying more buses than the number of permits and are plying buses on expired permits. None of the impugned orders cancelling the permits has been passed on the premise of fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-punjab-govt-crackdown-hc-orders-release-of-private-buses-101638793427135.html
06-12-2021||Other||6 persons who arrived in Odisha from Omicron ‘at-risk’ countries test Covid+ve||Starting November 26, when the World Health Organisation (WHO) designated B.1.1.529 strain of Covid-19 as a variant of concern and named it Omicron, at least 6 people reaching Odisha from the ‘countries at risk’ have tested positive for the virus, official data shows. However, it is not yet clear how many of them have been infected with the new variant.Senior health officials said 800-odd people have returned to Odisha from 11 countries – the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel – that were placed in the ‘at-risk’ category since November 26.“Of these, 6 have tested positive and their genome sequencing is being conducted in Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar. We are expecting that the reports will come by Friday,” said Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) Bhubaneswar director Ajay Parida He said the Odisha government has taken proactive measures for testing and tracking. In November, a total of 141 Covid-19 positive samples of foreign returnees in Odisha were genome sequenced, but none of them indicated the presence of the Omicron variant of the virus.“Any Covid-19 positive sample having CT value below 28 are undergoing genome sequencing,” he said.Director of public health Niranjan Mishra said the 40% of the 800 travellers who arrived in Odisha have entered the wrong addresses and contact numbers in the Air Suvidha portal.Odisha health minister Naba Das said there is no point in panicking over the Omicron variant as it is not yet clear whether infection with Omicron causes more severe disease compared to infections with other variants, including Delta. Though preliminary data suggests that there are increasing rates of hospitalization in South Africa, this could also be due to an increasing number of people becoming infected, rather than a result of a specific infection with Omicron.In Odisha, around 86 per cent of the population above the age of 18 years have taken the first dose while 50% of people have taken both doses. Around 74% of the adult population of 14 tribal-dominated districts have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-persons-who-arrived-in-odisha-from-omicron-at-risk-countries-test-positive-101638791747926.html
06-12-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: The many challenges facing Pune city’s Metro project||On December 24, 2016, three months before the Pune civic elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said: “Had the (Pune Metro) project been sanctioned earlier by the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) regime, the citizens of Pune wouldn’t have had to endure traffic snarls.” He was speaking at the Pune Metro Rail’s foundation stone laying ceremony, and was right, but only partially.Five years have passed and citizens are now asking: Why is the project still not complete, even in parts?There have already been inordinate delays in bringing the Metro project to Pune. While the major share of the blame does go to the Congress-NCP for failing to initiate the project much earlier, local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) politicians and environmentalists are also to be blamed for the deferrals.And now, there are some groups stalling the project because they are not happy with the height of the viaduct at Chhatrapati Sambhaji bridge, also known as Lakdi Pul, which is a crucial location in the entire project.Why?These groups, mostly Ganpati mandals feel the viaduct height poses a hindrance to immersion procession, something the project executing agency Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has denied. There have been meetings between PMC corporators, mayor, Maha-Metro officials and Ganesh mandal workers but stand-off continues.For politicians, upsetting Ganesh mandals mean inviting the wrath of people who are also political activists when civic elections are just three to four months away. More so when these mandals are power centres, enjoying the power to sway voters from old city areas, largely the bastion of BJP.A good 20 years ago when the Metro rail project proposal first came up, the then Congress MP, Suresh Kalmadi, first spoke about the Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS) in 2001. For the next few years, nothing happened till everyone woke up to the fact that Pune’s traffic situation had deteriorated abysmally.Well aware of the traffic problems, Kalmadi and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar once again revived the Metro proposal in 2007, and again in 2012 when Pune was preparing for the civic polls. In the hope that promises made by the ruling parties would turn to reality, citizens once again elected the Congress-NCP to power in the civic body. On the ground, however, not much happened for the next five years till the BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014.Just when things were looking up for the Metro in 2012, the entire issue was stalled over the question of whether it should be underground or elevated. While a section of politicians wanted it to be elevated, another section led by former MP, Anil Shirole and some environmentalists pushed for the underground route.Over the last decade, the Metro has been presented as a panacea to the acute traffic problems of Pune. Traffic experts and citizen activists are cagey about the claim. While metro rail is certainly an affordable and speedy mode of urban mass transportation, experts say it can be successful only if the network is widespread, covering the most populous parts of the city. Currently work is underway only for three lines, two of which have reached an advanced stage and third – Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar still to gather momentum.The two or three lines of the Metro may not be enough for a city like Pune where the population is over 50 lakhs. Also, the Metro and bus networks have to be well-synchronized to make them successful.Lawless, chaotic traffic in the absence of a strong public transport system has been the bane of Pune and the guardians of the city have neglected this issue over the past decades. The citizens no longer trust the promises made by the politicians and therefore ask, “Will the Metro ever see the light of the day?”As per the plan, two corridors are being developed by Maha-Metro, the state government company which will oversee Pune’s metro rail project. The rail network will cover a total distance of 31 kilometres (a 16-km stretch from Pimpri to Swargate and another from Vanaz to Ramwadi at an estimated cost of ₹11,420 crore. Recently, the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) proposed another route on the Metro map from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar, which will be 23 kilometres in length, estimated to cost ₹7,947 crore.Originally, all three lines were projected to become operational by 2021. However, as of now, only two priority stretches on two lines (each around 3km long) may start before elections. The current delay is not just increasing the cost of the project but also prolonging current woes being faced by citizens.The conscientious citizens of Pune will now need to keep watch targets set by Maha-Metro for the completion of the various stages of the Pune Metro project. From here on, the citizenry needs to know whether the project is moving on time or will suffer more delays, as has happened in the past.Those enjoying power, be it in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), state or Centre, need to be put under the watchful eyes of Punekars.Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com
06-12-2021||Patna||Woman hires contract killers for husband’s murder, held||Police on Monday arrested a woman, her lover and two contract killers for allegedly planning and executing the murder of her 32-year-old husband, said police. Gaya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aditya Kumar said the woman sold her ornaments to a jewellery shop owner of Sherghati and paid ₹80,000 in advance to contract killers to eliminate her husband. She did not want him to become a problem in her affair. Afsan Praveen and her lover Jisan Rehman paid ₹80,000 to Arif Khan for hiring contract killers from a gang headed by one Mohammad Armanullah Khan, said the SSP. The arrested persons include Afsan, Jisan, Mohammad Armanullah and his associate Pankaj Paswan. Police told that Arif and his associate Chhotu Yadav were still at large. The cosmetic shop owner Mohammad Tayyab was shot dead on October 23 near his rented house at Kazi Mohalla under Sherghati police station in Gaya. His wife had lodged a murder case against unknown assailants with the concerned police station. The SSP said that during the investigation, police got a video clip of a woman clicking pictures of Tayyab lying in a pool of blood. As Tayyab’s brother suspected his sister-in-law behind the killing, the police began questioning Afsan, in which she repeatedly changed her statements. In the meantime, Gaya police conducted raids and arrested other accused with two country-made pistols, five live cartridges and three cell phones. During the interrogation, they confessed to the killing of three persons, including Tayyab. Revealing her motive behind the crime, Afsan said that her husband was having an extra-marital affair and she was afraid of his intention to transfer his property. She promised to give the killers ₹2 lakh after the job is done and gave them ₹80,000 in advance. . 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Winnability sole criterion for Punjab Lok Congress ticket: Capt Amarinder||In the run-up to the 2022 Punjab assembly elections, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said that he would not let “leftover leaders” from the Congress contest on the Punjab Lok Congress ticket and winnability is the only criterion for his party candidates. Also read: Decision on alliance with BJP taken ‘in principle’, details on seat-sharing soon: Amarinder SinghInteracting with the media in Chandigarh after opening his party office in Sector 9, Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress a month ago, said that talks were on with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the breakaway Akali faction led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa for a poll alliance. He hinted at a meeting with BJP president JP Nadda in the near future over sharing of seats among the three stakeholders. “We are yet to decide on which party will get how many seats to field candidates and there has been no decision on the CM face so far,” the former CM said in reply to a query. He said Union home minister Amit Shah has made it clear that there will be a tie-up for the assembly elections. Capt Amarinder Singh launched the Punjab Lok Congress last month after he was removed from the post of chief minister in September following a bitter power tussle with state Congress president and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was also joined by some cabinet ministers once Amarinder supporters. Charanjit Singh Channi, a minister in Capt Amarinder’s cabinet, succeeded him as CM. Farm laws revoked, open for BJP alliance Capt Amarinder Singh had announced that he would contest the 2022 Punjab elections in alliance with the BJP if the farmers’ issues were resolved by the Centre, particularly the repeal of the three farm laws that he was opposed to, too. “I think there are no issues left now,” Capt Amarinder reiterated, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had repealed the farm laws and also constituted a committee to resolve the remaining issues such as the minimum support price on crops. “We are getting reports from urban and rural areas of the state that there is support building in our favour. We sweep the elections and form the government in Punjab,” he announced, adding that ministers, MLAs and Congress leaders were in touch with him and would open their cards only after the polls are announced. Performance will be poll plank: Capt He said the Punjab Lok Congress will contest the elections on the basis of his performance as chief minister. 92% of the promises made to the people of Punjab in the 2017 elections have been fulfilled when he was at the helm for four-and-a-half years, he claimed. Asked about action taken in the 2015 sacrilege cases, Capt Amarinder Singh said that he had done his best and formed four special investigation teams (SITs). The inquiry reports have been submitted in the court for action. “I can’t push the court to give a verdict,” he said, adding that when he was CM, he was pressured to arrest former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia. “However, his arrest is possible only on the basis of evidence,” the former CM said. Finds Kejriwal a ‘sneaky character’ Capt Amarinder Singh termed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal a “sneaky character” who was making unrealistic promises to the people of Punjab. “On the ground, the Aam Aadmi Party is very weak. In case the AAP would have been gaining strength, 10 of its MLAs would not have switched sides,” he said. He refused to accept parallel acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhyan Singh Mand, who had pronounced the former CM as a ‘tankhaiya’ (guilty of religious misconduct) for allegedly scuttling the Bargari Morcha against sacrilege incidents. “I regard only the jathedar who has been appointed following the proper procedure,” he added. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Decision on alliance with BJP taken 'in principle', details on seat-sharing soon: Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said a decision regarding an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) party has been taken “in principle” and details regarding the seat-sharing agreement would soon be announced.“We will also do seat adjustments with Dhindsa sahab's party (SAD Sanyukt). I will tell both parties that we should pick winners and support those candidates,” news agency ANI quoted Singh as saying.The former Congress leader also expressed confidence his party, the Punjab Lok Congress, will form the government in the state after the assembly polls scheduled for early next year. “Our aim is to win the Punjab assembly elections and we will,” Singh said.Noting the membership drive for his party began 10 days ago, he said, "A committee is also being formed in the district so that people can join the party."Also read | Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh opens Punjab Lok Congress office in ChandigarhSingh’s comments came two days after Union home minister Amit Shah said an alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress and Dhindsa’s party might be formed before the state assembly polls. Shah made the remarks during his keynote address at the concluding session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021 on Saturday.Notably, BJP’s Punjab in-charge Dushyant Gautam has said the decision regarding an alliance with Singh’s party would be taken by the BJP’s top leadership. However, he also said the BJP was preparing to fight in all the seats in the state.“We are preparing to contest for 117 seats in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. The final decision of alliance between the BJP and Captain's new political party will only be taken by party high command,” ANI quoted Gautam as saying.Singh has said his alliance with the BJP would depend on the Centre resolving the issue of the protesting farmers. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the three laws back in November, Singh was among the first few to welcome the move.“On Prakash Parv PM Modi took the decision to repeal the three Farm Laws and apologized to the farmers. There can be nothing bigger than this. I'm thankful to Prime Minister and home minister for this, nobody can do anything more than this,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.Meanwhile, Charanjit Singh Channi, who took over as the CM after Singh, criticised the talks on alliance and said that the BJP has found new allies in Singh and Dhindsa to promote its “divisive discourse” in the state, news agency PTI reported.After a bitter, year-long tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Singh stepped down from the state’s top post earlier in September this year and announced his own party in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decision-on-alliance-with-bjp-taken-in-principle-details-on-seat-sharing-soon-amarinder-singh-101638787685663.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||As Omicron enters Delhi, CM Kejriwal urges people not to panic but 'wear masks'||In wake of the rising cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus in India, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged people of the city not to panic and continue adhering to Covid-19 protocols.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo said he is “monitoring the situation” and “chaired a review meeting last week” as well, according to news agency ANI.“We will make all available resources like beds, medicines, equipment to tackle the virus. I just want to appeal to the citizens to always wear masks while stepping out,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by ANI.On November 30, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has arranged 30,000 oxygen beds, of which 10,000 are ICU, amid the Omicron discovery and threat. He also said telemetry devices will be installed in all oxygen tanks in Delhi to check the availability of the gas on a real-time basis.Delhi on Sunday confirmed its first case of Omicron after a 37-year-old man, who recently returned from Tanzania, was found to be infected with the strain.He is among 17 returnees from “at-risk” countries, who are currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. The infected man is the only person to have returned from Africa, while everyone else came from the US and Europe, officials said.Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainBesides the national capital, 16 additional cases of Omicron were confirmed from Maharashtra’s Thane district and Jaipur in Rajasthan. As many as nine cases of the new variant of the coronavirus were detected in Jaipur, while seven were found in Maharashtra. The overall Omicron caseload in India has now shot up to 21.Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday reiterated the city's AAP-led government's appeal to the Centre to impose a travel ban on affected countries in the southern African region.“It is being reported that the gestational period in case of Omicron could be more than other variants. This means an infected person may go undetected at the airport,” he told news agency PTI.Jain added all cases of Omicron till now in India have come from “affected foreign countries” and that the central government “should take it seriously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-omicron-enters-delhi-cm-kejriwal-urges-people-not-to-panic-but-wear-masks-101638782105324.html
06-12-2021||Pune||Pune builder shot dead in crowded Katraj area. Killers fired 6 bullets||PUNE: A builder was shot dead by two men on a crowded road in south Pune’s Katraj locality by two men who escaped on a two-wheeler. Sameer Shaikh, 28, died on the spot, police said.Police said the attack took place a little after 11.30am outside a local eatery, Rohit Wadewale.Sameer Shaikh was rushed to the local hospital but did not survive. A police officer said his body has been sent to Sassoon general hospital for an autopsy.Jagannath Kalaskar, senior police inspector of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station, said one person, Mehboob Bulargi, who had a continuing dispute with Sameer Shaikh for the last 5-7 months has been detained.Police said Shaikh was sitting on a red Royal Enfield Bullet motorbike in front of the eatery when the two suspects are believed to have fired at him. Police said they have found six empty bullet shells.Police officer Kalaskar said the suspects are believed to have followed Shaikh from his house in Ambegaon Pathar, about 3km from the place where he was killed. “They followed him there and shot him from behind as he sat on the bike,” Kalaskar said, citing initial statements from witnesses.The police officer added that they will scan footage from CCTV cameras along the way to verify this information and identify the culprits.Police said their first priority was to examine footage from CCTV cameras at the murder spot. There are three CCTV cameras in the area including one that covers the spot where Shaikh’s body and his blood-stained motor cycle were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-builder-shot-dead-in-crowded-katraj-area-killers-fired-6-bullets-101638786466456.html
06-12-2021||Bangalore||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Karnataka minister says will close schools if needed||With Covid-19 cases rising among students in various schools and colleges, Karnataka primary and secondary education minister B C Nagesh said the government will not backtrack from stopping exams and schools if situation arises. He, however, maintained that the experts were of the opinion that there was no problem in holding regular off-line classes. "We will not backtrack if a need arises to stop exams and schools. However, in the present situation, all the experts are of the opinion that there is no problem," Nagesh told reporters here. The minister said the government was closely monitoring the Covid-19 situation on an hourly basis. He added that the government will make alternative arrangements with a view to avoid any problem. "If required we will stop exams. However, the Standard Operating Procedure is maintained very strictly in the exams because we make sitting arrangements maintaining physical distance," Nagesh said. The minister asked people not to panic as it will impact the academic activities of children. "There is no need for people to panic because this year we started regular schools after a year of lockdown. In case schools are shut again then it will be difficult to bring back children to the classes," Nagesh said. He, however, assured parents that the education department will take stringent measures in case it is felt that the Covid-19 situation is going to impact children's health. The statement came amid rising Covid-19 cases emerging among students. A large number of students and staff of a medical college in Hubballi-Dharwad tested positive for Covid-19. The pandemic clusters emerged among students of residential schools in Bengaluru rural, Mysuru and Chikkamagaluru. Sources said there was a protest by students in an autonomous college in Bengaluru on Monday morning following reports about Covid-19 outbreak in the students' hostel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-karnataka-minister-says-will-close-schools-if-needed-101638777586734.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Security upgraded in Mathura on Babri Masjid demolition anniversary||Security has been tightened in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura to avoid any untoward incident across the city on the anniversary of the demolition of Babri Masjid. According to news agency ANI, which quoted senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gaurav Grover, security forces have been deployed in huge numbers across the city."To maintain law and order, security has been tightened in Mathura. The city has been divided into superzones, zones and sectors. Several security forces have been deployed. Drones and CCTVs are being used to keep a check on the law and order situation. We are also keeping an eye on social media posts inciting violence. Strict action will be taken," ANI quoted the SSP as saying.Superintendent of Police Martand Prakash Singh informed that security has been stepped up at 145 checkpoints, adding that suspected people and vehicles are being closely watched.Meanwhile, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) is already in place in Mathura prohibiting the assembly of four or more people.Several traffic restrictions have also been imposed to maintain the law and order situation. Vehicles will not be allowed to move towards 'Krishna Janmabhoomi' or Deeng Gate, ANI quoted an official statement as saying.The traffic police has also ordered that no heavy vehicle can enter the city from the Govardhan intersection. All vehicles bound from Masani to Bhuteshwar or Deeng Gate have to use the Gokul Restaurant-Govardhan intersection route. No vehicular movement is allowed from Bharatpur Gate to Deeng Gate.All four-wheelers and heavy vehicles have been barred from Dhauli Pyau to State Bank intersection and also from Tank intersection to State Bank intersection.Moreover, all heavy vehicles have been barred from Krishnapuri, Gokul Barrage to Tank intersection, and Gokul Restaurant to Masani. The entry of all vehicles has been banned on the route from Vrindavan/Masani to Mathura city and also from Govardhan intersection to Bhuteshwar intersection.Traffic police have also diverted some routes in the town. The set of orders for diversion include the movement of vehicles that were earlier taking the Yamuna Expressway from Gokul Restaurant via Masani will now have to use the Vahan township-Gokul Barrage-Lakshmi Nagar route. Vehicles entering Mathura from the Yamuna Expressway from Vrindavan via Masani have to use the Raya cut-Lakshmi Nagar route.December 6 marks the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya in 1992. Its demolition led to violence in several parts of the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-upgraded-in-mathura-on-babri-masjid-demolition-anniversary-101638775934694.html
06-12-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh to conduct 3 state-wide Covid vaccination campaigns this month||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday announced three state-wide vaccination campaigns against Covid-19 in December as the state pushes towards 100 per cent coverage of those who are eligible for the jabs.“We are committed to achieving 100% vaccination in the state by Dec 2021. A state-wide vaccination campaign will be organized on Dec 8,15 & 22 for this purpose,” Chouhan said in a tweet.So far 94% of people in the state have got the 1st dose & 70% of people have been vaccinated with the 2nd dose as well. We are committed to achieving 100% vaccination in the state by Dec 2021. A state-wide vaccination campaign will be organized on Dec 8,15 & 22 for this purpose.However, 30 per cent of the eligible population in the state remain to be inoculated with the second dose, according to the data shared by Chouhan. “So far 94% of people in the state have got the 1st dose & 70% of people have been vaccinated with the 2nd dose as well,” he also said in his tweet.As many as 90,224,026 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 5,13,73,661 first and 3,88,50,365 second doses, have been administered in MP as of 12pm on the day, according to the Co-WIN dashboard.Also read | ‘Important to keep this momentum', says Modi as 50% eligible population fully jabbed against Covid-19Among the districts, Indore leads the list with 5,626,246 doses administered so far, followed by Bhopal with 3,683,979, according to the latest data.Chouhan also thanked health care workers and others involved in the vaccination drive as the state completed administering more than 90 million Covid-19 vaccine doses.“Delighted to inform you that we have succeeded in administering more than 9 Crore doses of #COVID19 vaccination in the state. My heartfelt gratitude to health workers,social workers,voluntary organizations,members of CMG, & all those actively engaged in achieving this milestone,” he said in another tweet.The remarks came on the same day as the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive crossed 1.28 billion-mark, the Union health ministry said.On Sunday, Madhya Pradesh saw nine new cases of Covid-19 and no related deaths as the total caseload reached 793,241 and the death toll remained unchanged at 10,528, according to a report by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-to-conduct-3-state-wide-covid-vaccination-campaigns-this-month-101638775601157.html
06-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Jaipur reports 9 Omicron cases. Here’s how the variant spread||Rajasthan’s Jaipur has the highest number of Omicron patients as of Monday morning after four members of a family, who recently returned from South Africa, and five of their acquaintances tested positive for the latest, a more transmissible variant of the coronavirus.Rajasthan is the fifth state to report cases of the Omicron variant after Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Delhi. India’s first Omicron case was reported in Bengaluru in Karnataka. After that, cases of Omicron were found in Jamnagar of Gujarat, Thane district of Maharashtra and Delhi."Genome sequencing has confirmed that nine persons are infected with the Omicron variant," Rajasthan health secretary Vaibhav Galriya said on Sunday.Here’s how they were found to be infected with Omicron:Travel historyJaipur’s chief medical and health officer Dr Narottam Sharma told Hindi newspaper Dainik Bhaskar the family of four reached Jaipur on November 25 after travelling from South Africa via Dubai and Mumbai. Also read | India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainWhen they left South Africa, their Covid-19 test report was negative. They then reached Mumbai via Dubai—their Covid-19 test report was negative as well.Met relatives Dr Sharma said the Covid-19 report of a person in the Adarsh ​​Nagar area of Jaipur tested positive for Covid-19 and after tracing his contacts, officials found this family came to visit him. When samples were taken from this family, their report came positive on December 1.Also read | Delhi’s first Omicron case a 37-yr-old man with mild symptomsAccording to reports, the family also attended a wedding ceremony at City Palace in Jaipur on November 28.34 samples tested for OmicronRajasthan health secretary Galriya said samples were then collected from 34 people who came in contact with the family and out of which 9 were found positive for Omicron.He said a family from Ajitgarh in Sikar district also met the family but the department traced the eight members and all of them tested negative for coronavirus. The officer said contact tracing is being carried out on a large scale.No infection in lungsAccording to Galriya, the family of four has already been admitted to the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) Hospital in Pratap Nagar. He added five acquaintances, who came in contact with them, are also being admitted to the hospital.Also read | Omicron scare: New rapid test identifies how antibodies fight Covid-19 variantsRUHS Hospital superintendent Dr Ajit Singh told Dainik Bhaskar the High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) report of all the Omicron patients is normal and no infection has been found in their lungs. They do not have any kind of cough, fever, cold, soreness or any other symptom on or before the day they are admitted to the hospital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthans-jaipur-reports-9-omicron-cases-here-s-how-the-variant-spread-101638772766521.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh opens Punjab Lok Congress office in Chandigarh||In the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections early next year, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress a month ago, will be opening the office of his newly floated party, the Punjab Lok Congress, at Sector 9 in Chandigarh on Monday afternoon. Also read: Regional buzz: A clueless BJP leadership in PunjabCapt Amarinder Singh stepped down as chief minister in September after a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Charanjit Singh Channi succeeded him as chief minister. Capt Amarinder Singh has already announced his willingness to contest the assembly elections in alliance with the BJP. With the three farm laws withdrawn, there is now no roadblock in the alliance between the BJP and his party. He is expected to meet BJP national president JP Nadda soon for a seat-sharing arrangement. “I think there are no issues left now,” he said after Prime Minister Narendra Modi repealed the farm laws on November 19, choosing Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary for making the announcement, which later got a formal stamp of approval from Parliament at the onset of the winter session. Last Monday, Capt Amarinder Singh had called on Haryana chief minister and BJP leader Manohar Lal Khattar and said the membership drive for his new party was “going great”. The former chief minister has also called upon breakaway Akali factions led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to join hands for the elections. According to an aide of Capt Amarinder Singh, the Punjab Lok Congress is expected to get approval from the Election Commission of India along with the poll symbol this week as all mandatory requirements have been met. he Punjab assembly election scheduled to be held next year will be an interesting fight as former chief minister Amarinder Singh has exited from the Congress and floated his own party, Punjab Lok Congress, which is open to forging an alliance with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-opens-punjab-lok-congress-office-in-chandigarh-101638769838588.html
06-12-2021||Patna||Fear grips victims of botched cataract surgeries in Bihar||Several victims of suspected botched cataract surgeries done at a private eye hospital in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur are now resisting efforts to refer them to the state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna to address post-surgery complications, officials and victims said.“Many patients are reluctant for one reason or other. Let’s see how many of them turn up,” a Motihari-based government doctor said, referring to the plan to send at least 21 affected patients from the two districts of West and East Champaran to the Patna-based government hospital for further treatment on Monday. East Champaran’s civil surgeon Dr Anjani Kumar said that 13 of 15 such patients from his district had returned to their respective villages despite the referral to the Patna hospital. The remaining six such patients are from West Champaran, district’s civil surgeon Birendra Kumar Choudhary said.Close to 328 patients were operated for cataract between November 22 and 27 at the Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital and several of these surgeries were allegedly botched up, resulting in many patients losing an eye due to severe infection. Muzaffarpur’s Brahmpura police station on Thursday lodged an FIR against 14 persons including the secretary, manager and doctors attached with the hospital. Shankar Ram, a resident of Sherawa village in Narkatiaganj block of West Champaran district is one among those who have been referred to Patna, but says he will not go to IGIMS come what may.“I will prefer to go to Parvanipur (a Nepal-based eye hospital). They will take out my eye, if I go there (IGIMS),” Ram told HT over the phone.Ram is not the only one suffering from distrust and fear. His three co-villagers, Dhurva Choudhary, Algu Sah and Laxmina, who all underwent the cataract surgery at the Muzaffapur Eye Hospital this November, too, are reluctant to be referred to IGIMS.Also Read: Omicron scare impacts hospitality sector in Bodh GayaLaxmina, who was operated on November 23, said the visibility in her eye, that was operated on, has dwindled drastically after the surgery. “My eye was comparatively very good before the operation. Everything is looking blurred now,” she said, and added that she won’t go to IGIMS. “No, we are not going anywhere. We will manage our treatment at our own expenses,” said Laxmina.Meanwhile, 12 victims of the botched up operations who had to get one of their eyes removed at Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffapur were recovering well, Dr Rajeev Kumar Singh, head of the department of eye, said. “They all have responded well and may be discharged in a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/victims-of-botched-up-cataract-surgeries-in-bihar-gripped-in-fear-101638769658031.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Maharashtra join nationwide protest, to halt OPD duty||Resident doctors in several government and corporation hospitals across Maharashtra have decided to halt work in OPDs starting on Monday as part of a nationwide protest demanding that a stay on post graduate medical admissions be vacated urgently.Doctors have been protesting over extra workload being shared by two batches of resident doctors instead of the desired three. “At a time when the country is witnessing the rise of a new Covid-19 variant (Omicron), the least that needs to be done is strengthening the healthcare system. We need all hands on deck,” said one of the protesting doctors.The NEET-PG 2021 exam, initially scheduled for January this year, was postponed to February and later to April. It was eventually postponed further due to rising cases of Covid-19 across the country.The entrance test was finally conducted in September, but admissions have been stayed by the Supreme Court, which is currently hearing petitions filed by students questioning the validity of the implementation of EWS and OBC quotas.In Mumbai, the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) decided to join the protest by withdrawing from all OPD work from the first week of December, while those at Sion Hospital, MARD joined the demonstration on Monday.“Mumbai students have another reason to protest. Recently, notices were issued to vacate the accommodation facilities provided by the MHADA/MCGM to decongest crowded hostels amid rising Covid-19 cases. We request the authorities to either let us continue staying in the allotted accommodation or find us an alternative,” said a spokesperson for Sion MARD.
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron: Here's how Uttar Pradesh preparing to tackle new Covid-19 variant||Taking lessons from the previous waves of the coronavirus pandemic, Uttar Pradesh has started preparations to tackle Omicron – the new variant of coronavirus –  as a total of 21 cases have already been reported in the country.According to news agency ANI, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered officials to increase the speed of vaccination and vigorously follow the suggestions given by the health advisory committee regarding prevention and treatment of the Covid-19 disease.The government has further ordered the authorities concerned to ensure strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol, testing, vaccination, surveillance and sanitization in all the districts of Uttar Pradesh.The arrangements have also been made for 100 beds in all medical colleges of the state and 50 new beds in CHCs and PHCs, ANI reported, citing the Chief Minister's Office. Around 3,011 PHCs and 855 CHCs are being equipped with all advanced facilities, ANI further reported.Also read | India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainMoreover, the state government is also monitoring the arrangements like oxygen, beds and labs, the demand for which can significantly go up if cases of Coronavirus increase.The government has also entrusted 73,000 monitoring committees in the state to ensure all the instructions with regards to the new variant of Coronavirus are being followed.No case of Omicron has come to light from Uttar Pradesh yet. However, cases of the new variant have been detected in four states – Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat –  and national capital Delhi.Omicron puzzle: Fauci says possibly mild cases, WHO expert warns about hospitalisationsThe Omicron variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa late last month. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year. The world health body has classified Omicron as a 'variant of concern'.Dozens of countries, including India, have imposed travel restrictions on the southern African nations since the mutation was discovered.Director-General of the WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus earlier said that the cases of Omicron coronavirus variant are expected to rise as more information on the new strain becomes available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-here-s-how-uttar-pradesh-preparing-to-tackle-new-covid-19-variant-101638765061126.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police start probe into rumour of ₹350 fine for not voting||Following the viral fake news that the Election Commission will charge a fine of ₹350 for not voting, Delhi Police on Sunday started an investigation into the matter.According to Delhi Police, the news went viral on social media for some time, in which the Election Commission was quoted as saying that ₹350 would be deducted from the bank account of people for not casting their vote.Later, the Election Commission itself on social media had termed this news as a rumour and clarified that there would be no such deduction.Despite the clarification, the rumour did not stop following which Delhi Police filed a case and handed over the matter to Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit. The police have started proceedings under non-consignable offence.KPS Malhotra, DCP, IFSO, Delhi Police said, "Police is investigating the matter. Action is being taken in this regard under the relevant law."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-start-probe-into-rumour-of-rs-350-fine-for-not-voting-101638759332940.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Light rain, shallow fog likely in New Delhi; air quality in ‘very poor’ zone||New Delhi is likely to see shallow fog on Monday morning and scattered, light rain during the day, while its air quality remained in the “very poor” category.The hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 344, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 305 - also in the “very poor” category.Monday’s minimum temperature on Monday was likely to be 12 degrees Celsius and the maximum 25 degrees Celsius, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. Light rain or drizzle is likely to occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi-NCR. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.4 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 25.6 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly weather forecast, shallow fog in the morning is likely till Wednesday. The minimum temperature is expected to stay in the range of 12-10 degrees Celsius over the next three days.  On Sunday, the union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said the AQI is likely to be in the lower end of the “very poor” category till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-shallow-fog-likely-in-new-delhi-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-101638758437381.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Post-ride confessions||Almost everyone in Ghaziabad’s Karkar village can tell you the directions to her house, she says. Gulesh Chauhan is admired in her neighbourhood as the woman who drives an Uber cab in the National Capital Region (including Gurugram). She is already on the road this early Sunday morning — after cooking a meal of ‘aloo matar and namkeen chawal’ for her mother-in-law and son. While dropping her rider at his destination, Ms Chauhan, 42, gamely agrees to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore citizens’ distinct experiences.Your favourite qualities in a man?His behaviour with women whom he meets outside his home should be as decent as it is with his mother, sisters and daughters.Your favourite qualities in a woman?She should be affable, affectionate and respectful to her family, as well as to others.Your chief characteristic?I’m khuddar (self respecting). I like being on time, and expect the same from others.What do you appreciate the most in your friends?They should be helpful, encouraging, with an ability to listen.Your main fault?My schooling ended with the tenth standard.Your favourite occupation?Cooking mutton curry for my son.Your idea of happiness?Every evening after being done with the work, just before returning home, I drive around for half an hour, playing the songs I like. This is the only time in the whole day that I give to myself.Your idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortune?It has already occurred — the death of my husband, Lilu Singh Chauhan, in 2003.If not yourself, who would you be?Koel (a bird).Where would you like to live?Mountains.Your favourite food and drink?Dal bati churma, beer.Your favourite names?Bhawani, Arjun, Pratap.What do you hate the most?Chugli (speaking ill of others).The reform you admire the most?Dowry Prohibition Act.The natural talent you’d like to be gifted with?I haven’t thought about that but my dream is to move to Canada and drive trucks there. Until that happens, I want to be the chauffeur of a nice working lady who can afford to give me a monthly salary of about 30,000 rupees.How do you wish to die?Falling asleep at night, and not getting up in the morning.What is your present state of mind?Yesterday I earned just 700 rupees. I need to earn at least 2,000 rupees today.Faults for which you have the most tolerance?People speaking nastily to me.Your motto in life?Waking up on time, sleeping on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-post-ride-confessions-101638744827062.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||DMRC installs 14 anti-smog guns at its construction sites||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has installed 14 anti-smog guns (ASG) at 12 of its construction sites in a bid to reduce pollution from the areas.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “These state-of-the-art ASGs are capable of spraying fine mist up to 100 metres. One ASG is considered adequate for covering an area up to 20,000 square metres.”He added, “Further, all construction materials are covered with tarpaulin... Wheels of vehicles leaving the sites are properly cleaned so that they do not spread dust or mud... The materials carried by them are also adequately covered.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-installs-14-anti-smog-guns-at-its-construction-sites-101638738101479.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Delhi man held for duping Manimajra resident of ₹8K||The cyber cell of the police has arrested a Delhi resident of duping a girl from the Samadhi Gate, Manimajra, of ₹8,022 on the pretext of providing a job. As per police, the accused, Rustam Saifi, had contacted the girl after she made a profile on a job listings website. He asked her to deposit ₹2,800 for registration and then a challan of ₹5,222 for not depositing the amount in time. Four bank accounts were provided for this. After complaining to the police, the cyber cell was able to trace the accused from one of these accounts.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Manimajra police station. The accused was produced in court on Sunday that sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-delhi-man-held-for-duping-manimajra-resident-of-rs-8k-101638739356440.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||U-25 cricket: Punjab beat Goa to enter semifinals||Punjab recorded a fine 45-run win over Goa in the men’s U-25 inter state tournament quarterfinal match in Bengaluru played on Sunday. Goa won the toss and decided to field. Punjab batting first scored 235 for 9 in 50 overs. Nehal Wadhera scored 46 off 55 with six boundaries and one six and Vishwa Pratap Singh made 36 off 73 with four boundaries. They were the main run getters for Punjab. Mohit Redkar (4 for 43), S A Mishra (2 fro 34) and Nihal S (2 for 50) were the most successful wicket takers for Goa. Replying, Goa were bowled out for 190 in 48 overs. Dheeraj scored 41 off 46 with six boundaries and Avishkar made 31 0ff 19 with five boundaries and one six for Goa. Prince Balwant Rai (4 for 42), Abhinav Sharma (3 for 14) and Paras Jaidka (2 for 42) were the most successful wicket takers for Punjab. With this win, Punjab are now in the semifinals. Other stories in briefFive held for prostitution in Ambala
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Online proctoring: PU panel for conducting mock test of software first||With Panjab University planning to use the online proctoring in the upcoming semester exams to invigilate students, a special panel of the university has suggested to conduct a mock test of the software first to check its feasibility after the tendering process is done.The tendering process is underway for inviting bids. The recommendation was given by the panel as a part of various technical specifications which have been finalised for online examination proctoring software. The theory exams of undergraduate courses will start from December 22 and for PG courses from December 27.Although the university has announced that forthcoming semester exams will be conducted in online mode, however, the use of proctoring in the exams is yet to be finalised. According to the specifications finalised by the panel, all data has to be preserved for six months at the seller’s side and after six months all data has to be handed over to the university at no extra cost.It has been outlined that students should be able to access even in low bandwidth. In case there is an interim disconnection of the internet, images captured prior to disconnection and those captured after the connection re-establishes, must be recorded and uploaded on the server for analysis along with an AI analysed report of the student activity during the duration of disconnection.The panel has suggested that an auto face recognition of the candidate should happen at the start of the examination and a dedicated technical expert must be assigned by the vendor to address students’ queries.Further, it has been outlined that on the day of examination, only scanned PDFs of question papers are to be uploaded for students to download and a provision must be made for the papers to open in the application itself.The last three semester exams of PU were held online after the epidemic broke out last year. There was no proctoring, and the university had received criticism over the sanctity of these online exams.
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: AAP’s promise of free water every month political gimmick, says Congress||In a first after the parties completed their ticket allotment and nominations for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, the Chandigarh Congress on Sunday ripped into the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) “guarantee” of providing free water up to 20,000 litres. In November, AAP gave its first guarantee promising it would provide a 24/7 water supply without additional tax burden on the city residents. Under it, the party assured that 20,000 litres (20 kilolitres) of clean and free water would be provided to the residents of the city per month. Terming the AAP’s first guarantee as a political gimmick, Congress state president Subhash Chawla, said, “AAP is misleading people. Chandigarh is not Delhi where there is a state legislative assembly. The MC cannot take any such decision or pass any law on these lines. In Chandigarh, the municipal corporation is governed by the Punjab Municipal Act, which does not even have a provision for the supply of free water without any charge.” Congress questioned AAP’s ability to overrule the Act. Chawla said, “Chandigarh is run by the Union government through the UT administration. It is the BJP government at the Centre. In Delhi, AAP runs the state government and manages terms with the Delhi Jal Board, but here there is nothing like that. How it will prevail over the BJP-run Central government.” Stating that Chandigarh residents cannot be fooled by freebies, Chawla, said, “They want quality service at fair charges and not free stuff. But the AAP blindly tries to follow their Delhi model without a local perspective and understanding. Even in Delhi, they have lost successive municipal elections. If the model is so successful, why the people are not supporting them in these polls.” Chawla said, “A guarantee comes with a penalty. Will they also tell people what penalty they will pay if they don’t deliver on their guarantee?” Responding to the Congress on the issue, AAP co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra said, “If the Congress doesn’t understand the economics, it is their problem. In Delhi, too, the party sat on dharnas even outside the lieutenant governor’s house and office. In the end, AAP succeeded because its intention was right.” AAP has maintained that as it would save around 45% of the water that is currently lost due to leakages and theft. “We will save water wastage. Funds are not an issue. The MC should get its due as per the Delhi finance commission recommendations. It is AAP’s policy to reduce taxes so that compliance is improved,” said Chhabra. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Ward 29: These footpaths no cakewalk for pedestrians||In Ward number 29, parks are crying for maintenance, footpaths are broken and roads are inundated with water and sewage, making life a nightmare for residents here. Jaspal Singh Sandhu, a property dealer from Sector 56, said: “Here sewage is the main issue of the residents. Plots are less than one marla and sewerage pipes were laid accordingly. However, now people have given houses on rent and the population has increased, but no additional pipes have been laid.”He said often sewage overflows leading to stink in the area and then they have to make several calls to officials.Talking about the councillor’s role, he alleged that BJP councillor Satish Kainth had never done anything for the area. “He just keeps on switching parties but does nothing for the ward. This time we will choose someone who is from the ward and will do something for the residents,” he added.Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Ambedkar Colony, Sector 56, said: “The residents have to face so many issues, but no one listens to us. Poor sanitation and ill-maintained parks are the main issues. The ward has many parks but none is maintained by the MC.”“The iron railings are broken, there is no greenery, garbage is strewn all over the park and swings are also in a bad shape,” he said.A few meters away, there is a green belt, which he said was occupied by Verka trucks.A resident said: “These are inner roads and trucks should not ply inside the sector, but no one stops them.”Illegal vendors have encroached upon the road leaving little space for pedestrians. Even cars are parked on the roadside.Daya Parkash Gupta, a shopkeeper from Sector 56, said there was no place to organise public events or marriage functions. “A community centre that they have constructed is located next to a school where there is no parking space.”Sardara Singh Cheema, president, RWA, Sector 55, said, “I am living here since 1995. Since then, the green belt has not been developed. Then there is no community centre. Also, there was no bus terminal and we had to collect funds to build one.”He said, “Forget about bus terminal, CTU buses have stopped coming to this Sector. For the last few years, people have to commute via private vehicles.”He alleged that councillor Satish Kainth had done nothing for their ward.Another complaint was that they do not get clean drinking water in their houses. Apart from this, parks are not maintained. “There are 11 parks and we collect money to maintain these parks.”Satish Kainth, councillor, said one community centre had been inaugurated and the work was underway for another centre. He said they were working on the problem of overflowing sewage, but the work had stopped because of the elections.Local voicesThere is no place to sit in the parks. There is no greenery, railings are broken and garbage is strewn all over. The MC should maintain the park. -- Insaaf, a resident of Sector 56People park cars on roads and rest of the space is encroached upon by vendors, leaving pedestrians in a lurch -- Naveen Kumar, a student from Sector 56A few hours of rain inundate roads of this ward. Overflowing sewage is another problem faced by the residents. -- Daya Parkash Gupta, a shopkeeper from Sector 56There is no community centre. No bus ply in this ward which is causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. -- Sardara Singh Cheema, from sector 55KNOW YOUR WARDGeneral wardLocalities - Sector 55 and 56Voters - 23,000Councillor - Satish Kainth
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||No new dengue case in Panchkula, Mohali after 3 months||In a major respite, no new dengue case was reported in Mohali and Panchkula on Sunday, a first in around three months.The Chandigarh health department, meanwhile, did not issue a dengue bulletin on the day.The day before, the tricity had 11 cases, of which Chandigarh contributed seven cases followed by two each from Mohali and Panchkula.On Sunday, none of the three jurisdictions reported any death. 18 Covid cases in tricityMeanwhile, 18 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity in the last 24 hours, of which nine cases came from Mohali, two from Panchkula and seven from Chandigarh. As far as active cases are concerned, there are 52 in Mohali, 16 in Panchkula and 58 in Chandigarh. All three jurisdictions have a recovery rate of 98%, whereas the positivity rate is 0.4% in Mohali, 0.1% in Panchkula and 0.5% in Chandigarh.Union health minister visits PGIMERMeanwhile, Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh L Mandaviya visited Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Sunday. He was accompanied by Information broadcasting and sports and youth affairs minister Anurag Singh Thakur. The minister was apprised of the hospital structure, the advanced centres of patient care, training and research as well as upcoming new centres like the advanced neurosciences centre and advanced mother and child care centre. He was also shown the progress on the three PGI satellite centres at Sangrur, Ferozepur (Punjab) and Una (Himachal Pradesh). While explaining the patient load at various areas in the hospital, it was emphasised that many referrals can be dealt with at the level of the district hospitals and medical colleges in the region. However, many patients still prefer to come to PGI for their treatment. The minister also sought new ideas and view points for improving patient care and infrastructure from all stakeholders, including staff working at the institute, patients and their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-new-dengue-case-in-panchkula-mohali-after-3-months-101638739115191.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||50 years of 1971 war: Meet Col LJS Gill who para jumped into enemy area without training||The Indian Army is known for its valour and one such act was shown by Colonel LJS Gill who para jumped into the battlefield without any training. Fifty years on, he shares the story of his first landing in East Pakistan to take over Poongli bridge near Tangail town, paving way for uninterrupted movement of Indian troops till Dhaka.Colonel (then Second Lieutenant) LJS Gill, merely 21 at the time, went on to became a part of the contingent that performed the guard of honour in Dhaka when Pakistan Army’s Lt Gen AAK Niazi signed the instrument of surrender of Pakistan forces with Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora, commander of the Indian Army’s Eastern Command on December 16, 1971.Because of the Indo-Pak War, Gill’s military training at Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, was cut short by five weeks and he passed out on November 14. After a two-week break, he reported to his unit in Kolkata on November 29. He was commissioned into the 2 Para just before the war broke out.“When you opt for the parachute regiment, you are to undergo a 28-day probation to be assessed for your suitability to serve in the air-borne forces. If you qualify, you are sent to Para Training School at Agra for a four-week basic course followed by five jumps, including a night jump,” he says. “On December 3, 1971, the war broke out and two days later, my battalion got the orders for air-borne operations to capture Poongli Bridge. As I was not a qualified paratrooper then, I was told I could not be part of the airborne force for the operation. But I told my Commanding Officer (CO), Lt Col Kulwant Singh Pannu (later Major General), that I want to go to war,” reminisces the veteran. ‘Not qualified, but determined’The CO agreed to take up the matter with the Brigade Commander. “The next day, CO introduced me to Brigadier (later Lt General) Mathew Thomas, 50 Para Brigade Commander. When I told him I want to jump with the unit, Brig Thomas asked me what he would tell my father in case of a mishap. I answered: “I am not qualified, but determined. You tell my father the same thing, which you would to any other soldier’s family.” “He asked me to go,” recalls Gill.But there were many challenges ahead. No sub unit was ready to accommodate an untrained soldier. At last, the probation officer Maj J S Mahalwar, Chalie Company Commander, agreed to take him. C Company was to jump from C 47 Dakota planes; technically complex to jump from. For an untrained trooper, this was considered risky. He was then accommodated in Pathfinder 2 as the additional jumper. Pathfinders were jumping from C119 Packets, which were relatively easier to jump from. “This shift not only separated me from my sub-unit, but grouped me for a more challenging task.”Pathfinders are the first ones to be dropped for securing and marking the drop zone and receiving the main force. Finally, the D-day came on December 11, 1971. The group jumping from C119 Packet reached Dum Dum Airbase at 3 am. At the crack of dawn, he was briefed by the Airforce staff about the parachutes, emergency procedures and made to practice landings from a stool. This was followed by exit procedure in the plane. Taking off at 2.30 pm from Dum Dum, the Path Finders were dropped at the drop zone, 3 km east of the target- Poongli Bridge. “There was zero emotion, but a sense of mental commitment that I have to do it. After boarding the plane, I asked the dispatchers to not assist me in any way as I wanted to exit on my own. It was a smooth exit. I landed in a pond and managed to reach the drop zone.” “With the mainstream following in 30 minutes, the attack was carried out at 8 pm as planned and the bridge was captured. We paved the way for the 95 Infantry Brigade and 167 Infantry Brigade to move forward towards Dhaka,” he said.Gill says with pride, “It was my unit that was the first one to enter Dakha. In the picture, which you see of the historic surrender ceremony, I, along with my troops, was 10 metres in front of the table where the surrender ceremony was happening.” In February 1972, Gill was sent to PTS Agra to complete Para Basic Course as airforce did not approve the operational jump a qualification to earn his para wings. Gill took a premature retirement in 1995 and persued a corporate career retiring as managing director of a multinational company in Germany. About the veteran:Colonel Lalinderjit Singh GillServed in the 2 Para unitWas part of the unit that first reached the drop zone to receive the main forceAlso part of the contingent that performed the guard of honour when the instrument of surrender of Pakistan forces was being signedRetired in 1995
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Body of infant found in Mauli Jagran||The body of a newborn boy was found near the Lakkad Wala Bridge in Mauli Jagran on Saturday. As per police, the spot where the body was found had no closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras nearby. A case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station against unknown persons. Efforts are on to track the infant’s parents. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/body-of-infant-found-in-mauli-jagran-101638738515017.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: 5 Independents band together||Cutting across their previous party lines, around five independent candidates came together on Sunday and declared they would support each other in the forthcoming municipal corporation elections.Former Congress general secretary and Purvanchal Vikash Mahasangh president Shashi Shankar Tewari said the incumbent Congress leadership betrayed the party workers in selection of candidates. Tewari left the party after his wife was denied a ticket. He said he would support the BJP rebel candidate Manpreet Kaur from ward 9 and other rebel candidates from two parties. Former Bharatiya Janata Party leader and ex-sarpanch from Daria, Gurpreet Singh Happy criticised the BJP accusing it of fielding a candidate from outside. He is now contesting as an Independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-5-independents-band-together-101638737255034.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Upper reaches of Kashmir receive snow, heavy rains lash plains||Upper reaches of Kashmir valley received season’s another snowfall, while plains were lashed by heavy rains on Sunday. The meteorological office in Srinagar had predicted rain and snow till late in the night and improvement in weather from Monday. Due to snowfall, Srinagar-Gurez and Srinagar-Ladakh roads have been closed for the traffic. However, vehicles were plying on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway. Since early in the morning, plains of Kashmir started experiencing rainfall, while the upper reaches received light to moderate snowfall. Tourist resorts of Gulmarg and Sonmarg also got covered in a blanket of snow. Srinagar and other rural townships witnessed rains throughout the day that resulted in a sharp drop in temperature. Zojilla Pass on Srinagar-Leh national highway has been closed for traffic due to snowfall in the region. Besides, Minimarg and Dras in Ladakh region also received snowfall. “Due to bad weather conditions and snowfall at Zojila Pass, the vehicular movement from Srinagar towards Kargil and vice versa on NH1D is hereby suspended/abandoned. All the people, travellers, drivers and tourists to avoid travelling during the forecasted days and contact Police Control Room Kargil for more information and updates (sic),” said Ladakh police in a tweet. MeT director Sonum Lotus said as per the weather patterns, rains in plains and snow in upper reaches will continue till late in the night. “From tomorrow, there will be an improvement in weather and there is no prediction of heavy snowfall for next 10 to 12 days,” Lotus added. Meanwhile, Srinagar and other parts of Kashmir recorded another cold night, but there was improvement in the night temperature as compared to previous nights. Srinagar recorded 0.6°C, Pahalgam recorded 2.7°C while Gulmarg registered - 1.4°C temperature. North Kashmir’s Kupwara town registered 1.6°C, Leh shivered at - 3.6°C and Dras observed - 5.1°C temperature. The wintry conditions in the Valley set in much ahead of the beginning of the extremely harsh weather conditions which usually start around the third week of December. Chillai Kalan, the 40-day period of harsh winter in Kashmir, begins on December 21 every year. Some parts of south Kashmir had received snow in late October that caused damage to fruit growers, who hadn’t harvested their crop.161 new Covid cases in J&K, 2 more dieJammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 161 fresh cases of Covid, taking the number of infected people to 3,37,807, while two fatalities in the past 24 hours raised the death toll to 4,481, officials said. Eighteen of the fresh cases were from the Jammu division and 143 from the Kashmir division. The officials said Srinagar district recorded a maximum of 62 new cases, followed by 21 cases in Baramulla district. There are 1,706 active cases in the Union Territory, while the number of recoveries has reached 3,31,620, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upper-reaches-of-kashmir-receive-snow-heavy-rains-lash-plains-101638736955208.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Shah, Kanhaiya, Kejri among star campaigners descending on city||As campaigning picks up steam for the high-stakes Chandigarh municipal corporation elections slated for December 24, the city is set to host a number of senior politicians, including union ministers, chief ministers, popular actors and singers.Amit Shah, Yogi Adityanath, Charanjeet Singh Channi, Arvind Kejriwal, Kanhaiya Kumar and Bhagwant Mann are among the star campaigners set to descend upon the city over the next two weeks to woo voters. While the Bharatiya Janata Party has finalised the list, Aam Aadmi Party and Congress are still processing it. Fighting to win the Chandigarh municipal corporation polls for the second consecutive time, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is bringing in top ministers of the Narendra Modi government. “Union home minister and former national party president Amit Shah, cabinet ministers Piyush Goyal and Anurag Thakur are in the list of the BJP’s star campaigners,” said the party’s state unit president Arun Sood.Considered to be a big crowd-puller, Uttar Pradesh chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath is among the three chief ministers of the neighbouring states who will be campaigning in the city. Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami and Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur are the other two. The city has a strong voter base from Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh (particularly from Purvanchal region of the state), and Uttarakhand. City’s peripheral areas, including rehabilitation colonies and villages, have large population of people from these states.“While traditionally these voters went with the Congress, but in the last decade, a major chunk of their support has shifted toward the BJP. They have played a key role in the party winning the last three elections in the city, including two Lok Sabha and one municipal,” said a senior BJP leader.To tap into this voter base, the BJP is putting into action the CMs from these three states. The Himachal connection of Union minister Anurag Thakur is also crucial for the party.Similarly, Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt, who is also a former state president in Uttarakhand, is being roped in to campaign among the Uttarakhand-origin residents of the city. With eye on natives of UP, Bhojpuri actor-turned-politician and Delhi MP Manoj Tewari and Bhojpuri singer Dinesh Lal Yadav (Nirahua) will also be campaigning in the city.“Bengaluru MP Tejasvi Surya who is also national president of BJP Yuva Morcha and singer-turned-politician MP Hans Raj Hans will come to boost the party’s campaign,” said Sood.AAP pushing for KejriwalDelhi CM and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal is likely to campaign in the city. AAP, which is contesting its first municipal poll in the city, is pushing for Kejriwal to come to Chandigarh for bolstering its chances in the polls. Kejriwal is actively campaigning in Punjab for the forthcoming state election.“We are finalising his schedule and days for campaigning in the city. As soon as it is done, his visit to the city will be confirmed. He will do a road show in the city, rather than a public rally,” said Prem Garg, Chandigarh AAP convener.Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia is also likely to campaign. “He has already visited the city once to review the party’s election preparations. He interacted with city residents from different walks of life and took their views on formation of party manifesto,” said Garg.So far, the visit of four AAP leaders has been confirmed. This includes, party’s Punjab MP Bhagwant Mann, Delhi government minister Rajendra Pal Gautam, party’s MPs from Rajya Sabha Sanjay Singh and ND Gupta. Meanwhile, the Congress has also prepared a list of 10 star-campaigners. “Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Kanhaiya Kumar, former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat, Himachal Pradesh MP Pratibha Singh, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Alka Lamba and some Punjab ministers are also in the Congress list. While the visit of Channi and Kanhaiya is confirmed, that of others is still in process,” said a senior Congress leader who didn’t want to be named. The parties will submit their list of star campaigners to the state election commission for its approval. A party can have a maximum of 10 star campaigners. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir Police arrest two militants in Shopian||J&K Police on Sunday arrested two active militants from Shopian. As per the police, they acted on specific inputs regarding presence of Shahid Ahmad Gaine of Doomwani Keegam owing affiliation to LeT and his close associate near Rambi Ara. “Police along with 44RR and 14Bn CRPF launched a joint cordon and search operation in the area. When joint parties of police and security forces approached the spot, the two suspects tried to flee. However, the duo were arrested tactfully by the joint search parties,” a spokesperson said, adding that other arrested militant has been identified as Kifayat Ayoub Alie of Pinjoora. “Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including one Chinese pistol, one pistol magazine, two Chinese hand grenades, and eight pistol rounds, were recovered from their possession, besides ₹2.9 lakh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-arrest-two-militants-in-shopian-101638736354935.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||There is a need to elect a strong leadership, says Nadda||A month after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) loss in the Himachal byelections, the party’s national chief, Jagat Prakash Nadda, stressed on the need to elect a strong leadership. “Strong leadership makes a big change in the country and the society,” he said while addressing an event to facilitate health officers and workers on the occasion of Himachal becoming the first state to achieve 100% Covid vaccination feat. After inaugurating the OPD of AIIMS in Bilaspur, Nadda said had Narendra Modi not been the Prime Minister, people of Himachal would have never thought of having such a premier institute in their state. “That’s why I say people should be aware while electing leaders and consider the fact that who can provide strong leadership,” he added. “No one thought that AIIMS could also be set up outside Delhi. It was under the leadership of PM Modi that today, 22 AIIMS are coming up across the country,” Nadda said. He said the central government also gave a PGI satellite centre to Himachal besides four new medical colleges. Nadda said had there been no Covid outbreak, the work of AIIMS would have been completed by now. AIIMS will become fully functional by June 2022 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate it, he added. The BJP national chief said during the Covid pandemic, healthcare system of even the most developed countries crumbled. “America and European countries couldn’t decide if to save lives or economy. Contrary to it, India not only fought the battle efficiently, but also saved the economy,” Nadda said, adding that vaccine was made available within nine months of the outbreak. “Today, India has not only administered 127 crore doses to its population, but is also exporting vaccines to 50 countries,” he said. “This is the change a strong leadership brings,” he said, adding that there was a time when it took decades to bring vaccines to India after their launch, whether it was for TB, polio, chickenpox or hepatitis. The BJP president also congratulated the state government, doctors, healthcare staff and all frontline workers for helping Himachal achieve the feat of fully vaccinating its eligible population with both the doses. He also hailed chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for making Himachal a front-runner in education, health and social services sectors. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who was also accompanying Nadda, said India has no dearth of brainpower and manpower, and PM Modi has identified this talent. He said that Himachal Pradesh has shown a way to other states of the country by achieving this unique distinction of 100% vaccination by overcoming the tough challenges posed by the topography of the state. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said it was a big milestone for the state and a historic day as it achieved 100% vaccination target. “It was due to sheer hard work and efforts put in by health workers along with the co-operation of the people of the state,” he added. Recalling various challenges during the vaccination campaign, Jai Ram said the doses were supplied to the remote regions by helicopters while in some cases, health workers scaled mountains for hours and meandered through forests to reach far-flung areas. Union minister of information and broadcasting, youth affairs and sports Anurag Singh Thakur also congratulated Jai Ram and people of HP for achieving the 100% vaccination target. He said that India has today emerged as a role model for other countries of the world during the testing times of the pandemic. Health workers and officers who performed extraordinarily to make the vaccination campaign successful were also honoured on the occasion. Inaugurates OPD of Bilaspur AIIMSBJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Sunday launched the OPD services at AIIMS coming up at Kothipura near Bilaspur.Union ministers Mansukh Mandaviya and Anurag Singh Thakur besides Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur were also present on the occasion. The foundation stone of Bilaspur AIIMS was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October 2017 when Nadda was the Union health minister. It was officially approved under Phase 5 of the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana by the Union cabinet on December 4, 2019. Initially, 79 super specialists and 85 nursing officers will render services at the institute, which will cater to the HP population of about 75 lakh. The ₹1,350-crore project is coming up on 247 acres on Bilaspur-Shimla highway and will have a 750-bed hospital, a medical college and a nursing institute. To further enhance healthcare delivery, AIIMS Bilaspur is likely to widen the spectrum of services through the expansion of various super-specialty departments in subsequent phases to provide affordable and reliable tertiary-level healthcare in Himachal and adjoining states of Punjab and Haryana. The first academic session started from January 12, 2021, with a batch of 50 MBBS students. Eight percent construction work of AIIMS has been completed. The academic block would be ready by June next year. Though the OPD was inaugurated officially on Sunday, doctors have been rendering services for the last five months. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal: Command centre for traffic monitoring goes live||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday inaugurated an integrated command and control centre (ICCC) to keep round-the-clock vigil on traffic movement in his assembly segment Karnal.Set up at a cost of around ₹153 crore under the Smart City Project, the ICCC comprises over 500 CCTV cameras, including 50 pan-tilt-zoom cameras, which cover all important points in the city. As many as 42 cameras (360° rotator) have been installed on all roundabouts in the city on the National Highway-44. A staff of 60, including 30 operators, 20 cops and some officials of the Karnal municipal corporation, will be deputed for round-the-clock monitoring. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said the ICCC will not only help the police monitor traffic movement in Karnal, but also help them check criminal activities in the city. A private company will run the project for five years. Officials said 138 cameras installed at key traffic junctions were equipped with infrared and automatic number plate recognition (ANPR), 69 cameras had red light violation detection (RLVD) system and 20 will monitor violation of speed limits.Also, 125 public address systems, 31 emergency call boxes and 31 variable message display boards have also been included. The emergency call box will help people contact ICCC in case of an emergency, whereas the message display boards will provide weather and other important information to commuters. Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said these cameras, backed by digital evidence, will help enforced rules of the Motor Vehicle Act. Committee to deal with corruption On allegations of corruption in the Karnal municipal corporation (MC), the chief minister said strict steps were being taken in this direction and Karnal district vigilance committee, headed by the additional deputy commissioner, will deal with all complaints of corruption in government departments of the district. Reacting to the question over the government-farmers deadlock, Khattar said, “The negotiations with farm leaders are going on and we are hopeful that the issue will be resolved peacefully, and they will return home.”Later, the chief minister inaugurated developmental projects worth ₹40 crore, including a new building of the Karnal MC, built at ₹16 crore, and visited the newly set up Punjabi Bhawan and Valmiki Bhawan.
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Legal guarantee for MSP: Six farmers begin hunger strike at Singhu||As many as six farmers – three each from Haryana and Punjab – on Sunday sat on a hunger strike at Singhu border, demanding a legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP).They will continue to observe the strike till December 7, when the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will hold its meetings to decide the future course of action.The farmers – Rajender Singh (Sonepat), Kartar Singh (Kaithal), Naresh Sangwan (Ambala), Satnam Singh (Patiala), Bikram Singh (Gurdaspur) and Kuldeep Singh (Moga) – tied themselves with chains before starting their hunger strike near the protest site at Singhu.Rajender said they will continue their protest until the Union government gave a legal guarantee for the MSP, which they had been demanding for years.“The government has sought five names from SKM leaders, who will be part of a committee to discuss the MSP. This is an attempt to call-off the agitation and dump our demand for legal guarantee on the MSP,” he added.Kuldeep said farmers had been waiting for MSP since Independence and this was the right time for protesters to take their pending share. “We will continue to tie our bodies with chains until the government gives a legal guarantee,” he said.On Saturday, SKM leaders had formed a five-member committee for holding discussions with the central government.Besides the legal guarantee for MSP, their demands include compensation to kin of farmers, who died during the agitation against the farm laws; withdrawal of cases against the protesters; action against Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident; and memorials for the deceased farmers.Meanwhile, a group of Nihangs dismantled their tents and left with their items in trucks, tractor-trolleys and other vehicles. They said the government had accepted their demands and they were returning home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/legal-guarantee-for-msp-six-farmers-begin-hunger-strike-at-singhu-101638735160365.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak man nabbed for shooting at bride on her wedding day||Three days after three persons shot at a bride after her wedding on December 2, police arrested the main accused from Paldi village in Sonepat on Sunday.The accused, Sahil Kumar, is a resident of Sampla village in Rohtak. Rohtak superintendent of police Uday Singh Meena said the other accused, both minors, had already been arrested.“He, along with his aides, had fired shots at the bride, Tanishk of Sampla village, at Rohtak’s Bhali Anandpur village, just a few hours after her marriage on December 2. She is undergoing treatment at PGIMS and her condition is critical,” the SP said.In his complaint to the police, her husband, Mohan, a resident of Bhali Anandpur village, said after their marriage, he, along with his wife and brother, was returning home. “When we reached near a temple in my village, three persons in a Toyota Innova (HR-69-A 6848) intercepted our car. They fired shots at my wife and snatched my brother’s gold chain before fleeing,” he added.Sahil will be produced before a local court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-man-nabbed-for-shooting-at-bride-on-her-wedding-day-101638735159129.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||People with political motives want farmers’ stir to continue: Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Sunday said people with vested political interests did not want the farmers’ agitation to end, but the farmers had made up their mind and the issue will be resolved soon.The home minister’s statement assumed significance as the first meeting between farmer leaders and the Haryana chief minister remained inconclusive, with the latter saying that the next round of talks was likely in the next couple of days.“Obviously, there are some people with political ambitions and there are some enemies of the country, who are in favour of continuing this agitation forever. But I think that the farmers and government have now come forward and both seem in favour of ending it,” Vij said. Reacting to BJP’s junior alliance partner JJP’s national president Ajay Chautala’s statement that he has asked his father and INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala to reconsider the decision of expelling him and his sons, and unite the family again, Vij said, “I don’t know in what context this statement was made.”In a reply to a question, Vij took a dig at Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, saying that he will play a big role in sinking Congress’s ship in the 2022 Punjab Assembly Elections.On the threat of a new variant of Covid-19, the health minister said the state health department was on alert and required instructions had been issued to the district health departments. Hospitals with a capacity above 100 beds had been equipped with ventilators. The health minister did not react to the question about his absence from the chief minister’s programme in Karnal despite being in the city, saying that he had to go to Delhi as per his schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-with-political-motives-want-farmers-stir-to-continue-anil-vij-101638735158138.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dushyant Chautala faces protest at Hisar district courts||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday faced protest from farmers and a section of advocates during his visit to the District Courts in Hisar.Chautala was at the courts to meet gathered lawyers after holding a meeting of party workers regarding the December 9 rally to be held in Jhajjar.While one section of advocates welcomed Chautala, others, accompanied by farmers, raised slogans against him, forcing the deputy chief minister to enter the court from the back-side gate.Addressing lawyers later, Chautala hit out at leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son, Deepender Singh Hooda.“Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s 10-year tenure as a chief minister was very dark. He has given 60,000 acres to his son-in-law and Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law (Robert Vadra). Deepender’s father had crushed the voice of every section with bullets. Our government has handled the farmers’ agitation peacefully and the Union government has accepted their demands. During Hooda’s regime, farmers and teachers received bullet shots for protesting against the then government, whereas our government is listening to all grievances peacefully,” the deputy chief minister alleged.He further said if the Union government and Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s five-member panel reached a consensus over pending demands, the Haryana government will also revoke cases filed against protesters, except of rape and murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dushyant-chautala-faces-protest-at-hisar-district-courts-101638735156899.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Murder convict who jumped parole nabbed in Haryana||A wanted criminal and parole jumper, carrying a reward of ₹25,000, has been nabbed by the Haryana Police.A resident of Fatehabad district, Gurdeep Singh, alias Dabla, had jumped parole and was accused of demanding ₹10 lakh ransom in October. A pistol and live cartridges were recovered from his possession.Police had already arrested his associate Rihan, another accused in the ransom case, while the search for another is on.“The arrested criminal was sentenced to life imprisonment in the Pinky murder case in 2014. He was lodged in Hisar jail from where he came out on parole sometime back and was declared an absconder by the court in October 2021 for not returning back to jail,” police said, adding that it was during the parole period when Dabla demanded a ransom.The accused was wanted in 10 different cases, including parole norm violation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-convict-who-jumped-parole-nabbed-in-haryana-101638735155864.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Centre must accept farmers’ pending demands: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday asked the Union government to accept farmers’ pending demands. Interacting with mediapersons in Bhiwani, Hooda said the government had passed Farm Laws Repeal Bill and the President had also given assent to it, so the government should revoke cases filed against agitators.“It should also provide compensation to the deceased farmers’ families and take forward talks in giving a legal guarantee on the minimum support price. In a democracy, the solution of every problem is possible only through exchange of ideas,” he said.Hooda was in Bhiwani to attend a lecture conference on “Current Challenges of Democracy”.Replying to questions on recruitment scams later, Hooda said the government was trying to come clean on these scams, but the public wanted a fair investigation, not a clarification from the government.“During the BJP-JJP government, jobs are being sold like goods at the grocery store and yet the government is trying to cover up the whole matter,” he alleged. “This is why, instead of catching the shopkeeper who sells jobs, the government is making a ruckus by only catching the salesman. The Opposition is demanding that the government should get the entire scam investigated under the supervision of a sitting judge of the high court. If the government is telling that it is clean, then why is it hesitant to investigate the matter,” Hooda questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-must-accept-farmers-pending-demands-bhupinder-singh-hooda-101638735154800.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Govt doctors protest in Haryana, threaten to suspend OPDs||Hundreds of government doctors from across the state converged in Karnal on Sunday and took out a protest march for their demands.Protesting under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), they demanded a special cadre for specialist doctors in the state, restoration of the 40% reservation policy and voiced opposition against direct recruitment of senior medical officers (SMOs).Addressing the gathering, HCMSA president Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar said the government had not responded to their demands, which were pending for several years. He said only one third of the required specialist doctors had been hired, leading to work overload and inconvenience to patients.The doctors demanded that the decision for direct recruitment of SMOs be withdrawn immediately and the posts be filled through promotions.Dr Parmar said they will intensify their agitation by suspending OPD services on December 13 and will declare a strike from December 14, which may affect emergency services too, if they did not get any response from the government.The doctors ended the protest by handing over a memorandum to the local representatives of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-doctors-protest-in-haryana-threaten-to-suspend-opds-101638735094994.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Agri laws repealed, farm agitation must end now||Chandigarh The three new farm laws promulgated in June 2020 have been repealed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been a true statesman and shown more grace than ever before in apologising to the nation for the agony suffered by many as a result of persistent agitation. He assured the farmers and farm workers of their well-being in every possible manner. The farmer’s agitation, however, continues. The agitators are now fighting for the remaining demands, including a statutory MSP. During the eleven rounds of negotiations, the group of nearly 40 farmers’ associations kept changing their goal post, and as a result, the talks were inconclusive. The government has now unilaterally decided to remove the cause of unrest by withdrawing the laws. The central farm laws were enacted without consulting the stakeholders. However, these were stayed by the apex court. The farmers were thus not adversely affected. The agitation, however, reflected upon their apprehensions. The foodgrains were procured by the government at the MSP during the last three crops. In other agriculture operations, the business continued as usual without any hindrances. The input supplies remained normal as ever. The agitators who remained peaceful were not unduly inconvenienced. Despite provocations and violent incidents by some miscreants, the government exercised restraint and did not interfere. Repealing of central laws a bad precedent The repealing of central laws is a bad precedent. In a complex federal polity such as ours, central legislation on a matter that is the primary concern of the states should have been carefully crafted after due consensus among the stakeholders. Surely, this takes longer, but then that is the price we all pay for adhering to democratic values and systems. Most central legislations on subjects that are part of the state and concurrent lists of our constitution have been finalised after sustained deliberations. The recent examples are the Right to Education Act 2005, and the National Food Security Act 2013. The country debated these subjects for over decades. The persistent agitation against the laws, which have been undone, and the loss of lives in violence and even at the dharnas by the farmers was an avoidable tragedy. Uncounted loss of trade, business, and industry, including the travel, and transportation sectors, have caused a long-term damage to the economies of affected areas. There have been huge unrealised job losses. Even infrastructure development and other growth initiatives of the governments and the private entrepreneurs were hampered. The farmers are demanding compensation, but the government has also to care for the losses caused to the public exchequer, private businesses, and finances.In a country vying to reach an unimpeachable position in the world economy, such a situation is incomprehensible. Both the parties involved in the dispute need to rethink and find an amicable solution. The recurring losses to the people must stop. Some people may have a vested interest to continue the agitation, but society does not appreciate it anymore. The agitation must end now. Set up a tripartitepanel For the well-being of our next generations, the reforms must happen and these should happen fast. The farmers are not against reforms, but they wish to be part of the process of reforms. The onus is, however, on the government. It should consider all possible options. Continuation of existing MSP-based procurement of wheat and paddy through an enduring legal framework; and quasi-procurement of other food crops by central agencies should help assuage the farmers about their apprehensions. A tripartite committee of the central government, the states, and the farmers may look into these issues. The committee should not only address the remaining issues but also reframe mutually acceptable laws with a clear roadmap for the future. The repealed legislation were well-drafted, but the concerns of the farmers, which reflect upon their social and economic security, are not insignificant. The political economy of the laws, ignored hitherto, should be deliberated comprehensively to bring something more innovative and people-friendly to the country’s statute book. Agriculture diversification plan neededAlongside legislative reforms, the government may also consider a comprehensive agriculture diversification programme (CADP) to infuse substantial investment in making agriculture more diverse and sustainable. The CADP may cover original green revolution areas, Punjab, Haryana, and Western UP, to promote alternative crops and develop agriculture and allied sectors to increase farmers’ income. The funds should be provided to the states based on their contextual requirements borne out of data and evidence. An empowered committee of experts under the Niti Aayog may monitor the implementation of CADP. The components of the program may include: Differential input incentives for alternative crops such as maize, millets, cotton, fruits, and vegetables, etc., market linked incentives (MLIs), including price deficiency support for alternative crops, earmarking a percentage of food cash credit limit for the purchase of alternative crops to enable the states in this regard with requisite financial provisioning, and development of diversification infrastructure such as cold warehouses, ripening chambers and farm-gate aggregation, storage, and distribution centers. Regulate crop production The government may consider establishing a statutory mechanism to regulate crop production. It shall ensure that the requirements of national food security are met, fully addressing the concerns of natural resource conservation, biodiversity, and climate change. There is no reason to allow a water-starved state like Rajasthan to produce water-guzzling paddy. Farmers’ capacity building and second-generation extension reforms should also be given a big push to promote alternative crops and connect the farmers with new markets. The writer is a former chief principal secretary to chief minister, Punjab. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/agri-laws-repealed-farm-agitation-must-end-now-101638733594934.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jallianwala Bagh trustee picks holes in its revamp||Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member Tarlochan Singh on Sunday questioned the revamp of the national monument and pointed out flaws in its redevelopment project that was dedicated to the centenary of the 1919 massacre.Visiting the memorial along with Chief Khalsa Diwan senior members, the former Rajya Sabha member said: “First of all, the entrance should have been kept intact. It does not make the visitor feel that he is entering a historical monument. It feels as if entering a theatre. So, its original look should be restored by putting up small bricks, which were used in old times.”Pointing to another “major mistake”, the former MP said that descriptions of various spots, including Shaheedi Khuh, have been written on the ground during the revamp and are illegible. “The newly installed wooden railing has started to break. It should be replaced with a steel railing. Also, there should be a proper facility of drinking water,” he said.Singh said that earlier there were portraits of those martyred in the massacre. “Now these portraits are in the store room. This is a sentimental issue and relatives of the martyrs are demanding that these portraits be brought back. Moreover, the list of the martyrs should be finalised and displayed,” he said.However, Singh, who is also the former chairman of National Commission for Minorities, praised the galleries established during the revamp. When asked if he was not consulted while finalising the facelift, Singh said: “I attended the meetings regarding the development, but the design of the revamp was finalised by the culture ministry and was not shown to us.”Social and leftwing organisations have been opposing the revamp, citing that the memorial’s heritage character has been destroyed in the name of facelift. Tarlochan Singh raises concern over defacement in AmritsarMeanwhile, Tarlochan Singh also raised the issue of massive defacement in Amritsar, which is a holy city and is being developed under the smart city project. “Once I entered the city, I saw big hoardings and banners by political leaders and others everywhere. They did not even spare the national monument of Jallianwala Bagh and covered a sizable portion of its entrance, which is an offence. I got it removed. Why isn’t such defacement banned on the pattern of Delhi and Mumbai?” he said.Singh, who recently receiving the Padma Bhushan for his services, was also felicitated by the CKD, including senior member Rajinder Singh Marwaha, and other local organisations, including the Amritsar Trade and Industries Association.
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi short-story writer Rupana dies||Punjabi short story writer and Sahitya Akademi Award recipient Gurdev Singh Rupana passed away at his native village Rupana in Muktsar on Sunday evening. He was 87.Nempal Singh, Rupana’s elder son, said the literary doyen had developed health complications on November 5. After staying at a private hospital in Muktsar for a week, he was under constant observation at home.Rupana breathed his last at his residence around 6.55 pm. He is survived by his wife Gurmail Kaur and sons Nempal Singh and Preetpal Singh Rupana. Also read: Master storyteller Rupana gets Sahitya Akademi Award at 87Nempal said the last rites will be performed around Monday noon at Rupana village located on the Muktsar-Malout road.In March this year, Rupana was bestowed the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2020 for his anthology “Aam Khas”. The award-winning collection had stories of the marginalised sections of Dalits, immigrant labourers and slum dwellers.Rupana was born on April 13, 1936. After completing his Masters in Punjabi literature from Delhi University, he started his working career as a schoolteacher in Delhi with very close literary ties with celebrated Punjabi poet Amrita Pritam, who was one of the first to acknowledge his talent.The literary genius had penned his first short story in Class 5 and authored about 70 stories and five novels. “Hava”, “Sheesha”, “Ik Tota Aurat” and “Aapani Akh da Jadoo” are some of the best works by the late writer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-short-story-writer-rupana-dies-101638732944702.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Regional buzz: A clueless BJP leadership in Punjab||With politicians from rival parties making a beeline for the BJP after the repealing of farm laws, the entire political operation appears to be carried out by the central leadership while the Punjab unit is always caught off guard when it comes to people joining the party. As has been seen in the recent days, it is just a few minutes before the press conference that the state leadership gets the information about these new entrants. In fact, when Akali leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa joined the BJP in the national capital, no Punjab leader was present at the press conference. One wonders if the central leadership does this because of its lack of trust in the state unit or because of doubts about capabilities of the Punjab leaders!Channi mocks Sukhbir over football skillsMocking Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi compared him with a football. Addressing a rally at Kotkapura last week, the CM said that after he played hockey, even Sukhbir tried to show his football skills in an attempt to imitate him.“Jado eh khed da si edaan nai pta lag reha si football kehdi aa te Sukhbir kehda aa. Meri reese nai honi ehde toh (While he was playing, it was hard to differentiate between the football and Sukhbir. He can’t imitate me),” remarked Channi. Last month, Channi played the goalkeeper in full gear while former Indian captain and his cabinet colleague Pargat Singh wielded the stick during the half time at the final match of a hockey tournament in Jalandhar. Sukhbir, who was in Phagwara for poll campaigning, played football in kurta pyjama at a local tournament. Congress leaders’ own goal Listing out his 60 achievements since assuming the office, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi last week suffixed “Ji” to Lakha Sidhana’s name while mentioning that he had met the gangster-turned-activist and listened to issues raised by him. Seen as an attempt to woo Sidhana’s supporters, the move, however, invited a sharp reaction from within the party. “Gangsters mutate into activists, then politicians… are openly courted by political parties. But Punjab doesn’t condone sinister attempts to barter its hard-earned peace for votes. AAP learnt it the hard way in 2017. Yesterday’s utterance show that some haven’t learnt the lesson yet,” former state Congress president Sunil Jakhar wrote on Twitter, without naming anyone. Rahul: Bhai or Boss?The recent meeting of Punjab Congressmen with party leader Rahul Gandhi evoked much interest. While sharing photos with the Gandhi scion on social media, state party chief Navjot Sidhu addressed him as “bhai” while transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring called him “boss”. Perhaps, it was an attempt to do away with the old ways of addressing the party’s supreme leaders and win over the younger generation.A deputy CM’s dilemmaThe home portfolio is consuming much of the time and attention of Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, while working of the cooperation department, which he had been heading already, has been apparently left to the bureaucrats. “As Punjab is a border state, law and order issues are very crucial; so I have to be on an alert always,” he recently told a reporter. When it comes to the cooperation department, he said he managed it by being in touch with the officers over phone, “as I could rarely reach out to them physically”. Moosewala’s poll ambitionsIn his Instagram feed, controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, who was inducted into the Congress a few days ago, expressed his interest in contesting the Punjab assembly elections from his home district Mansa. It has caused ripples among party leaders in this Malwa district, who are wondering from which seat the 28-year-old entertainer might get the ticket. The political novice, who was taken in the party fold with much fanfare, has a huge following on virtual platforms and is expected to be a star campaigner to attract the youth.When Sidhu left cops red-faced Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu recently addressed a huge rally organised by MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa in his constituency Qadian. While praising Bajwa, Sidhu said: “Whenever he (Bajwa) warns any inspector, they wet their pants.” The comment left the police officials, who were present at the rally, red-faced.Handicrafts pull crowds at Gita festivalHandicrafts of 19 states are the centre of attraction at the International Gita festival that kicked off in Kurukshetra. Artistically designed handloom, bronze metal and meenakshi jewellery, cane and bamboo furniture, hand printed textile, wooden carving, terracotta pots, toys, stone carving, paddy and straw craft are drawing crowds in large numbers. About 125 craftsmen are participating in the festival, including national and state-award winners.Rathore takes jibe at BJP govt Himachal Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore once again took potshots at the state government over the BJP‘s defeat in recently held byelection. Rathore during his Janjagran Yatra at Shimla said that Jai Ram Thakur-led regime was in a deep slumber and were woken up by this defeat.“It is now that they have opened their eyes and ears and suddenly have started seeing people’s problems and listening to their grievances,” Rathore said. He, however, reminded the public that all the announcements being made by the government were a gimmick as there is no budgetary provision to fulfill them. Changing tack to bypass gag After DGP Sanjay Kundu issued a gag order to prevent constables in Himachal Pradesh Police from airing their grievances on social media, the agitating cops have found a unique way to protest. The constables, who are protesting over disparity in pay, have blacked out their profile pictures on social media accounts. Meanwhile, their families have started a separate campaign, wherein they are positing their pictures with “Justice for HP Police” placards. (Contributed by Gurpreet Singh Nibber, Ravinder Vasudeva, Parteek Singh Mahal, Vishal Joshi, Anil Sharma, Pawan Sharma, Gaurav Bisht and Naresh K Thakur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/regional-buzz-a-clueless-bjp-leadership-in-punjab-101638732943577.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda DSP Romana relieved of charge||Gurjeet Singh Romana, deputy superintendent of police, Bathinda, was relieved of his charge on Sunday. The move came a day after the Hindustan Times highlightedthat Romana was continuing on the post even after his one-year extension was cancelled by the Punjab home department last week. Bathinda range inspector general of police (IGP) Jaskaran Singh said: “As per the home department’s orders, DSP Gurjeet Singh Romana has retired; so he has been relieved from duty and the additional charge of DSP-1 has been given to another officer.” Romana was holding the DSP-1 charge in Bathinda since July 2018. Considered close to some senior leaders in the ruling Congress, he was granted extension even as the Punjab government had scrapped the service extension policy for its employees from March 31, 2020. Romana retired on November 24, 2021. A day later, principal secretary (home) Anurag Verma issued an order, stating that the extension in service granted to Romana from August 1, 2021, to July 31, 2022, stands cancelled with immediate effect on directions issued by the department of personnel. The senior cop had courted controversy in 2017 after he was accused of illegally releasing an accused in a drugs case. Departmental inquiries had found him guilty. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Snubbed by SAD, Barnala family to meet supporters||Snubbed by the Shiromani Akali Dal during the assembly election ticket allocation, family members of former Punjab chief minister Surjit Singh Barnala will hold a meeting with their supporters in Dhuri on Monday to plan their future course of action. The family apparently wanted a ticket for former CM’s grandson advocate Simar Partap Singh Barnala from Dhuri segment, but the party fielded former Sangrur MLA Parkash Chand Garg instead. Meanwhile, Winnerjit Singh Goldy, who hails from Sunam, got the party ticket from Sangrur assembly segment. The party has also announced candidates from the other three seats falling under Sangrur district, leaving out the Barnala family.“We have called a meeting of party workers, who are attached with the Barnala family, in Dhuri . My son has worked hard. We have conveyed it to the party president that Simar Partap could have won the seat,” said former Dhuri MLA Gaganjeet Singh Barnala, who is the former CM’s son. However, playing down any signs of revolt, Gaganjeet said: “We are true Akalis and have Barnala Sahib’s DNA. We are devoted to service and one can serve the people even without becoming an MP or MLA.”The former MLA said that the family will listen to the party workers during the Monday meeting and inform party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal about their feelings.On the remaining three Sangrur district seats, the SAD has fielded former SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal from Lehra, former cabinet minister Baldev Singh Mann from Sunam and kabaddi player-turned-politician Gulzar Singh Gulzari from Dirba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-snubbed-by-sad-barnala-family-to-meet-supporters-101638732941039.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: MP Partap Singh Bajwa hints at contesting from Qadian||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday hinted at contesting the upcoming Punjab assembly elections from Qadian segment in Gurdaspur district, three days after the Punjab Congress president projected the senior party leader’s younger brother and sitting MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa as the nominee from this seat. The senior Bajwa on Sunday shared a post written in Punjabi on Facebook, in which he can be seen sitting in his SUV. The post reads: “Apni karam bhumi Qadian lai rawana hunde hoe. Punjab di rajneeti vich vapsi, jithe mera dil vasda hai (Leaving for my land of action Qadian. Returning to politics in Punjab, where my heart lives).” The post is being interpreted as a setback to Fateh Jung who on Thursday organised a rally as a show of strength and to kick start his poll campaign at Qadian. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was the chief guest, had backed him at the rally, stating: “Fateh will win from his constituency with a huge margin”. However, Partap Singh Bajwa, who once represented Kahnuwan assembly segment that was largely subsumed by Qadian during delimitation in 2007, stayed away from the rally. Seeing him absent, Sidhu had also said in his address: “I am waiting for Partap Bajwa” Even in a Facebook post on Saturday, Bajwa had shared a letter addressed to him by Punjab PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla, in which the minister mentioned Qadian as “your assembly segment” while apprising him of progress in a road project there.These two Facebook posts and his absence from his younger brother’s rally have raised questions whether the former Punjab Congress chief is set to stake claim to the party ticket from Qadian, from where his wife Charanjit Kaur Bajwa turned victorious in 2012. According to sources close to the Bajwa family, if the MP is willing to contest the polls, Fateh Jung will himself step back.Earlier, Bajwa had started his political activities in Batala and announced to contest the polls from there, but got a jolt after then chief minister Amarinder Singh, who he had backed in the feud with Sidhu, resigned. With a change of guard, his two loyalists were removed as chairmen of the Batala Improvement Trust and market committee, days after he got them appointed to these posts. He ended his political activities in Batala with immediate effect. Attempts made to contact Bajwa for a comment over phone proved futile.
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Procurement: Centre’s curbs force Punjab to streamline system||The central government is gradually tightening the noose around the poor procurement system in Punjab, pushing the state’s food and civil supplies department to streamline the process that annually involves ₹60,000-70,000 crores for lifting of wheat and paddy crops during the rabi and kharif seasons, respectively. Officials in the Punjab food and civil supplies department and the four procurement agencies feel that the restrictions were in the offing for the past few years because discrepancies that had cropped up in the system were hitting the state’s finances severely. The whopping ₹31,000-crore legacy amount recovery imposed on Punjab is seen as a result of this mismanagement, for which the state is now supposed to pay ₹250 crores every month for the next 20 years. From open to restricted procurementThe state government was caught off guard when a communication from the Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution, at the very onset of procurement this kharif season, restricting paddy purchase from Punjab to 168 lakh tonne. The state may have purchased 188 lakh tonne this season, but so far there is no approval for extension in the total procurement. However, the Reserve Bank of India has allowed increase in the cash credit limit for paying the minimum support price of ₹1,960 per quintal on paddy. “There are apprehensions that it would become a practice in future, and the Centre might ask the state not to go beyond a certain quantity of food grain purchase in the upcoming rabi procurement as well,” said an officer of the state’s food department. The Centre has also put curbs on labour and transport charges. Contention over rural development fundNot giving any commitment on the rural development fund (RDF) in the provisional cost sheet for the paddy procurement than ended on November 3, the Centre’s food and public distribution ministry has asked the state government to justify the accruals. Punjab charges 3% RDF on the total procurement value each season, and expects to earn ₹1,100 crore through it in the kharif procurement that has just ended. The Centre raised objection to the RDF during kharif procurement last year, insisting that the state should use it only for the intended purpose — development in rural areas — and suggested that Punjab should bring corresponding amendments in the Act the governs its use. Notably, the state keeps the revenue generated from the RDF out of the state budget, and its major portion is spent as per the will of the dispensation. “The RDF is used as an exigency fund by the state government. When it is in a crisis, the future accruals are pledged to raise money from banks and financial institutions. Also, the flagship programme of the state government — farm debt waiver scheme — was funded by raising liquidity using the RDF, and reportedly future accruals have also been pledged. Previously, the entire Sangat Darshan cost was borne from the RDF,” said an officer of the state food department on anonymity. But, the Centre has objections to this “splurging” of the fund and wants it to be used only for development works in villages. The state so far has not amended the Act, leading to a hurdle in its release. The state finance department has also sought to audit the fund so that its use could be streamlined. Meanwhile, against 2.5% dami (commission) charged by arhtiyas (commission agents) on the MSP, the Centre has fixed it at ₹45.38 per quintal. “Though the dami fixed by the Centre didn’t make much of a difference to our earnings, it has sounded alarm bells for the future,” said commission agents’ association president Vijay Kalra. Other than the RDF, the state charges 3% mandi fee to manage the grain markets and procurement system, through its agency Mandi Board. Earlier, the Centre had stopped paying 5% infrastructure development cess charged by the state on procurement, which in present terms is an annual loss of ₹3,500 crore. Limit on per acre procurement The Centre has also started a system to fix procurement per acre. The instructions were rolled out by the Centre ahead of the kharif season, wherein the state was asked to link land records to the procurement portal, in order to give the average per acre paddy production in each district. “When you link land records to the procurement portal, it is suggested to fix the yield too, the Centre has been telling us,” said the food department officer. The current season has passed smoothly, as the crop arrivals from across the state were reported to be uniform, but it is to be seen how it pans out during future procurement seasons. “Some steps are to be appreciated, and will benefit Punjab, such as direct payment to the farmer and land record integration to check bogus billing and smuggling of paddy from other states,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. However, according to him, the Centre can’t raise aspersions on funds meant for the state’s development. “The RDF has been stopped unnecessarily. It is our tax. Why do you (Centre) want to change the state’s mandate?” he said. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP has found new allies in Amarinder, Dhindsa to promote divisive discourse: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi alleged on Sunday that the Bharatiya Janata Party has found its new allies in his predecessor Amarinder Singh and Akali breakaway faction leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa for promoting its “divisive discourse” in the state.Channi’s statement came a day after Union home minister Amit Shah said the BJP was in talks with Amarinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who is the president of the SAD (Sanyukt), for an alliance for the Punjab assembly polls that are due early next year.“Punjab is one state that rebutted the anti-people and divisive agenda of the BJP and the charisma of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019... The BJP used Shiromani Akali Dal in its anti-farmer agenda to implement the three black laws that the secular farmers agitation has forced Modi to repeal,” Channi said in a statement.The CM said that the SAD had aggressively supported these legislations, and now Amarinder Singh would function as the “full-time tool” of the BJP to implement its “nefarious anti-people designs”.“The interests of Punjab were mortgaged to the BJP by the Akali Dal first under the leadership of Parkash Singh Badal, who had paved the way for this alliance by extending unconditional support to Atal Bihari Vajpayee to form BJP-led government in 1996 that lasted only 13 days. Badal had betrayed Punjab and the Punjabis by extending unconditional support. That was a sell out by Badal of Punjab,” Channi further alleged. The SAD led by Sukhbir Singh Badal last year broke ties with the BJP over the farm laws issue.“Now Amarinder Singh is all set to perform that malicious role which he had been all along playing as the chief minister by coming to the rescue of the Modi government on crucial issues and in promoting anti-people agenda,” Channi alleged.After his unceremonious exit as chief minister in September, Amarinder Singh quit the Congress and formed his party Punjab Lok Congress for fighting the upcoming assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-has-found-new-allies-in-amarinder-dhindsa-to-promote-divisive-discourse-punjab-cm-101638732937553.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis are real traitors of Punjab, says Pargat Singh||Education minister Pargat Singh on Sunday lambasted Shiromani Akali Dal leaders, calling them “real traitors of Punjab” who had done “irreparable damage” to the state. Pargat, who represents the Jalandhar Cantt seat, was addressing a gathering at Partappura village in the district. He alleged that Akalis had committed “numerous sins” against the state and its people, and warned that Punjabis would never forgive them. Alleging that cable, drug, sand and transport mafia had flourished under the Badal family, Pargat said that they had “ruthlessly plundered” the state.“Now, they have to pay back for their sins, as people are waiting for the 2022 polls to teach them a lesson,” he said while addressing the gathering. The minister also laid the foundation stone of a ₹32-lakh sports park in the village besides handing over a cheque for ₹11 lakh to the panchayat for development works.Frustration leading to baseless allegations: SADReacting to Pargat’s allegations, former MLA Jagbir Singh Brar, who is the SAD candidate from Jalandhar Cantt, termed them a “total bundle of lies”.“It is frustration among Congress leaders in the face of an imminent defeat in the next polls that is leading to such baseless allegations against the Badal family. In the past five years, the Congress, especially Pargat Singh, has done nothing for the Jalandhar Cantt constituency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akalis-are-real-traitors-of-punjab-says-pargat-singh-101638732936035.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress conspiring to book Majithia in fake drugs case, alleges SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday accused the Congress government in Punjab of hatching a conspiracy to register a false drugs case against former minister Bikram Singh Majithia. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema alleged the government had fabricated a complaint against Majithia under Section 164 (recording of confessions and statements) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “The state Congress is bent upon framing Majithia in a false case and arresting him,” alleged Cheema, while also naming some senior national leaders.A similar conspiracy was hatched against Majithia some time back, he alleged, adding that the Congress government also made an unsuccessful attempt to book SAD president Sukhbir Badal. Accusing the Congress government of vendetta politics, the SAD leader alleged that police officers were being forced to register a case and recent transfers of some senior officers pointed in that direction. Despite repeated attempts, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio and was among the Congress leaders named by Cheema, was not available for a comment on the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-conspiring-to-book-majithia-in-fake-drugs-case-alleges-sad-101638732934869.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron threat: 9 more Covid cases detected in Ludhiana, samples sent for genome sequencing||Amid rising concerns over ‘Omicron’, a new variant of Covid, samples of the nine people who tested positive for the virus on Sunday have been sent for genome sequencing. The nine people, who tested positive, are neither NRIs nor do they have a history of international travel. “The patients are from different parts of the district and are suffering from symptoms typical of the coronavirus disease. They have been quarantined,” said district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat, adding that no micro-containment zones have been demarcated so far. With the Union health ministry warning against the new highly transmissible variant, the Punjab health department had issued an advisory asking frequent international travellers and NRIs visiting Punjab to go through mandatory coronavirus tests.If tested positive, passengers will have to go through a genome sequencing test to ensure that they have not been infected by the new strain. Highest Covid cases after Sept 12 After the fatal second wave of the Covid pandemic, cases and fatalities have been on the decline in the district. It was last on September 12 that the district had reported nine Covid cases in a single day and it was on November 25 that the district had reported a Covid fatality after a gap of nine days. The deceased was a 22-year-old woman. Meanwhile, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr SP Singh has urged residents to observe all Covid norms, and get both doses of the vaccine at the earliest. The district has, so far, logged 87,680 infections, of which 85,541 were able to recover, and 2,111 succumbed. There are, at present, 28 active cases in the district, of which 24 are under home isolation, three are admitted in private hospitals and one patient is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital.2 more dengue casesTwo more dengue cases were reported in the district on Sunday. The new infections have taken the case count to 1,814 cases, of which 1,337 were reported from the city alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omicron-threat-9-more-covid-cases-detected-in-ludhiana-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101638732214739.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana to soon get its 2nd 100-foot high national flag||The city will soon get its second 100-foot-high national flag.Under the Smart City Mission, the municipal corporation (MC) has issued work orders for the installation of LED lights at the statues of martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on Jagraon Bridge and installation of the 100-foot-high Tricolour near them. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu along with councillor Mamta Ashu and other civic body officials visited Jagraon Bridge and inspected the progress of the work on Sunday. According to Mamta, the flag will be the tallest as it will be installed near the statues of the martyrs.Earlier, colourful LED lights had been installed at the Southern Bypass bridge and the MC Zone-D office and Clock Tower.The project for beautification of four statues including those of Mahatma Gandhi near MC Zone-A office, Dr BR Ambedkar at Jalandhar Bypass, martyr Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon at DC office complex and Kartar Singh Sarabha at Bhai Bala Chowk will also commence shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-to-soon-get-its-2nd-100-foot-high-national-flag-101638732034601.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 37-yr-old assault victim succumbs after 11 days, 5 booked||After a 37-year-old assault victim succumbed to his injuries after fighting for his life for 11 days, five people were booked for his murder on Saturday. The victim, Shoki Nath, was hospitalised on November 23 after the assailants smashed his head against the wall in Gandhi Nagar, Jagraon. The complainant, Meshi Nath, alleged that the accused – Teenu, Nimmo, Sanjay, Hansra and their unidentified aide – had attacked his brother because he would deter them from liquor smuggling. The victim’s head, eyes and ears were damaged in the attack. He was rushed to the civil hospital in Jagraon, after which he was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. Three days ago, his brother admitted him to the civil hospital again after the victim complained of an unbearable headache. Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt) and 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) of the Indian Penal Code.“We will also look into allegations of liquor smuggling against the murder accused,” Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-37-yr-old-assault-victim-succumbs-after-11-days-5-booked-101638731976025.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP leader offered me money, cabinet berth to join party: Mann||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Bhagwant Mann on Sunday claimed a senior BJP leader offered him money and a place in the Union cabinet to join the saffron party ahead of the state assembly polls next year.Addressing the media, the Sangrur MP asserted that he could not be bought with money or anything else.Without naming anyone, Mann claimed the senior BJP leader contacted him four days ago and asked him, “Mann sahab, what would you take to join the BJP?” He alleged that he was also asked if “you need money”.The AAP leader further claimed that he was told that if he joined the BJP, he would be made a Union cabinet minister.“I told him (BJP leader) that I am on a mission not on commission,” said Mann, the AAP’s lone MP from Punjab.Mann said he told the BJP leader that there might be others “whom you could buy”.When asked to name the BJP leader, he said he would disclose it when the time comes. The AAP leader claimed the BJP has no base in Punjab. BJP leaders were not allowed to enter villages and faced anger from farmers over the farm laws that were repealed by the government last week. BJP dares Mann to name BJP leader Taking exception to Bhagwant Mann’s allegations BJP’s state unit general secretary Subhash Sharma dared him to name the leader who offered him money and cabinet berth. Sharma alleged that Mann’s statement was a desperate attempt to revive his position as his own party is sidelining him. “Mann is in touch with many Congress leaders and is soon leaving AAP,” he added. “It is the characteristic of AAP to speak lies and then end up apologising in the court,” said Sharma, adding that BJP in Punjab does not require certification from Mann.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-leader-offered-me-money-cabinet-berth-to-join-party-mann-101638731974926.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Tiger safari zoo awaits a young royal||Having completed 28 days in quarantine, a three-and-a-half-year-old Royal Bengal Tiger is all set to take over the reins of his new kingdom at the Tiger Safari Zoo near Amaltas village. Zoo in-charge Narinder Singh says the big cat was being allowed to roam the area on an occasional basis to help him acclimatise to its new habitat. “We wanted to see how Nav reacted on seeing a bus full of visitors in the zoo. He has shown some aggressiveness, which is expected,” said Narinder Singh.A zoo official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The animals need to be quarantined for some time, so that they can comfortably adapt to their new habitat.” Nav was scheduled to be shifted from Chhatbir Zoo in February last year, but the pandemic delayed the process.Second tiger at the safari Last year, two tigresses, Chirag and Ichran, had been brought to the zoo to revive its breeding programme. “Chirag was born at the Ludhiana Tiger Safari in 2008 to the two tigers we had earlier — Paras and Chorni. Ichran was also born in captivity at Bannerghatta Zoo near Bengaluru in Karnataka, and was later shifted to Chhatbir,” said Narinder Singh. However, the 18-year-old male tiger Mani was not keeping well, and soon died. Ichran, who was nearly 16 years old also passed away soon after. With the arrival of Nav, there will be two big cats in the zoo.The Tiger Safari had been thrown open to the public on July 20 after its closure in March 2020 due to the pandemic. Now, those found without mask in the zoo will be penalised. Spread across 59 hectares near the Jalandhar Bypass on the National Highway, the safari was opened in 1992 and has been a huge attraction for visitors since. Recently, the department had launched an animal adoption scheme under which any resident can adopt an animal or bird kept in the zoo by paying an annual care-taking fee, which will allow benefactors to avail a tax benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-tiger-safari-zoo-awaits-a-young-royal-101638731555901.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||Unemployed woman, 45, duped of ₹38 lakh by fake godman||Mumbai: A woman, 45, who is unemployed and suffering from depression, was duped of Rs38 lakh by a man posing as a godman who promised to solve her problems by performing a havan for her online. The woman, who was unemployed for 10 years, gave the fraudster all her jewellery and savings to offer prayers and perform an online havan in the hope of securing a job.According to the MHB colony police, the woman, who stays with her elderly parents at Borivali west, gave the godman from Ayodhya a sum of Rs38 lakh over a period of four years as fees for performing the online ritual. The incident came to light on November 27 when the woman reached Ayodhya only to find out that there was no such godman living there who solved people’s problems by performing online havans.According to the police, the woman saw an advertisement while watching television in November 2018 wherein a godman claimed to solve people’s problems by performing online havans. It was at that point that she contacted the phone number provided in the advertisement and asked the godman to perform an online havan so that all her problems would be solved and she would hopefully get a job. Not only did the woman not get a job, she lost Rs38 lakh to the godman in fees. In November this year, she decided to visit the godman in Ayodhya and meet him in person only to find out that she had been duped. Upon returning to her residence at Borivali, Mumbai, she approached the MHB colony police and registered a complaint.A police officer from MHB colony police station said, “We are now on the lookout for an unidentified man and are scanning all websites and phone numbers that he has provided in his advertisement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unemployed-woman-45-duped-of-38-lakh-by-fake-godman-101638731435747.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Six held for murder bid on realtor, his kin over 9.5-acre agricultural land in Ludhiana||Six people were arrested for attempting to murder a realtor and his kin over 9.5-acre agricultural land in Kakka village on Sunday.The victim, Naushad Ali of Kakka village, alleged that the accused had barged into the house and pelted stones on his family, and had also opened fire at them with intention to kill on Saturday night. The victims fled to the roof of the house and cried for help. They also called a former sarpanch Sulinder Kumar who turned up at the spot with other villagers, causing the accused to flee. While Goldy, Manohar Lal, Gagandeep Singh, Jagdeep Singh and Imran Khan have been arrested, Sikandar Khan, and two unidentified accomplices are on the run.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra said the victim’s elderly mother was injured in the incident, which reportedly took place to grab the complainant’s land. “The accused were arrested within hours of receiving the report, “ the ADCP said. A case was registered under Sections 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (damages), 452 ( house-trespass), 307 (attempt to murder), 506 ( criminal intimidation), 511 ( attempting to commit offences), 148 ( rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Arms Act at the Meharban police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-held-for-murder-bid-on-realtor-his-kin-over-9-5-acre-agricultural-land-in-ludhiana-101638731434624.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic scare, poor quality lowers cotton rates by ₹1,500 per quintal||The sudden dip in the global demand due to the pandemic scare and poor quality of raw cotton in areas of Punjab has lowered rates of the kharif crop by up to ₹1,500 quintal in the last two weeks.But farmers continue to get much above the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,925 per quintal.Industry watchers say in the last one month, mode rate or the maximum average price of the kharif produce was about ₹9,500 per quintal. It means 70% of the crop was purchased at around ₹9,500 and nearly 10% of the best quality produce was sold even higher than ₹9,500. And nearly 20% was sold below the mode rate due to poor quality.However, the mode rate of cotton in the last 10 days remains static at about ₹8,000 per quintal.According to the Punjab Mandi Board data, 9.57 lakh quintal of cotton was purchased in the state till Saturday. Of that, only 5,545 quintal produce was bought by the private players below MSP.Chander Kant Garg, a Mansa-based cotton ginner said this time the leading cotton-growing districts of Bathinda and Mansa saw the worst-ever quality of cotton. Garg said he has a stock of ginned cotton worth ₹3 crore but no textile unit is ready to buy it due to the quality of the natural fibre.“Reflectance (Rd) value that determines bright or dull a cotton sample continues to much less than the acceptable value of 72-82. The produce lost its white colour due to widespread pink bollworm infestation in the twin districts. Traders bought cotton at competitive rates to meet demand but now there are no buyers in the market for the yellowish cotton,” said Garg.Industry sources say rates may pick up again after December 15 as the picture of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron may be clearer and demand regains the momentum.Mandi Board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said this time the cotton arrival in the purchase centers across the rate was nearly 54% less in comparison with the last year.Last year till December 4, Punjab had recorded more than 21 lakh quintals of raw cotton whereas in the corresponding period this year is only 9.57 lakh. It is attributed to damage to the standing crop by the deadly pest, he added.“As per the traditional trend, cotton arrival picked up for the last week as farmers are done with wheat sowing. Now the daily arrival is about 15,000 quintals,” said the official.Director of Indian Cotton Association Limited, a body dealing in export, spinning, ginning of cotton, Rakesh Rathi said the textile sector in the USA has reduced importing cotton as per its economic decisions.“Cotton rates in Punjab were high since the beginning of the season as traders had to meet export demands. As cotton harvesting in the central and south Indian states was delayed due to rains, rates were record high than usual. As the new crop has started arriving from other states, prices in Punjab were expected to be corrected at this phase. But rates may not drop beyond ₹8,000 mark,” said Rathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pandemic-scare-poor-quality-lowers-cotton-rates-by-rs-1-500-per-quintal-101638731314799.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 38 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Sunday reported 38 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 603,488, according to a medical bulletin.With one Covid-related fatality in Hoshiarpur, the death toll has reached 16,608, it said. The state’s positivity rate for the day was 0.13%, the bulletin said, adding that the number of active cases rose to 361. Among the fresh cases, maximum nine each were reported in Ludhiana and Mohali, five in Pathankot, four in Ferozepur and three in Jalandhar. With the recovery of 23 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,519, it said. At least 30,688 Covid tests were done on Sunday and 20,019 were vaccinated, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-38-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101638731134760.html
06-12-2021||Other||Varanasi: Opposition did nothing for Uttar Pradesh’s development: Yogi||VARANASI Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that the opposition parties did not do anything for development of the state when they were in power. Now the BJP government was ensuring development in the entire state, he said. Yogi Adityanath also visited Baba Keenaram Math in Chandauli on Sunday. Addressing a public meeting after gifting projects worth more than ₹30 crore to Chandauli, he said that the Samajwadi Party could not rise above casteism and nepotism when it was in power in the state and corruption was rampant in its tenure. “Bua-Babua (apparently referring to BSP chief Mayawati and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav) didn’t do anything for development of the state,” he said. Yogi said that at present, the money meant for development was being spent on developmental work only and problems of farmers, youth and women were being addressed. He said that farmers had brought laurels to Chandauli district. Three years ago, black rice was not produced in the district. But today 2,400 farmers were cultivating black rice on 2,100 hectares of land. Earlier, Yogi Adityanath took stock of the preparations regarding the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Swarved temple in Umrah area here on December 14. PM Modi is scheduled to participate in the annual function of Vihangam Yoga Samaj at Swarved Mahamandir Dham . Amid the sound of conch shells and chanting of Vedic mantras, Yogi was welcomed by Satguru Acharya Swatantradev Maharaj, Sant Pravar Vigyan Dev Maharaj and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma. Yogi inspected the first floor of Swarved Mahamandir and inquired about the ground, helipad, sitting arrangements and traffic arrangements for the followers of Vihangam Yoga. Lakhs of followers from across the country and abroad will participate in the function. Yogi held also a meeting with the BJP office-bearers and reviewed the preparations being made regarding the visit of PM Modi. He gave necessary instructions to the office-bearers. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, Uttar Pradesh urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, minister of state (independent charge) for registration fee Ravindra Jaiswal, UP BJP secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal, BJP state co-in-charge Sunil Ojha and others were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-opposition-did-nothing-for-uttar-pradesh-s-development-yogi-101638731077382.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fraudulent entries: VB arrests 2 Faridkot RTA officials for graft||The Punjab vigilance bureau (VB) arrested assistant transport officer (ATO) and junior assistant, then posted at the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Faridkot, for allegedly taking lakhs of rupees as bribe to issue vehicle registration certificates (RCs) and heavy motor vehicle driving licenses by making fraudulent backlog entries in the official record in 2018. The VB probe found that the fraudulent backlog entries in the official record caused a loss to ₹17.22 lakh to the exchequer in 2018. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), vigilance bureau, Faridkot, Raj Kumar Sama said after the probe in three complaints, it has been found that former ATO of Faridkot RTA Gurnam Singh (now posted at Mohali head office) and Amritpal Singh (suspended) took lakhs of rupees as bribe to issue vehicle RCs and HMV driving licenses by fabricating official records. The probe found that both officials used to take ₹25,000 to ₹30,000 as bribe. A total of 183 heavy vehicle driving licences were issued frequently, the VB probe found. “Besides, they also took bribes for issuing registration numbers of series PB04-V-9801 to 9900 and PB04-Z-9500 to 9900 without taking no-objection certificates (NOC) to 57 vehicles, which were registered in other states. This caused a loss of ₹6.36 lakh for issuing 183 HMV driving licenses and ₹10.85 lakh for issuing registration numbers to 57 vehicles,” according to the VB probe. A case under Sections 7 and 13-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at VB police station in, Ferozepur. VB to probe records of 2019, 2020 The VB will probe records of all registration numbers issued in 2019 and 2020, including the records of driving licenses. DSP Sama said that the VB has only probed the two series mentioned in the complaints. “The initial investigation has pointed towards the possibility of embezzlement of a higher scale, so we will investigate all records of 2019 and 2020,” he added. Faridkot RTA in centre of controversy The Faridkot RTA office remained in controversies during the tenure of Hardeep Singh (RTA secretary) from 2017 to 2020. A magisterial probe was ordered in January 2020. However, the probe report is yet to see light of the day. An official, seeking anonymity said the number of fraudulent backlog entries is much higher than the VB figures. After the magisterial probe, the Faridkot RTA also conducted a departmental inquiry in February 2020, in which revealed that 4,628 backlog entries of DLs were made between January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019 and 260 of these were suspended for violation of rules. During the same period, 855 backlog entries of RCs were found. Of these, 96 RCs were blacklisted on account of incomplete documentation and non-payment of taxes. Later, the Sangrur police booked then RTA secretary Hardeep Singh for issuing a fake licence.
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Mathura Police beef up security ahead of December 6||The Mathura police and administration are geared up to rule out any protest march or gathering in the city on December 6. Although all the major organisations and individuals have called off their plans for the day, the police have not lowered their guard. No traffic will be allowed on roads leading to Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah till Tuesday. Because of the demolition of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, police and administration, in a routine practice, remain vigilant every year but call given by organisations including Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) for ‘jalabhishek’ at the real birthplace of Lord Krishna claimed to be within Shahi Eidgah, adjoining Sri Krishna Janambhoomi is now keeping the police on alert. Although ABHM has withdrawn the call, the police are not taking any chances. Around 2000 police personnel, besides CRPF, have been stationed at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and Shahi Eidgah for Monday. Police forces have been called from nearby districts as well, and an eye is being kept on leaders and activists associated with movements related to Krishna Janambhoomi. Recently, Mathura police conducted an anti-riot drill at Police Lines to assess its preparedness under SSP Mathura Dr Gaurav Grover and district magistrate Navneet Chahal. “Section 144 of criminal procedure code is in force, and anybody violating prohibitory orders will be dealt with strictly. Police is fully geared to maintain peace and tranquillity and to instil fear amongst those having nefarious designs,” stated SSP Mathura. “Denizens of Mathura are being asked to cooperate in security arrangements by not becoming part of any unlawful gathering or protest march and staying away from nuisance makers interested in spreading rumours. Vigil is being kept on social media, and police cyber cell is all prepared to punish those interested in damaging peace and tranquillity in the city,” stated SSP. “Organisations and individuals have withdrawn their calls for any event in the area near Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah. No permission has been granted for any event. Any call for a gathering will be dealt seriously,” added Dr Grover. Mathura police and district administration has already stepped up the vigil, and those coming for namaz on Friday at Shahi Eidgah were allowed in only after checking their Aadhar card. A detailed traffic plan has been implemented to avoid congestion in the yellow zone area around Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. “We have mobilised adequate forces, including those from nearby districts for December 6. The city police will be assisted by PAC, beside the CRPF deployed at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah. The city has been demarcated in eight sectors, four zones and two super zones for efficient monitoring,” stated Dr Grover. Police in adjoining district Agra is also on alert. National spokesperson for ABHM Sanjay Jaat complained that police reached his house in Agra on Sunday evening and he has been placed on an undeclared house arrest. There is a dispute over the land on which the Shahi Eidgah and Sri Krishna Janambhoomi are located side-by-side in Mathura. Various litigations are on in the civil courts of Mathura by Hindu organisations and individuals who allege that the Eidgah was built after the demolition of a temple by Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb at the site where Lord Krishna was born. 
06-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: Those who ignored Hindutva for vote bank concerns now pose as Ram Bhakts: Yogi||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath accused the opposition parties of ignoring Hindutva for vote bank concerns and added that with 2022 UP polls around the corner, the opposition leaders were now pretending to be ‘Ram bhakts’. “The Bahujan Samaj Party had banned celebration of Krishna Janmaashtami in police stations, Samajwadi Party had banned the Kanwar yatra and the Congress government had banned prayers at the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now, of course, all want to be seen as Ram Bhakts. This is the power of the people and of democracy that has forced all to tread this path,” he said while addressing a meeting of traders here on Sunday. Adityanath said since coming to power in UP in 2017, his government re-started Janmaashtami celebrations in police stations, celebrated Krishna Janmaashtami in a grand manner, Holi in Barsana, Deepotsav in Ayodhya and Kanwar yatra was allowed with all its grandeur. “A grand Ram temple is coming up in Ayodhya now,” he said. He said that for the BJP, the country came first. “In BJP meetings, we raise the chant of ‘Vande Mataram’. This can never happen in the meetings of Congress, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party. No party had the courage to scrap Article 370 due to vote bank concerns. In our time, Article 370 got scrapped and now a grand temple is also coming up in Ayodhya,” Adityanath said. “The Samajwadi Party calls us as a ‘bulldozer government.’ But our actions pain them the most as mafias enjoy that party’s patronage. I wish to make it clear that if mafia captures the properties of traders, then bull dozer will move for sure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-those-who-ignored-hindutva-for-vote-bank-concerns-now-pose-as-ram-bhakts-yogi-101638730716728.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to play J&K in opening match of basketball championship||The inaugural match of North Zone 71st Senior National Basketball Championship ( men and women) will be played between Punjab and J&K teams on Monday.General secretary of Punjab Basketball Association (PBA) Teja Singh Dhaliwal advised the teams to play a confident and disciplined game. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, Ludhiana) Parminder Singh, who is organising secretary of the games wished success to the Punjab teams. J P Singh, vice-president of PBA, TS Riar and Brij Goyal from District Basketball Association informed that arrangements have already been made for the stay of six states’ teams and officials. Punjab men’s team members, Amritpal Singh, Amyjot Singh, Gurbaz Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Arvinder Singh, Sukhdeep Pal Singh, Manjot Singh, Aakash Sharma, Mannatpreet Singh, Tejinderpal Singh, Navkarman Singh and Tarunpreet Singh will be coached by chief coach Rajinder Singh, assistant coach Gurkirpal Singh Dhillon and Davinderpal Singh Dhindsa .Coach Ravinder Singh, Saloani and team manager Davinder Dhindsa will mentor Punjab women’s team, which includes Samriti, Kamal, Gagandeep, Ritika, Priyanka, Kavya, Sapna, Radha, Kuldeep, Shabnam, Manmeet and Kanishka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-play-j-k-in-opening-match-of-basketball-championship-101638730714950.html
06-12-2021||Other||24 gharials from MP released into Beas in Hoshiarpur||As part of the Punjab government’s project, 24 gharials (Gavialis Gangeticus) were released into the Beas on Sunday near Kulla Fatta forests by state forest minister Sangat Singh Gilzian and principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden RK Mishra. The gharials had been transported from the natural hatchery at Morena in Madhya Pradesh.Gilzian said the number of gharials released under the conservation project had now reached 94. The reintroduction project aimed at establishing a breeding population of the “critically endangered” species, he added.On the occasion, he also launched a coffee table book on gharial reintroduction and website of wildlife wing, which contains information on wildlife in Punjab. Also, a mobile application regarding use of hunting licence and NOC for arms licences in 10 kilometre periphery of wildlife sanctuary was also launched. Gilzian revealed that people could apply for these services and get a digital certificate from home.Divisional forest officer Gursharan Singh said post release, monitoring would be done by the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24-gharials-from-mp-released-into-beas-in-hoshiarpur-101638730657561.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor manufacturing unit busted in Jalandhar||The excise department in a joint operation with Punjab Police busted an illicit liquor unit situated on a small island on Sutlej river near Mehatpur area of Jalandhar district. Excise officials said liquor was being manufactured from contaminated water of Sutlej. The water has dangerous toxins of Buddha Nullah of Ludhiana. The accused fled from the spot after they spotted excise and police officials. “During the raid, 1.11 kg of lahan was confiscated from underground pits dogged in sand and six working stills consisting 12 big drums with other illicit liquor manufacturing items like tubes, utensils and drums were confiscated,” said officials. A senior official privy to the matter revealed that nearly 15-20 people under the political patronage were running the illicit liquor unit where they manufactured around 800 bottles pr day. They managed to make around ₹25-30 lakh on the monthly basis. Official said they were running the unit from last six months in the river. A case has been registered under relevant sections of Excise Act at the Mehatpur police station.Three liquor vend employees attacked Police said after the excise department raid, people involved in the illicit trade attacked three employees of liquor vend at Burj village in Mehatpur area. Jalandhar rural police rushed to the spot and began the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-manufacturing-unit-busted-in-jalandhar-101638730294784.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Seven mobile phones recovered from observation home||Seven mobile phones were recovered from an observation home in Shimlapuri during a special checking. An FIR has been lodged based on the statement of Tarun Aggarwal, superintendent at the observation home. Aggarwal said that during a special checking, the mobile phones were recovered from different barracks.ASI Ajmer Singh, who is investigating the case, said that it is suspected that the phones belong to some inmates or employees who hid the phones in the barracks to avoid getting caught. He added that the police will send the recovered phone to the forensic science lab to help identify the accused.The Shimlapuri police lodged an FIR against unidentified accused on Saturday under Sections 42 and 52 A of Prison Act. This is the second incident in the past 12 days where phones were recovered from observation home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-seven-mobile-phones-recovered-from-observation-home-101638730174553.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu does a Kejriwal, joins guest teachers’ stir in Delhi||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu joined a sit-in protest of Delhi guest teachers demanding regularisation of their jobs outside Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines on Sunday.Last month, Kejriwal had joined the contractual teachers in Punjab’s Mohali, who staged a protest making a similar demand.In the run up to the Punjab polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener has announced a slew of sops for different sections of society, including teachers. Among the assurances are regularising contractual teachers and revamping the education system in the state if voted to power.Punjab goes to polls in early 2022 and the AAP is not leaving any stone unturned to make a decisive presence in the border state. Hitting out at Kejriwal, Sidhu said the Delhi government was following a contractual model of education.“Delhi Education Model is Contract Model … Delhi Govt has 1031 Schools while only 196 schools have Principals … 45% teacher’s posts are vacant and schools are run by 22,000 Guest Teachers on daily wages with every 15 days renewal of contracts,” Sidhu alleged in a tweet. The Punjab Congress chief said that there were 12,515 job vacancies for teachers in Delhi in 2015, but in 2021, the number had shot up to 19,907. He said the AAP government had been filing the vacant posts by hiring guest lecturers.“The AAP promised to regularise contractual teachers give equal wages as permanent staff but made it worse by just having guest teachers. Through School Management Committees, so called AAP volunteers earn ₹5 lakh yearly from Govt funds that earlier were meant for school’s development,” Sidhu’s another Tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-does-a-kejriwal-joins-guest-teachers-stir-in-delhi-101638730114654.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||Heavy fog, drop in temp across UP, predicts weatherman||LUCKNOW: In the coming week, thick fog is likely to affect daily life across Uttar Pradesh, especially during morning hours, as per the meteorological (Met) department officials. The average temperature is expected to hover around 15 degrees Celsius. Westerly disturbances in the hill areas, accompanied by cyclonic activities in the Bay of Bengal, will lead to a fresh spell of cold wave that is likely to cover most parts of the state in the coming week, according to Met officials. Meanwhile, the minimum temperature in Lucknow jumped to 14.4 degrees Celsius which is 5 degrees Celsius above normal. The maximum temperature was recorded at 28.4 degrees (2 degrees above normal) on Sunday, according to Met data. “The spike in minimum temperature across UP is temporary and will subside in the next 48 hours as the western disturbances grow stronger,” said director of state Met department JP Gupta. The state capital experienced fog during the morning but the atmosphere cleared during daytime, providing a welcome relief. In view of the expected cold weather, the district administrations across the state have been asked to ensure arrangements of night shelters for the poor at various places. The lowest temperature in UP was recorded in Etawah where the mercury dipped to 8 degrees Celsius, 1.6 degrees below normal. Jhansi recorded the highest day temperature in UP where the mercury touched 29.4 degrees Celsius in the daytime, 1.7 degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heavy-fog-drop-in-temp-across-up-predicts-weatherman-101638729995633.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 2 days on, PRTC staffers booked for halting operations||Police came down heavily against protesting members of Punjab Roadways and PRTC Contract Employees’ Union for stopping operation of passenger buses for two hours on Friday and lodged FIRs against them on Saturday.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Rajiv Datta, general manager of Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Interstate Bus Terminal. According to Datta, the strike led to harassment of passengers.The Division number 5 police lodged an FIR against unidentified members of the union under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code.Similarly, based on the complaint of Jaspreet Singh, general manager at Jagraon bus depot, an FIR has been lodged against the protesters under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 186 and 188 of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-days-on-prtc-staffers-booked-for-halting-operations-101638729935250.html
06-12-2021||Mumbai||50% psychiatrist posts in Maharashtra hospitals vacant||Maharashtra’s public healthcare system is facing an acute dearth of mental health professionals with more than half of the posts of psychiatrists vacant. Of the 177 sanctioned positions of psychiatrists in 34 districts across the state, 91 are yet to be filled, data obtained by Hindustan Times from the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) has revealed. These vacancies are across the state’s four regional mental hospitals located in Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Ratnagiri, as well as in all the district hospitals, which also house the teams of the District Mental Health Programme (DHMP) funded by the Centre and Prerna Prakalp, the state’s programme to address farmer suicides.According to the DHS, of the 85 sanctioned positions of Class I psychiatrists, 69 are currently vacant. All the 33 posts of Class II psychiatrists are filled. Under the DHMP, which is a part of the Centre’s National Mental Health Programme (NMHP), there are 41 sanctioned posts, but only 30 are filled while 11 remain vacant. Seven out of the nine posts under the Prerna Prakalp programme are also currently vacant. At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated mental health issues, a shortage of mental health professionals in Maharashtra will have an impact on patients going undiagnosed and untreated. While a few may seek help from private practitioners, many would fall in the gap and never seek medical help at all. “We have been constantly trying to fill the vacant posts, but many of the psychiatrists who come for interviews don’t eventually take up the postings,” said Dr Sadhana Tayade, director of DHS. “In order to tackle the shortage of psychiatrists, we have started mental health training for MBBS doctors from the primary health centres in districts,” she said. This training began in November 2019, Tayade said. One of the possible reasons for the vacancies could be that the salary bracket of psychiatrists in Maharashtra is lower than the Centre’s. The classes indicate seniority, work experience and qualification but some of the Class I positions have been vacant for the past several years. “Class I psychiatrists at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) that falls under the Union Health Ministry will have starting salaries of about ₹1.5 lakh,” said Dr Arun Marwale, president of the western region of Indian Psychiatric Society, an organisation of psychiatrists in India with over 7000 members. In Maharashtra, the salaries of Class I psychiatrists start from ₹85,000 and Class II starts from ₹65,000. “Because of the lower pay, many psychiatrists prefer getting jobs in the private sector,” he said.Marwale said that the government should also ensure that postings are given in the doctors’ home districts. “Often, a doctor from the Marathwada region gets posted all the way in Konkan or vice versa. If the government shows some consideration in giving postings closer home, more doctors will be willing to join,” he said. Many psychiatrists HT spoke to said that their duty often includes administrative work. “Instead of attending to psychiatric patients, I spend more time visiting courts for medico-legal cases, visiting jails and giving out disability certificates,” said a Class II psychiatrist in a district hospital in the Marathwada region. District hospitals have one post of Class I and Class II psychiatrist each. But since he joined in 2016, there has been no Class I appointment. “Mental health ailments have increased tremendously over the years but the government is perhaps still not seeing the issue of vacant posts of psychiatrists as priority,” said Dr Javed Attar, a psychiatrist who has a private practice in Latur’s Udgir taluka since the past 11 years. “Contrary to popular belief, more patients have started coming forward to seek medical help after recognising signs of mental distress. Having more psychiatrists will help cater to this increased burden of mental illnesses,” said Attar. “A large number of people with mental illnesses, especially in rural Maharashtra are below the poverty line. When government facilities lack specialists, the patients are forced into the private sector, which they cannot sustain, and eventually drop out of the treatment,” said psychiatrist and Ramon Magsaysay Awardee Dr Bharat Vatwani. “The pandemic has worsened the financial status of people, and in absence of strong government health services, we are at the risk of an enormous number of patients dropping out of treatments or not being diagnosed at all,” he said.In a first, DHS analyses footfall at district mental health OPDs during the pandemics the pandemic tore through the globe starting March last year, with Maharashtra facing a high daily caseload and case fatality ratio compared to the rest of the country, the state’s medical machinery deployed most of its attention to containing the spread of Sars-CoV-2. This year, the state has also launched heightened efforts to ensure vaccination of all adults. In November, officials at the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) collated the number of people accessing mental health Out Patient Departments (OPDs) during the pandemic. And, in a first, they also collected the type of conditions that people were seeking help for. This was done to understand the pattern of patient footfall and design better interventions. The data collated by the DHS revealed that persons with schizophrenia topped the footfall in OPDs in the state: they formed 22.3% of the total footfall between April 2020 and March 2021 and 26.3% of the footfall between April and September 2021. The footfall is an indication of persons with previous diagnoses as well as those who are newly diagnosed. The footfall of those with anxiety disorders in both time periods was 14.6% and 12.7%, and the data showed an uptick in the footfall of persons with major depressive disorders — 9.9% to 12.7%. State officials said that the trend was similar in regional mental health hospitals, where persons with schizophrenia account for nearly 40% of the admissions even during non-pandemic times.Need for care The World Health Organization defines schizophrenia as a chronic and severe mental disorder characterized by distortions in thinking, perception, emotions, language, sense of self and behaviour. Common experiences include hallucinations (hearing voices or seeing things that are not there) and delusions (false beliefs). However, a high OPD turnout or admissions do not necessarily mean a higher incidence of schizophrenia in the state. According to data from the Global Burden of Disease Study published in The Lancet Psychiatry, nearly 3.5 million people had schizophrenia in India in 2017. However, compared to other mental health diseases, its prevalence was still lower. The data showed that the prevalence of depressive disorders and anxiety disorders was around 3.3% and bipolar disorder was around 0.6% while the prevalence of schizophrenia was around 0.3%. A 2018 study carried out among youth in rural and urban parts of Pune showed that the prevalence of depression, anxiety, and stress among them was 54%, 60%, and 44%, respectively. Another 2020 study conducted among the farmers in the Vidarbha region showed that anxiety, insomnia and somatic problems were highest reported by farmers. In effect, the studies carried out in communities reveal that anxiety and depressive disorders are higher. The turnout at the OPD indicates otherwise — and there’s a good reason for it.“Schizophrenia patients get identified more easily compared to those with other mental health ailments, and are therefore more likely to be brought in for medical intervention,” said Dr Sadhana Tayade, DHS director. “This is a common trend we have observed, even as the overall burden of mild to severe depression, anxiety disorders are likely to be much higher in the state compared to schizophrenia. The Covid-19 pandemic has further worsened the situation,” she said. Identifying the problemIn 2019, the mahila mandal (local women’s organization) at Kalambi village in Nagpur received an unusual letter. A 39-year-old farm labourer man wrote to the local body complaining about his 21-year-old wife. “She wanders off, sometimes for days altogether. When she comes back home, she refuses to recognise me. She verbally abuses me for no reason. She refuses to cook, or do any household chores. I have no choice but to leave her,” he wrote. The organization responded by calling the couple for counseling. During one of the sessions, the farm worker said, the counselor noticed that his wife was talking to herself and was oblivious of what was happening around her. “The mahila mandal member told me that I should reconsider my decision to leave her and asked me to seek psychiatric counseling for her,” he said. In July that year, the man took his wife to the OPD of the rural hospital in Kalmeshwar, 10 kilometres from their village. The psychiatrist diagnosed her as having a condition called schizophrenia, which affects people’s interpretation of reality, and started her on medication. The farm worker continued to take his wife to the OPD, open to persons with mental health conditions on the first Tuesday of every month, even after the pandemic hit in March 2020. Three months ago, the doctor reduced her dosage. “Had the member of the mahila mandal not pointed it to me, I would have never known it was a mental health issue,” the husband said. “Relatives are more likely to get schizophrenia patients to seek medical advice as compared to patients with other mental health illnesses,” said psychiatrist Dr Bharat Vatwani, who runs the Shraddha Rehabilitation Foundation in Karjat. Vatwani, who won the prestigious Ramon Magsaysay Award in 2018 for his treatment and rehabilitation work, specialises in schizophrenia. “In most other mental health issues, the patient’s own productivity starts getting affected. It takes some time for the impact to be felt by the family. But in schizophrenia, the patients often drift into their imaginary world and their behaviour has an immediate impact on the family, often disturbing the emotional equilibrium of the members. Therefore, these patients are more likely to be brought in for medical help and relatives often take the lead,” Vatwani said. “The classic symptoms of schizophrenia make the disorder more visible, while other mental health patients struggle to verbalise their agony,” said psychiatrist Dr Sanjay Kumawat, who practices in Thane and Mulund and has worked with the state health department for nearly three decades. “There are many more patients of depression, anxiety, phobias, and other mental health issues that have increased over the years but are falling in the gap. A large number of these patients are perhaps not getting any medical support,” he said. The importance of treatment The DHS data is eye-opening in other ways. For one, it mapped the different kinds of mental health conditions that persons were seeking help for. It also revealed that the footfall was not constant. For instance, there was an uptick in persons with bipolar disorders seeking treatment (4.6% to 5% between the two time periods), as well as those diagnosed with mental retardation and even persons with addictions. The OPD’s also saw a lot of patients with epilepsy and dementia which are not mental health illnesses. “In some cases, relatives misunderstand symptoms of epilepsy and dementia as mental health disorders and seek OPD consultations. Such cases are counselled and directed to neurologists,” said an official attached to the state’s mental health programme. “A few patients of epilepsy and dementia may have underlying mental health issues such as anxiety, depression among others. Such patients are started on treatment at the OPDs,” she said. Tayade said that the DHS is keen to spread awareness about the need for early diagnosis and treatment to reduce admissions. “If mental health issues are treated early, patients don’t reach the chronic state where they may have to be admitted. We are in the process of intensifying our awareness campaigns so that people come to OPD early and start treatment instead of waiting until their disease progresses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/50-psychiatrist-posts-in-maharashtra-hospitals-vacant-101638729875348.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 2,000 pending traffic challans forwarded to dist courts||Ludhiana As many as 2,000 pending challans of traffic violation that were issued before September 30 have been sent to district courts following the orders of Regional Transport Authority (RTA). NS Dhaliwal from the RTA said that the challans have been shifted to the court as they were pending for a long time as no one was turning up to submit the fine. “We do not have any judicial powers to impound vehicles in case the traffic violator fails to pay the challan amount after the last day of submission of fine. The court can summon the traffic violator to submit the challan. After seeking the permission, the challans were shifted to the judicial courts for further decision,” said Dhaliwal.A transport department employee, requesting anonymity, said that most traffic violators, especially auto rickshaw drivers, do not generally appear before the RTA office as due to the revision in Motor Vehicle Act, the challan amount, especially for commercial vehicles, has increased many folds.Since regional licensing authorities do not have the power to remit or revise amounts, such challans are sent to the local magistrate to decide the issue. The move is being linked with the recent development where chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had ordered to waiver of challans for auto rickshaw drivers. Channi, during his impromptu visit to the auto rickshaw union site on Gill Road, had announced that new registration certificates will be issued soon to the auto-rickshaw drivers in order to prevent harassment.CM Channi had also announced that all the challans which are pending will be waived off. He had asked the auto-rickshaw drivers to follow traffic rules, and work honestly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-000-pending-traffic-challans-forwarded-to-dist-courts-101638729755911.html
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PU zonal youth fest enters its second day||The debate, elocution, quiz and theatrical events hogged the limelight as the Zonal Youth and Heritage Festival ( Zone-B) entered its second day at GHG Khalsa College of Education, Gurusar Sadhar, on Sunday.The event kicked off with college shabad followed by formal welcome of the chief guest by Pargat Singh Garcha, principal of the college. Professor Prashant Kumar Gautam, director of sports, Panjab University, Chandigarh and Amit Dhawan, senior manager of Vardhman Special Steels Ltd, Ludhiana, were the chief guests in the first and second session of the day, respectively.The topic for the debate and elocution was ‘Education colleges should be merged in degree colleges’ and ‘Online education impact on students,’respectively.Professor Prashant Dhawan, in his address, congratulated the faculty as well as the students for organising the event successfully. He also congratulated the participants as well as the winners and further encouraged them to strive towards their goal with determination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pu-zonal-youth-fest-enters-its-second-day-101638729640261.html
06-12-2021||Lucknow||BSP plans State-wide events to observe Ambedkar’s death anniversary||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), on Monday, decided to mobilise the party cadre for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election by organising programmes to observe the death anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar in all the 75 districts. In a press statement, the BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said that the party chief Mayawati has granted permission to the party office bearers to organise programmes to pay tribute to Ambedkar on his death anniversary in all the districts. BSP chief will pay tribute to Ambedkar in a programme organised in the party’s state unit office on Monday. Meanwhile, in a tweet, Mayawati condemned the lathi charge on the youths, who had organised a candle march to register their protest over the delay in the old and pending case of recruitment of 69,000 teachers. The government should immediately consider their legitimate demands sympathetically, this is the demand of the BSP, she said. In a separate statement, Satish Chandra Mishra said, instead of giving jobs to the youths the BJP government is committing atrocities on them. The candidates who appeared in the various recruitment tests conducted by the state government are waiting for the results and appointment letters. The question paper of the Teachers Eligibility Test was leaked. The future of the candidates is uncertain, he said. 
06-12-2021||Chandigarh||GADVASU launches educational series on biotechnology||College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, initiated a Continue Biotechnology Education (CBE) lecture series in association with Indian Institutes of Technology, Roorkee and the DBT/Wellcome Trust India Alliance on Sunday.More than 200 participants registered for the event. The participants who will hear more lectures from experts of national and international recruits, working in the field of disease diagnosis, biotechnology and more in the year-long event.The series was hosted by DBT Alliance and Nicolette Jadhav convened the event. CEO of India Alliance Vasan Sambandamurthy said that the series will bring recent advances in biotechnological tools and applications related to animal and human health.Vice-chancellor of GADVASU Inderjeet Singh highlighted upon the importance of modern biotechnological tools and technology to unfold the problems of human and animal health. The first speaker of the lecture series, Sachin Kumar, professor of IIT Guwahati spoke on ‘Genetically engineered vaccines: modern era of vaccines’ and explained the basics of vaccine development along with the latest strategy of vaccine development.The event concluded with a question-answer session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadvasu-launches-educational-series-on-biotechnology-101638729515903.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: AQI gets better as winds pick up speed, light rain likely today||The air quality in Delhi improved on Sunday, staying in the very poor category though, by 57 points on the Central Pollution Control Board’s index with a second western disturbance passing over the city improving both wind speed and temperatures -- factors that facilitate dispersal of pollutants, weather scientists and pollution forecasting agencies said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast “very light rain” on Monday, and added that the national capital will witness drop in temperatures from December 8-9. According to IMD, the western disturbance, which is largely impacting areas near the Himalayas, is expected to bring snowfall to the higher reaches.Also Read| Delhi to form special task force to ensure enforcement of pollution normsDelhi recorded an AQI of 305 on Sunday, compared to Saturday’s 362 (very poor), according to CPCB’s daily AQI bulletin. R.K Jenamani, a scientist at IMD, said that wind speed will remain good even on Monday, with the withdrawal of the western disturbance from Tuesday onwards expected to change the wind direction to north-westerly, bringing colder winds towards Delhi. “The minimum temperature is expected to drop to around 9 degrees Celsius by December 8-9, and the maximum may touch 20 degrees Celsius by December 10,” he said.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 25.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday – one degree above normal, while the minimum at 11.4 degrees Celsius was two degrees above normal.Jenamani added that a mix of easterly winds and a wind speed of 5-8 km/hour helped dispersal of pollutants on Sunday. “Easterly winds are warmer, and the surface wind speed was largely steady through the day. Monday will witness a similar situation,” he said.Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the government forecasting agency, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), said air quality at some stations in Delhi is expected to touch the ‘poor’ category (AQI between 200-300) on Monday, following the impact of light rain on Sunday night and Monday morning. “Good winds, along with some light rain will further help pollutants to settle down. The AQI may come close to the ‘poor’ category,” he said.Also Read| Greenpiece: Rethinking smog and smog towers in DelhiIMD’s daily forecast shows Delhi is expected to record shallow fog on Monday morning with the maximum and minimum temperature likely to be 25 and 12 degrees Celsius respectively.The Early Warning System (EWS) for air pollution in Delhi also predicted that the air quality in the city may enter the ‘poor’ zone on Monday, and is likely to stay the same on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and Adjoining Areas on Sunday said action against polluting activities in the region has been intensified with the newly formed ‘Enforcement Task Force’ (ETF) holding daily review meetings with the 40 inspection teams and flying squads formed under them. The CAQM on Sunday said 12 inspection teams each have been constituted for Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, and four allotted to Rajasthan. It said the teams inspected over 140 sites in the NCR till Saturday.“Till December 4, 2021, more than 140 sites were inspected by the flying squads and based on the reports furnished by the flying squads, serious violations by various units are being identified for strict actions, including closure. Additionally, suitable actions against other non-conforming units is also been initiated by the Commission,” the CAQM said in a press release on Sunday.The flying squads have been asked to carry out surprise inspections at construction sites, industries, and transport hubs, and submit daily reports to the ETF and the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-aqi-gets-better-as-winds-pick-up-speed-light-rain-likely-today-101638727414375.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||From oddball to fugitive boss of north India’s biggest vehicle theft ring||Sharik was once a petty burglar who worked variously as a bus conductor in Delhi’s infamous blue line buses, a truck driver, and even a security guard. The 49-year-old man, now living in Dubai, has emerged as the kingpin of north India’s biggest vehicle theft operation.The name of Sharik alias Sata, son of a former Mumbai university professor, has come up thrice in the past six months, and twice in the past 20 days, during the interrogation of car thieves. They described Sata as their boss who allegedly takes “orders of vehicles needed“ from places as far as Manipur and Assam and gets his accomplices to steal them in Delhi and its adjoining states.On November 9, police arrested a man named Akbar Ali for stealing vehicles and selling them to buyers in West Bengal, Assam and Manipur. Ali told police he works for Sata and has sent at least 200 stolen vehicles from the national capital region (NCR) to those states in the past one year.The following week, when another police unit arrested a man in Manipur and recovered 14 Toyota Fortuner and Hyundai Creta cars, also stolen from NCR, the man said he worked for Sata.It wasn’t always like this.Until four years ago, Sata was one among many car thieves in the national capital. He was last arrested in 2018, and served time for three months before being released on bail. He then he went off the radar, said a crime branch officer, an expert on vehicle theft gangs.For a man missing for almost two years since he jumped bail following his arrest in November 2018, police heard Sata’s name in August when two men were arrested with counterfeit notes worth ₹4 lakh. The men were arrested from Sarai Kale Khan and said they were working for Sharik Sata, who worked from Dubai and was aided by Pakistani agencies.Sharik worked for the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan’s spy agency, and was tasked to circulate fake currency in India, Delhi Police had said in a statement on August 21, 2021.In the backdrop of these three cases since August that linked Sata’s name with fake currency and vehicle theft, police was not amused, given Sata’s abilities and his history of working at different places.“He has an interesting crime career and did all sorts of things before becoming a top vehicle thief in Delhi,” a Delhi police officer said while reading out Sata’s confessional statement when he was arrested in 2013 for stealing a car from west Delhi.Sata told police in his statement that he was son of a retired professor who taught Islamic studies in the University of Mumbai. “They are from a small place called Geeta Sarai, Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh. For some reason, Sata could not study and fell into bad company,” said the police officer, who had questioned him in the past.Sata told police that after dropping out of school in class 8, he started working as a labourer in Sambhal and then as a helper for a truck driver. It was at that time that he had come in touch with a man named Mohammed Noor from his village and started burgling homes. Records show he was first arrested for a theft inside a house in Moradabad in 1996.His statement, a copy of which was seen by HT, showed that he had come to Delhi in 1996 and worked as a truck driver at Randhawa Transport Company in Azadpur. After a year, he started working as bus conductor for blueline bus route number 19 between Jahangirpuri and Regal cinema.“During 1997 and 2000, he also worked as a field security officer for a security company in Greater Kailash. He wanted to increase his knowledge of topography of Delhi and these jobs were perfect alibi for him to roam in these areas of Delhi. While working as a field officer, he had come in touch with some vehicle thieves, with whom he got together and started stealing the vehicles at night. He initially worked for different gangs, but later formed his own gang,” reads the police’s report based on Sata’s confession in 2013.The police report quotes Sata as someone who recruited many people from Meerut and Sambhal to steal cars. Sata has allegedly divided the gang members in different groups.“They specialise in stealing SUVs, mostly cars such as Toyota Fortuner and Creta. He has divided the gangs in different states. In Manipur, when we arrested a man last month, we found out that he was a top car dealer there, who sold the stolen vehicles. We had recovered at least 10 Fortuner vehicles. He sells the stolen cars for as low as ₹10-12 lakh. He must be making crores of rupees,” said an officer, who arrested the Manipur resident last month. All the police officers declined to be named.Sata in his confession told police that said his real name was Sharik, but nobody called him by that name. In north India’s world of vehicle thieves, for the past one decade, he is known only as Sata. He also said there was a reason why he was called by that name. His friends started calling him Sata (60 in Hindi) because he could drive stolen vehicles at over 60km per hour even in the shortest of stretches.While different Delhi Police teams are at work to identify the gangs in north Delhi who work for Sata, the man has number of gangs working in Uttar Pradesh as well.He carries a reward of ₹50,000 by Uttar Pradesh Police for his arrest in the cases registered in that state. A crime dossier on Sata maintained by Delhi Police showed he has in the past been booked by Uttar Prades Police under laws such as the Gangster Act, Goonda Act and the National Security Act (NSA) of 1980, along with at least 45 othercriminal cases.“He is a smooth talker despite being a class 8 dropout. We won’t be surprised if the Pakistan agencies got in touch with him and are using his criminal network to fund their illegal activities here. Despite being booked under the NSA and the gangster Act, he has always jumped bail and gotten bigger,” an officer from the special cell of Delhi Police said.Explaining how dreaded Sata’s crimes are in his hometown, a Delhi Police officer shared an anecdote from 2018, when he had arrested Sata and accompanied him to different states such as Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi to recover the man’s loot. Police had found 51 stolen cars, a record seizure by Delhi Police that year.“We were taking him (Sata) to Moradabad to recover a car. I remember I got a call from a friend in Uttar Pradesh Police. He was furious that we (Delhi Police) had arrested Sata. They had informally issued a shoot-at-sight order on him. He was to be killed in a police encounter,” the officer said. “Maybe this is why he left India in 2018-19.”
06-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron scare: Sisodia slams Covid tests rush at Delhi airport||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday criticised crowd management at the Delhi airport retweeting a photo posted by a user on Saturday, and said that the airport and civil aviation authorities should handle such situations more intelligently.The picture tweeted by one Suryanarayan Ganesh shows a jam-packed immigration hall at Terminal-3 of the airport.“Airport and Civil aviation authorities should handle such situations more intelligently. And it’s not rocket science. There are solutions to handle much bigger crowds then (than) airport gatherings,” Sisodia tweeted.Also Read| India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainDelhi airport officials said it was an old picture, and the situation has improved since 20 new designated counters were set up on Sunday to facilitate faster Covid-19 testing for passengers arriving from “high-risk” countries. The testing has been intensified in view of the emergence of the omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Following guidelines issued by the Union heath ministry on November 26, passengers from South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel and all European countries are now required to take an RT-PCR test on arrival at the Delhi airport, even if they produce a negative test result before boarding, or are fully vaccinated.A senior Delhi airport official, who asked not to be named, said, “We were observing that a lot of passengers were facing issues in paying for the test [RT-PCR] since they did not have enough Indian currency. So, they were registering for the test as well as getting the currency exchanged too. This was leading to some crowding. To fix this, dedicated counters have now been set up and passengers are being asked to pre-book their RT-PCR tests, so they can directly proceed to get tested,” the official said.For pre-booked tests, the payment is accepted online.“A significant number of incoming international passengers at Delhi Airport are pre-booking their Rapid/RT-PCR tests. This number of pre-bookings has been going up ever since the latest testing norms have come into practice. These dedicated counters will help ease the process further for passengers,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), the airport operator.On Sunday, Delhi reported its first confirmed omicron Covid-19 case, with a 37-year-old man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania was found to be infected with the new variant. The patient has been isolated at the Lok Nayak hospital. A 40-bed separate ward has been created at the hospital for dealing with cases of the new variant.Also Read| Delhi’s first Omicron case a 37-yr-old man with mild symptomsDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who announced the first case on Sunday, said that banning international flights is the most effective way to contain the spread of the omicron variant. “Delhi receives the maximum number of flights from abroad, so Delhi is at the maximum risk. The central government should accept the demand made by [Delhi] chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and ban the flights coming from all the countries affected by the omicron variant at the earliest,” Jain said.Some passengers who arrived from the at-risk countries on Sunday complained that it was taking almost two hours to get the RT-PCR test done, and there were no signages to facilitate the travellers.“People got into queues but they were later told that it was meant were for pre-booked tests. They are doing a decent job, but they need to organise it better,” the passenger said while coming out of the airport on Sunday morning.The first airport official quoted above said signages were placed on Sunday to guide passengers to the dedicated counters, and inform them about the registration process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-scare-sisodia-slams-covid-tests-rush-at-delhi-airport-101638727235629.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Mastermind of gang involved in extortion arrested in Delhi||Delhi Police on Sunday said it has arrested the mastermind of a gang which allegedly honey trapped their targets and extorted money from them by posing as police officers.Police said that the racket had been operating for over 18 months, adding that raids are being conducted to catch the other gang members.Police said they came to know of the racket on November 29 when they received a complaint at Paschim Vihar police station by one of the victims who lost ₹3 lakh. “When this case was reported, we immediately formed a team to look into the matter. It was established during the investigation that the accused persons had taken a flat on rent in the Paschim Vihar area to run their illegal activities. The flat was identified and the landlord examined and we received some sketchy details about the tenants. Based upon initial leads, the main suspect was identified as Neeraj of Bahadurgarh in Haryana,” said additional commissioner of police (crime), Dheeraj Kumar.“A trap was laid and on December 3, Neeraj was apprehended near PVR Cinema in Prashant Vihar. Several stolen items and a handwritten script used to blackmail the targets were recovered from his possession,” he said. According to police, the gang had five members, including two women who were used to honey trap the victims. Explaining the modus operandi, an officer said the women befriended people on social media and after exchanging numbers, start video calling them. The women would later ask the targets to come to a pre-decided location where the other gang members, posing as policemen, would carry out a fake raid.“The gang members posing as ‘policemen’ then threaten the victim of exposure and extort money -- in the range of ₹5-10 lakh -- from him,” said Kumar. Police said that Neeraj and five gang members including two girls decided to honey trap victims and extort money from them. Neeraj is the leader of the gang. His gang has committed sextortion from more than a dozen victims in the past one and a half years. They have extorted Rs. 5 – 10 lakhs from each victim, based on his paying capacity.The gang began its activities just before the first lockdown, police said. The accused used to create a social media profile in the name of the girl and sent ‘friend requests’ to their targets. After confirmation of the request, they used to chat with their victims, through the messenger, pretending to be a girl. Once they obtained the mobile number of the victim, they sent obscene content to lure him, police said.The lady member of the gang made a video call to further entice the victim. The gang extracted complete details from the target to assess his paying capacity. Once they were convinced about the financial background of the target, the lady member of the gang would invite the victim to a pre-decided place.“After the first meeting, when they decided to meet again, the other members of the gang used to barge into the room posing as policemen. The victim was led to believe that the police had raided the place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mastermind-of-gang-involved-in-extortion-arrested-in-delhi-101638727234449.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||25 commercial spaces sealed in EDMC crackdown on property tax defaulters||Intensifying its action against property tax defaulters, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has sealed 25 commercial properties and issued show cause notices to another 12 commercial units over pending taxes.A senior official from the joint accessor and collector department of the civic body said they have already conducted a survey and prepared a list of habitual tax defaulters in the commercial category, adding that the drive will continue in the coming days.“It has come to notice through the survey that a large number of commercial property holders such as banquet halls, baraat ghars, hotels etc. have not paid their property tax. In view of this, a drive has been launched against the defaulter commercial property holders. The action during the first week has been taken in areas surrounding Sonia Vihar,” said the official.According to the official statement issued by the civic body, 170 warning letters have also been issued under section 123 of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act against property tax defaulters.EDMC spokesperson Rakesh Gupta said that during the last one week, EDMC has received ₹8 crore as property tax. The official data from EDMC shows that during the current financial year, the corporation has received only about ₹127 crore of the ₹350 crore target it had set for itself.“We are hoping to cross the ₹200 crore mark by December end. A large number tax payers choose to file their returns in the last months of the financial year, around February-March. The current drive will focus on commercial properties which are spread over an area of more than 1500sq ft,” said Gupta.Noting that the financial situation of the civic body is not good, EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal appealed to the traders and large property owners to pay their share of taxes. “Property tax and conversion charge are the biggest internal revenue sources for the East MCD and we are not at all targeting those properties which haven’t paid their taxes for just one year. These units have tax payments pending from 5-15 years. We do not want to seal properties but people should come forward to submit their fair share,” he said.While delivering the annual budget on November 26, 2021, commissioner Vikas Anand had also stated that the EDMC is going through a financial crisis which was made worse by the Covid-19 pandemic.The extent of the financial stress in the civic body can be gauged from the fact that over 80% of EDMC’s expenditure is spent on staff salaries. Moreover, the civic body derives over 59% of its revenue from grants and allocations by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25-commercial-spaces-sealed-in-edmc-crackdown-on-property-tax-defaulters-101638727054221.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Sangwan gang sharpshooter arrested from near Kakrola village in outer Delhi||Delhi Police has arrested an alleged sharpshooter of gangster Kapil Sangwan’s gang, who was absconding after coming out on bail in a murder case in May this year, from near Kakrola village in outer Delhi.Police said they also recovered a semi-automatic pistol and five cartridges from the possession of the suspect, identified as Deepak Dhankar (27), on Friday.During questioning, police said, Dhankar allegedly claimed that he was in the advanced stage of planning an operation to murder one of his rivals during a court hearing. Police said the alleged operation would have been similar to the September 23 murder of Delhi gangster Jitender Gogi inside the Rohini court by two gunmen who posed as lawyers to gain entry into the court building.Police said that on Thursday, they received a tip off about Dhankar’s plan to visit to Kakrola village.“The information was that he would be in a Celerio car on Thursday afternoon. A police team laid a trap and started looking for him. At around 2pm, we spotted Dhankar in the car and signalled him to stop, but instead of stopping, he took out a pistol, pointed it at the police and tried to flee. However, we managed to intercept the vehicle and arrest him,” said a police officer aware of the details.Police said Dhankar is a key member of the Kapil Sangwan gang and has been involved in the killings of rivals in the Manjeet Mahal gang.The Manjeet Mahal gang is embroiled in a decade-long feud with the Sangwan gang. The two gangs, operating in parts of western and outer Delhi and Haryana, are involved in cases of robbery, extortion, land grabbing and contract killings. While Mahal is in jail, Sangwan is suspected to be managing the gang from outside India.The special cell’s deputy commissioner of police, Jasmeet Singh, said at least eight people have died in the gang wars between the two gangs. “Dhankar was involved in the murder of Mahal’s father, Sri Krishan, who was shot dead near his house in Mitraon, Najafgarh, in January 2017. The killing was a result of Mahal killing Sangwan’s brother-in -law, Sunil alias Doctor, in December 2015,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sangwan-gang-sharpshooter-arrested-from-near-kakrola-village-in-outer-delhi-101638726634568.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Skywalk, Minto bridge widening part of New Delhi railway station revamp||The elaborate revamp plan for the New Delhi railway station will also include widening of the Minto bridge and skywalks near Ajmeri Gate to manage the increased traffic volume in the surrounding areas, officials aware of the matter said.An official from the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) who asked not to be named said that the road owning agency has already prepared a proposal for the project.A second official who is associated with the corridor redevelopment project stated that the traffic and transport interventions are likely to be completed by 2025. “We have taken approvals from 15 agencies, including DDA, municipal corporation, PWD, etc involved in various aspects of the project [revamp of the station] and are awaiting the final approval from UTTIPEC (Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure Centre),” the official who also asked not to be named said.According to the plan, one of the carriageways under the Minto bridge -- from Connaught Place to the Civic Centre -- will be widened by three metres. “The single carriageway at the Minto bridge is currently 14 metres wide and we plan to widen it to 17 metres. This will be carried out by using box pushing technique,” said an official requesting anonymity.The Minto bridge, rechristened Shivaji bridge, was built during the British rule in 1926 as part of the realignment process of the railway line for New Delhi railway station. The waterlogged Minto bridge has become synonymous with the failure of Delhi’s drainage network during monsoons.The official stated that the expansion work will be carried out by the railways but the maintenance of the bridge, including the drainage network, will continue to remain with the public works department.The official overseeing the traffic and transport infrastructure plan finalisation stated that the traffic survey and mapping of the entire peripheral area around the railway station has been carried out to design specific interventions.For instance, the skywalk at Ajmeri Gate junction has been proposed to connect the Gate number 3 of Metro station with both sides of Desh Bandhu Gupta road and Kamala market using two foot overbridges (FOBs) meeting at right angles. The skywalk will be further connected to the three arms of the FOBs with entry-exit points provided at Garstin Baston road and Asaf Ali Marg.“Despite the increase in traffic volume, enough space has been demarcated to keep the region pedestrian friendly. The road right outside Gate 1 of the railway station will have a seven-metre-wide footpath and junctions have table top crossings,” the official added.Currently, more than 450,000 passengers visit the New Delhi Railway station daily and over 170 million passengers annually. The projected increase in peak hour passenger volume (number of passengers at the station per hour) is likely to range from 45,000 to 55,000 in the next two decades.Professor Sewa Ram, who teaches transport planning in the School of Planning and Architecture, said that they have carried out studies to ascertain accessibility and walkability near the New Delhi railway station towards Ajmeri Gate.”There are several problems in terms of accessibility in the immediate vicinity of the station. Agencies should learn from the interventions made around the IGI airport. The station redesigning should incorporate accessibility benchmarking as the influence area of the station extends up to ITO, Paharganj and Connaught Place,” he said.Prof Ram said that the Minto bridge also acts as a gate for the traffic circulation and its widening may lead to faster movement of traffic and creation of new congestion point towards the railway station. “We need an entire transportation system management plan for the influence region with separate provision for segregated pick up and drop areas,” he added.HT had reported in August that the RLDA plans to invite request for proposal (RFP) from nine firms for the redevelopment of New Delhi Railway Station (NDRS), India’s largest and second busiest railway facility.The redevelopment plan, estimated to cost around ₹14,000 crore, will be implemented in two phases and will be based on the Centre’s Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy. Of the 160 acres of land where new developments have been proposed, work on around 85 acres will be taken up in the first phase at a cost of ₹6,500 crore.In the first phase, the railway development body plans to construct a 70 metres high dome-shaped building (infinity tower), 40-storey twin towers and business district, providing office and commercial space, multilevel car-parking on either side of the station (Paharganj and Ajmeri Gate) for 5,000 vehicles, retail hub, pedestrian boulevard, etc. It will also upgrade the road network around the station.The revamp of the New Delhi station, which handles approximately 450,000 passengers daily (160-170 million passengers annually), has been going on since 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/skywalk-minto-bridge-widening-part-of-new-delhi-railway-station-revamp-101638726394355.html
06-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mughlai hub Jama Masjid area getting a continental makeover||It is a cold, smoggy evening and a group of youngsters are sitting under the awning of Ebony Cafe near Jama Masjid, sipping Americano. Inside, the Parisian-style café, opened earlier this year, a couple is sitting on a high stool by the glass window that gives a clear view of the 17th-century mosque.Today, the café is one of the hottest hangouts in the walled city for well-heeled locals as well as youngsters visiting the walled city from all across Delhi and NCR. The owner Saddam Khan, 31, who has studied in England says the European ambience of his café is intentional.“Europe’s café culture, especially the cafes in historic districts, fascinated me a lot. So, when I returned [to Delhi], I wanted to open the first European-style café near Jama Masjid, with foreign tourists in mind. Locals have more than made up for the lack of tourists during the pandemic. Our café is a hit and we are making decent profits, ” says Khan.Jama Masjid area, known for hundreds of outlets offering Mughlai food such as kebabs and Nihari, is undergoing a quiet, invisible transformation as a food destination, thanks to many upwardly mobile youngsters who are opening new fine dining restaurants and European-style cafés. Their trendy outlets offer not traditional nihari or kebabs, but a variety of pasta, sandwiches, burgers, pizzas and waffles, coffee and shakes.Interestingly, Aarish Khan, 21, who in September started The Delhiites Café , another bistro-style café, in the crowded motor market in front of Jama Masjid, says 70% of his clients are locals, many of them elderly, who are now addicted to his Mojito and Italian sodas. “ The elderly here have never savoured these drinks before. Now, they simply relish them and have become our repeat customers. In our café, the elderly and the young can be seen enjoying a mocktail together late into the night, ” says Khan, 21, who is studying law at Jamia Millia Islamia.The outlet opens after nine in the night. “That is when the motor market shuts and the locals hang out with their friends and families,” Khan says.In fact, not just cafes, but several new fine dining restaurants with a focus on ambience, quality of services and cultural events are also coming up in the area. Shahi Mehfil, opened in October, has the look and the feel of a grand walled city haveli, its walls boasting information panels and photographs of Jama Masjid and poetry of Ghalib and Iqbal-- and the restaurant’s co-founder, Mehtab Raahi . A map of the walled city showing all its gates is built into the ceiling design.The new addition to the Jama Masjid food hub also offers small cabins with floor-sitting, Afghan style. “Visitors here often complained about a lack of comfort, hygiene and quality of services. We wanted to change that,” says Mehtab Raahi, managing partner of the restaurant, who used to run the heritage walks in the walled city before he decided to open a restaurant.Raahi, also an aspiring poet, says he wants to make his restaurant a hub of cultural sits in, starting with one on Ghalib’s on the poet’s birth anniversary on December 27. “ I believe that time has come for the Jama Masjid restaurants to reinvent themselves. Many youngsters of the walled city who are opening new eateries and cafes are well- travelled and educated, and they realize this,” says Raahi.The area is witnessing not just new restaurants, but many old restaurants are either redeveloping themselves or opening their new outlets, with focus on décor. Aslam Chicken, famed for its chicken tikka all over Delhi, for exampling, is building its new restaurant in the area with a trendy ambience.Besides, Arshad Ali Fehmi, who started the famed The Walled City, a rooftop café and restaurant is now is opening another restaurant. “We are opening a new contemporary multi-cuisine restaurant, where you can relish both the Mughlai and the Mexican dishes in great comfort and convenience,” says Fehmi. “I believe that Jama Masjid has a great potential to become a restaurant and café hub. The government should now clean up and decongest the area like they did Chandni Chowk.”Abu Sufiyan, who runs Purani Dilli Walo Ki Baatein, a digital platform that promotes the history, culture and cuisine of the walled city, says the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk has made local youngsters change their perception about the area. “It has promoted a sense of belonging and pride and opened up new hospitality and tourism-related business opportunities. They believe cafes have strong social and cultural connect and are a good business opportunity, too. At least about a dozen new cafés and restaurants are set to open in the coming few months,” says Sufiyan.He adds that the new cafes are marking a shift in the social life of the walled city. “People in old Delhi have always liked to hang out late in the night. But unlike in the past when they sat outside shops, they now like to come together in the cafes and restaurants, which is also fuelling the growth of such outlets in the area,” Sufiyan says.Rajeev Goyal, a chef and founder of India Food Tourism Organisation, a non-profit that works to promote food tourism in the country, says there is a need to develop a food tourism ecosystem in the area, where cleanliness and congestion continue to be big issues. “But yes, all these new ventures will help Jama Masjid area realize its huge potential as a food tourism destination,” he says.
06-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Sub-inspector claims station chief sought bribe for posting||A Delhi Police sub-inspector posted at a police station in south Delhi has accused the station house officer (SHO) of asking for money before assigning him a post within the station area.The sub inspector recorded his complaint and noted it in the station’s general diary (GD). The GD is a legal document inside each station where every incident that happens within the police station’s jurisdiction has to be entered. The GD also contains details of where each police officer has been during the day.On Sunday, a photo of the sub-inspector’s notes on the GD was widely circulated on social media groups.HT is not naming the police station or the officer accused in the complaint, as the allegations are yet to be substantiated.In a statement, DCP (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said police have noted the allegations mentioned in the GD and are looking into it.In the GD, the sub inspector noted on Saturday that on joining the station on November 26, after being transferred, the station head (inspector) asked him money to post him to a division within the station jurisdiction area.He has also alleged that when he said he was unable to pay the money, he was forced to work continuously for 13 hours every day and was not allowed to take leave from duty. Along with the station head, the sub inspector has also called out three officers for advising him to pay the station head, if he wanted a better posting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisubinspector-claims-station-chief-sought-bribe-for-posting-101638725554313.html
06-12-2021||World||Biden considering sanctions on Putin's inner circle, Russian energy producers||The Biden administration is considering sanctions on President Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Russian energy producers, as well as disconnecting Russia from the SWIFT payment system, to deter Moscow from "invading" Ukraine, CNN reported on Monday."We have put together a pretty damn aggressive package," an official familiar with the situation said.The report comes just a day before the two leaders are set to meet in a video call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-considering-sanctions-on-putin-s-inner-circle-russian-energy-producers-101638813771260.html
06-12-2021||World||France holds off on tougher Covid rules despite sharp surge in cases: Report||French officials have decided to hold off imposing stricter measures to counter a sharp rise in Covid infections that has seen several hospitals announce emergency protocols as beds fill up, a government source told AFP on Monday.Social distancing and wearing of face masks will be extended in schools as cases soar in particular among children, the source said after President Emmanuel Macron's cabinet met to discuss the fifth wave of infections.But France will not shut schools early for the Christmas holidays, as in Belgium, or impose tougher rules as other European countries have done in recent days.Prime Minister Jean Castex, who emerged last week from quarantine after contracting Covid, and Health Minister Olivier Veran are due to hold a press conference on the crisis.They will emphasise the need for widespread vaccination and booster shots for those who have already had the jabs, and encourage working from home to avoid the need for curfews or travel restrictions ahead of the holidays, the source said.Vaccinations of children aged 5 to 12 might also be opened, though France's health advisory body has yet to render its decision on the move."By being vigilant and responsible, we have the means of spending Christmas together," government spokesman Gabriel Attal told the Parisien newspaper on Sunday.But appointments for vaccinations are proving hard to obtain in Paris and other large cities amid the rush for boosters, according to the Doctolib reservation site.Some 10 million people have already had the booster jabs.France has confirmed only 25 cases of the new Omicron variant but officials say the number could jump significantly in the coming weeks.On Sunday, the health ministry reported more than 42,000 cases in the previous 24 hours, and more than 11,000 patients in hospital -- the highest number since August -- with 2,000 in intensive care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-holds-off-on-tougher-covid-rules-despite-sharp-surge-in-cases-report-101638812250350.html
06-12-2021||World||Challenges have overpowered vast opportunities in Sino-India ties: Misri tells Chinese FM||Challenges have overpowered the vast opportunities available in Sino-India ties, outgoing Indian envoy Vikram Misri told state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi on Monday, adding, however, that he hopes that the two sides will be able resolve the difficulties through engagement.Referring to the ongoing military friction in eastern Ladakh, Misri said he hoped that a “complete resolution” will be possible soon under the guiding framework provided by Wang and India’s external affairs minister, S Jaishankar.Misri, who is returning to New Delhi later this month, spoke to Wang during a farewell call held via video link.Misri said bilateral relations comprised both opportunities and challenges, and “certain challenges since last year had overpowered the vast opportunities in the relationship”, according to a statement issued by the Indian embassy in Beijing.The challenges and difficulties can be overcome through engagement, Misri said.Misri told Wang that he was hopeful that with “continued communication at all levels - political, diplomatic and military, the two sides would be able to resolve the current difficulties and take the relationship forward in a positive direction”.The Indian ambassador highlighted the role played by Jaishankar and Wang “in issuing appropriate guidance to achieve full and complete resolution of the current issues at India-China border areas”.Misri said he hoped that “complete resolution of these issues as per the understanding between the two foreign ministers would be achieved soon, which in turn would help relations to return towards normalisation, which was the common goal of both sides”.Wang, on his part, said he shared Misri’s “belief that the commonalities far outweighed the differences in our bilateral relations, and expressed confidence that our relations would be able to make progress in the future.”The tenure of Misri, who took over as ambassador in January, 2019, has been marked by the ongoing Sino-India friction along the LAC in eastern Ladakh.Indian and Chinese militaries have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May, 2020, when a violent clash in Pangong lake area led to both sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border. Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now.Soldiers were killed on both sides in a brutal fight on the night of June 15 at Galwan Valley.India has repeatedly and consistently rejected China’s allegations that Indian troops crossed over to the Chinese side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh, asserting that New Delhi has always taken a responsible approach towards border management and maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas.In September, Misri urged China to separate the ongoing border tension in eastern Ladakh from the larger boundary dispute, saying the primary concern was to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC and not resolving the decades-long boundary disagreement.Speaking at a virtual India-China track-II dialogue last week, Misri said day-to-day affairs along the disputed border should be addressed through existing established agreements and protocols, which are not to be confused with the long-term mechanisms in place for the final resolution.“A serious violation of peace and tranquillity in the border areas naturally requires us to apply our minds on the basis of established agreements, protocols and mechanisms to resolve it,” Misri told the gathering by video link.“As we do so, any attempt to confuse border affairs with the Boundary Question is a disservice to the work of those involved in finding solutions,” he said, indicating that China was doing so by “shifting goalposts”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/challenges-have-overpowered-vast-opportunities-in-sino-india-ties-misri-tells-chinese-fm-101638812329221.html
06-12-2021||World||Sialkot lynching: Remains of Sri Lankan national brought to Colombo||The mortal remains of a Sri Lankan national, who was lynched by a mob in Pakistan over allegations of blasphemy, were brought to Colombo on Monday, even as authorities in the Pakistani province of Punjab arrested more suspects involved in the grisly incident.The wooden coffin carrying the remains was brought to Sri Lanka from Lahore’s Allama Iqbal International Airport on a Sri Lankan Airlines flight. “Human remains of late Don Nandasri P Kumara Diyawadanage. From Lahore to Colombo” was transcribed on the coffin.Also Read | 'Murders take place when... ': Pakistan defence minister on Sialkot lynchingThe remains of Kumara were brought to Colombo from Lahore on a special SriLankan Airlines flight at state cost. The remains were received by the next-of-kin at the Bandaranaike International Airport here, officials said.From the Colombo international airport, the remains were sent to the nearby Negombo hospital for the legal proceedings, officials said.A mob of over 800 men, including supporters of hardline Islamist party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), attacked a garment factory and lynched its general manager Priyantha Kumara and set him on fire over allegations of blasphemy on Friday last in Sialkot district, some 100 km from Lahore.Earlier, the remains were brought to the Lahore airport in an ambulance where Punjab Minister for Minority Affairs Ejaz Alam Augustine handed over the coffin to the Sri Lanka High Commission officials. The body was transported on the Sri Lankan Airlines flight.He is survived by his wife and two sons aged 14 and 9.Nilushi Kumara, the widow of the Sri Lankan export manager, has appealed to the Pakistani government for justice and compensation over her husband’s killing and urged for the safety of all Sri Lankans on Pakistani soil.Speaking to reporters this morning, she refuted the claim that her husband could have done any act to upset the religious sentiments in Pakistan.She described her husband as an innocent individual who cared for his employees and colleagues. He respected the Pakistani laws and lived as a peace-loving citizen. He also respected all religious views."My husband lived in Pakistan for 11 years, and he never once complained about the people or his colleagues there” she said.The funeral arrangements are to be notified later, family sources said.Meanwhile, Pakistan's Punjab Police claimed to have arrested seven more prime suspects allegedly involved in the lynching of 49-year-old Kumara.Also Read | Dozens held after mob kills Sri Lanka national in Pakistan"A total 131 suspects, including 26 main ones, have been arrested so far. The 26 prime suspects have played a key role in inciting the people, lynching Kumara and setting his body ablaze,” the Punjab Police tweeted on Monday.Some 15 prime suspects were presented before the Anti-Terrorism Court Gujranwala on Monday where they were remanded in police custody for 15 days.According to police, after brutally killing Kumara, the mob also wanted to kill the factory owner and set the building on fire.Kumara was working as general manager in Rajko industries, which deals in sportswear, for the last seven years.The horrific incident sparked outrage across Pakistan with all sections of the society condemning it and calling for the culprits to be punished.Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday announced Tamgha-i-Shujaat (civil award for bravery) for the victim’s colleague, Malik Adnan, who tried to rescue him from the mob.Also Read | Sialkot lynching: Pak govt to honour man who tried to shield victimThe CCTV footage showed production manager Adnan, confronting a group of angry men all by himself and making desperate attempts to avert the flare-up and then trying to shield Kumara from the mob.The mob later overpowered Adnan and dragged Kumara out on the road and tortured him with kicks, stones and iron rods, killing him on the spot. The mob had then set the body on fire over allegations of blasphemy.According to the post-mortem report, nearly all bones of Kumara were broken and his body was 99 per cent burnt in the horrific lynching incident.Kumara had gone to Pakistan in 2011 after he got a job as a mechanical engineer at an apparel factory in Faisalabad. After a year, he joined Sialkot’s Rajco Industries as its general manager and was the only Sri Lankan national working in the factory.The Sri Lankan Parliament, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa have condemned the brutal killing and has expressed hope that Pakistan Prime Minister Khan's government would bring the guilty to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sialkot-lynching-remains-of-sri-lankan-national-brought-to-colombo-101638809581443.html
06-12-2021||World||New York City imposes vaccine mandate on private sector employers||All private employers in New York City will have to require their workers to get vaccinated against Covid-19, the mayor announced Monday, imposing one of the most aggressive vaccine rules in the nation.The move by Mayor Bill de Blasio comes as cases are climbing again in the US and the worrisome omicron variant is gaining a toehold in New York and elsewhere around the country.“We in New York City have decided to use a preemptive strike to really do something bold to stop the further growth of Covid-19 and the dangers it’s causing to all of us,” he said.De Blasio, a Democrat with just weeks left in office as leader of the nation's largest city, said the mandate will take effect Dec. 27.Speaking on MSNBC's “Morning Joe,” he said the move is aimed at staving off a spike of infections amid holiday gatherings and as cold weather drives more people indoors, where the virus is more likely to spread.Vaccine mandates across states and cities vary widely, with some states resisting any mandates and others requiring the shots for government employees or certain sectors that run a particularly high risk, such as health care workers.But most officials have not announced mandates reaching as far into the private sector, nor mandates covering so many people.President Joe Biden sought to impose a similar mandate nationally, applying to businesses with 100 or more workers, but federal courts have put that on hold ahead of a Jan. 4 deadline.De Blasio said he expects his new mandate to survive any legal challenges. A spokesperson for the mayor said it will apply to roughly 184,000 businesses in the city, which has a population of 8.8 million.Vaccinations are already required for hospital and nursing home workers and for city employees, including teachers, police officers and firefighters. A vaccination mandate for employees of private and religious schools was announced last week.Also, the mayor announced that anyone 12 or older who wants to dine indoors at a restaurant, go to a gym or see a show will have to produce proof of receiving two shots of the vaccine, up from the current requirement of one dose. In addition, proof of at least one shot will be required of children ages 5 to 11, de Blasio said.De Blasio, who leaves office at the end of the month and has indicated he may seek the nomination for governor of New York next year, has sought to portray himself as a national leader in the fight against Covid-19.The mandate takes effect days before de Blasio leaves office and Democrat Eric Adams is due to be sworn into office. Evan Thies, a spokesman for Adams, said in a statement that the mayor-elect "will evaluate this mandate and other Covid-19 strategies when he is in office and make determinations based on science, efficacy and the advice of health professionals.”Republican Rep. Lee Zeldin of Long Island, who is seeking the GOP nomination for governor, called the newly announced vaccine requirement a “job-killing, small business-suppressing mandate.”“When you dangerously combine a far-left, lame duck politician, who is anti-business, one-dimensional, unaccountable, not bright and has a perpetual ‘I always know best’ attitude,' you get Bill de Blasio, the Worst Mayor in America,” Zeldin said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-imposes-vaccine-mandate-on-private-sector-employers-101638805771275.html
06-12-2021||World||Myanmar junta halves Aung San Suu Kyi's jail term||Myanmar's junta chief reduced the prison sentence of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi to two years on Monday, after she was jailed for four years for incitement against the military and breaching Covid rules.Suu Kyi, 76, has been detained since the generals staged a coup and ousted her government on February 1, ending the Southeast Asian country's brief period of democracy.She has since been hit with a series of charges, including violating the official secrets act, illegally importing walkie talkies and electoral fraud, and faces decades in prison.On Monday Suu Kyi was sentenced to two years for incitement against the military and another two years for breaching a natural disaster law relating to Covid, junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun told AFP by phone.Former president Win Myint was also initially jailed for four years on the same charges, which the US later blasted as an "affront" to justice.Junta chief Min Aung Hlaing later "pardoned" the sentences of both to "two years imprisonment", according to a statement read out on state TV.They would serve their sentences under the house arrest they have been kept under in the capital of Naypyidaw, the statement said, without giving further details.On Monday evening residents in parts of commercial capital Yangon banged pots and pans -- a practice traditionally associated with driving out evil spirits but which has been used since February to show dissent against the military.Suu Kyi's incitement conviction related to statements her National League for Democracy party published shortly after the coup condemning the generals' takeover.The Covid charge is linked to last year's election, which the NLD won in a landslide, but the details are not clear with the government imposing a gag order on the court proceedings.Journalists have been barred from attending the special court hearings in Naypyidaw and Suu Kyi's lawyers were recently banned from speaking to the media.In recent weeks, other senior members of the NLD have received long sentences.A former chief minister was sentenced to 75 years in jail, while a close Suu Kyi aide was jailed for 20.Suu Kyi also faces multiple corruption charges -- each of which carries a possible sentence of 15 years in prison.Monday's verdict was on "the soft charges which the regime could have spared her, but chose not to," independent analyst Soe Myint Aung, told AFP."The military seems to have doubled down on its highly oppressive approach toward the NLD and Aung San Suu Kyi herself."- 'Stage managed' -The pardon was "more stage managed than even the sentencing itself," International Crisis Group's Myanmar senior advisor Richard Horsey told AFP."If it was an attempt at magnanimity, it has fallen flat."Amnesty International immediately condemned the original sentences against Suu Kyi."The harsh sentences handed down to Aung San Suu Kyi on these bogus charges are the latest example of the military's determination to eliminate all opposition and suffocate freedoms in Myanmar," said Amnesty deputy regional director for Campaigns Ming Yu Hah.UN rights chief Michelle Bachelet said the conviction "following a sham trial in secretive proceedings before a military-controlled court is nothing but politically-motivated".UK foreign minister Liz Truss slammed the sentence, adding "the arbitrary detention of elected politicians only risks further unrest".The military, which has dominated life in Myanmar for decades, has defended its coup, claiming fraud allegations in last year's general election.International pressure on the junta to restore democracy swiftly has shown no sign of knocking the generals off course, and bloody clashes with anti-coup protesters continue across the country.On Sunday soldiers in Yangon wounded at least three people after ramming a car into peaceful demonstrators, some of whom were carrying pro Suu Kyi banners, eyewitnesses said.State media said one had sustained serious wounds and 11 had been arrested for protesting "without asking for permission".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-halves-aung-san-suu-kyi-s-jail-term-101638805023117.html
06-12-2021||World||Pakistan bans travel from 15 countries amid looming Omicron threat||Pakistan on Monday banned travel from 15 countries, except under certain conditions, and tightened up travel restrictions on 13 other countries in wake of the threat of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron.The National Command and Operation Center, the top anti-coronavirus body, reviewed the prevalent Covid-19 situation across the globe in order to revise the policy for categorisation of air travel.According to a NCOC statement, the meeting revised categories based on disease profile and health protocols applicable to travellers from different countries, which have been placed in three categories, including A, B and C.Category ‘C’ included 15 countries: Croatia, Hungary, Netherlands, Ukraine, Ireland, Slovenia, Vietnam, Poland, South Africa, Mozambique, Lesotho, Eswatini, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Namibia."Complete ban on inbound travel from Category C countries" has been imposed but essential travel from these countries would necessitate obtaining exemption certificate from the exemption committee, according to the statement.The exemption committee would allow travel only with 100 per cent vaccination for all inbound passengers and those above six would be required to be in possession of a negative PCR test report (max 48 hours old) before boarding.However, deportees are exempted from PCR test report requirement.All travellers of above six years would undergo RAT on arrival at the airport even if travelling via direct or indirect flights from Cat ‘C’ countries. RAT negative cases will be allowed to proceed.However, RAT negative cases from Omicron variant countries (South Africa, Mozambique, Lesotho, Eswatini, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Namibia) will have to undergo 3 days mandatory quarantine followed by PCR test to be conducted on the third day by civil administration. RAT positive cases will be quarantined for 10 days.The NCOC placed Germany, Trinidad and Tobago, Azerbaijan, Mexico, Sri Lanka, Russia, the US, the UK, Thailand, France, Austria, Afghanistan and Turkey in category B. The travellers from these countries should be 100 per cent vaccinated.All passengers of six years and above would be required to be in possession of a negative PCR test report (max 48 hours old) before boarding, but deportees are exempted from PCR test requirement.RAT of random flights will be conducted at the airport on arrival from Category ‘B’ countries. RAT negative cases will be allowed to proceed but RAT positive cases will be quarantined for 10 days.All other countries not included in Category ‘C’ and ‘B’ were placed in Category ‘A’. The travellers should be 100 per cent vaccinated. All those six and above years should be in possession of a negative PCR test report (max 48 hours old) before boarding. But deportees are exempted from PCR test requirements.All Pakistanis can travel from Category 'C' countries without exemption till 15 December but testing protocols would be mandatory on arrival.Meanwhile, Pakistan reported 336 new cases and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the number of confirmed cases to 1,287,161 and Covid-19 toll to 28,777, according to the Ministry of National Health Services.So far 1,246,464 people have recovered but some 862 were still in a critical condition.Pakistan has fully vaccinated over 52 million people while about 82 million were partially vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-bans-travel-from-15-countries-amid-looming-omicron-threat-101638802311721.html
06-12-2021||World||Scientist behind AstraZeneca Covid vaccine bats for pandemic preparedness, says next virus could be more lethal||One of the scientists behind the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine is warning that the next pandemic may be more contagious and more lethal unless more money is devoted to research and preparations to fight emerging viral threats.In excerpts released before a speech Monday, Professor Sarah Gilbert says the scientific advances made in fighting deadly viruses “must not be lost” because of the cost of fighting the current pandemic.“This will not be the last time a virus threatens our lives and our livelihoods,’’ Gilbert is expected to say. “The truth is, the next one could be worse. It could be more contagious, or more lethal, or both.”Gilbert is scheduled to make the remarks Monday night when she delivers this year’s Richard Dimbleby lecture, named after the late broadcaster who was the BBC’s first war correspondent and a pioneer of television news in Britain. The annual televised lecture features addresses by influential figures in business, science and government.Gilbert is set to call on governments to redouble their commitment to scientific research and pandemic preparedness, even after the threat of Covid-19 wanes.“We cannot allow a situation where we have gone through all we have gone through, and then find that the enormous economic losses we have sustained mean that there is still no funding for pandemic preparedness,’’ she said. “The advances we have made, and the knowledge we have gained, must not be lost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientist-behind-astrazeneca-covid-vaccine-bats-for-pandemic-preparedness-says-next-virus-could-be-more-lethal-101638793744359.html
06-12-2021||World||China’s Xi calls for sinicisation of religion||China is set to tighten control over religions practised in the country after President Xi Jinping stressed on the “sinicisation” of faith and uniting “believers” around the Communist Party and socialist values at a conference held in Beijing last week.“China must adhere to the direction of the sinicisation of religion, insist on uniting the masses of religious believers around the party and the government,” Xi said.Religions in China should be developed in the Chinese context and active guidance should be provided for the adaptation of religions to the socialist society, he said.Xi spoke during a two-day national conference on work related to religious affairs held in Beijing from Friday to Saturday. A similar conference was last held in 2016, giving direction to China’s policies on religion for the next five years.Similarly, last week’s high-level conference is expected to set the parameters on how China’s religious affairs will be developed in the next few years.Xi’s call for sinicisation of religions, which essentially means moulding religions according to Chinese socialist norms, comes against the backdrop of accusations that the government is oppressing Muslims and Buddhists in Xinjiang and Tibet respectively, and intermittently cracking down on Christianity, said to be the fastest developing religion in China.“Efforts should be made to keep enhancing the recognition of the motherland, the Chinese nation, the Chinese culture, the CPC and socialism with Chinese characteristics among religious personages and believers,” Xi said at the conference.“Religious activities should be carried out within the scope stipulated by laws and regulations, and should not impair the health of citizens, offend public order and good morals, interfere with educational, judicial and administrative affairs as well as social life,” he said.Xi highlighted the importance of adopting a holistic view of national security in religious work, and of “strengthening the management of online religious affairs”, which, according to the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post (SCMP), is a step up from a 2018 regulation that restricted the distribution of religious information online.China officially recognises five religions: Buddhism, Catholicism, Protestantism, Taoism and Islam. The country’s Constitution guarantees religious freedom, which is protected by law but in reality the freedom to practise religion is severely restricted.In 2018, China released a “white paper” religion, directing the religious groups to support the leadership of the CPC and be subordinate to the interests of the nation and its peopleThe white paper titled China’s Policies and Practices on Protecting Freedom of Religious Belief said the country’s 200 million believers should be “actively guiding religions in adapting to the socialist society”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-xi-calls-for-sinicisation-of-religion-101638792947103.html
06-12-2021||World||British Airways to become first airline to use sustainable fuel produced in UK||British Airways will become the first airline to use sustainable aviation fuel produced on a commercial scale in the UK after signing a multi-year agreement with Phillips 66 Limited."Thousands of tonnes of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) will be produced for the first time in the UK at the Phillips 66 Humber Refinery near Immingham and will be supplied to British Airways to power a number of its flights from early 2022," British Airways said in a statement.SAF is a lower carbon-intensity fuel that can be produced from renewable feedstocks such as waste vegetable oils, fats and greases.According to the statement, the supply agreement between British Airways and Phillips 66 Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of diversified energy manufacturing and logistics company Phillips 66, advances both companies' commitments to a lower-carbon future.The airline, which is driving to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, will purchase enough sustainable fuel to reduce lifecycle CO2 emissions by almost 100,000 tonnes, the equivalent of powering 700 net zero CO2 emissions flights between London and New York on its fuel-efficient Boeing 787 aircraft, read the statementThe SAF will be produced from sustainable waste feedstock at the Humber Refinery, which will deliver its SAF supply to British Airways via existing pipeline infrastructure that feeds directly into UK airports.Sean Doyle, British Airways' Chairman and Chief Executive, said, "This agreement marks another important step on our journey to net zero carbon emissions and forms part of our commitment, as part of International Airlines Group, to power 10% of flights with SAF by 2030."The UK has the resources and capabilities to be a global leader in the development of SAF and scaling up the production of SAF requires a truly collaborative approach between industry and government," Doyle said."We are excited to develop our relationship with Phillips 66 Limited further with a view to growing production capacity and using a wider range of sustainable waste feedstocks to supply our future flights. The development of sustainable aviation fuel is a major focus for us and forms part of our commitment to achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 through a series of short-, medium- and long-term initiatives," Doyle added.The airline's parent company, International Airlines Group (IAG), is investing USD 400 million over the next 20 years into the development of SAF and British Airways has existing partnerships with a number of technology and fuel companies to develop SAF plants and purchase the fuel. SAF can reduce lifecycle carbon emissions by over 80 per cent compared to the traditional jet fuel it replaces.Humber Refinery General Manager Darren Cunningham, the Lead Executive for Phillips 66 in the UK, said the announcement reflects the importance the aviation and energy industries are placing on sustainability and the continued development, adoption and scaling up of sustainable aviation fuel."The Humber Refinery was the first in the UK to co-process waste oils to produce renewable fuels and now we will be the first to produce SAF at scale, and we are delighted British Airways is our first UK customer," Cunningham said."We're currently refining almost half a million litres of sustainable waste feedstocks a day, and this is just a start. Markets for lower-carbon products are growing, and this agreement demonstrates our ability to supply them," Cunningham added.Last year Phillips 66 Limited invested significantly to expand its production of fuels from waste feedstocks. The investment is part of a broader energy transition plan to reduce the carbon intensity of its refinery operations and products that support 1,000 Humber Refinery jobs, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-airways-to-become-first-airline-to-use-sustainable-fuel-produced-in-uk-101638775131463.html
06-12-2021||World||'Tone-deaf', 'disgraceful': Families of shooting victims slam US congressman for Christmas photo with guns||A US congressman is facing a backlash after he posted a photo with his family, smiling and posing with an assortment of guns while standing in front of a Christmas tree. The photo was posted with a caption reading: "Merry Christmas! ps. Santa, please bring ammo."Merry Christmas! 🎄 ps. Santa, please bring ammo. 🎁 pic.twitter.com/NVawULhCNrThis comes just days after the US saw its deadliest school shooting of this year. Four students were killed and several others were injured, including a teacher, after a 15-year-old opened fire at a Michigan high school on November 30.The photo posted by Thomas Massie, a representative for the staunchly Republican state of Kentucky, on Twitter triggered a swift outcry, with parents of school shooting victims accusing him of being insensitive.Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter was killed in 2018 in the Parkland school shooting in Florida, also hit out at the Republican for posing with the ammunition. Tagging Massie, Fred Guttenberg wrote, “Since we are sharing family photos, here are mine. One is the last photo that I ever took of Jaime, the other is where she is buried because of the Parkland school shooting. The Michigan school shooter and his family used to take photos like yours as well.".@RepThomasMassie, since we are sharing family photos, here are mine. One is the last photo that I ever took of Jaime, the other is where she is buried because of the Parkland school shooting.The Michigan school shooter and his family used to take photos like yours as well. pic.twitter.com/MsQWneJXApHe also attached a photo of his daughter in the post.John Yarmuth, a Democratic congressman from Kentucky, also slammed Massie and called the post "disgraceful." He also said that such messages from pro-gun Republicans "openly rub the murder of children in our faces like they scored a touchdown."Massie's post drew criticism from some Republicans as well, as Adam Kinzinger, congressman for Illinois, tweeted that he supported US gun rights, but "this isn't supporting the right to keep and bear arms, this is a gun fetish."Anthony Scaramucci, who served briefly as the communication director for former president Donald Trump, said he would fund any potential candidates running against Massie in next year's congressional elections.In midst of this, Massie also retweeted messages in support of the post, after which Twitter users called the leader "tone-deaf."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tonedeaf-disgraceful-families-of-shooting-victims-slam-us-congressman-for-christmas-photo-with-guns-101638773878380.html
06-12-2021||World||SMS warnings, passport seizure: Highlights of UK government's plan to check drug menace||The Boris Johnson government in the United Kingdom is set to unveil a set of tough measures today against tackling the drug menace in the country. UK home secretary Priti Patel has called drugs a “scourge on our society”.The 10-year plan against drug crime will take on kingpins and dismantle 2,000 more “county line” supplies, Daily Mail reported.With the implementation of the new law, the UK government will publish “crime scorecards” designed to identify weaknesses in tackling a string of offences.Drug testing will be expanded and advertising campaigns placed in university campuses warning students that drugs harm lives.With increased funding to arm the police with more tools to check the spread of drugs and catch the offenders, Prime Minister Johnson issued a warning to ‘lifestyle’ users whose cash keeps the industry afloat.One of the surprising moves will be to send middle-class drug users text message warnings from the police. The new tactics will see detectives directly contact the phones of users whose numbers are found on dealers’ mobiles, Daily Mail reported.Additional powers will also be introduced to allow authorities to seize passports and driving licenses of repeat offenders.Home secretary Priti Patel, in an article in Daily Mail, said that such repeat offenders could also be placed under home curfew.She said that almost 3,000 people died in England and Wales last year from drug misuse - more than knife crime and road accident fatalities combined.“Drugs are a major driver of crime. Abusers steal to fuel their habit and the substances are a major factor in murder and other violent offences,” said Patel, adding that as home secretary, she will not stand by while such dehumanising exploitation and criminality takes places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sms-warnings-passport-seizure-uk-govt-set-to-unveil-10-year-drugs-plan-101638770721324.html
06-12-2021||World||Myanmar's ousted leader Suu Kyi jailed for 4 years: Junta spokesperson||Myanmar's junta jailed ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Monday for four years for incitement against the military and breaching Covid rules, a government spokesman told AFP, the first of a series of possible sentences that could see the Nobel laureate imprisoned for decades.Suu Kyi, 76, has been detained since the generals staged a coup and ousted her government on February 1, ending the Southeast Asian country's brief period of democracy.She has since been hit with a series of charges, including violating the official secrets act, corruption and electoral fraud, and she faces decades in jail if convicted on all counts.On Monday Suu Kyi was sentenced to two years for incitement against the military and another two years for breaching a natural disaster law relating to Covid, junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun told AFP by phone.Former president Win Myint was also jailed for four years on the same charges, he said, but added they would not yet be taken to prison."They will face other charges from the places where they are staying now", he added, referring to their detention in the capital of Naypyidaw but without giving further details.The incitement conviction related to statements her National League for Democracy party published shortly after the coup condemning the generals' takeover.The Covid charge is linked to last year's election, which the NLD won in a landslide, but the details are not clear with the government imposing a gag order on the court proceedings.Journalists have been barred from attending the special court hearings in Naypyidaw and Suu Kyi's lawyers were recently banned from speaking to the media.In recent weeks, other senior members of the NLD have received long sentences.A former chief minister was sentenced to 75 years in jail this month, while a close Suu Kyi aide was jailed for 20.'Retribution'Amnesty International immediately condemned the sentences against Suu Kyi."The harsh sentences handed down to Aung San Suu Kyi on these bogus charges are the latest example of the military's determination to eliminate all opposition and suffocate freedoms in Myanmar," said Amnesty deputy regional director for Campaigns Ming Yu Hah."The court's farcical and corrupt decision is part of a devastating pattern of arbitrary punishment that has seen more than 1,300 people killed and thousands arrested since the military coup in February."International Crisis Group's Myanmar senior advisor Richard Horsey also told AFP the sentences "were about retribution and a show of power by the military"."It would be surprising, though, if she were sent to prison. More likely, she'll serve out this and subsequent terms at her house or a regime 'guest house'."The military, which has dominated life in Myanmar for decades, has defended its coup, claiming fraud allegations in last year's general election.International pressure on the junta to restore democracy swiftly has shown no sign of knocking the generals off course, and bloody clashes with anti-coup protesters continue across the country.On Sunday soldiers wounded at least three people after ramming a car into a peaceful demonstrators in commercial hub Yangon, eyewitnesses said.State media said one had sustained serious wounds and 11 had been arrested for protesting "without asking for permission".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmars-ousted-leader-aung-san-suu-kyi-jailed-for-4-years-junta-spokesperson-101638770250161.html
06-12-2021||World||Tributes pour in for late veteran US lawmaker Bob Dole; 'Will miss my friend' says President Biden||Tributes poured in and flags were lowered to half-staff in honor of veteran US lawmaker and World War II hero Bob Dole, who died in his sleep on Sunday aged 98.President Joe Biden led a chorus of political tributes to Dole and his 35-year career in Congress, paying respect to "an American statesman like few in our history."He was "a war hero and among the greatest of the Greatest Generation," Biden said in his statement. "And to me, he was also a friend whom I could look to for trusted guidance, or a humorous line at just the right moment to settle frayed nerves. I will miss my friend."A conservative Republican who campaigned for reining in government, Dole also had a pragmatic streak and sponsored bipartisan legislation during his tenure at the US Capitol.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ordered flags flown at half-staff at the building in his honor, while Biden mandated the same for the White House, federal grounds and military posts through Thursday.Calling Dole "a man of his word," Pelosi said the United States had lost "a towering leader who embodied courage and excellence in public service."Republican Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell issued a statement saying he joined "the nation in mourning Bob Dole, our good friend and a bona fide American hero.""Whatever their politics, anyone who saw Bob Dole in action had to admire his character and his profound patriotism," he added.No details were initially provided, but the longtime senator had disclosed in February that he was being treated for stage four lung cancer.In a statement, his family offered thanks "for the outpouring of love over the last year."It added: "America has lost one of its heroes; our family has lost its rock. We will smile as we recall his gifted sense of humor. We will take comfort from the extraordinary moments of our lifetimes together."'Country over party' Dole, born in 1923 in Kansas, was elected to the US Senate in 1968 and was re-elected in 1974, 1980, 1986 and 1992, serving both as Senate majority and minority leader over the years.In 1976, Dole was tapped by Gerald Ford to be his vice presidential candidate, but the Republican ticket lost to Democrats Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale.Twenty years later, Dole lost the White House race to Democrat Bill Clinton."When I think of the greatest generation, I think of Senator Bob Dole -- a man who dedicated his life to serving our country. Rest In Peace, my friend," tweeted Senator Mitt Romney, also a former Republican presidential candidate.Former president Donald Trump said in a statement that Dole was "an American war hero and true patriot for our Nation. He served the Great State of Kansas with honor and the Republican Party was made stronger by his service."Trump's predecessor Barack Obama said on Twitter that Dole was "a war hero, a political leader, and a statesman" whose generation placed "country over party."On Twitter, former House speaker Newt Gingrich called Dole "a unique American figure whose courage, dedication, endurance and patriotism made him worthy of study and emulation."‘Courage on the battlefield’Dole has long been praised for his military service. He enlisted as an officer in the US Army and in April 1945 was grievously wounded in the back and right arm by machine gun fire during fighting against German troops in Italy.He was hospitalized for more than three years, and the wounds left him with a shriveled right arm that ended his childhood hopes of being an athlete or a doctor.Dole "made life better for generations of Americans -- past and present," Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said in a statement.Democratic Senator Bernie Sanders also sent condolences, saying, "Bob Dole served his country with courage on the battlefield, and with dignity in the Senate."Social media tributes recalled how he insisted on standing, held up by an aide, to salute the casket of former president George H.W. Bush -- who also served in World War II -- at his funeral in 2018.Dole is survived by his daughter Robin, and his second wife, Elizabeth Dole, who herself had a distinguished political career, serving as US secretary of transportation, secretary of labor and senator from North Carolina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tributes-pour-in-for-late-veteran-us-lawmaker-bob-dole-will-miss-my-friend-says-president-biden-101638766325783.html
06-12-2021||World||'Murders take place when young people get emotional': Pakistan defence minister on Sialkot lynching||Amid outrage over the mob lynching of a Sri Lankan man in Pakistan, defence minister Pervez Khattak said that the case should not be linked with the government's decision to lift the ban on Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), a radical party that staged massive anti-France protests, local media reported.Speaking on the same, the defence minister also suggested that "murders take place when young people get emotional", according to a report in The Dawn.The defence minister made the comments while he was responding to a reporter during a press interaction on Sunday in Peshawar. The reporter had asked whether the Pakistan government -led by Imran Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaf, is considering an "effective crackdown" against groups like TLP.A factory manager, Priyantha Kumara Diyawadana was lynched by a mob in Sialkot on Friday. He was accused of blasphemy. Later the mob burned his body. Several gruesome video clips shared on social media showed a mob beating the victim while chanting slogans against blasphemy.The incident sparked a countrywide rage and condemnation with Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan calling it "a day of shame" for the country. The killing has been linked with the members of TLP, however, the group has distanced itself from the incident."You know the reasons [behind this incident] too. When children ... grow up, they become spirited and do things out of emotions," Khattar told the journalist. "This does not mean 'this was the result of that action'," he also said, adding, "in Sialkot too some young men had gathered and accused Kumara of disrespecting Islam, which led to the "sudden" lynching, as per the Dawn report.Khattak continued and said, even he could do something wrong in a state of heightened emotions, and such incidents did not mean "Pakistan is going towards destruction."Khattak also said boys entering adulthood are "ready to do anything" and learn with age how to control their emotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/murders-take-place-when-young-people-get-emotional-pakistan-defence-minister-101638764915254.html
06-12-2021||World||Taliban-ruled Afghanistan on brink of ‘horrific’ mass starvation as harsh winter sets in||After nearly four months since the Taliban seized power in Afghanistan, the war-torn country is on brink of mass starvation as more than half the population face acute hunger amid freezing temperatures. The United Nations World Food Program said in a report that Afghanistan’s economy has been in freefall since the Taliban took control of the country after ousting the Western-backed government.The economic crisis and limited availability of cash have created a new class of hungry as, for the first time, urban residents are facing food insecurity at similar rates to rural communities, according to the UN agency. WFP chief David Beasley, who recently visited Afghanistan, said his team is in a “race against time” to avert a humanitarian catastrophe in the country.“What’s happening in Afghanistan is just horrific,” said Beasley. “I met families with no jobs, no cash and no food, mothers who sold one child to feed another, and the lucky children who made it to the hospital. The world cannot turn its back as the Afghan people starve.”West hits out at Taliban over ‘summary killings’, enforced disappearances in AfghanistanAs harsh winter sets in, humanitarian organizations have warned that a million children could lose their lives. The New York Times reported that the food insecurity and impending mass starvation could be potentially damning for the new Taliban government as well the United States which has imposed economic restrictions while it measures the actions of the Sunni Pashtun group.Mary-Ellen McGroarty, WFP’s country director for Afghanistan, implored the international community to respond to the “tsunami of hunger”.“We need to separate the humanitarian imperative from the political discussions,” she said. “The innocent people of Afghanistan, the children…who have their lives upended through no fault of their own, cannot be condemned to hunger and starvation just because of the lottery of geopolitics and the lottery of birth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talibanruled-afghanistan-on-brink-of-horrific-mass-starvation-as-harsh-winter-sets-in-101638758619616.html
06-12-2021||World||Omicron’s spread across hotel hall highlights transmission worry||The omicron variant spread among two fully vaccinated travelers across the hallway of a Hong Kong quarantine hotel, underscoring why the highly mutated coronavirus strain is unnerving health authorities.Closed-circuit television camera footage showed neither person left their room nor had any contact, leaving airborne transmission when respective doors were opened for food collection or Covid testing the most probable mode of spread, researchers at the University of Hong Kong said in a study published Friday in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases.Omicron, with an “unprecedented” number of mutations in the spike protein, has raised concern that it could evade vaccine-induced protection, worsen a surge in Covid cases and frustrate efforts to reopen economies. Some 450 researchers around the world have begun urgent studies to understand the extent to which omicron’s mutations may affect vaccine effectiveness and increase its transmissibility in a global effort that may yield answers in a few days, a World Health Organization scientist said last week.“Detection of Omicron variant transmission between two fully vaccinated persons across the corridor of a quarantine hotel has highlighted this potential concern,” Haogao Gu, Leo Poon and colleagues wrote in the study.Covid-19 cases have risen exponentially in parts of South Africa over the past month, heralding an omicron-fueled fourth wave of the pandemic disease. Dozens of countries have detected omicron infections. In Singapore, cases have “mostly displayed mild symptoms, and no omicron-related deaths have been reported so far,” the Ministry of Health said Sunday. Still, it’s too early to draw conclusions about the strain’s severity and omicron remains an “unknown threat,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicrons-spread-across-hotel-hall-highlights-transmission-worry-101638752425449.html
06-12-2021||World||Omicron puzzle: Fauci says possibly mild cases, WHO expert warns about hospitalisations||The initial reports on the Omicron variant of coronavirus indicate that it may be less dangerous than Delta which continues to drive a surge in hospitalisations, according to top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci. While the new variant of concern is fastly becoming the dominant strain in South Africa, the hospitalisation rates have not increased alarmingly. But Fauci has cautioned against drawing conclusions about the severity of illness caused by Omicron based on early data.“Thus far, it does not look like there’s a great degree of severity to it,” President Joe Biden's chief medial adviser said at CNN's State of the Union.“But we have really got to be careful before we make any determinations that it is less severe or it really doesn’t cause any severe illness, comparable to Delta,” he added.Even as the Omicron variant has spread to at least 17 US states, Fauci said the Biden administration is reevaluating the travel restrictions on south African countries as more information becomes available.India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainUN secretary-general Antonio Guterres blasted such measures as “travel apartheid" and experts have raised concern that it could affect transparency in future. Critics of the travel ban argue that the Omicron variant was first identified in South Africa and doesn’t necessarily mean that it originated there.“Hopefully we’ll be able to lift that ban in a quite reasonable period of time,” Fauci said. “We all feel very badly about the hardship that has been put on not only on South Africa but the other African countries.”World Health Organization (WHO) epidemiologist Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, however, told CBS' Face The Nation that even if a large number of Omicron cases are mild, some of those will need hospitalisations.“They will need to go into ICU and some people will die. ... We don’t want to see that happen on top of an already difficult situation with delta circulating globally,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-puzzle-fauci-says-possibly-mild-cases-who-expert-warns-about-hospitalisations-101638755125314.html
06-12-2021||World||Omicron: UK tightens travel testing rules||Britain’s government tightened travel restrictions on Saturday amid concerns about the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant, saying all travellers arriving in England will need to take a Covid-19 test before they board their flight.Health secretary Sajid Javid said the new rules will apply from 4am London time on Tuesday. “In light of the most recent data, we are taking further action to slow the incursion of the omicron variant,” he said in a tweet.Javid also added Nigeria to the UK’s travel “red list”, which means that arrivals from there will be banned except for UK and Irish residents, and those travellers must isolate in designated quarantine facilities.Britain’s health security agency on Sunday reported 86 new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the total number identified so far to 246.New variant found in 15 US states, says CDCThe Omicron variant of the coronavirus has been found in about 15 US states as of Saturday night but the Delta variant remains the majority of cases nationwide, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) director Rochelle Walensky told ABC News on Sunday.Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease official, said on Sunday he hopes the ban on travellers from southern African countries can be lifted in a “reasonable period of time”.Fauci said on CNN’s “State of the Union” programme that US authorities are mindful of the hardship the travel ban is causing in those countries and are constantly re-evaluating the policy.Covid death toll nears 5.25 million markThe novel coronavirus has killed at least 5,249,851 people since the outbreak emerged in China in December 2019, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP at 1100 GMT on Sunday. At least 264,784,370 cases of coronavirus have been registered. The vast majority have recovered, though some have continued to experience symptoms weeks or even months later.Oz parl closed as staffer tests Covid positiveAustralia’s Parliament House will be closed to the public for the foreseeable future after a political staffer for Greens leader Adam Bandt tested positive for the coronavirus.Meanwhile, Australia on Sunday cleared the first Covid-19 vaccine for children aged five to 11, with the next stage of its vaccine rollout expected to start in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-uk-tightens-travel-testing-rules-101638750137478.html
06-12-2021||World||Omicron cases in UK rise by 50% in one day, tally at 246||A further 86 cases of the Omicron Covid variant have been reported in Britain, taking the total to 246, British health authorities confirmed Sunday.This compares with a total of 160 on Saturday, an increase of more than 50 per cent, according to the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA).Britain registered 43,992 new Covid-19 infections, bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 10,464,389, according to official figures released on Sunday.The country also reported a further 54 coronavirus-related deaths. The total number of coronavirus-related deaths in Britain now stands at 145,605. These figures only include the deaths of people who died within 28 days of their first positive test.The latest data came as British Health Secretary Sajid Javid said all international arrivals to Britain, including children over the age of 12, will need to take a pre-departure test from 0400 GMT on Tuesday. He added that they must be taken a maximum of 48 hours before departure.In addition, from 0400 GMT on Monday, Dec. 6, Nigeria will be on the red travel list. It joins several southern African nations which were put on it after the Omicron variant was first detected late last month."I think it's too late to make a material difference to the course of the Omicron wave if we're going to have one," professor Mark Woolhouse, a member of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (Spi-M), told the BBC when asked about the new travel rules.More than 88 per cent of people aged 12 and over in Britain have had their first dose of vaccine and nearly 81 per cent have received both doses, according to the latest figures. More than 35 per cent have received booster jabs or the third dose of a coronavirus vaccine.To bring life back to normal, countries such as Britain, China, Germany, Russia and the United States have been racing against time to roll out coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-cases-in-uk-rise-by-50-in-one-day-tally-at-246-101638747107169.html
06-12-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Punjab records 38 new Covid-19 cases||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here: Punjab records 38 new Covid-19 casesPunjab on Sunday reported 38 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the state's infection tally to 603,488, according to a medical bulletin. No virus-related death was reported in the state in the past 24 hours.Parliament should meet 100 days every year, says Jairam RameshCongress Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh echoes vice president M Venkaiah Naidu's suggestion that Parliament should meet for a total of 100 days every year.UK logs nearly 44,000 new Covid-19 casesUK logs 43,992 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths, as against 42,848 infections and 127 deaths on Saturday.In Bengaluru, full vaccination mandatory to enter malls2 doses of Covid-19 vaccine is mandatory to avail entry into malls, shopping complexes, theatres and cinema halls. BBMP officials will conduct regular checks without any prior information. Strict action will be taken under Disaster Management Act 2005 in case of any violation: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike552 fresh Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths in SingaporeSingapore records 552 new Covid-19 cases, as against 743 on Saturday. 13 more fatalities also recorded.Extortion case: Lookout notice against Jacqueline FernandezLookout notice issued against actor Jacqueline Fernandez in connection with a ₹200 crore extortion case by Enforcement Directorate.NTAGI's Covid-19 group to discuss booster dose tomorrowThe Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) is likely to meet tomorrow to discuss additional dose of COVID-19 and pediatric vaccination: Reports9 cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant in Jaipur9 cases of Covid-19's Omicron variant reported in Jaipur so far, says Rajasthan health department.Andhra Pradesh: 6 dead in road accident6 people killed in road accident as car catches fire near Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor. Among 8 people present in the car, 5 died on the spot while 3 were rushed to a hospital, where another passenger died.Nagaland killings: ‘Forces should have examined meticulously’It is said that security forces received some information about movement of insurgent groups. I can't totally rule it out but even if such information was there, the security forces should have meticulously examined: Tokheho Yepthomi, Lok Sabha MP from Nagaland.With 7 new Omicron cases, Maharashtra's tally rises to 8Samples of seven more people in Maharashtra test positive for Omicron Covid-19 variant. State's tally rises to seven, while nation tally reaches 12.13 passengers found Covid-19 positive at Hyderabad airport: OfficialWe have intensified surveillance mechanism at international airport in Hyderabad. 970 passengers arrived in city since December 1. Upon screening with RT-PCR, 13 were found positive and they were immediately shifted to chosen facility: Dr Srinivas Rao, Telangana health directorInternet services snapped in Nagaland's MonTo control law and order in Mon district following the incident, mobile internet/data services/ bulk SMS of all providers in the entire area of Mon district prohibited with immediate effect until further notice: Abhijit Sinha, Nagaland home commissionerAIIMS Bilaspur to be ready by next June, says JP NaddaWe have come to a conclusion that AIIMS Bilaspur would be completely ready by June 2022 and dedicated to the people. Also, under PM Modi, construction work of 22 other AIIMS is underway: BJP president JP Nadda in BilaspurBJP will form govt with 2-3rd majority in Rajasthan: Amit ShahBJP will form govt in 2023 with two-third mandate in Rajasthan, says Union home minister in Rajasthan.Over 3 crore ITRs filed: Finance MinistryMore than three crore income tax returns have been filed for the financial year 2020-21 so far. The number of ITRs filed per day is over four lakh and increasing everyday as the extended due date of December 31 is approaching: Ministry of FinanceED records statement of Param Bir SinghEnforcement Directorate records statement of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with an alleged money laundering case.Pakistan logs 372 new Covid-19 casesPakistan records 372 fresh Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths. Total tally rises to 1,286,825 including 1,245,606 recoveries, 28,767 deaths and 12,452 active cases.'What exactly is home ministry doing': Rahul on civilian killing in NagalandCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the incident of civilian killing in Nagaland during an Army operation in heart-wrenching. The government must give a real reply, the Congress leader said. Read MoreIn first weke of winter session, Rajya Sabha lost 52.30% of scheduled sitting time: ReportRajya Sabha has lost 52.30% of the scheduled sitting time during the first week of the ongoing winter session that concluded last Friday on account of "disruptions and forced adjournments," reports news agencies. First omicron case detected in DelhiFirst omicron case detected in Delhi. The patient admitted to LNJP Hospital had returned from Tanzania. Till now, 17 people who tested positive for Covid have been admitted to the hospital: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar JainDeeply regret killing of civilians during anti-insurgency operation in Nagaland: ArmyThe Security Forces have suffered severe injuries in the operation including one soldier who succumbed to his injuries. The incident and its aftermath is deeply regretted, says Assam Rifles officials in statement. 'Moment of great pride' as over 50% of eligible population fully vaccinated: Health minister"It is a moment of great pride as over 50% of the eligible population are now fully vaccinated," says Union Health Minister Dr Mansukh MandaviyaTotal vaccinations stand at 1,27,61,83,065, as per the Health Ministry.Anguished over unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting: Shah"Anguished over unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families," tweets home minister Amit Shah.India reports 8,895 fresh Covid cases as confirmed Omicron infections rise to 4India's Covid-19 tally was increased by 8,895 cases , according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Puducherry govt makes Covid vaccination compulsory in Union Territory with immediate effectThe government of Puducherry makes COVID19 vaccination compulsory in the Union Territory with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/i87ZhAZFbN13 dead in Indonesia's Semeru volcanic eruptionThe death toll from the eruption of Indonesia's Mount Semeru rose to 13 on Sunday, the national disaster mitigation agency spokesman told AFP, as rescuers dashed to free people trapped in the debris."The death toll is now 13 people. Rescuers found more bodies," Abdul Muhari told AFP by phone, adding that as many as 10 trapped people had been rescued alive.Cyclone Jawad impact: Odisha, West Bengal, Assam to receive heavy rainfallWhile Cyclone Jawad weakening into a deep depression brought relief for coastal areas of Odisha, northern Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, the system is expected to cause heavy rainfall at isolated places in the three impacted states. Read More‘Omicron variant has higher transmissibility rate': Maharashtra health ministerMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said that the latest mutation of coronavirus (Omicron), which was first detected in South Africa, has a higher rate of transmissibility. However, the symptoms caused by it remain mild. “The Omicron variant of coronavirus has a higher transmissibility rate but its symptoms are mild, " he said on Saturday.Assam journalist booked under sedition charges over article on lawyer’s arrestA journalist was charged with sedition on Saturday in Assam’s Silchar district, allegedly for writing an article on the arrest of lawyer Pradip Dutta Roy in a local news website, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-5-2021-101638663664689.html
06-12-2021||India||U.P. class 10 girl kidnapped at gunpoint, raped||A minor girl was kidnapped at gunpoint and raped by two youths living in her neighbourhood in the Gangoh police station area of the district, an official said on Monday.The class 10 student was kidnapped by a youth and his brother when she was mopping the outer courtyard of her house, Saharanpur Superintendent of Police (Rural) Atul Sharma said.The youths took the girl to their house and rendered her unconscious by making her smell stupefying substance, the SP said, adding that the duo then raped the girl.The girl returned home after she regained consciousness and told his family members about the incident following which the girl’s father lodged a complaint at the police station, Sharma said.The police subsequently got the girl medically examined and have launched a probe into the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upclass-10-girl-kidnapped-at-gunpoint-raped-101638814609317.html
06-12-2021||India||Red faces in Bihar district after Covid test list includes Modi, Shah and Sonia||PATNA: There were red faces in Bihar’s Arwal district on Monday after it emerged that according to an official list, among the people to have been tested for Covid-19 in the district in October this year were Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas.An investigation has been ordered into the lapse and the district has started checking its list for the entire district.“FIR (First Information Report) will be lodged against all those who are responsible for this lapse and action will be taken against them,” district magistrate J Priyardashni said on Monday evening.“This is indeed is a serious lapse and we are getting the Covid testing list of the entire district checked,” Priyardashni told HT.According to an excerpt of the list that have been widely circulated on social media, two people by the name of Narendra Modi were tested twice for Covid-19 on October 27 at Karpi primary health centre in Arwal, less than 100km from state capital. One is listed as a 52-year-old, the second aged 21. Sonia Gandhi was tested twice and Priyanka Chopra thrice on the same day.Priyardashni said the district civil surgeon came across the list 22 days back and has ordered removal of the two operators of the private company responsible for data entry. “But we need to investigate about other’s involvement as well,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-faces-in-bihar-district-after-covid-test-list-includes-modi-shah-and-sonia-101638812449053.html
06-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opens shutters of Mullaperiyar dam angering Kerala; several areas inundated||Tamil Nadu on Monday opened nine shutters of the Mullaperiyar Dam, inundating several areas downstream in Kerala.Kerala said that the move was unexpected as it repeatedly appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to not open the shutters at night. Kerala water resources minister Roshy Augustine, who rushed to Idukki, termed the action taken by the Tamil Nadu government as ‘irresponsible’.He also said since the released water will move to Idukki, the Idukki dam will also be opened on Tuesday morning. ‘The move was least expected,” Augustine said. The Kerala government has issued a high alert in the region. This is the first time nine shutters of Mullaperiyar were opened at once. The catchment areas near the dam continue to get heavy downpour.The dam is the cause of a decades-old dispute between the two states. Tamil Nadu owns and runs the Mullaperiyar dam and is against the rebuilding of the dam fearing it will lose control over it. For Kerala, the dam poses risks to many living in the downstream areas while it remains intrinsic to its neighbour for water supply to adjoining districts and power generation. The dam is built on the upper reaches of the Periyar river, which flows into Kerala. The recent heavy rains in the region has reignited the debate regarding the location of the dam.The Supreme Court earlier in a ruling asked both states to abide by the committee’s recommendation which said water level in the dam would be limited to 138 feet till October 31 and 139.5 feet till November 10.The Tamil Nadu government earlier on December 2 also released water from the Mullaperiyar Dam inviting criticism from the Kerala government. It was on the same day the Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin not to open shutters of Mullaperiyar dam without prior information and that too at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-opens-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-dam-angering-kerala-several-areas-inundated-101638811729239.html
06-12-2021||India||S-400 missile supplies from Russia have begun, says Harsh Shringla||Russia has begun deliveries of its long-range S-400 surface-to-air missile defence system to India, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said Monday."S-400 supplies have begun this month and will continue to happen," Shringla said soon after Russian President Vladimir Putin's visit to New Delhi earlier in the day.Shringla said Putin's visit was short but highly productive and substantive. He also outlined that the two leaders signed 28 agreements between the two countries. “The fact that Russian President Vladimir Putin decided to visit India for our annual summit is an indication of the importance he attaches to the bilateral relationship and his personal rapport with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Shringla said.Earlier in the day, Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov praised the S-400 air defence missile systems deal between his country and India, saying the United States tried to strong-arm India into opting out of the pact but New Delhi went through anyway.The Russian foreign minister took a oblique dig at the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) that the US uses to bring sanctions against nations that have economic and defence ties to Russia, North Korea and Iran.The US, which is also India’s main defence partner, has expressed its disapproval towards the S-400 missile deal but India contended that the negotiations began five years before CAATSA was enacted, according to a report by Hindustan Times.The US said in November it is yet to determine whether it will waive those sanctions with respect to the deal between India and Russia.Talking about CAATSA, Shringla said, “I don't think this issue came up at all (in talks with Russian delegation today)... The issue of legitimacy (of Taliban government) also did not come up.”Shringla said India is looking at intensifying its Buddhist things with Russia. “There're apparently 15 million Buddhists in Russia. This community is keen on looking at India for pilgrimage and other areas of interest. So the cultural cooperation is also important for both countries,” Shringla said.The foreign secretary said the issue of RELOS (Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement) has been put off for some time as there are still a few issues that India need to discuss further.Shringla added that enhancing bilateral trade and investment figured prominently in the talks between Modi and Putin. “This year, we've noticed an encouraging trend of growth in our trades compared to last year. Both sides are looking forward to continued increase in trade and investment trajectory,” Shringla said.“We have expressed interest in further investments in the oil and gas sector, as well as in the area of petrochemicals,” Shringla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s400-missile-supplies-from-russia-have-begun-says-harsh-shringla-101638806505742.html
06-12-2021||India||Can leave India if you feel suffocated: RSS leader's advice to Farooq Abdullah||Senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar hit out at National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Monday over his remarks that the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices" like the agitating farmers to get their rights back, saying it shows that he loves violence, not peace.He suggested that Abdullah should leave the country to live in any other part of the world that he likes if he feels suffocated in India.The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader also slammed People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti for staging a protest in Delhi against the alleged repression of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, saying "it has become a fashion for her to tell lies".He said both the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir should stop playing the "politics of provocation" and becoming an obstruction in maintaining the country's unity and integrity."His statement clearly shows that he loves violence, not peace. He is saying he will get everyone killed, keep them hungry," Kumar said at a press conference here when asked for his views on Abdullah's remarks."Farooq Abdullah had earlier said China's help will be taken for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status. Shall we accept it? Never. It is nonsense. If he feels suffocated here, he should go wherever he wants, Arab or America. His wife lives in England. He can also think of going there to live with his wife. He will be happy," the RSS leader added.Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices", like the farmers protesting against three farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.Addressing a convention of the NC's youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh in Srinagar, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also said his party does not support violence.Mufti staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here on Monday to protest against the alleged repression of the people of the Union Territory and demanded that the killings of innocents be stopped immediately.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said she decided to stage the dharna in the national capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house or whisked away by police every time she planned a protest.Scores of PDP workers joined her in the protest at Jantar Mantar.In August 2019, the provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution were abrogated and the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into Union territories.Replying to the reporters' questions, Kumar alleged that Abdullah and Mufti are up against the abrogation of Article 370 because "somewhere or the other" they were associated with "the forces" weakening India.After the abrogation of Article 370, India had become a country with "one nationality, one flag, one law and one national anthem", he said."They (Abdullah and Mufti) are not liking this because somewhere or the other, they were associated with the forces weakening our country. They were playing into their hands. Because of this, sometimes they say they will take the help of Pakistan or China, sometimes they say they will not hold the tiranga (tricolour)," the RSS leader added.He asked Abdullah and Mufti to refrain from making "anti-national announcements and becoming "an obstruction" in the country's unity and integrity."They bring embarrassment to the country with their unconstitutional and anti-national announcements.... They should stop playing the politics of provocation," Kumar said.He also said a daylong international conference, titled "Global Terrorism versus Humanity, Peace and Possibilities -- Fundamentalism: The Dividing Line, A Case Study of Afghanistan", will be organised under the joint aegis of the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, the Vishwagram and the Forum for Awareness of National Security here on December 11."The conference is being organised to brainstorm on the larger problem of global terrorism, naxalism and other forms of terrorism in India, and find a way forward. Due to the pressing problems of terrorism, violence and fundamentalism, we still witness the emergence of repressive regimes and intolerant societies, which coercively oppress their own populations in the name of religious fundamentalism," Kumar, who is the founder and chief patron of the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said.The Taliban in Afghanistan has surfaced as the most recent manifestation of this scenario, representing the "most horrendous expression" of the challenge of global terrorism to the existence of humanity, he added. PTI PK RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-leave-india-if-you-feel-suffocated-rss-leader-s-advice-to-farooq-abdullah-101638805234053.html
06-12-2021||India||Putin calls India ‘great power’, Modi says friendship with Russia is a ‘constant’ despite challenges||India and Russia focused on ways to boost bilateral cooperation in areas ranging from defence to energy and a coordinated approach to regional issues such as the situation in Afghanistan as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin met in New Delhi for an annual summit.In his televised opening remarks at the summit, Putin described India as a “great power” and a time-tested friend, and said Russia works with India in the military-technical field “in a way that we do not work with any of our partners”. Modi noted in his opening remarks that this was only Putin’s second foreign visit since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and reflects his personal commitment to bilateral relations. The year 2021 is important for bilateral ties as it marks five decades of the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation of 1971 and two decades of the bilateral strategic partnership, he added.India-Russia friendship has “remained a constant” despite many fundamental changes on the world stage and the two countries have cooperated closely while paying attention to each other’s sensitivities, Modi said. The first India-Russia 2+2 dialogue held on Monday is a new mechanism to boost practical cooperation, he added.The two sides are in constant contact on Afghanistan and other regional issues, and defence cooperation has been strengthened through co-development and co-production under the “Make in India” initiative, Modi said.India and Russia should also guide their business communities to achieve the target of increasing bilateral trade to $30 billion and hiking bilateral investments to $50 billion by 2025, Modi said.Putin said Russia perceives India as a “great power” with whom relations “are developing and are looking to the future”. Though trade turnover declined by more than 17% in 2020, the growth was more than 38% in the first nine months of 2021, he said.Total bilateral investments now stand at $38 billion, and this is roughly equally divided, with slightly more investments from the Russian side, Putin said, adding the two sides are also cooperating in areas such as energy, high technology and space.“We continue to work actively in the international arena, and...our positions on very many issues do coincide. We are undoubtedly concerned about everything related to terrorism and the fight against it, as well as drugs and organised crime,” he said.The two sides are also concerned about the developing situation in Afghanistan, he added. 
06-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi welcomes Vladimir Putin, discusses bilateral ties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Unique model of interstate friendship’: PM Modi welcomes Russia’s PutinPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian president Vladimir Putin met on Monday as India and Russia kicked off their first '2+2' ministerial dialogue to elevate the age-old ties between the two nations. Read more.Amid Omicron threat, 90 students test positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka schoolAs many as 101 people, including 90 students, in a school in Karnataka's Chikkamagaluru district have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding to the already existing cluster of infections in the state amid the spread of Omicron in the country, officials said on Monday. Read more.2 persons who arrived in Odisha from Omicron ‘at-risk’ countries test positiveStarting November 26, when the World Health Organisation (WHO) designated B.1.1.529 strain of Covid-19 as a variant of concern and named it Omicron, at least 2 people reaching Odisha from the ‘countries at risk’ have tested positive for the virus, official data shows. Read more.Cricket South Africa announces revised itinerary of India's tour of South AfricaCricket South Africa has announced the revised schedule of India's tour of South Africa, which comprises three Tests and three ODIs. Read more.Katrina Kaif-Vicky Kaushal wedding: Bride and groom-to-be wave at the paparazzi as they leave for Jaipur. See picsActor Katrina Kaif outside her home in Mumbai on Monday evening, all set to leave for Jaipur for her wedding with actor Vicky Kaushal. Read more.Eat soaked almonds and raisins every day for these health benefitsBreakfast is the best way to fuel yourself for the day ahead. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-welcomes-russian-president-putin-for-ministerial-talks-101638802313818.html
06-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik’s stand in a 1999 gang-rape case is BJP’s ammo against him||BHUBANESWAR: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers on Monday sent letters to chief minister Naveen Patnaik to ask the ruling Biju Janata Dal boss to come the assembly and sack the state’s junior home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra over his alleged proximity to the main accused in Kalahandi school teacher murder.The opposition legislators’ letter also responded to Patnaik’s statement to the assembly via video conference last week that rejected the demand to sack Dibya Shankar Mishra on the ground that there was no proof against him.The BJP lawmakers reminded Naveen Patnaik of his stand in 1999 when he led the campaign to demand that the then chief minister JB Patnaik of the Congress resign on moral grounds over the gang-rape of a housewife, Anjana Mishra. JB Patnaik resigned in February 1999, was replaced by Giridhar Gamang who was shown the door for his handling of relief and rescue operations for the 1999 super cyclone just ahead of state elections in 2000. Naveen Patnaik’s BJD formed just three years earlier came to power in the 2000 assembly elections, and has since then retained power in the coastal state.Also Read: Naveen Patnaik finally speaks on demand to axe minister, asks where’s the proof“At that time, you were making serious allegations against JB Patnaik that law and order in the state had deteriorated and women were feeling insecure. The main slogan of your party in the 2000 election was the gangrape of Anjana. But now the same Anjana Mishra has come forward to say that there is no difference between JB Patnaik and Naveen Patnaik,” the letter said.Back in 1999, Anjana Mishra accused JB Patnaik of engineering the rape to silence her for her case against then advocate general Indrajit Ray on charges of molestation. In their letter, the BJP MLAs said as Patnaik is not coming to the Assembly, they are forced to mail him the letter in the hope that his aides will read the letter to him.Also Read: ‘Political expediency’: BJD legislator critiques his boss Naveen Patnaik actions“You fired many of your ministers in the past over slightest allegations. Now what is this double standard in Mamita’s case? Please order CBI probe and sack Mishra,” the BJP leaders demanded as the the pandemonium in Odisha Assembly continued for the 5th day on Monday.The furore over the murder of Mamita Meher, a 26-year-old schoolteacher, who was allegedly killed by Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling gram panchayat of Kalahandi district on October 8 has been rocking the state after Sahu’s arrest on October 19.Police said after Meher allegedly threatened to expose an alleged sex racket in the school, the the school management committee president killed her, dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. Since then the opposition has been stridently demanding the sacking of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra alleging his complicity in the case.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik broke his silence on Mamita Meher’s death on Friday, saying it was a very sad and unfortunate incident.“Her death is a terrible and irreparable loss. My heart goes out to the family of the victim. My Government will ensure that no stone is left unturned to see that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice as per law in the shortest possible time,” Patnaik said in his speech to the assembly via video conferencing from Naveen Niwas.“Wherever there has been delinquency or negligence, stringent and exemplary action has been taken against erring police officers. In the past, there have been such sensitive cases against women,” he said.However, this has failed to pacify the opposition, who are demanding that Patnaik come to the state Assembly to reply to the allegations of opposition.Congress lawmaker Narasingha Mishra asked why the chief minister is not facing the opposition. “The CM is visiting different districts for BSKY (Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana) smart card distribution programmes and hockey event, but he is not coming to the Assembly,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-s-stand-in-anjana-mishra-case-is-bjp-s-ammo-against-him-101638803388165.html
06-12-2021||India||Maharashtra detects 2 more cases of Omicron infection||Maharashtra reported two cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Mumbai, taking the state's count to 10, the health department said on Monday.The department said both the patients do not have any symptoms, and are under observation at the Seven Hills Hospital.According to news agency ANI, a 37-year-old man, who returned from South Africa, and his 36-year-old US-returnee friend, were found to be infected with the Omicron variant.This is the second consecutive day that Maharashtra has reported Omicron cases. With the latest Omicron cases in Mumbai, India now has 23 patients so far.Earlier Maharashtra reported seven more cases of the Omicron variant. Among the infected who were detected yesterday all of them belonged to the Pune district, six in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and one in Pune city and rural areas of the district. Of these seven patients, three recently visited Lagos and are from the same family. The other person recently traveled to Finland.Rajasthan was the second state to report Omicron infections on Sunday following Maharashtra. The Rajasthan state health department said that it detected nine people in Jaipur with the viral variant of the coronavirus. Four of the nine people infected with the Omicron variant in Jaipur are South Africa returnees, where the variant was first detected.A case of the Omicron variant was detected in Delhi last week. The first two cases were detected in Karnataka, after which cases were reported in Maharashtra and Gujarat.The Omicron variant created concerns among vaccine makers and health experts alike regarding the effect it would have on the pandemic due to its mutations and transmission capability. The detection of the new variant also led to international flight restrictions in several European countries. The US government is planning to hasten the process of giving boosters to its citizens in a bid to protect them from the viral variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-detects-2-more-cases-of-omicron-infection-101638799624395.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian deaths: NHRC seeks report from Centre, state within 6 weeks||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued a notice to the Centre and Nagaland government over the killing of civilians by armed forces in the northeastern state, in what has been described as a case of ‘mistaken identity’ by the Union government and the Army. The human rights body, in a press release, said it has taken suo-motu cognisance of the case and sought a detailed report from the respondents within six weeks.Also Read | Civilian killings in Nagaland a case of ‘mistaken identity’, laments Amit Shah“NHRC notice to the Centre and Nagaland Government over reported botched up operation against militants by Army Para Commandos resulting in the deaths of civilians,” it said in a tweet. NHRC notice to the Centre and the Nagaland Government over reported botched up operation against militants by Army Para Commandos resulting in the deaths of civilians.Read: https://t.co/iLw1NuAaWv@PIBKohima @DGP_Nagaland @CmoNagaland @ANI @PTI_News @PIB_IndiaThe release stated that the Commission has issued notices to the Union defence secretary, Union home secretary and, from the Nagaland government’s side, the chief secretary and state police chief. “The report is expected to include the status of the inquiry being conducted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), relief granted to the next of kin of the deceased, status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured and the cases registered against the persons/officers responsible for the incident,” the statement read.Also Read | Nagaland Firing: Nagaland police files FIR against army soldiers for civilian deathsApprising the Parliament on Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah said that the team will submit its report in a month’s time.
06-12-2021||India||‘S-400 deal being implemented despite US attempts to undermine cooperation’: Lavrov||The deal between India and Russia for S-400 air defence systems is being implemented despite US attempts to “undermine this cooperation”, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said on Monday.India and Russia are on the same page on the situation in Afghanistan as both sides want the Taliban to deliver on commitments to form an inclusive government and prevent terrorism and instability from spilling over into neighbouring countries, Lavrov said.Talking to the media after the maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, Lavrov said the Russian side raised its concerns about “Indo-Pacific strategies” and “non-inclusive blocs” such as AUKUS, the defence alliance between Australia, the UK and the US, during the talks.“The S-400 deal doesn’t have only symbolic meaning, it has a very important practical meaning for the Indian defence capability and the situation is basically underway. The deal is being implemented,” he said, referring to the $5.4-billion deal signed by India to acquire five S-400 systems. “We witnessed attempts on the part of the US to undermine this cooperation and make India obey the American orders to follow the American vision of how this region should be developed. Our Indian friends clearly and firmly explained that they are a sovereign country and they will decide on whose weapons to buy and who is going to be a partner of India in this and the other areas,” he said.Russia-India ties are a “specially privileged strategic partnership” and Monday’s meeting of a bilateral military-technical commission is a “manifestation that this cooperation is in the interest of both countries”, Lavrov added.Russia continues to be a key supplier of military hardware to India, which has diversified arms purchases in recent years by acquiring combat jets, helicopters and advanced weapons from the US, France and Israel.The US has threatened to impose sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), but India has said its defence procurements are guided by a policy of strategic autonomy. The delivery of the first S-400 system to India coincided with President Vladimir Putin’s visit for an annual summit.Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was discussed at the 2+2 meeting. “We share the view with [India] that the Taliban must deliver on their commitments to ensure an inclusive government structure and respect human rights, prevent the drug threat and the terrorist threat remaining in the country, and prevent instability from spilling over from Afghanistan into neighbouring countries, primarily into Central Asia,” he said.Russia is opposed to any attempts by the US or NATO to shift forces withdrawn from Afghanistan to neighbouring countries, and the Central Asian states have said this will be unacceptable, he said. India and Russia also agreed to work closely together, including within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), to coordinate their actions on Afghanistan. Lavrov, who has for long been critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, said the Russian side had focused at the 2+2 meeting on developments in Asia-Pacific, where “elements of instability have been accumulating which could undermine the universal framework of cooperation”. He added, “We expressed our concern about the activities taking place in this region under the slogan of Indo-Pacific strategies, where we see non-inclusive blocs. The latest example is AUKUS, a military-technical alliance between the US, Great Britain and Australia and there are a lot of questions on the plans to supply to Australia or make in Australia nuclear-powered submarines.” Lavrov questioned whether these plans comply with International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) norms and non-proliferation rules. “From a regional perspective, to what extent will Australia stick to its obligation on the nuclear-weapons-free zones in the Southern Pacific?” he said.The Indian side, Lavrov contended, “distanced themselves from the AUKUS bloc”. He said, “They are part of the Quad group, which brings together India, Japan, Australia and the US, and India...emphasises its interest in economic infrastructure and transport projects within this framework.” 
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian killings: Congress delegation to visit state, submit report within 7 days||The Congress party on Monday constituted a four-member delegation to visit Nagaland, where a botched up military operation and ensuing violence led to the killing of 14 civilians, a release said.The delegation would submit a report to the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi within seven days.“Congress President has constituted a delegation comprising the following members to visit Nagaland and report on matters related to the recent incidents of killing of innocent citizens and sequential violence in Mon district in Nagaland,” an order from the party on Monday showed.The four members included the All India Congress Committee’s (AICC) general secretary Jitendra Singh, AICC in-charge for Nagaland Ajoy Kumar and party lawmakers Gaurav Gogoi and Anto Antony.Also read | Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee condemn Nagaland killingsOn Sunday, party leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the incident and demanded the Centre must reply regarding the deaths. “What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?” he tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too expressed her condolences and said that the families of those that lost their lives deserved justice.Union home minister Amit Shah addressed both Houses of Parliament on Monday regarding the Nagaland incident that has caused a furore among people and opposition party leaders alike.Amit Shah said the army had information regarding the movement of extremists in the Mon district and laid an “ambush” in the suspected area. He also said a vehicle arrived at the location and was signalled to stop but it tried to speed away. “On suspicion that the vehicle was carrying extremists, the personnel fired at it killing 6 of 8 people,” he said.“Six out of eight people in the vehicle died. It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity. Two others who were injured were taken to the nearest health centre by the army. After receiving news of this, local villagers surrounded the army unit, set two vehicles on fire and attacked them,” he added.Opposition parties demanded a discussion following Shah’s statements but, were refused the opportunity. Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said the opposition has many questions but the House was adjourned following Shah’s statement.“We wanted to ask about compensation to the bereaved families, as well as about compensation from the central government. But we were not given an opportunity,” news agency ANI quoted Kharge as saying later.“He (Amit Shah) just spoke and said in the last paragraph that "government regrets". What does that mean? It means that you committed a mistake,” he added.Meanwhile, the Trinamool Congress also announced it would send a five-member party to Nagaland to meet with the families of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-congress-delegation-to-visit-state-submit-report-within-7-days-101638796948633.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland police files FIR against army soldiers for civilian deaths||KOHIMA: Nagaland police has registered a case on its own against the 21st para special forces for killing 13 civilians suspecting them as militants at Tiru-Oting area of Mon district in Nagaland 48 hours ago.The incident happened on December 4 afternoon when coal miners of Oting village were returning home from Tiru on a pickup truck, police stated.“On reaching at Langkhao between Upper Tiru and Oting village, security forces fired at the vehicle without any provocation, resulting to the killing of many Oting villagers and seriously injured many others,” according to the first information report (FIR) lodged at Tizit police station.At the time of the incident, there was no police guide for the security forces, nor did the security forces make any requisition to the police station to provide a guide for their operation, the FIR mentioned.“Hence, it is obvious that the intention of the security forces is to murder and injure civilians,” the FIR said while registering a case for necessary action against the culprits.Also Read: ‘We regret loss of life, monitoring situation’: Amit Shah tells Lok Sabha on Nagaland firingThe director general of police (DGP) of Nagaland and commissioner Nagaland, who visited the site of the firing on Sunday, have submitted a spot report on the sequence of events to the state government.The Nagaland government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the firing. Home minister Amit Shah made statements in both houses of Parliament, saying that the army has regretted the incident, the FIR on the firing has been transferred to the state crime police station and will be investigated by a SIT, and that the Union government regrets the incident.The incident happened when the army laid an ambush for insurgents on the basis of intelligence inputs, and when the vehicle with the workers neared the spot and was asked to stop, it tried to flee, resulting in the firing that killed six of the eight people in the vehicle, Shah said in the statement in Parliament.Another seven civilians were killed when angry villages surrounded the army team, burnt two vehicles and assaulted them, resulting in the death of one soldier and forcing the team to fire at the crowd. The home minister termed the killing of the workers a case of mistaken identity.The army has launched an investigation into the matter.The security forces personnel tried to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in a pickup truck other than the one on which the villagers were travelling, according to the report by the DGP and the commissioner.The report said on December 4 evening, eight villagers were returning home from coal mining work at Tiru in an open pickup truck, when they were killed by security forces (21 Para Special Force based in Assam).Six of them were killed on the spot, leaving two critically injured. The incident happened some few kilometers away from Oting village.“On hearing the gunshots, the villagers went to the spot being apprehensive that the individuals did not return home from work. On reaching the spot, they found the pickup truck and the Special Forces Personnel trying to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in another pickup truck (Tata Mobile) apparently with the intention of taking the dead bodies to their base camp,” the report added.After seeing the dead bodies in the vehicle, the report said, violence broke out between the villagers and the security personnel where the irate villagers burnt three vehicles belonging to the security personnel.“In the melee, the security personnel again opened fire against the villagers, which led to the death of 7 (seven) more villagers and eyewitnesses have confirmed that the Special Forces Personnel opened fire indiscriminately as they fled from the scene towards Assam side even firing on the coal mine hutments on the way,” the spot report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-firing-nagaland-police-files-fir-against-army-soldiers-for-civilian-deaths-101638797567730.html
06-12-2021||India||‘Unique model of interstate friendship’: PM Modi welcomes Russia’s Putin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin met on Monday as India and Russia kicked off their first '2+2' ministerial dialogue to elevate the age-old ties between the two nations.PM Modi, who hosted the Russian president in New Delhi’s Hyderabad House, said the coronavirus pandemic could not dent the relationship between both nations and ties continue to strengthen between the two.????? ??????????, ?-? ?????????! Welcome to India my friend President Putin. Our meeting today will strengthen our Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. The initiatives that we take today will further increase the scope of our cooperation to new areas. @KremlinRussia pic.twitter.com/v699GK4BEM“Despite the challenges posed by COVID, there is no change in the pace of growth of India-Russia relations. Our special & privileged strategic partnership continues to become stronger,” PM Modi said.“In the last few decades, the world witnessed many fundamental changes and different kinds of geopolitical equations emerged but the friendship of India and Russia remained constant. The relation between India and Russia is truly a unique and reliable model of interstate friendship,” he added.Putin also said India is a time-tested ally and a world power and both countries are looking forward to the future together. “We perceive India as a great power, a friendly nation, and a time-tested friend. The relations between our nations are growing and I am looking into the future,” Putin said.Putin, addressing the press in New Delhi, said both nations will continue to remain partners to spur growth in fields like the energy sector, innovation, space, and the production of coronavirus vaccines and medicines.Earlier in the day, India and Russia signed an agreement for the procurement of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles through Indo-Russia Rifles Pvt Ltd, under the military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. It also renewed military-technical cooperation for another 10 years in the process.Putin is meeting PM Modi for the second after they spoke in 2019 on the sidelines of the BRICS summit. This is Putin’s second trip abroad following the Covid-19 pandemic. He met US President Joe Biden in Geneva in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unique-model-of-interstate-friendship-pm-modi-welcomes-russia-s-putin-101638796790583.html
06-12-2021||India||India, Russia conclude AK-203 deal, renew 10-yr pact for military cooperation||India and Russia on Monday concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district to advance self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector, government officials said. The deal was finalised at the 20th meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military & Military Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC) led by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.The two countries also renewed their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31, the officials said. The IRIGC-M&MTC meeting took place ahead of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on Monday.On Saturday, the government announced that it had cleared the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles in Uttar Pradesh in a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL) that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited, and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov. The Indian and the Russian entities hold a share capital of 50.5% and 49.5%, respectively.Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited are two of the seven defence firms carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board in October.Singh described Russia as India’s long-standing special and privileged strategic partner, adding the relations between the two countries were time-tested and based on shared interests in multilateralism and global peace and prosperity. He said the close cooperation with Russia was not targeted against another country. “We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region.”The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. “The contract ends the long quest of Indian Army to replace ageing INSAS rifles with a modern weapon. The AK-203 assault rifle with proven technology will enhance the combat potential of soldiers to adequately meet present and future operational challenges,” said a senior government official. The 7.62mm X 39mm caliber AK-203 rifle has an effective range of 300 metres. AK-203 is a reliable weapon with reduced flash and recoil, better ergonomics and other modern features, and it will boost the morale of soldiers, he added.The agreement envisages the production of 601,247 rifles, of which the first 70,000 units will be made with the transfer of technology from Kalashnikov to IRRPL. The remaining 531,000 rifles will be fully indigenous, the officials said.The entire lot of 601,247 rifles will be produced in 10 years, they added. India and Russia signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for the AK-203 project in February 2018.“The Kalashnikov series weapons are the simplest to operate, they are tested weapons and the metallurgy is one of the best. It will enhance the existing small arms capability of the army,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). The two countries also signed protocols on amending a 2019 agreement between India and Russia on cooperation in the field of manufacturing Kalashnikov series small arms in the country, and on military and military-technical cooperation to discuss and implement the agreed agenda for defence cooperation, the officials said. There was no official word from the government on the delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – but it is expected to be completed anytime. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun. Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the officials said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.
06-12-2021||India||US trying to undermine S-400 deal, India has shown it’s a sovereign country: Russia’s Lavrov||Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov on Monday hailed the S-400 air defence missile systems deal between India and his country, saying the US tried to strong-arm India into opting out of the pact but New Delhi went through anyway.“We witnessed attempts on the part of the United States to undermine this cooperation and to make India obey the American orders, to follow the American vision of how this region should be developed,” Lavrov was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Our Indian friends clearly and firmly explained that they are a sovereign country. They will decide whose weapons to buy and who is going to be a partner of India in this and in other areas,” Lavrov, who is in India, said.The Russian foreign minister was referring to the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) that the US uses to bring sanctions against nations that have economic and defence ties to Russia, North Korea and Iran.The US federal law allows the triggering of sanctions against nations that aim to procure major defence hardware from Russia. This was brought as a response to Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its alleged meddling in the 2016 US presidential elections.The US said in November it is yet to determine whether it will waive those sanctions with respect to the deal between India and Russia. “We have not made a determination on a potential waiver with respect to Indian arms transactions with Russia. CAATSA does not have a blanket or country-specific waiver provision,” the US state department said in a statement.“We urge all of our allies and partners to forgo transactions with Russia that risk triggering sanctions under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA),” the US urged through its statement while highlighting that it values its strategic partnership with India and expects that the defence partnership between both nations can continue.The US, which is also India’s main defence partner, has expressed its disapproval towards the deal but New Delhi has contended the negotiations began 5 years before CAATSA was enacted, according to a report by HT.A purchase agreement was signed in 2015 and the deal worth $4.5 billion was finalised in 2018. The US earlier sanctioned trade partner China and Nato ally Turkey for purchasing the systems but New Delhi did not budge despite the efforts made to stall the acquisition during the Trump era.New Delhi’s stance could also be emboldened following the AUKUS initiative which took the Quad nation’s - of which India is a partner - by surprise and even angered France as Australia cancelled the submarine deal to sign a fresh deal with the US. Russia being India’s longtime defence partner since its Independence also plays a huge role in the ties between both nations.India and Russia signed four defence agreements on Monday as both nations kicked off the first-ever India-Russia '2+2' ministerial dialogue. One of the main agreements signed by both nations will see the Indian Army get more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles manufactured through Indo-Russia Rifles Private Limited (IRPL) at a cost of ₹5,100 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-trying-to-undermine-s-400-deal-india-has-shown-it-s-a-sovereign-country-russia-s-lavrov-101638794100713.html
06-12-2021||India||RDIF say it expects Sputnik Light to be authorised in India soon||The backer of Russia’s Sputnik Light single shot Covid-19 vaccine said on Monday it has presented data from additional clinical trials to India’s regulator and expects the jab to be authorised in the country soon. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, said it has also provided India’s regulator with documents for registering Sputnik M, a variant of the vaccine for adolescents aged 12-17. The RDIF said these moves were part of efforts to expand cooperation between India and Russia in the fight against Covid-19. The Sputnik V vaccine is already used in India following the grant of emergency use authorisation in April this year. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said during a media interaction in New Delhi that talks on the production of Sputnik Light in India were nearing completion, though he didn’t give details. Asked about plans to begin production of Sputnik Light in India in December, Lavrov said: “The talks on Sputnik Light are about to be completed and Sputnik V is already being produced in India. We are talking about several hundred million doses per year.” There was no word from the Indian side on the matter.The RDIF said in a statement, “Currently, RDIF is actively cooperating with India’s regulatory authorities on registration of Sputnik Light (the one-shot vaccine based on human adenovirus serotype 26, the first component of the Sputnik V) as a standalone vaccine and a universal booster and expects it to be authorised in the country soon”. RDIF’s partner, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, has conducted additional clinical trials of Sputnik Light in India and “positive data” from these trials has been presented to India’s regulator, the statement added. The fund has also provided India’s regulator with documents for registering Sputnik M, which was registered by Russia’s health ministry on November 24. It is a new member of the Sputnik vaccines family and is currently being offered to international markets. The statement said that subject to a “positive decision of India’s authorities, Sputnik M could become the first foreign-registered vaccine for adolescents in the country”. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said, “Russia and India have joined forces since the beginning of the pandemic, with this strategic partnership including production of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines. Several agreements with partners in India have helped the RDIF to significantly increase our production capabilities. “We are ready to offer the Sputnik Light vaccine and the Sputnik M vaccine for adolescents to support strong herd immunity in India and continue saving millions of lives.” Sputnik V has been authorised in 71 countries with a total population of more than four billion people. RDIF has reached agreements with leading pharmaceutical companies, including Serum Institute of India, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen, to produce the Russian vaccines and India is now the leading production hub for Sputnik V and Sputnik Light. The latest findings by the Gamaleya Center, the developer of the Sputnik vaccines, which are based on data from 28,000 subjects in Moscow, have shown that Sputnik Light administered standalone has 70% efficacy against infection from the Delta variant of the Coronavirus during the first three months after vaccination. The vaccine is 75% effective among subjects under the age of 60. Efficacy of Sputnik Light as a booster against Delta variant for other vaccines will be close to the efficacy against the Delta variant of the Sputnik V vaccine – more than 83% against infection and more than 94% against hospitalisation. Interim results of a study in Argentina on combining Sputnik Light and vaccines produced by AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Moderna and Cansino have shown Sputnik Light is an “effective universal booster”, the statement said. Results of a separate joint clinical trial of a combination of Sputnik Light with the AstraZeneca jab have demonstrated it “induces strong immunity and has a high safety profile”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rdif-say-it-expects-sputnik-light-to-be-authorised-in-india-soon-101638794807959.html
06-12-2021||India||‘Pakistan man, 22, crossed border fence to meet Mumbai woman he loved; caught’: Cops||JAIPUR: A 22-year-old young man from Pakistan’s border district Bahawalpur has been arrested after he crossed the border fence in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar late on Saturday night. Mohammad Amir told the border guards who caught him that he was on his way to Mumbai to meet the woman he befriended on Facebook and fell in love with, people aware of the matter said.The young man only had a mobile phone and some currency notes on him when he was caught on Saturday by a patrol team of the Border Security Force in Anupgarh, one of district’s 10 tehsils, Anand Sharma, superintendent of police, Sri Ganganagar district said.The details are still sketchy. Sharma stressed the security agencies are yet to verify his version. A joint team of intelligence officers will start interrogating him, possibly on Tuesday, and cross-check every claim that he has made.Sharma said the man, who identified himself as Mohammad Amir from Hasilpur tehsil in Bahawalpur district, told security officials during his preliminary interrogation that he had been in touch with a Mumbai-based woman he met on Facebook. Over time, they became good friends, exchanged numbers and according to his version, they also decided to get married.Mohammad Amir told officials that he did apply for an Indian visa to travel to Mumbai but the request was denied by Indian authorities.But he wouldn’t let it be and decided to still travel to Mumbai.“On being denied a visa, he planned to cross the border fence to meet the girl,” Sharma said.How did he intend to travel from the remote border location to Mumbai 1200km away? Amir wasn’t sure. “When we asked him, Amir said he would have probably walked to Mumbai,” Sharma said.It isn’t clear how he reached the India-Pakistan border location on the Pakistani side either. The Hasilpur tehsil where Amir lives is about 150km from the international border.Officials said they have not approached the woman in Mumbai yet. This will be done only if required after Amir’s joint interrogation.It is unlikely that Amir will be able to meet the Mumbai woman for now.“If the story narrated by the youth is true and there is nothing suspicious, then he will be handed over back to Pakistan,” said Sharma, outlining the best-case scenario for the 22-year-old.
06-12-2021||India||‘94% teaching, 88% non-teaching staff vaccinated in schools across country’: Centre||At least 93.54% of teaching and 87.45% non-teaching staff working in schools across the country have been either fully or partially vaccinated against Covid-19 infection with four states achieving 100% coverage, the Centre informed the Parliament on Monday. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan submitted state-wise data on the vaccination status of teaching and non-teaching staff employed in schools on Monday. As per the data collected from 36 states and union territories, covering both private and public schools, 100% of teaching and non-teaching staff have received at least one shot of vaccine in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Tripura. Besides, Maharashtra has covered its 100% teaching staff and Meghalaya has covered 100% of its non-teaching staff. The data is crucial at a time when a new variant of concern has been detected across several countries including India. More than 22 states and UTs have already reopened the schools in the country. Experts say teachers’ vaccination play a crucial role in the safe reopening of schools amid the pandemic. In terms of the state-wise breakup, Uttar Pradesh has witnessed 91.9% vaccination among teaching and 88.3% among non-teaching staff. Uttarakhand has recorded 95.2% among teaching and 95.25% among non-teaching staff. Odisha achieved 95.65% among teaching and 93.29% among non-teaching staff; Kerala achieved 97.39% among teaching and 97.84% among non-teaching and in Bihar, 98.9% teaching and 96.6% non-teaching staff have been vaccinated. Delhi has achieved 98.45% vaccination among teaching and 98.40% among non-teaching staff. Meanwhile, several states still have low vaccination coverage among non-teaching staff. For instance, in Andhra Pradesh, 63.85% of the non-teaching staff has been vaccinated against 96.42% coverage among teaching staff. In Manipur, 70.34% of the non-teaching staff received at least one vaccine shot against 80.84% coverage among teaching staff; and in Haryana, 68.06 % of non-teaching staff have been covered against 78.94% teaching staff, the data stated.
06-12-2021||India||‘No cognisable offence made out’: Delhi Police informs court on ML Khattar’s ‘provocative’ speech against farmers||The Delhi Police on Monday informed a city court that ‘no cognisable offence is made out’ against ML Khattar, the Haryana chief minister, for a ‘provocative’ speech, evidently aimed at farmers protesting against the three central agricultural laws. The reason, the police said, was that the video of the said speech was recorded in Chandigarh, which, it said, is outside its jurisdiction.Also Read | Khattar asks party workers to wield sticks, kicks up row“From the contents of the complaint, and the alleged video attached with the complaint, no cognisable offence is made out. As per the complaint, the alleged video has been recorded in Chandigarh, which does not fall in the jurisdiction of Delhi,” the force submitted in its Action Taken Report (ATR) to the Rouse Avenue Court, which, on November 18, sought details of action taken by the police on a plea filed by advocate Amit Sahani seeking action against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader.In his petition, Sahani, who sought an FIR against Khattar, submitted that ‘such hate speech and incitement by an incumbent chief minister could have led to a law and order situation in Delhi-NCR.’ He added, “The contents of the video make it abundantly clear that the accused has committed an offence under sections 109, 153, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code by giving provocative speeches with intention to cause a riot and promoting enmity between different groups.”The Haryana CM made the said speech on October 4, while addressing the BJP's kisan morcha workers. “We will have to encourage upcoming farmers groups. In every district, particularly in north and northwest, we will have to raise groups of 500-700 kisan volunteers. And then, Sathe Shathyam Samacharet (tit-for-tat). Pick up sticks. Don't worry about bail. If you spend a couple of months (behind bars), you will become a leader,” he said.After massive outrage and widespread criticism, Khattar later withdrew his remarks, saying that he had no ‘malicious’ intention, adding that he was doing so as he did not want a law and order situation.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cognisable-offence-made-out-delhi-police-informs-court-on-ml-khattar-s-provocative-speech-against-farmers-101638787794689.html
06-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Opposition continues protest in Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPs and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition continues to disrupt Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPsOpposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Monday were unrelenting in their demand to reverse the decision to suspend 12 Members of Parliament (MPs) from the Upper House. Read moreIND vs NZ: Where does Team India stand at WTC points table after mammoth win over New Zealand in 2nd TestThe fourth day of the second and final Test between India and New Zealand in Mumbai saw the hosts etch a massive 372-run win over the hosts. Read moreKatrina Kaif-Vicky Kaushal wedding: Siblings leave from Mumbai, another sister and Anaita Shroff Adajania land in JaipurActor Katrina Kaif's family has started arriving in Jaipur for her wedding with Vicky Kaushal. On Monday afternoon, Katrina's elder sister Natasha Turquotte was spotted at the Jaipur airport. Read moreHow to fix phone battery draining fast problem: Top 5 tipsWhen you decided to buy a new phone, you check for the presence of all the essentials like latest processor, HD camera, good sound, long-lasting battery…. Wait! You bought a phone with the best battery option, but even then its battery is draining very fast? Well, that happens. Read moreBajaj Auto teases new-gen KTM RC 390 ahead of launchBajaj Auto has confirmed via KTM India's social media handles that the new-gen RC 390 will be launched in the Indian market very soon. Read moreTil Gul to tamarind; Rujuta Diwekar recommends 5 divine foods for winter seasonWinters are synonymous with delicious and nutritious food. Not only there is a lot to choose from but also our digestive system is supportive enough to let us indulge in winter delicacies that are not only mouth-watering but pack a nutritional punch. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-opposition-continues-protest-in-rajya-sabha-over-suspension-of-mps-and-all-the-latest-news-101638789369404.html
06-12-2021||India||SC extends protection from arrest for ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Supreme Court said on Monday former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh cannot be arrested in criminal cases filed against him and told the department it can continue to probe the allegations against him but can’t file any chargesheet against the former top cop over allegations of misconduct and corruption.The top court listed the matter for hearing again on January 11, 2022, and asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file its affidavit on the plea filed by Singh.The former Mumbai top cop is facing allegations of running an extortion racket along with dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. The crime branch alleged that both of them along with two others were extorting hoteliers and bar owners in Maharashtra and the capital Mumbai.Param Bir Singh absconded after writing to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that former home minister Anil Deshmukh directed crime branch officials to collect ₹100 crore every month from businessmen in Mumbai.His letter to the chief minister came after his removal as the Mumbai Police commissioner. He was removed from office after explosives were found near Antilia, the residence of business tycoon Mukesh Ambani.Sachin Vaze, who was arrested for allegedly planting those explosives and the murder of Mansukh Hiren, whose car was used for the operation, earlier said that he collected extortion money from hoteliers and bar owners at the behest of Param Bir Singh, whom he referred to as ‘number one’.Param Bir Singh appeared in a Mumbai court after absconding for more than six months. He returned to Mumbai to assist with the probe following the Supreme Court’s order which granted him interim protection from arrest.The Maharashtra government last week removed him from the position of the director general of Maharashtra Home Guard due to dereliction of duty.There are five first information reports (FIRs) registered against him in Mumbai and Thane police stations between April 28 and August 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-extends-protection-from-arrest-for-former-mumbai-top-cop-101638789454818.html
06-12-2021||India||Civilian killings in Nagaland a case of ‘mistaken identity’, laments Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah has expressed deep regret over the killings of 14 civilians during the weekend in Nagaland’s Mon district following a botched counter-insurgency operation, telling Parliament on Monday that it was a case of mistaken identity and the episode was being probed at the highest level.He said a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been directed to investigate the civilian deaths and report back in a month’s time.Speaking at the Lok Sabha, Shah said, “It was a case of mistaken identity… an SIT has been directed to complete the probe within one month.” Recalling Saturday’s episode, Shah said the army had information on the movement of extremists in Oting, Mon, on the basis of which the security personnel laid an “ambush” in the suspected area.“Six out of eight people in the vehicle died. It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity. Two others who were injured were taken to the nearest health centre by the army. After receiving news of this, local villagers surrounded the army unit, set two vehicles on fire and attacked them,” Shah said.Also Read: Blackened India’s image: Nagaland CM asks Centre to repeal Afspa from NagalandThe home minister said that as a result of locals setting army vehicles on fire, a member of the army personnel died and several others were injured. “Security forces had to resort to firing for self-defence and to disperse the crowd. This caused the death of seven more civilians… some others were injured. Local administration and police tried to bring the situation to normalcy,” he said.The union home ministry has sent a secretary-level officer to Nagaland to get a clearer picture of the turn of events in order to avoid a similar episode. Shah said the situation in Nagaland was tense, but “under control”. He expressed regret over the killings and the violence and offered condolences to the families of the deceased. The episode was one of the deadliest escalations in recent times in the northeastern state. Nagaland has been rocked by insurgency for a long time and last weekend’s killings were one of many such escalations.After Shah’s statement, opposition parties sought some time to respond to his statement, but Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla turned down the demand.Congress MP Manickam Tagore said the Opposition was not satisfied with Shah’s statement and staged a walkout.“The home minister came and gave a very short response, and when we asked for a clarification, we were not allowed [to have it],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilian-killings-in-nagaland-a-case-of-mistaken-identity-laments-amit-shah-101638789106936.html
06-12-2021||India||Global experiments with digital currency: Do stable coins have a role to play?||We’ll soon hear the clink of the digital rupee to keep up with the era of the cryptocurrency. In a way, it may wean you away from the volatile and unreliable tools for investment. A lot needs to be worked out in due course, including a new definition for a bank note to account for the incoming digital currency as well as the small matter of stability and risk elimination, something crypto currencies don’t do very well. This does make us wonder how have the experiments in other countries to counter crypto currencies with digital currencies worked out so far? And how will you be able to use them? Will this tie-in with the crypto wallets that you may already be using such as Coinswitch Kuber or CoinDCX or will there be a separate application launched by the government which will work as a digital Rupee wallet? And how will this be interoperable with payment methods such as UPI (Universal Payments Interface) and mobile wallets including Google Pay? A lot remains to be answered. India’s need for a digital rupee According to data by Bloomberg Wealth, the cryptocurrency market cap in India clocked $6.6 billion in May, up from $923 million at the same time last year. It is estimated that as many as 15 million Indians have investments in cryptocurrency. The government has been very clear that there is no chance that cryptocurrency will be considered legal tenders for payments. “While interest in Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDC) is near universal now, very few countries have reached even the pilot stage of launching their CBDCs. A 2021 BIS survey of central banks found that 86% were actively researching the potential for CBDCs, 60% were experimenting with the technology and 14% were deploying pilot projects,” T Rabi Sankar, deputy governor, Reserve Bank of India said in July at a webinar. Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, all use publicly available ledgers that trace transactions back to crypto wallets that were used. Yet, there are some cryptos that are meant to provide complete anonymity. These cryptos cannot be tracked. The route that any given transaction takes is meant to obfuscate means of tracing the source. It is impossible to chart a route for transactions done using private cryptocurrencies, opening them for potential deployment in money laundering and terror funding purposes. Digital currencies and fiat money: a handshake? There are two types of digital currencies which have a relation to fiat money, or a government-issued currency that is regulated and controlled by the central bank of that nation. First is the official currency, issued and regulated by the central bank. For instance, the Rupee is regulated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) while the Pound Sterling is regulated by the Bank of England, the central bank of the UK. Digital coins of these currencies will be regulated by the same rules which apply for the paper notes. These are referred to as Central Bank Digital Currency (CDBC). Also Read: Nothing ear (1) black edition arrives with carbon neutrality and crypto payments‘Stable’ crypto coins inspired by fiat money The other are crypto coins which fall in the category of stable coins. Why are they called stable coins? That is because these were designed by their makers to be cryptocurrency equivalents of fiat currencies, such as the US$. Not officially endorsed or affiliated in any way but linked to the real-world exchange value. The idea behind these coins is to eliminate the volatility (read, risk of losing your money) that is all too common with crypto currencies such as Bitcoin. Investors and holders stand to lose very little. For instance, there is a stable coin cryptocurrency called Tether, which is always going to hold value of $1 for each digital coin. The same is true for some popular stable coins such as USD Coin (USDC), Binance USD (BUSD), Pax Dollar (USDP) and Dai (DAI). An illustration of stability—the price of Tether over the past 12 months has swung between $0.9985 to $1.0023 per Tether coin, depending on the value of the US Dollar. Bitcoin, arguably the most popular cryptocurrency in the world and prone to volatility has seen lows of $18,058.9 and highs of $67,566 in the same period. Numbers by research firm McKinsey suggest nearly $3 trillion in stable coins such as Tether and USDC were transacted in the first half of 2021. If volatility had a buzzword, that would probably be very similar to cryptocurrency. Stable coins aren’t as risky, because they do have a centralised system (not the same as a central bank, but these are privately owned and run) linking it to an underlying unit of a fiat currency. But will this system hold up in case of a crisis, such as inflation of the underlying currency? The very idea of stable coins comes from the 1:1 ratio that is maintained with real currencies, and hence the value. We haven’t yet seen that put to the test, in the economic realm. Government experiments with official digital money Even as India embarks on the long and arduous path of identifying the contours of a digital rupee, some countries have dabbled with the idea as an antidote to the volatility of crypto currencies. Yet, they are very much in an experimental stage, evolving as times goes on. Nigeria has become the first African nation to introduce a digital currency. It is called the eNaira, the digital version of the nation’s currency, Naira. It will be used just like cash, in place of cash. “Unlike these crypto-assets, the eNaira is not a financial asset in itself but a digital form of a national currency and draws its value from the physical naira to which it is pegged at parity,” the International Monetary Fund (IMF) points out. Tajikistan announced a CBDC earlier this year. The Bahamas, Saint Lucia, Grenada, Antigua and Barbuda already have central bank digital currencies circulating in their financial systems. Earlier this year, China became the first major economy to issue a CBDC as part of a large-scale test. The People’s Bank of China says the digital renminbi (also called the yuan) is very much a legal tender for payments and holds the same value as yuan currency bills. In China, Digital Yuan can be transacted using a digital wallet that needs to be enabled and verified for each user. This starts with a phone number, that allows basic operations with daily transaction caps. A higher privilege wallet with unlimited daily usage can be signed up for at a bank, after identity verifications are done. As of June, e-CNY wallets in China had clocked 24 million users. Transactions of 62 billion Yuan already done, confirmed Mu Changchun, head of the PBOC’s Digital Currency Institute, at the Hong Kong Fintech Week last month. Canada became the first country to approve a Bitcoin-traded fund in February. The UK considers cryptocurrency held by citizens as property and investors pay taxes on crypto profits. Singapore has a similar definition for crypto ownership. In Japan, cryptocurrencies are recognised under the country’s Payment Services Act (PSA). Cryptocurrency is legal in most of the EU countries. More countries boarding the CBDC train UK says that consultations over a digital currency will start next year. “CBDC would be a new form of digital money issued by the Bank of England and for use by households and businesses for their everyday payments needs. It would exist alongside cash and bank deposits, rather than replacing them,” says the Bank of England. Japan has announced the “DCJPY” project for a digital currency linked to the Japanese Yen. This is a consortium of 74 Japanese firms, working to ensure wide compatibility. The companies that are part of this consortium include Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Mizuho Financial Group, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Nippon Telegraph, East Japan Railway Company and Kansai Electric Power Company with all activities done in consultation with the Bank of Japan. The digital currency is expected to be issued sometime next year.
06-12-2021||India||Medics to take prior permission from health dept to speak to media: Kerala govt||Kerala Health Department on Sunday issued a notice stating that medical officers and health workers need prior permission from the department to speak to media publicly.In an order issued by Kerala Health Director V K Raju said that medical officers and health workers need to be cautious in sharing information with the media."Officers are not allowed to share information without prior permission from the department under any circumstances. In case of an emergency where it is necessary to provide information, they need to verify the facts and get prior sanction from the department," the notice said.The notice also pointed out that some information published on the news platforms regarding the department's day to day affair and other matters are not authoritative. It said that publishing such news will "mislead people" regarding the department's work and create "stigma about the spread of disease".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medics-to-take-prior-permission-from-health-dept-to-speak-to-media-kerala-govt-101638772752555.html
06-12-2021||India||Wasim Rizvi, former Shia Waqf board chief, converts to Hinduism||Wasim Rizvi, former Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board chairman, quit Islam and converted to Hinduism in an event at Devi Temple in Dasna, Ghaziabad on Monday that was marked by rituals. The temple authorities also said Rizvi has decided to change his name to Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi. The conversion ceremony was held in the presence of Yati Narsimhanand Saraswati, the temple’s head priest.“I adopted the ‘Sanatan Dharma’ as it is one of the oldest religions,” Rizvi later said.Last month, he had drawn criticism after releasing a book titled “Muhammad” in which he reportedly made objectionable remarks.
06-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Elections: Religion will be in focus||Uttar Pradesh may see a resurgence in religiosity with a flood of activities planned around three major shrines in Ayodhya, Kashi (Varanasi) and Mathura that have been on the agenda of the Sangh Parivar, which has been demanding what it sees as the liberation of the places associated with Ram, Shiva and Krishna, for decades.
06-12-2021||India||We regret loss of life, monitoring situation: Shah tells LS on Nagaland||We regret loss of lives, monitoring situation: Shah tells LS on Nagaland civilian deathsUnion home minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed deep regret over the deaths of as many as 14 civilians over the weekend in the Mon district of Nagaland in a botched counter-insurgency operation by the Indian Army and the violence thereafter.While addressing the Lok Sabha, Shah said the home ministry has been following the incident and is monitoring the developments closely. Shah said a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the incident and it will submit its report in a month’s time.The home minister informed the Lok Sabha that it was a case of mistaken identity and that the Indian Army acted on the basis of information about the movement of extremists in the Oting area of Mon.“On that basis, 21 commandos laid an ambush in the suspected area. As a vehicle reached there, it was signalled to stop but it started speeding away. On suspicion the vehicle was carrying extremists, the personnel fired at it killing 6 of 8 people,” Shah said."It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity," Shah added.Seven out of the 14 people killed in the Mon district were daily wage labourers. Following the deaths of the coal mine workers, angry villagers reached the spot and set alight two vehicles of the army after which security personnel fired a few more rounds killing more civilians.Shah said one soldier has died and many others were injured. "Security forces had to resort to firing for self-defence and to disperse the crowd. This caused the death of 7 more civilians and some others were injured. Local administration and the police tried to bring the situation to normalcy," he said while giving details of the incident.The current situation is tense but under control. “An FIR has been registered and keeping the seriousness of the incident in mind, the probe has been handed over to State Crime Police Station. The SIT has been constituted and has been directed to complete the probe within a month," the home minister said.The Indian Army has also set up a court of inquiry into the killings of the civilians and said the probe will be headed by a major general, people familiar with the developments told HT.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio has also ordered a high-level probe into the killings of civilians by security forces.The incident led to widespread criticism of the government from the opposition, the Nagaland chief minister as well as from the state’s citizens. Demonstrations and candlelight vigils were held condemning the deaths and the demand to repeal the Armed Forces Special Powers Act has grown in the aftermath of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-regret-loss-of-life-monitoring-situation-shah-tells-ls-on-nagaland-101638784686629.html
06-12-2021||India||Realtor in Porsche mows down two in Hyderabad hit-and-run case||A speeding Porsche driven by a 25-year-old realtor mowed down two men who were crossing the road at the upscale Banjara Hills area in Hyderabad in the early hours of Monday, the police said.The deceased were identified as Ayodhya Ram (26), an office assistant at Rainbow Children’s Hospital, and Devendra Kumar Das (29), a cook at the same hospital.The police later apprehended Ranjit Kumar Goud, a real estate developer from Uppal area on the city outskirts, who fled the spot soon after the accident. His Porsche Cayenne car bearing registration number was also seized by the police. Banjara Hills division’s assistant commissioner of police M Sudershan said the accident happened at around 1:30 am right in front of the hospital when Ayodhya Ram and Devendra Kumar Das were crossing the road on their way home after finishing their shifts.“The high-end car was travelling at a high speed towards Jubilee Hills, when it hit the victims, killing them on the spot,” Sudarshan said.Even after the accident, Goud did not stop the vehicle, which was chased by a police squad of the Jubilee Hills police station which was on night patrol and noticed the partially damaged car speeding on the road. The squad chased it to the residential complex at Road No 5 of Jubilee Hills, where it was being parked.Also Read: BMC to carry out surveys to target areas with low vaccination rate“On getting the alert from Banjara Hills police, the Jubilee Hills police took Goud and two other inmates of the car into custody,” the police officer said.A case under Section 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and also under Motor Vehicles Act against Goud has been filed. “On suspicion of him being drunk at the time of the accident, he was sent to Osmania General Hospital for an alcohol test,” Sudershan said.The bodies of the victims, both from Gopalpur in Odisha, were shifted to the OGH morgue for post-mortem.
06-12-2021||India||Omicron: WHO chief says ‘deeply disappointed’ at curbs on flights from southern Africa||World Health Organization (WHO) director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, on Monday expressed disappointment at travel restrictions being imposed on flights from southern Africa, where the latest Covid-19 variant, Omicron, was first detected. He also thanked South Africa and Botswana, which reported the first cases of Omicron, for not hiding this new variant.“I thank South Africa and Botswana for rapidly detecting, sequencing and reporting this new Covid-19 variant. It is deeply disappointing to me that some countries continue to block direct flights from southern Africa due to the Omicron variant,” WHO quoted Ghebreyesus as saying at the ‘Partnership for African Vaccine manufacturing-From Aspiration To Action’ event. "I thank #SouthAfrica and #Botswana for rapidly detecting, sequencing and reporting this new #COVID19 variant. It is deeply disappointing to me that some countries continue to block direct flights from southern Africa due to the Omicron variant"-@DrTedros https://t.co/gvRuCdAMNnIn making this observation, the WHO chief reiterated his remarks from tweets on Sunday, in which he shared his ‘disappointment’ with the imposition of curbs and also expressed respect to the African countries for their ‘transparency and sharing’ with respect to the information related to the Omicron variant, which is also denoted as B.1.1.529, and has been classified as a Variant of Concern (VoC). Respect is owed to the science and technology expertise in African countries as well as their transparency and sharing, including data related to the Omicron variant of concern. This is helping to ensure a safer world for all people everywhere. #COVID19The discovery of B.1.1.529 came at a time when several countries were witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. This has led to countries, including India, announcing measures for air passengers arriving from southern Africa. India is also among the nations, more than 30 in number, where passengers have tested positive for Omicron.Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainThis also led to India deferring resumption of regular international commercial passenger flights, which was scheduled for December 15. International flight operations were suspended in March last year, when the first nationwide lockdown was announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-who-chief-says-deeply-disappointed-at-curbs-on-flights-from-southern-africa-101638783242959.html
06-12-2021||India||BMC to carry out surveys to target areas with low vaccination rate||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has planned surveys to determine area-wise vaccination status across the city.with the aim to increase double vaccine dose coverage after achieving 100% coverage of the city’s target population last month and 75% double dose coverage of the eligible residents, officials said. The surveys will enable the civic body to identify areas with comparatively low double vaccination rate for dedicated vaccination drives. At present, such data is unavailable, the officials quoted above added. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last week ordered intensification of the vaccination drive in the light of the new Omicron variant of Sars Cov-2 virus that is considered to be highly infectious. He asked for identifying areas with low second dose administration rate for the purpose of launching dedicated drives there.A senior civic official said the surveys will be carried out on the lines of My Family My Responsibility surveys. “It is not possible to have this data otherwise as residents get vaccinated at any centre where a slot is available,” he said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: Resident doctors in Maharashtra join nationwide protest, to halt OPD dutyThe civic body is also targeting public and private commercial establishments with low rate of complete vaccination among employees. The campaign started at the ward level with assistant commissioners releasing mobile vaccination vans in commercially populated areas to encourage full vaccination.As of Saturday, 6,992,565 beneficiaries have been administered both doses, and 9,606,431 beneficiaries have received only the first dose. The target population estimated by BMC is 9,236,500 as per data collected during its My Family, My Responsibility surveys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-to-carry-out-surveys-to-target-areas-with-low-vaccination-rate-101638783646227.html
06-12-2021||India||Blackened India's image: Nagaland CM asks Centre to repeal Afspa from Nagaland||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Monday called for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Power) Act, 1958, saying the "law has blackened the image of the country”.The renewed demand comes after as many as 14 civilians were killed in the Mon district of the northeastern state over the weekend after in a botched anti-insurgency operation by the Indian Army and retaliatory violence."We are asking the central government to remove Afspa from Nagaland," Neiphiu Rio was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Nagaland chief minister also said he has spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue. “He is taking the matter very seriously. We have given financial assistance to affected families," Neiphiu Rio said.The Union ministry of home affairs in June extended Afspa in Nagaland for another six months and it will remain in force in the northeastern state until December 31.Afspa is also in force in Assam, Manipur (except Imphal Municipal area), the Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts of Arunachal Pradesh and the areas under the jurisdiction of the eight police stations in the districts of Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Assam.Earlier in the day, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma also said Afspa, which grants special powers to the armed forces to maintain public order areas designated as "disturbed" by the government, should be repealed.The killing of the civilians in Mon sparked a countrywide wave of condemnation and revived the old-running demand to repeal Afspa from the northeastern state. Civil rights groups and experts allege that the "draconian law" gives security forces a cover from committing atrocities on civilians.Members of Parliament also discussed the issue in the Lok Sabha on Monday, as they joined the demand to repeal Afspa from Nagaland.Stressing that emotional integration of people living in border areas is extremely important for the unity and integrity of the country, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari urged the government not to invoke immunity under the Afspa against those who are found guilty."The Afspa has not given powers to security forces to indiscriminately kill people,” said Tokheho Yepthomi of Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) Yepthomi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blackened-india-s-image-nagaland-cm-asks-centre-to-repeal-afspa-from-nagaland-101638783175120.html
06-12-2021||India||Major General to head army inquiry into civilian killings in Nagaland||The Indian Army has set up a court of inquiry into the killings of 13 civilians in a botched counter-insurgency operation in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. The inquiry will be headed by a major general, the officials said. The two-star officer is currently posted in the country’s Northeast. On Saturday, army personnel gunned down seven coal mine workers after mistaking them to be insurgents. Soon after the incident, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by forces to control the situation in which several villagers and a soldier died. The gunning down of the civilians renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state. The Act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the northeastern state, with civil society members saying that it gives security personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas. The AFSPA bestows sweeping powers on the forces and prohibits prosecutions from being initiated without the go-ahead from the Centre, if the allegations are linked to the public duty of the accused. The Nagaland government on Sunday banned mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text”. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee condemn Nagaland killingsA notification issued by the state home department banning the services alluded to the “apprehension of grave law and order problems” in the district and said “short message service (SMS), WhatsApp, Facebook and other social media platforms could be used for spreading of rumours, fake news and for circulating inflammatory text, pictures, videos etc, which may inflame passions and thus exacerbate the law-and-order situation.” The incident has turned the spotlight on the security situation in the Northeast and the conduct of counter-insurgency operations by security forces. Armed militants last month ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy near the porous India-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Churachandpur district, killing five soldiers including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son.
06-12-2021||India||Boy beheads pregnant sister, takes selfies with severed head||A 19-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly beheaded by her brother with their mother’s help on Sunday for getting married to a man without the consent of her family in the Aurangabad district of Maharashtra, a report said.According to news agency ANI, the 38-year-old mother and 18-year-old brother allegedly dragged the head of the victim after killing her and displayed it before the woman’s neighbours.The news agency cited the police as saying they also told the woman’s neighbours they killed their daughter because she got married without their consent. They also took selfies with the head of the woman, who got married about six months ago, added the police.Also read | Bride shot at within hours of marriage at Rohtak villageAccording to the police, the mother and the brother went to the woman’s house on the pretext of reconciling with her. The woman’s husband left the room so that his wife, her brother and mother could talk privately, they said according to ANI.As the woman went to the kitchen to make tea, the brother who was carrying a sharp weapon attacked her and cut her throat, police officials told ANI.Also read | Man accused of cheating Mumbai woman, 31, after hacking her phone arrested: CopsThey added by the time the husband could come to her rescue, the brother of the victim allegedly beheaded her. The husband of the victim fled the house as he feared he would be attacked as well.The mother and the brother have surrendered at the Virgoan police station and confessed to the crime. They have been arrested, the police informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-beheads-pregnant-sister-takes-selfies-with-severed-head-101638779378563.html
06-12-2021||India||Rajnath Singh points to ‘extraordinary militarisation’ of India’s neighbourhood||India is grappling with challenges arising from the “extraordinary militarisation” of its neighbourhood and “unprovoked aggression” on the northern border, and the country seeks partners who are responsive to its military requirements, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. Singh didn’t name any country in his televised opening remarks at the inaugural India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, but there was little doubt he was referring to China. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a face-off in Ladakh sector since May 2020 and numerous reports have emerged of Beijing bolstering military facilities all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Russian defence minister Sergey Shoigu said bilateral military-technical cooperation is especially important in India-Russia relations, and that bodies of the two countries will cooperate to increase trust and security. He said he and Singh had finalised plans for future cooperation. Also Read: India, Russia conclude AK-203 deal, renew 10-year pact for military cooperation“The [Covid-19] pandemic, the extraordinary militarisation and expansion of armament in our neighbourhood, and the unprovoked aggression on our northern border since early summer of 2020 have thrown in several challenges,” Singh said. “Recognising that its development needs are colossal and that its defence challenges are legitimate, real and immediate, India seeks partners who are sensitive and responsive to India’s expectations and requirements,” he added. Singh said India is confident of overcoming these challenges with “strong political will and inherent capability of its people”. He added that during a bilateral meeting with Shoigu, he discussed the “emerging challenges India is confronted with and the enhanced requirement of India for closer military and military-technical cooperation with Russia”. Following the bilateral meeting, Singh tweeted that India “deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support” and hopes that “our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region”. He said in the tweet a number of agreements, contracts and protocols pertaining to small arms and military cooperation were signed at the bilateral meeting. In his opening remarks at the 2+2 meeting, Singh further said India hopes that “Russia will remain a major partner for India in these challenging circumstances”. The Indian side, he added, is seeking greater military-technical collaboration, advanced research, and co-development and co-production of defence equipment leading to self-reliance. “Separately, we proposed greater engagements in Central Asia and in the Indian Ocean region. India is a continuation of the vast Eurasian landmass and at the same time, central in the enormous Indian Ocean region. We are optimistic about Russia’s cooperation in all the domains,” he said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, in his opening remarks, said the 2+2 meeting is being held at a critical juncture when the global geopolitical environment is in great flux, especially after the pandemic. “Our ties have been close and time-tested. In a world that has changed so much, they have been exceptionally steady,” he said, adding that the 2+2 meeting gives both sides a platform to discuss politico-military issues of mutual interest that are inter-related. These issues include the emergence of multipolarity, consequences of over-centralised globalisation, challenges such as terrorism, violent extremism, the situation in Afghanistan, which has repercussions for Central Asia, hotspots in West Asia, and maritime security. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said the new 2+2 mechanism will deepen traditional understanding and help reinforce the bilateral special and privileged strategic partnership. “Both Russia and India have a similar worldview of a more polycentric, more multipolar, more equitable world order. We advocate similar or identical positions on the most important political and military issues,” he said. 
06-12-2021||India||Opposition continues to disrupt Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPs||Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Monday were unrelenting in their demand to reverse the decision to suspend 12 Members of Parliament (MPs) from the Upper House.During the question hour that was being held amid sloganeering by the Opposition, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O’Brien while posing a question to jal shakti minister Gajendra Shekhawat, said, “I want to ask the water resources minister - why has democracy dried up in Parliament?”This prompted leader of the House Piyush Goyal to criticise the Opposition for creating ruckus in the House. The Opposition members objected to the minister’s statement and the House was adjourned till 2pm.Earlier, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu refused to take up the issue of suspension for discussion and informed the House that union home minister Amit Shah will be making a statement on the killings in Nagaland. The Opposition MPs however raised slogans which led to an adjournment within nine minutes of the House convening.Also Read: Wasim Rizvi, ex-chairman of Shia Waqf Board in UP, converts to HinduismWhen the House reassembled at noon, the protests continued and MPs trooped into the well of the House. Deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was then in the chair, urged the members to allow the Question Hour to proceed. Speaking outside the House, a union minister not wishing to be named said the opposition members had shown no inclination to either apologies or express regret over the incidents that led to the suspension of the 12 MPs. 
06-12-2021||India||Delhi govt to organise play on BR Ambedkar next month||The Delhi government will organise a mega play on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced this on Monday, December 6, which is observed as Mahaparinirvan Divas to mark the death anniversary of Ambedkar, who fought for economic and social empowerment of Dalits in the country.“I want every children and adult to know about the life of Ambedkar ji. At that time he was the first Indian to have a doctorate degree and he had not one, but two doctorate degrees, and both from abroad. He was also the chairman of the seven member drafting committee of the Constitution of the independent India. He also contributed in eradicating the social scourge of untouchability in India,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing on Monday. Also Read: Delhi Police start probe into rumour of ₹350 fine for not voting“To spread his teachings and to let everyone know about his inspiring life, the Delhi government will be organising a mega play from January 5 at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. The play will be shown for about 50 times, each will be absolutely free for the public. The play will be of international standards. So, I request all of you to watch it once it starts next month,” the Delhi chief minister said. Talking about the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, Kejriwal said he is closely monitoring the situation. “The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has entered out country and the city. But, I request you all not to panic. I am personally monitoring the situation every day. I request all of you to continue wearing masks at all times and maintain social distancing,” he said.
06-12-2021||India||Range over 3 football fields, lightweight: All about AK-203 assault rifles||India and Russia on Monday concluded a ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in the Amethi district of Uttar Pradesh, officials said.The deal was finalised at a bilateral meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approved the project last week.Here’s more about the AK-203 rifles:1. The 7.62 X 39mm calibre AK-203 rifles will replace the INSAS rifles that have been in service for over three decades.2. The modern version of the Russian-origin rifle has an effective range of 300 metres or more than three football fields, is lightweight and robust.3. This assault rifle fires the much larger 7.62 mm rounds that have better penetrating power, while similar rifles with less stopping power fire the smaller 5.56 mm rounds.Also read | S-400, AK-203 rifles: Putin on a power-packed visit to India today4. The modern technology used in the new rifles will enable them to use hi-tech add-ons like special sights and grips, useful for special forces missions.5. The government has said these assault rifles will enhance the operational effectiveness of the Indian Army in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations. 6. The Centre approved a plan to produce these AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa and the production will start soon, the Uttar Pradesh government in a statement last Saturday.Also read | Govt clears ₹5,100-cr project to make AK-203 rifles with Russia in Amethi7. The AK-203 rifles will be manufactured under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited. It was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov.  8. The project is a joint venture with the Russian government under the ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Modi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/range-over-3-football-fields-lightweight-all-about-ak-203-assault-rifles-101638776229412.html
06-12-2021||India||Wasim Rizvi, ex-chairman of Shia Waqf Board in UP, converts to Hinduism||The former chairman of Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, Wasim Rizvi, converted to Hinduism (also known as Sanatan Dharma) on Monday. He offered milk on the Shiva Linga installed at Dasna Devi temple as part of the ritual, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan reported.The ceremony took place at 10.30 am, in the presence of the chief priest of Dasna Devi temple Narsinghanand Saraswati, Livehindustan said. Vedic hymns were chanted as Rizvi quit Islam and entered Hinduism after a yagna.He will be associated with the Tyagi community. His new name will be Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi.
06-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Security tightened in Ayodhya, Mathura on Babri demolition anniversary and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Security has been raised in Ayodhya and Mathura, two Hindu holy cities in Uttar Pradesh, on the anniversary of Babri mosque demolition on December 6. Read moreCongress leader and Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor stepped aside as the host of a talk show on state-run television channel Sansad TV, following Shiv Sena lawmaker Priyanka Chaturvedi’s decision to quit as a programme host on the channel on Sunday in protest of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members of Opposition parties for alleged unruly behaviour. Read moreOpener Mayank Agarwal scored a gutsy 150 and aggressive 62 while the spinners picked 16 wickets between themselves across the two innings as India registered an emphatic 372-run victory on fourth morning of the second Test against New Zealand at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai to clinch the two-Test series 1-0. Read moreAudi India on Monday announced the introduction of a third variant on its A4 sedan at an ex-showroom price of ₹40 lakh. The Audi A4 Premium variant will now be available alongwith the Premium Plus and Technology variants. Read moreTadap, which marks the film debut of Suniel Shetty's son Ahan Shetty opposite Tara Sutaria, showed a decent growth on Sunday at the ticket counters. The film now stands at a total of around ₹13 crore. Read moreWhite sandy beaches, clear blue sea, and sunkissed locales seem to be the three words that define Bollywood's favourite holiday destination. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-security-tightened-in-ayodhya-mathura-on-babri-demolition-anniversary-and-all-the-latest-news-101638774068118.html
06-12-2021||India||India, Russia conclude AK-203 deal, renew 10-year pact for military cooperation||India and Russia on Monday concluded a much awaited deal worth ₹5,100 crore for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district, officials familiar with the development said. The deal was finalised at a bilateral meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.The two countries also renewed their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31, the officials said.“India deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support for India. We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region. Glad that a number of agreements/contracts/protocols were signed pertaining to small arms and military cooperation,” Rajnath Singh tweeted on Monday.The development came ahead of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin this evening.Apart from the bilateral meeting between the two defence ministers, the other events scheduled before the summit include a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers.Agreements in trade, space, technology and energy are expected to be signed during the summit.The two sides are looking forward to intense engagement on issues ranging from bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan.The government on Saturday approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called the Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approved the project last week. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago.Putin’s visit will have a major defence and security overhang, as previously reported. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems, which is part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five squadron, is expected to be completed anytime. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun.Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the officials said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.Also Read: Jaishankar, Lavrov speak of trust, confidence ahead of annual bilateral summitAt least 15 groups focused on economic cooperation between India and Russia have met virtually over the past two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the two sides have increased the target for two-way investments to $50 billion by 2025 as the earlier target of $30 billion had been achieved in 2018.India is also focusing on trade and investment opportunities in Russia’s Far East, including in coal and diamonds and for meeting manpower needs. As part of these efforts, 11 governors from the Far East have been invited to the Vibrant Gujarat meet of 2022.This is Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.
06-12-2021||India||Jaishankar, Lavrov speak of trust, confidence ahead of annual bilateral summit||The leadership of India and Russia have a relationship of great trust and confidence and a package of significant documents will be signed at the annual bilateral summit, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov said on Monday. The ministers were speaking ahead of a bilateral meeting, which would be followed by the maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, and the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu also held a separate meeting and co-chaired a session of the inter-government commission on military-technical cooperation. “For us, the annual India-Russia Summit is a unique event. Prime Minister Modi and President Putin share a relationship of great trust and confidence. The annual India-Russia summit is taking place after a gap of two years because of the [pandemic]. We are looking forward to some very significant outcomes from the summit,” Jaishankar said in televised opening remarks. Lavrov, speaking through a translator, added, “A whole package of significant documents has been drafted for signing [at the summit].” This was the fourth in-person meeting this year between Lavrov and Jaishankar, who said they would discuss bilateral ties and the global situation. He described the partnership between the two countries as “very special and very unique”. Jaishankar added, “We are very conscious that in a world of rapid geopolitical changes, [the India-Russia partnership] has in fact been remarkably steady and strong.” India and Russia are expected to sign up to 10 agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy during the annual summit. Ahead of Putin’s day-long visit, the Indian government cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing. The two sides will have an intense engagement on issues ranging from ways to deepen bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4 billion contract with Russia for five systems – is coinciding with the visit. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun. 
06-12-2021||India||India inks deal with Russia for procurement of AK-203 assault rifles||India and Russia on Monday inked agreements for the procurement of AK-203 assault rifles and protocols on amending cooperation in the field of Kalashnikov series small arms manufacturing. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart General Sergey Shoigu signed a contract for procurement of over six lakh AK-203 assault rifles through Indo-Russia Rifles Pvt Ltd and an agreement on military-technical cooperation from 2021-2031.Another agreement for protocol on amending agreement on cooperation in the field of Kalashnikov series small arms manufacturing was also signed.Singh expressed hope that the agreements will bring peace and stability to the entire region.“India deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support for India. We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter.“Glad that a number of Agreements/Contracts/Protocols were signed pertaining to small arms and military cooperation,” he added.Speaking at the inaugural 2+2 interministerial dialogue between India and Russia, Singh said that the defence engagements between the two countries have progressed in an unprecedented manner."We hope Russia will remain a major partner for India in these challenging circumstances," he added.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said the 2+2 interministerial dialogue will address the emergence of "multipolarity and rebalancing". terrorism, violent extremism and radicalisation as prominent challenges facing the region. The minister also mentioned the wider repercussions of the ongoing situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban's takeover and stressed that maritime security and safety is another area of shared concern."We both have common interest in ASEAN centrality and ASEAN-driven platforms," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inks-deal-with-russia-for-procurement-of-ak-203-assault-rifles-101638773728724.html
06-12-2021||India||Ayodhya, Mathura under tight security on Babri mosque demolition anniversary||Security has been raised in Ayodhya and Mathura, two Hindu holy cities in Uttar Pradesh, on the anniversary of Babri mosque demolition on December 6. Civil police, Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and central forces have been deployed at all strategic locations in Ayodhya, police officials said. Ayodhya’s senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey added that the number of devotees arriving at the temple town had gone up manifold. Security has also been upgraded substantially in Mathura to prevent any protest march or gathering in the city on Monday. Although all the major organisations and individuals have called off their plans for the day, the police have not lowered their guard. “No traffic will be allowed on roads leading to Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah till Tuesday,” officials said. The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) had earlier given a call for ‘jalabhishek’ at what it described as the “real” birthplace of Lord Krishna inside the Shahi Eidgah that shares its boundary with Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. Although ABHM has withdrawn the call, the police are not taking any chances. Around 2,000 police personnel, besides Central Reserve Police Force have been stationed in and around the Krishna temple and Eidgah. “Section 144 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC) is in force, and anybody violating prohibitory orders will be dealt with strictly. Police is fully geared to maintain peace and tranquillity and to instil fear among those having nefarious designs,” said Mathura’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dr Gaurav Grover. Also Read | Krishna Janmabhoomi-Eidgah issue: Mathura Police issue traffic advisory “We have sought cooperation from the people of Mathura by not becoming part of any unlawful gathering or protest march and to not pay heed to those interested in spreading rumours. Vigil is being kept on social media, and police cyber cell is all prepared to punish those interested in damaging peace and tranquillity in the city,” the SSP said. “No permission has been granted for any event. Any call for a gathering will be dealt with seriously,” he added. A detailed traffic plan has been implemented to avoid congestion in the yellow zone area around Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. “We have mobilised adequate forces, including those from nearby districts for December 6. The city police will be assisted by PAC, beside the CRPF that is deployed at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah. The city has been demarcated in eight sectors, four zones and two super zones for efficient monitoring,” Mathura SSP said. ABHM national spokesperson Sanjay Jaat claimed he had been placed under an undeclared house arrest. There is a dispute over the land on which the Shahi Eidgah and Sri Krishna Janambhoomi are located in Mathura. Various litigations are on in the civil courts of Mathura by Hindu organisations and individuals who allege that the Eidgah was built after the demolition of a temple by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb at the site where Lord Krishna was born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-mathura-under-tight-security-on-babri-mosque-demolition-anniversary-101638773505142.html
06-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor steps aside as Sansad TV host amid Rajya Sabha suspension row||Congress leader and Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor stepped aside as the host of a talk show on state-run television channel Sansad TV, following Shiv Sena lawmaker Priyanka Chaturvedi’s decision to quit as a programme host on the channel on Sunday in protest of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members of Opposition parties for alleged unruly behaviour.“On reflection, and in solidarity with the protesting MPs, I have decided to suspend my hosting of the talk show “To the Point” on Sansad TV until such time as the suspension of MPs are revoked and a semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament and functioning of Sansad TV,” Tharoor wrote in a letter.The Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended from the house on the first day of the winter session which began on November 29 for “unruly behaviour” during the previous monsoon session. Six of them including Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh were from the Congress, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri were from the Trinamool Congress, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai were from the Shiv Sena, and the remaining two were Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI).Also Read: Amit Shah to give statement in Parliament on Nagaland firing incidentTharoor said his continued involvement in hosting the show was no feasible considering his solidarity with the suspended parliamentarians. “As an MP who has gone every morning to greet protestors and express my solidarity with them, I am concerned that my continued involvement in hosting a show on Sansad TV would be seen as making me complicit in the undemocratic manner in which Parliamentary institutions are running,” he added.Sansad TV chief executive officer Ravi Capoor did not want to comment on the matter.On Sunday, Priyanka Chaturvedi resigned as the host of ‘Meri Kahani’ aired on Sansad TV. In her letter addressed to Rajya Sabha chairman and vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, she said she felt “great anguish” but also “a sense of responsibility” towards her constitutional duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-steps-aside-as-sansad-tv-host-amid-rajya-sabha-suspension-row-101638771638421.html
06-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor steps down as host of Sansad TV show in solidarity with suspended MPs||Congress Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday stepped down as the host of talk show 'To the Point' that is aired on Sansad TV. In a statement issued on Monday, Thaoor expressed solidarity with the protesting MPs and said he has decided to suspend his hosting until “suspensions of MPs are revoked and a semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament and the functioning of Sansad TV”.Tharoor has been hosting the talk show "To The Point" on Sansad TV."I believed that my accepting Sansad TV's invitation to host a show was in the best traditions of India's parliamentary democracy, reaffirming the principle that our political differences did not prevent us, as Members of Parliament, from participating fully in various parliamentary institutions which belong to us all," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram further said in the statement."However, the prolonged suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha, expelled in an arbitrary manner for actions committed during a previous session, has called into question the very assumption of a bipartisan spirit animating the work of Parliament," he added.Also read | V-P Naidu meets govt, Opposition leaders on MPs’ suspensionpic.twitter.com/WzXu8B3RrmEarlier, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said she was stepping down as the anchor of the Sansad TV's show ‘Meri Kahaani’. She is among the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs.Chaturvedi, in a letter dated December 5 to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, said, "After my arbitrary suspension, that has totally disgraced established parliamentary norms and rules, to stifle my voice, my party's voice inside the chamber, I am unwilling to continue taking space on Sansad TV when my primary oath to the Constitution is being denied to me."Twelve opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha last Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. While six suspended MPs are from the Congress; two each are from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPI(M).The opposition has said the suspension was "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-steps-down-as-host-of-sansad-tv-show-in-solidarity-with-suspended-mps-101638766851189.html
06-12-2021||India||Amit Shah to give statement in Parliament on Nagaland firing incident||Union home minister Amit Shah will give a statement today in both Houses of Parliament on the Nagaland firing incident in which at least 14 civilians - 13 on Saturday and one more on Sunday - were killed. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said he has spoken to Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh regarding the incident, adding that the home minister will make a statement in the afternoon.Shah is expected to speak on the matter after Opposition leaders gave adjournment motion notices to discuss the killing of civilians in the Mon district of Nagaland. While Congress MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the incident, Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha gave suspension of business notice "to discuss the matters related to the killing of innocent civilians in Nagaland."“There has been a very serious and tragic incident in which six civilians killed by armed forces. This horrific incident led to clashes that led to death of 8 more civilians and a jawan. We demand a statement from the minister today,” Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said.On Saturday, Shah expressed anguish over the incident and extended condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families.But the government is yet to provide a statement on the botched anti-insurgency operation in which security forces gunned down civilians. After the reports of killings emerged on Sunday morning, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the central government must give a “real reply” over the “heart wrenching” incident.“What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?” Gandhi wrote on Twitter.A 5-member delegation of Trinamool Congress will visit Nagaland today to meet the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-give-statement-in-parliament-on-nagaland-firing-incident-101638765704069.html
06-12-2021||India||India reports 8,306 cases of Covid-19; active cases lowest in the last 18 months||India's Covid-19 caseload went up to 3,464,1561 after the country added 8,306 new infections in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry's update on Monday morning. The death toll saw a jump of 211 cases and now stands at 473,537, the data updated at 8am showed.The active caseload reached 98,416, the lowest in the last 18 months. The total active cases, currently, account for 0.28 per cent of the total caseload.The recovery rate atands at 98.35 per cent, as per the data. As many as 8,834 people recuperated in the last 24 hours and the total number of recoveries jumped to 34,069,608.Notably, the daily positivity rate (0.94 per cent) has been less than 2 per cent for the last 63 days, while the weekly positivity rate (0.78 per cent) has been less than 1 per cent for the last 22 days.On the vaccination front, the country has administered 1.27 billion vaccine doses.Meanwhile, the number of people infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus rose to 21 with 17 more testing positive for the new strain on Sunday.So far, Delhi along with Rajasthan, Karnataka, Gujarat and Maharashtra have reported cases of Omicron, which is said to be more contagious than previous mutations of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-306-cases-of-covid-19-active-cases-lowest-in-the-last-18-months-101638766013061.html
06-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee condemn Nagaland killings||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee are among the top Opposition leaders who expressed shock and demanded a thorough probe into the civilian killings in Nagaland by security forces who opened fire on them in an operation gone awry. “What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?” Rahul Gandhi tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said, “Heartbreaking news coming out of Nagaland, my deepest condolences to all the bereaved families. They deserve justice.”West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanded a thorough investigation into the incident and said it will send a party delegation to meet the families of the victims.“Worrisome news from #Nagaland. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. We must ensure a thorough probe into the incident and ensure that all victims get justice!” Banerjee tweeted.Nagaland’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Temjen Imna Along said Saturday’s incident was “tantamount to war crimes during peace time” and “amounted to genocide”, especially as the Centre was in talks with Naga groups to settle political issues.Also Read | Nagaland district tense after civilian killings: How the events unfolded in MonAccording to police officers, the incident took place between Oting and Tiru villages in the Mon district when some daily-wage labourers returning home in a pick-up van from a coal mine were fired upon by security forces who mistook them for militants following intelligence inputs of their presence in the area. Mon shares a porous international border with Myanmar, where the Yung Aung faction of NSCN (K) is based.The Army’s 3 Corps headquartered on the outskirts of Dimapur town issued a statement on Sunday, owning responsibility for the killing of the civilians and assuring “appropriate action”. The Nagaland Government has ordered a high-level probe into the incident by a Special Investigation Team (SIT).Union home minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter on Sunday to express condolences to the bereaved families and assured that the Nagaland government led by chief minister Neiphiu Rio had ordered a high level probe by a special investigation team to establish accountability. The NSCN-IM, the largest Naga rebel group, said the “absurdity and insanity” of the Indian security forces had been “exposed” and that it was a “black day” for the Nagas.Reacting to the incident, the Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO) announced the withdrawal of six tribes it represents from the ongoing annual Hornbill Festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-mamata-banerjee-condemn-nagaland-killings-101638764438135.html
06-12-2021||India||Mamata to send team to Nagaland to meet victims of civilian killings||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to send a five-member team to Mon in Nagaland where at least 14 civilians were killed on Saturday in firing by the army which appeared to have mistaken them for militants, triggering violent protests by locals. The team comprising four Trinamool Congress (TMC) parliamentarians including Prasun Banerjee, Susmita Dev, Aparupa Poddar and Santanu Sen apart from Biswajit Deb, former advocate general of Mizoram, will head for the north eastern state on Monday and speak to the families of the killed civilians “Worrisome news from #Nagaland. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. We must ensure a thorough probe into the incident and ensure that all victims get justice!” Banerjee had tweeted on Sunday. In October this year, a delegation of five TMC MPs including Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Sushmita Dev, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Pratima Mondal and Dola Sen – met families of farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Banerjee had also sent her emissaries to meet the farmers at Singhu border in Delhi when they were protesting against the three contentious farm bills. Also Read | Nagaland district tense after civilian killings: How the events unfolded in MonThe Mon district administration has imposed a curfew in the town following the violent protests and tensions in the area and prohibited movement of all non-essential vehicles in the district. Entry into the district was also prohibited and mobile internet services were suspended in the region, a district official said. An Indian army expressed its deep regret at the incident and its aftermath and started an investigation “at the highest level” into “the cause of the unfortunate loss of lives” and added that appropriate action will be taken as per the course of law. The TMC is trying to expand its footprint beyond Bengal and has already landed in Tripura and Goa and become the largest opposition party in Meghalaya after 12 Congress legislators, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, recently switched sides. The TMC would expand its base in five more states in the next few months and plans to set up working units in at least 15 states within the next one year, party supremo Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee had recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-send-team-to-nagaland-to-meet-victims-of-civilian-killings-101638762217468.html
06-12-2021||India||New updates from HT: TMC delegation to visit Nagaland after civilian killings, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killingsA five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) is set to visit Nagaland today to meet the families of those who died in the firing incident in the Mon district. Read more…S-400, AK-203 rifles: Russian President Vladimir Putin on a power-packed visit to India today | 10 pointsRussia’s President Vladimir Putin will arrive in India for a day-long visit on Monday, during which he will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read more…Omicron puzzle: Fauci says possibly mild cases, WHO expert warns about hospitalisationsThe initial reports on the Omicron variant of coronavirus indicate that it may be less dangerous than Delta which continues to drive a surge in hospitalisations, according to top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci. Read more…India’s Omicron tally rises to 21 with 17 news cases; Rajasthan reports nineIndia reported 17 more cases of the Omicron on Sunday, nine in Rajasthan capital Jaipur, seven in Maharashtra's Pune district and one in Delhi, taking the tally to 21. Watch video'He wasn't agreeing. At one stage we gave up': Ganguly on difficulties in convincing Dravid to become India's head coachBCCI President Sourav Ganguly on Sunday revealed how hard he had to work to convince legendary India cricketer Rahul Dravid to take up the job of the men's national team coach. Read more…What Katrina Kaif wore to Vicky Kaushal's house amid wedding preparationsActor Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal will soon tie the knot later this week in Rajasthan. Amid the ongoing wedding preparations, the bride-to-be arrived at Vicky's house last night with her mother, Suzanne Turquotte. The paparazzi clicked Katrina leaving her home and arriving at Vicky's building decked up in a gorgeous white saree, looking breathtaking as ever. See all pics and videoWhen Rajesh Khanna told Akshay Kumar to stop working in Khiladi series, predicted grandson Aarav will be next superstarRajesh Khanna had once shared his thoughts about the kind of film and roles his son-in-law, actor Akshay Kumar was choosing. While the veteran actor said that Akshay was doing a ‘fine job’ at the movies, he should stop working in Khiladi movies. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-ht-tmc-delegation-to-visit-nagaland-after-civilian-killings-101638759292645.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland district tense after civilian killings: How the events unfolded in Mon||The Mon district of Nagaland is on the edge after an incident in which 13 civilians were killed in firing by the Indian Army on Saturday. The soldiers mistook the civilians as militants, according to the police.The authorities have imposed curfew in the area and prohibited movement of all non-essential vehicles, people familiar with the matter said.The Nagaland government on Sunday announced ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the families of the 13 people killed. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio will visit Mon on Monday morning along with his cabinet colleagues and senior government officers for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation and to pay respect to the deceased.A five-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress is also set to visit Nagaland today.Here’s how the events unfolded in Mon:Saturday:6.30pm: Security personnel ambush ferry van carrying coal miners in Oting village of Mon district, seven people were killed.7.30pm: Several villagers, carrying machetes, arrive at the spot to attack security forces. One army jawan killed; six dead in force’s firing.10pm: Police deployed across villages; Army personnel taken to Mon town.Sunday:11am: Konyak Union office in Mon town vandalised by mob.2pm: Mob attacks Assam Rifles camp in Mon town, set two vehicles and sheds on fire. One civilian killed after security personnel open fire.4pm: Curfew and prohibitory orders imposed and internet services suspended for an indefinite period in Mon town.6pm: Murder case registered against unidentified Army personnel and local residents.The NSCN(IM) which is holding peace talks with the Centre on the Naga political issue, condemned the killing of civilians by security forces and said it is a 'Black day' for the Naga people.Union home minister Amit Shah expressed his regret over the incident and said the state probe would "ensure justice to the bereaved families".Mon district is about 350 kilometres from Nagaland's capital Kohima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-district-tense-after-civilian-killings-how-the-events-unfolded-in-mon-101638760134016.html
06-12-2021||India||India remembers BR Ambedkar on his 66th death anniversary. 5 things to know about him||India observes December 6 as Mahaparinirvan Divas every year to mark the death anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, who fought for economic and social empowerment of Dalits in the country. Fondly remembered as Babasaheb, he was also among the seven members of the “drafting committee” who prepared a draft of the Constitution of the independent India.Known for his great influence in India in eradicating the social scourge of untouchability, Ambedkar also served as the Minister of Law and Justice in the first cabinet of Jawaharlal Nehru from 1947 to 1951.As India remembers BR Ambedkar, here are top 5 thing to know about him:>Babasaheb Ambedkar dedicated most of his life to empowering and voicing concerns for the downtrodden. He also played a crucial role in promoting gender equality.>Ambedkar earned his doctorates in economics from Columbia University and the London School of Economics and gained a reputation as a scholar for his research in law, economics and political science.>While in his early career he worked as an economist, professor, and lawyer, Babasaheb became involved in political activities including campaigning and negotiations for India's Independence, advocating political rights and social freedom for Dalits in his later life.>Apart from drafting the Constitution, Babasaheb played a significant role in the formation of the Reserve Bank of India. The Central bank was formed on the concept presented by Babasaheb to the Hilton Young Commission.>He converted to Buddhism in 1956 at a ceremony held in Nagpur. Ambedkar's admirers consider him as influential as Lord Buddha, which is why his death anniversary is celebrated as Mahaparinirvana Divas.The Union government has decided to celebrate Mahaparinirvan Divas as part of the major commemoration of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', reported news agency ANI. In line with the original spirit of the famous slogan "Baba Saheb Amar Rahe", cultural programmes will be held at Sansad Bhawan, Dr Ambedkar International Center, Panchteerth sites associated with Babasaheb, and other locations such as Ambavade to pay tribute to Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on the occasion of his 66th death anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-remembers-br-ambedkar-on-his-66th-death-anniversary-5-things-to-know-about-him-101638755324079.html
06-12-2021||India||Assam govt implements new SOPs as Omicron cases spread. Read details||The Assam government on Sunday issued new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for international travellers amid the spread of the Omicron variant in India. The presence of new strain has been reported in 21 cases across the country so far.The new SOPs make it mandatory for international travellers to go for an RT-PCR test on arrival at airport. Those who plan to stay in Assam have been asked to compulsorily quarantine at home for seven days.If any of the traveller is found positive, he/she will have to abide by the state government protocol, and the samples will also be sent to laboratories for genome sequencing to determine the Covid variant, the state government said in its order.Assam health minister Keshab Mahanta said that the new SOPs have been formulated on the basis of the protocol for international travellers prepared by the Centre.The state government has also asked those who are going out of or coming into Assam to upload a self-declaration form on "Air Suvidha" portal before the scheduled journey.The passengers have been asked to submit travel details for the last 14 days and a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours.They should also give an undertaking on the portal or to the ministry of civil aviation through airlines before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by decisions of the appropriate government authority to undergo home or institutional quarantine as warranted.The Omicron variant has been reported in four states - Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka - and national capital Delhi.The total tally has reached 21. Of these, 17 were reported on Sunday alone. Most of these have travel history to south African countries, where Omicron was first detected last month.Since then, it has spread to two dozen countries, with Europe being the hardest hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-implements-new-sops-as-omicron-cases-spread-read-details-101638758263259.html
06-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till Tuesday||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday addressed the Lok Sabha regarding the killing of civilians in Nagaland after a counter-insurgency operation went awry and in the violence after that.Shah said the Centre was watching the situation closely and deeply regretted the loss of lives.After Shah’s brief statement on the Nagaland issue, the opposition demanded time to respond but the Speaker refused to give his permission.Meanwhile, Amit Shah also addressed the Rajya Sabha regarding the incident following which the house was adjourned till Tuesday due to constant disruption and continued protests by the Opposition. The Upper House of Parliament has been witnessing constant disruption over the suspension of 12 members. The leaders of opposition parties have been protesting against the suspension of their fellow colleagues.Meanwhile, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in the Lok Sabha.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrowLok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day, to resume tomorrow.'RS Chairman doesn't want to revoke suspension of 12 MPs'The Rajya Sabha Chairman doesn't want to take the suspension back. How long will you keep the opposition out in a democracy? Functioning of the House is in his hands. We are ready to cooperate. But he should accept our conditions: Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition, Rajya SabhaBJP MP displays box of alcohol in Lok Sabha, says Delhi govt was busy with liquor policy during second waveBJP minister Parvesh Sahib Singh displayed a box of an alcoholic drink inside Lok Sabha today and said that the Delhi government was busy with liquor policy instead of helping people with oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave.NIPER Amendment Bill, 2021, does not provide for improving Indian traditional medicine system, says S VenkatesanThe bill doesn't speak about researches on the Indian traditional medicine system, particularly the Siddha medicine from Tamil Nadu, says Communist MP S Venkatesan. “The bill (NIPER Amendment Bill, 2021) does not have any provisions regarding improving our own Indian medicine system,” he said. “The medicinal knowledge of over 8,000 medicinal herbs have been scientifically established before 2,000 years ago,” he said about the Siddha medicinal system. S Venkatesan says Parliamentary Standing Committee's suggestions not fulfilled in NIPER Amendment Bill, 2021CPI (M) minister S Venkatesan recorded his shock regarding the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021. “Parliament standing committee has recommended positions for people from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the NIPER council. But, the committee's suggestions have not been heard and the bill has not guaranteed any position for Dalit and tribal communities,” he said. He also alleged that the Centre regularly denied quota in all institutes of higher education and research. Supriya Sule questions move over disinvestment of Hindustan Antibiotics, Bengal ChemicalsNationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule questioned the disinvestment of Hindustan Antibiotics and Bengal Chemicals. She also asked why is the government not able to hire scientists and said that more scientists are working in the private sector.Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day, to meet at 11am on TuesdayRajya Sabha was adjourned for the day amid continuing protests by opposition parties as Union home minister issued a statement on Nagaland firing incident. The house has been adjourned till 11am on Tuesday (December 7).‘Status of pharmaceutical education and research in India not encouraging’, says YSRCP MPThe status of pharmaceutical education and research in India was “not encouraging”, said Sanjeev Kumar Singari, YSRCP MP from Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh.“There are nearly 2,800 pharmaceutical colleges in India, which train about 2,70,000 students every year. Presently, India has about 8,00,000 pharmacies, whereas the USA has 3,00,000 pharmacies. Our share in world pharma business is just 3%. By colume we are the third position in the world byt by value we are the 14th position. It means that we have huge volume but less value. We are giving more drugs to the world but earning less” he added.TMC's Saugata Roy says vaccine export delayed country's Covid-19 vaccination program “We exported vaccines to 80 countries, that's how our vaccination program got delayed,” says TMC MP Saugata Roy.Congress says ‘not satisfied’ with Amit Shah's statement on Nagaland firingCongress MP Manickam Tagore said that the opposition was not satisfied with Amit Shah's statement on Nagaland firing and so staged a walk out. “The home minister came and replied a very short reply and when we were asking for clarification, we were not allowed,” he said.“We were not satisfied with the reply of the home minister. Therefore the opposition– Congress and DMK and other alliance partners – walked out in protest against the reply of the home minister,” he added. Opposition demands time to respond to Amit Shah's statementOpposition parties demanded time to respond to Amit Shah's statement on Nagaland firing but Lok Sabha Speaker refused to allow. ‘Centre watching situation closely, deeply regret loss of life’: Amit Shah on Nagaland firing“Situation now under control. Police now inquiring and SIT will give its report in time bound manner. Army has given its own statement where they have regretted death of civilians and are inquiring at highest level. We monitored situation at highest level all day yesterday and govt is keeping a close eye on developments. The centre deeply regrets the loss of life,” said Shah.‘Case of mistaken identity’, says Amit Shah on Nagaland firing “Army tried to stop the vehicle but because it started speeding away. So the army fired and killed 6 of 8,” Amit Shah said. “It was a case of mistaken identity and army gave medical help to the two injured. Later in clashes, 7 more killed,” he added. Amit Shah addresses Lok Sabha on Nagaland firing incidentUnion home minister Amit Shah is addressing the Lok Sabha regarding the army firing incident in Nagaland.Both houses adjourned till 3pmBoth houses of Parliament, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, adjourned till 3pm today, reports ANI. Everyone sympathised with Nagaland, but not ‘with us’: NC MPIn Lok Sabha, referring to civillian killings in Hyderpora, National Conference MP Hasnain Masoodi says everyone sympathised with Nagaland, but not "with us" (Kashmir).Answer members' questions in the House itself: Lok Sabha Speaker to ministersLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla asks ministers to answer the members' questions in the House itself.His suggestion came after Minister of States for Finance Bhagwant Kishanrao Karad, while responding to a question of a member in the House about the Mudra loan beneficiaries, said he will collect the information and share it with him.Nagaland MP demands inquiry into Nagaland firing incidentAn inquiry should be initiated. State govt has given ex-gratia of ₹5 lakhs each to the families of the victims. The Centre should also give adequate compensation to the affected families, says T Yepthomi, NDPP MP from Nagaland in Lok Sabha on recent civilian killings in his state.‘Why has democracy dried up in the country': Derek O’brienTMC's Derek O’brien during question hour said I want to ask the minister (Gajendra Shekhawat) why has democracy dried up in the country.  The house was holding discussion on water resources.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmThe upper house of the Parliament was adjourned till 2pm after consituting briefly at noon. This the second adjournment of the day. Sitharaman addresses Lok SabhaUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman speaking in Lok Sabha. Responding to aquestion regardong potential losses in IPOs, she said SEBI is monitoring such cases.  Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmThe Rajya Sabha was adjourned till 12pm after the uproar by the opposition demanding discussion on firing incident in Nagaland. Shashi Tharoor resigns from Sansad TVpic.twitter.com/WzXu8B3RrmAfter Shiv Sena Priyanka Chaturvedi, senior leader Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also resigned from Sansad TV. AIMIM MP gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaAIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the Nagaland firing incident. Amit Shah to address house on Nagaland killingsUnion Home Minister Amit Shah to give a statement on the Nagaland firing incident in both the Houses of the Parliament today, news agency ANI reported. Rajya Sabha to discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology, surrogacy regulation bill todayThe Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 and The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 to be discussed in Rajya Sabha today.TRS MP gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaTRS MP Nama Nageswara Rao gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the issue of 'national policy on foodgrains procurement and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price to farmers.'In Lok Sabha, health minister to move National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) BillUnion Health Minister Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya to move the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for consideration and passing, in Lok Sabha today.Kharge to meet opposition leaders to chalk out strategy for floorOpposition leaders cutting across various political parties will meet at the office of the Rajya Sabha Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday to chalk out the strategy for the floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-updates-december-6-2021-101638755926391.html
06-12-2021||India||Advisory group to meet today on child immunisation, additional vaccine dose amid Omicron scare||The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) will meet on Monday to deliberate upon issues of child immunisation and administering additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the immunocompromised.The NTAGI is expected to come up with a comprehensive policy for both the additional Covid-19 vaccine dose and child immunisation, as informed by the chairman of India's Covid-19 task force, NK Arora, on November 29.This comes amid fears of a third wave of Covid-19 following the emergence of a new variant of Coronavirus, Omicron.Also read | Policy on booster, additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in 2 weeks: Dr NK Arora"The policy will deal with who will require the vaccine, when and how. This needs to be seen in the context that a new variant is coming and with time only we will get to know more information about it. Therefore relevance and effectiveness of the current vaccines will also become apparent with time only," Arora had said, according to ANI.There is a difference between a booster dose and an additional dose. The booster dose is given after a predefined period after the primary two doses have been given, while an additional dose is given to those people who have a basic problem with their immune functions, the doctor had explained.Also read | 'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shotsNK Arora had also said a comprehensive plan for immunising 44 crore children will be made public soon, adding that children with comorbidities will be prioritised and vaccinated first, followed by healthy children.People familiar with the development said that government experts are at present working on a list of comorbidities that could determine which children are eligible for a vaccine first.Only one Covid-19 vaccine, Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D, that was tested in children aged 12 years and above has been approved for emergency use in India.The drugs controller general of India is still reviewing the emergency use authorization of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin that has been tested in children aged 2 years and above, even though the expert committee recommended it for use in children.A total of 21 cases of Omicron have been detected in the last couple of days in India, with some experts pushing for a booster shot to the already vaccinated to minimise the effect of the pandemic.The new variant of Covid-19 was first detected in South Africa's Botswana early in November. It has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently informed the Lok Sabha that the NTAGI and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) were deliberating and considering scientific evidence regarding administration of booster doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advisory-group-to-meet-today-on-child-immunisation-additional-vaccine-dose-amid-omicron-scare-101638753912406.html
06-12-2021||India||5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killings||A five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) is set to visit Nagaland today to meet the families of those who died in the firing incident in the Mon district. The TMC delegation will comprise members of Parliament Prasun Banerjee, Sushmita Dev, Aparupa Poddar and Santanu Sen and party spokesperson Biswajit Deb.West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee on Sunday extended condolences to the bereaved families and called for a thorough investigation into the botched up counter-insurgency operation by the Indian army that led to the death of 14 civilians and one soldier."Worrisome news from Nagaland. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. We must ensure a thorough probe into the incident and ensure that all victims get justice!" Banerjee tweeted.Nagaland’s Mon district tense after stir over civilian killings turns violentThe situation in the area remained tense after security forces opened fire on civilians, which, the police said, was possibly a case of mistaken identity. Security forces had reportedly been tipped off about insurgents belonging to the Yung Aung faction of the banned outfit NSCN (K) and were tracking their movements. On Saturday, army personnel mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van as insurgents and gunned them down.As workers failed to reach their homes, villagers went looking for them. After reaching the spot, the angry mob set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing in which at least six civilians and one soldier died.People protesting against the killings surrounded an Assam Rifles camp in the area and set parts of it afire. Security forces opened fire at the mob, killing at least one civilian.The Indian Army has expressed regret over the incident and ordered a court of inquiry to investigate the incident.The state government, meanwhile, has suspended mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text,” an official directive said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5member-tmc-delegation-to-visit-nagaland-after-civilian-killings-101638751339902.html
06-12-2021||India||S-400, AK-203 rifles: Russian President Vladimir Putin on a power-packed visit to India today | 10 points||Russia’s President Vladimir Putin will arrive in India for a day-long visit on Monday, during which he will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.During the visit, India and Russia will hold the first 2+2 format dialogue in New Delhi and discuss key bilateral, regional and international issues, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region. Putin had said last week that he intends to discuss with PM Modi new "large-scale" initiatives on further developing "specially privileged" Russian-Indian relations."This partnership brings real mutual benefit to both states. Bilateral trade shows good dynamics; ties are actively developing in the energy sector, innovation, space, and the production of coronavirus vaccines and medicines," the Russian President had said during a ceremony of receiving credentials from foreign ambassadors in the Kremlin on Wednesday.Here’s the big points about Putin’s visit and the expected agenda:• This will be the first in-person meeting between Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi after their meeting on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Brasilia in November 2019.• Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit.• The Russian President is scheduled to hand over the model of an S-400 air defence system to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, news agency ANI reported.• The two countries will also ink a major deal worth over ₹5,100 crore to produce AK-203 assault rifles in India. These rifles will be produced in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi.• The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. The Indian Army is expected to acquire 7.5 lakh of these rifles.• The production of the over five lakh rifles by the India-Russia joint venture company would see a complete transfer of technology within seven years of signing the contract.• ANI further said that the two sides will discuss the Igla air defence system deal but that is not likely to be signed during this visit.• A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.• India and Russia will also be holding the first 2+2 format dialogue in New Delhi between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov.• The ministers are expected to hold in-depth discussions of the key regional and international topics, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments in Afghanistan and Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s400-ak-203-rifles-putin-on-a-power-packed-visit-to-india-today-101638751033371.html
06-12-2021||India||India & Russia to hold first 2+2 ministerial dialogue in Delhi. What's on agenda||Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov on Sunday arrived in India ahead of the first ‘2+2’ ministerial dialogue scheduled to take place in Delhi. The agenda for the dialogue, which will be held at the level of the foreign and defence ministers, will cover "political and defence issues of mutual interest".Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said last month that the new mechanism of two plus two dialogue is "expected to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries".Russian President Vladimir Putin will also be arriving in Delhi on Monday to hold the 21st annual India-Russia summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Both leaders are expected to discuss key bilateral, regional and international issues. This will mark the first face-to-face meeting between both the leaders, after they met on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in November 2019.Russian Foreign Affairs Minister Sergey Lavrov arrives at Delhi Palam airportHe will meet External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar and take part in the 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue between India and Russia pic.twitter.com/oMpQCbIAuVIn the summit as well as in the inaugural '2+2' defence and foreign ministerial talks, the two sides are also expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan and the rising threat of terrorism including from groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, people familiar with the development said.The annual summit will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers.On Saturday, the Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said that he is expecting a "sizeable and formidable joint political statement" from the annual summit."Negotiating teams are working about outcomes of the Summit, work is on. But what's clear for today is that one of the outcomes would be a sizeable and formidable joint political statement," Russian Envoy said in an interview with news agency ANI."It would be a very comprehensive paper, a comprehensive document covering all dimensions of our ties beginning with global issues and the UN revived commitment to itself to its central position in the modern world. Then would come regional issues, Afghanistan included," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-to-hold-first-2-2-ministerial-dialogue-in-delhi-what-s-on-agenda-101638748019120.html
06-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strain||The Omicron variant has been spreading fast in India. In the last one week, the number of people who contracted the new variant of the coronavirus rose to 21.Seventeen new cases were detected on Sunday alone. Most of those who tested positive either recently arrived from African countries or were in contact with such people.Several contacts of the new cases are under surveillance and have been isolated, said officials.Also Read | 9 test positive in Ludhiana amid Omicron threatThe central government has put in place strict travel restrictions on people arriving from abroad, especially from countries identified as ‘at risk’.The emergence of the new strain of coronavirus has also dented India’s plans to restart international travel from December 15.Here’s tracking the spread of the Omicron variant in India:Reported on Sunday:One case in New Delhi with travel history to Tanzania. The 37-year-old from Ranchi had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week, news agency PTI reported. The person is fully vaccinated and is currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital with mild symptoms, the agency further said in its report.Nine cases in Jaipur. These include four members of a family who returned from South Africa recently. "Genome sequencing has confirmed that nine persons are infected with the omicron variant," Rajasthan health secretary Vaibhav Galriya said.Seven in Maharashtra. Of these, six of a family tested positive in Pimpri-Chinchwad (on the outskirts of Pune city). “A 44-year-old, woman, who is a Nigerian citizen of Indian origin, her daughters aged 18 and 12, her 45-year-old brother and his two daughters aged 7 and one-and-a-half years, have tested positive for the Omicron variant as per the report given by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV)," Maharashtra health department said in a statement. All of them returned from Nigeria last month. The seventh case – a man – had travelled to Finland last monthWith this, the total number of confirmed Omicron cases in Maharashtra has gone up to eight.Detected earlier:The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Thursday in Karnataka - a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated.On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane tested positive for the new strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-21-tracking-the-spread-of-new-coronavirus-strain-101638749192622.html
06-12-2021||India||Pay disparity: Himachal cops’ kin stage protest outside Bilaspur AIIMS||Family members of Himachal Pradesh Police constables on Sunday staged a protest outside Bilaspur AIIMS and at Luhnu ground where BJP’s national chief JP Nadda was to preside over an event. The protesters carried placards with ‘Justice for Himachal Police’ written on them. When Nadda was leaving after inaugurating OPD at AIIMS, the protesters stopped his convoy at the gate and handed him a memorandum related to their demands. The protesters said while the government has reduced the contract period for other employees, the police constables have to wait for eight years for revised pay scale.“I have come here to protest against the disparity in pay of constables. My daughter is in the police. She cannot raise her voice against this injustice, so I came here to express resentment against the government policy on her behalf,” said Harminder Singh, a parent who protested at AIIMS and later at Luhnu. Another parent, Indra Devi, said government should remove the disparity in pay of police constables. “When the government t has considered demands of other employees, then why injustice with the police?” she asked.It is worth mentioning here that there has been a growing anger among the constables of the Himachal Pradesh Police over the disparity in their salaries.Irked over their demands not being heard in the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) meeting, policemen in large numbers had marched to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s official residence for a peaceful protest on November 28.The chief minister had hurriedly convened a meeting with the finance secretary and assured the protesting cops that their demands will be looked into in a meeting with all officials concerned.In the JCC meeting, the chief minister had announced new pay scales for the employees and reduced their contract period from three to two years. The government’s decision to increase the pay scales of employees had led to resentment among policemen. The policemen started a campaign on social media and also stopped taking meals in the mess of their units.On December 3, the Director General of Police (DGP) had issued a gag order to prevent the cops from airing their grievances on social media. It was directed that the police constables should maintain discipline go about their routine and refrain from posting comments on social media.It was after this order, that the parents of the constables launched a campaign on their behalf. Himachal DGP forms 4-member panel to look into grievances of constabulary Himachal director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu on Sunday constituted a committee to analyse the grievances of the constabulary regarding their pay anomalies. The order issued by the DGP to this effect states that issues of pay anomaly and other issues of constabulary who have been recruited after 2015, have come to the notice of authorities. “However, to comprehensively analyse the grievance of the constabulary regarding their pay anomaly, a committee is hereby constituted,” it states.IGP Anand Pratap Singh will be the chairman of the committee which comprises IG DK Yadav, IG JP Singh and deputy controller Vikash Gupta.The panel will receive all the issues in the form of memorandum, in writing from the affected parties and list the issues which need to be taken with the government.The committee will submit its report within one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pay-disparity-himachal-cops-kin-stage-protest-outside-bilaspur-aiims-101638736174983.html
06-12-2021||India||Air India pilots to meet Aviation Secy before taking call on ‘industrial action’||Air India pilots, who had warned the management of a strike, have decided to meet Rajiv Bansal, aviation secretary (also their chairman and managing director) once before announcing their decision of going on a strike. The Air India pilots have warned the airline of ‘Industrial Action’ if their pay-cuts and arrears are not duly paid before Air India is handed over to the new owner.Indian Pilots’ Guild (the airline’s Boeing pilots’ union) on Sunday tweeted, “Talks with management along with @PilotsIndian regarding 60% pay cut only for Licenced employees, inconclusive. Meeting management (CMD/SECY MOCA) tomorrow to find a peaceful resolve. @MoCA_GoI @TataCompanies@RNTata2000#peacefulresolution."Air India pilots had, on November 29, given an ultimatum of three days to the Air India management to meet their demands. In a letter to Bansal, sent on Monday evening, the pilots had warned that if they do not see the illegal pay cut and related issues being addressed within three days, they will seek justice through industrial action.The letter was written by the airline’s Airbus’ union- Indian Commercial Pilots’ Guild (ICPA) and Boeing pilots union- Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) which represent over 900 pilots.Post this, the management reached out to the pilots and had a meeting with them.These pilots had been writing to the airline since October but they haven’t received any reply.In their previous letters, the pilots complained that they are burdened by the “illegal pay cut” of 55% and demanded to be paid as per market standards. Mentioning their long-standing disinvestment issues, the pilots have also demanded the withheld 25% arrears with interest, statement of gratuity, an option of leave encashment, medical benefits for all permanent employees, tax implication on withheld layover substance allowance and release of pending grades to first officers.Senior Air India pilots, however, said that the meeting with representatives from both the pilot groups on December 3 was inconclusive. “The management was informed that we are aware of Air India’s revenues going back to pre Covid-19 levels and that most pilots are working more than they did pre Covid-19. The management asked us to hold on till the takeover. However, both unions warned of serious consequences if the issued was not solved,” said a senior pilot.“We are firm with our decision of industrial action. We are meeting our CMD with the hope that he will have a definite solution to our issues. We sincerely hope that the airline doesn’t force us to take an extreme decision,” said another senior pilot who did not wished to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-to-meet-aviation-secretary-before-taking-call-on-industrial-action-101638731674740.html
06-12-2021||India||There is wave in favour of BJP, says Yediyurappa||Senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa on Sunday claimed that there is a wave of public support in favour of his party in the country and the Congress will continue to sit in the opposition for the next 25 years.“There is a wave in favour of BJP across the country. The Congress is going to remain in opposition for the next 25 years in Lok Sabha. The Congress is somehow breathing here in Karnataka,” Yediyurappa told reporters here.The BJP strongman was replying to a query on veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge’s alleged remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s failure on the development front.Yediyurappa said as a senior Congress leader, Kharge should speak responsibly when the entire world admires Modi.“Ghulam Nabi Azad has said the BJP and not the Congress will come to power next time. In this situation, if Mallikarjun Kharge makes such comments who will value his words. He should at least look at the ground realities,” Yediyurappa said.On the MLC elections in 25 seats across the 20 local bodies, which is scheduled on December 10, the former CM said he was confident of winning at least 16 out of 20 seats where the BJP is contesting.Yediyurappa further said he is seeing a wave in favour of the BJP and people have decided to vote for the saffron party candidates this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-wave-in-favour-of-bjp-says-yediyurappa-101638731437013.html
06-12-2021||India||Focus on empowering grama panchayats: Karnataka CM Bommai||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the state government wants to empower grama panchayats to further strengthen local administrative bodies. “Empowerment of gram panchayats is our government’s aim. Our programmes have been formulated accordingly,” Bommai said in Bidar, about 670 km from Bengaluru. The statements come at a time when all three major political parties – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) -- are trying hard to win the maximum number of seats in the December 10 polls for 25 spots in the upper house of the state legislature. The BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been accused of going against decentralisation, stripping local administrative bodies of its powers. “Government services should be taken to the doors of the citizens. People need not be made to travel to Taluk and Zilla Panchayat offices for basic services. Focus of our government is the development of the villages. Decentralisation of power to Gram Panchayat level is our objective,” Bommai said. He added that an action plan of ₹3,000 crore had been prepared for development of Kalyana Karnataka region. The BJP is also hoping to set the field for the yet-to-be-announced polls for the zilla and taluka panchayat and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) to help it form a good base before the 2023 state assembly election. The Congress and JD(S) too are trying to secure their voter base and expand its presence to increase their chances in all polls before 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-empowering-grama-panchayats-karnataka-cmbommai-101638731376160.html
06-12-2021||India||AIIMS Bilaspur will be made fully functional within next six months: Anurag Thakur||Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh): Union sports and information & broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said on Sunday that the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Bilaspur will be made fully functional within the next six months. “Project of making AIIMS in Bilaspur, worth ₹1,471 crore with 750 beds, medical college facilities, 64 ICU beds and 16 Operation Theatres (OTs) on a 250-acre ground, will be ready in 6 months,” he said while attending a COVID vaccination warriors felicitation ceremony at Bilaspur.Earlier, Member of Parliament and National BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda, Union Minister of Health, Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Singh Thakur also dedicated the OPD at AIIMS Kothipura in Bilaspur. Rekha of Kullu district became the first OPD patient of this prestigious institution, who was diagnosed by Dr. Kapil Sharma of AIIMS Bilaspur.They also honoured Covid Vaccine doctors and other health workers on the occasion. He said that people in the state had to go to AIIMS Delhi and PGI Chandigarh for their treatment, but after six months people will be able to get treatment at Bilaspur.He thanked the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National President and former Union Health Minister JP Nadda for his efforts in getting the hospital constructed. Taking potshots at the previous Congress governments at the Centre and in State, he said, “We attained our freedom, Himachal Pradesh is celebrating its 50 years as a state, but nobody talked about building big hospitals here, let alone an AIIMS. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, he gave Himachal Pradesh its first AIIMS. During the UPA rule, the construction of AIIMS was started but it never finished. But within the last five to seven years, the Modi government has made more AIIMS than the total number of AIIMS till 2014. Also, more AIIMS are being made.”Union Minister of Health, Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya said that the AIIMS was indeed the biggest gift of the Union Government to the State. He said that the world had acknowledged the brainpower of the country. He said that out of ten scientists in NASA, almost about three scientists are Indian and Prime Minister Narendra Modi recognized the power of the country and encouraged the scientists to develop its own vaccination against corona virus.(||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-bilaspur-will-be-made-fully-functional-within-next-six-months-anurag-thakur-101638731374952.html
06-12-2021||India||Congress trying to win MLC polls with money power: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday accused the Congress of using money to buy votes in the December 10 polls for 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature.“Having lost people’s support, the Congress has a ploy to win the Legislative Council election by money power. But the grand old party’s true colours had been exposed,” Bommai said on Sunday.The statements come at a time when all three political parties have intensified their respective campaigns for the upcoming elections that would determine who keeps control of the upper house of the state legislature.“Fall of morality in (the) Congress is very clear. People should show the Congress its place as the party is trying to win the election through immoral splurge of money,” Bommai said.The Congress had accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using -- or misusing -- state machinery to win support.The three parties are continuing to meet their grassroot level workers in order to set the base and tone for other upcoming elections in the state including the Zilla and Taluka panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the 2023 state assembly polls.The BJP is also trying to strike a deal with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) to defeat the Congress, whom both parties consider a common enemy.Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa had made it clear that he will seek the support of former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister’s son, HD Kumaraswamy’s support in the upcoming polls, indicating another alliance between the two.“For the upcoming Vidhana Parishad elections, no decision has been taken on extending support to any party. There has been no discussion on this yet. But we will take a decision at the earliest or on Tuesday,” Kumaraswamy said on Sunday in Mysuru, about 125 km from Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trying-to-win-mlc-polls-with-money-power-karnataka-cmbommai-101638731255027.html
06-12-2021||India||Report blames Karnataka ‘government attitude’ for attacks on Christian community||A day after people from the Christian community held protests over a probable law against religious conversions in Karnataka, the Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR) on Sunday said the state is witnessing one of the highest incidents of attacks against the community in the country due to the government’s “attitude”.“Certain behaviour or certain utterances from the government, certain attitude from the government is the reason that this (attacks) is allowed and tolerated. This can go on and is sad for us,” Reverend Peter Machado, the Archbishop of Bengaluru said on Sunday.Since the proposal of law against religious conversions by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and home minister Araga Gyanendra during the monsoon session of the state legislature, between September 13 and 24, there have been several instances of violence against churches and members of the community in the state.The APCR on Sunday said that there were 305 incidents of violence in the 273 days of 2021 between January and September in their report ‘Christians Under Attack in India”.The data by APCR is based on the number of calls made to the United Christian Forum toll-free number. “September witnessed the highest number of incidents with 69, followed by 50 in August and 37 in January,” according to a statement.The report added that between January and September Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest monthly incidents with 66, followed by Chattisgarh at 47. Karnataka recorded 32 incidents, among the top of the list in the country, the report added. APCR said that a total of 1,362 calls were received by the UCF helpline.Machado said that earlier such incidents were reported from interior places where there were fewer members of the community and small churches.“But to happen in Hubballi, Dharwad, Bengaluru means people are taking the law into their hands,” Machado said.The issue of forcible conversions revived momentum after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Goolihatti Shekar made a passionate appeal to stop the practice to which his mother, he claimed, also fell “victim”.Shekar had said that his mother was among those in Chitradurga district who was “brainwashed” by the missionaries along with several others. He had claimed that people from marginalised communities and even Muslims were converted or they were slapped with false charges, and around 15,000-20,000 people in his constituency were possibly converted.Shekar had presided over an event in which at least five families “were brought back” into the Hindu fold, including his mother--a practice that is commonly referred to as “Ghar Wapsi” on September 11.HT, on October 15, had reported that the legislative committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare ordered a survey of authorised and unauthorised Churches and their personnel.The committee also ordered a survey on all churches, priests and registered cases against any instances of forcible religious conversions.On November 11, Machado had written to the Bommai government not to carry on with the survey, which would lead to further discrimination and that the proposed anti-conversion bill was “undesirable and discriminatory”.“If the government puts the foot down and says that there is a law of the land in the country... there is a law in this place and therefore it should not go on and take place. Surely it will not happen,” Machado said.States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand among others have introduced similar laws.The home minister and at least two senior police officials could not be reached for comment on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-blames-karnataka-government-attitude-for-attacks-on-christian-community-101638731137323.html
06-12-2021||India||Remnant of cyclone Jawad leads to cloudburst in Odisha port town||A cloudburst in the port town of Paradip in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district on Monday almost threatened to drown the town as remnants of cyclone Jawad, which has weakened into a deep depression over Bay of Bengal, moved close to Odisha coast on Sunday afternoon, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Cyclone Jawad, which threatened to hit the Odisha coast at Puri, weakened to depression on Sunday afternoon before coming near the coast, but did not make landfall, IMD said. Originally estimated to bring wind gushing at 90-100 kmph, the actual wind speed was less than half of it by Sunday afternoon, IMD said. It then moved north-eastwards with a speed of 25 kmph and lay cantered about 30 km southeast of Paradip over northwest Bay of Bengal by 5.30 pm, IMD said. Moving in north-north-eastwards direction, it will weaken further by Sunday midnight along the West Bengal coast, it added. Though the system weakened, it led to a sudden downpour in Paradip, which saw 109 mm of rain between 2.30 pm and 3.30 pm after the associated cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal led to intense rainfall triggered by huge difference of wind shear between upper and lower level of the atmosphere, IMD officials said. “The clouds took a tornadic structure due to the atmospheric system. Nowhere in Odisha has cloudburst occurred in the last 5 years,” said Uma Shankar Das, senior scientist in Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar. The port town witnessed a total of 201 mm of rainfall since 8.30 am on Sunday, the highest in Odisha. “The town suddenly became almost dark like night. Heavy downpour...,” tweeted a Paradip resident. Cloudbursts are short-duration, intense rainfall events over a small area and according to IMD, result in over 100mm rainfall per hour in a particular region. As per IMD, only 30 such incidents have been recorded in India between 1970 and 2016. Cloudbursts generally occur in mountainous and desert regions, but are also experienced over continental landmasses due to strong vertical velocity with a continuous flow of moisture from nearby water bodies. Paradip Port Trust officials said no damage was caused to the port infrastructure and cleaning of choked drains was going on. Trees and branches have been cleared from the roads to make way for traffic, said a port official, adding there was no report of any casualties from the town due to the cloudburst. Depressed by the cyclonic rains damaging his standing paddy crops, a 55-year-old tribal farmer of Ganjam district in Odisha on Sunday ended his life by consuming pesticide. Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said considering heavy loss to agriculture sector, the district collectors have been directed to immediately prepare crop damage assessment report within seven days. “Government will take appropriate decision in regards to whatever benefit entitled,” he said.Coastal region experienced heavy rains during the last 24 hours. According to the IMD, besides Paradip, the highest rainfall of 158 mm was recorded in Khallikote in Ganjam district during the last 24 hours (till 8.30 am Sunday). Similarly, 107.5 mm rainfall was reported in Nayagarh and 86 mm in Chhatrapur. Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre director HR Biswas said the rainfall activity will continue in Odisha during the next 24 hours as the deep depression moved along Odisha coast. “The squally weather will continue with gusty winds along the coastal region. So, the fishermen warning and port warning will remain in force till Monday. There are chances that some flights from and to Bhubaneswar might be regulated depending on the impact on visibility due to heavy rains,” Biswas said. In West Bengal, the state government stopped ferry services on the Hooghly river and urged tourists not to visit seaside resorts, as rain lashed Kolkata and other southern parts of the state on Sunday. “With the system likely to move north-northeastwards along the Odisha coast towards West Bengal and develop into a well-marked low pressure area, light to moderate rainfall has begun in Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, and East and West Medinipur districts,” an official said. Heavy rain will occur in some isolated parts of south Bengal, including coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and East Medinipur districts, and parts of East Bardhaman, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remnant-of-cyclone-jawad-leads-to-cloudburst-in-odisha-port-town-101638731135875.html
06-12-2021||India||Eshwarappa backs home minister over foul language used against police in cow-slaughter incident||Senior BJP leader and Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa on Sunday backed statements made by his cabinet colleague Araga Jnanendra, who has been criticised for accusing police of taking bribes to allow cow thieves and slaughter. “Jananendra never used such language in his life. He is a new minister and he has expressed his pain. We will make it stricter and the entire cabinet is with Jnanendra,” Eshwrappa said on Sunday. The statements come a day after a video purportedly showed home minister Jnanendra screaming on phone accusing police of turning a blind eye on cow thieves and slaughter despite the ban by accepting bribes and then “sleeping like dogs”. “We have brought in an anti-cow slaughter law and if the provisions of that are implemented that is more than enough. Why are they (police) closing their eyes? Do they have any connection with the cow-thieves?” Eshwarappa said. “Him (Jnanendr) scolding is not about it being right or wrong. He doesn’t have to coax them (police). They (police) have to be aware. If this happened to their ageing mothers, would they have kept quiet?” Eshwarappa said. He added that if this had happened to their ageing mothers, the choice of words could have been worse. “Those who are transporting cattle are habitual offenders. Your officers know it well but they take bribes and then sleep like dogs. Your police need self-esteem,” Jnanendra is heard purportedly saying in the video, which has gone viral on the social media. The BS Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka introduced the bill, now an act, the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill-2020 and was subsequently passed in the legislative council in February. The government had already promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance last year that widens existing provisions for punishment on killing of cattle. The bill also has a provision to safeguard those “acting in good faith” which activists fear would give rise to vigilantism. The new laws penalise people who slaughter cattle below the age of 13-years with a jail term of 3-5 years and fines ranging from ₹50,000- ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eshwarappa-backs-home-minister-over-foul-language-used-against-police-in-cow-slaughter-incident-101638731076013.html
06-12-2021||India||Like farmers, people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make ‘sacrifices’ to get back their rights: Farooq Abdullah||Srinagar: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make “sacrifices”, as farmers protesting the new farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.Addressing a convention of the NC’s youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh here, Abdullah, however, said his party does not support violence.After almost a year of protests by farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced the decision to repeal the farm laws passed last year to ease rules around the sale, pricing and storage of crops.Parliament passed a bill to repeal the farm laws on the first day of the ongoing Winter Session on November 29.“(The farmers protested for) 11 months, more than 700 farmers died. The Centre had to revoke the three farm bills when farmers made sacrifices. We may also have to make sacrifices like that to get back our rights.“Remember this, we have promised to get back (Articles) 370, 35-A and statehood and we are ready to make any sacrifice,” Abdullah said.The NC, however, is not against brotherhood and does not support violence, he said.The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories on August 5, 2019.On the recent Hyderpora encounter and how the families of two civilians killed in the operation forced the administration to return their bodies, Abdullah said it was made possible because people showed unity.He demanded that the body of another person, Amir Magray, killed in the encounter also be returned to his family.“Three innocent people were killed (in the Hyderpora encounter). When people raised their voices, they (the administration) returned the bodies so that their kin could bury them. This is what unity can do.“But the body of one person has still not been returned to his family. How many innocent people would they have killed this way? We will hold them accountable. He (God) will also hold them accountable and no one will escape that,” the NC chief said.Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remarks that tourism has increased in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, Abdullah said “as if tourism is everything” when it comes to the union territory.“You had promised 50,000 jobs, where are they? Rather you are terminating our people. Were there no people for employing in the (Jammu & Kashmir) Bank that you got people from Punjab and Haryana? “Where will the boys and girls from J&K go? But if we raise our voices, they are crushed. The media is facing pressure, they (journalists) are summoned to police stations if they write anything against (the government). And they (government) say there is freedom,” he said.Abdullah asked NC workers to remain united and hold the party flag high.“Many enemies will come and try to pull you (away) from the party, be wary (of them). They are roaming around. Do not listen to them and remain with the party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-farmers-people-of-jammu-and-kashmir-may-have-to-make-sacrifices-to-get-back-their-rights-farooq-abdullah-101638731074678.html
06-12-2021||India||Last rites of Andhra ex-CM Rosaiah carried out with state honours||The mortal remains of former Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh and veteran Congress leader Konijeti Rosaiah were consigned to flames here on Sunday.Rosaiah (88) died while being taken to a private hospital here on Saturday after he fell ill.Rosaiah’s mortal remains were kept at Gandhi Bhavan, the party headquarters in Telangana, where Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Telangana state Congress president and MP A Revanth Reddy and several other leaders and workers paid their last respects.His body was taken to a farmhouse here and the funeral of the departed leader was conducted with State honours.Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and several other leaders condoled the death of Rosaiah.The State government also declared three days of mourning.Rosaiah’s political journey began in 1968 as an MLC. He served as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh after the demise of YS Rajasekhar Reddy in 2009.He had a challenging time as the Chief Minister in view of political developments following the sudden demise of the charismatic YSR in a chopper crash and with the separate Telangana agitation gaining momentum.He was elected to the Lok Sabha from Narasaraopet in Andhra in 1999, Congress sources said. He had also served as the Governor of Tamil Nadu from August 31, 2011 to August 30, 2016||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-rites-of-andhra-ex-cm-rosaiah-carried-out-with-state-honours-101638731014995.html
06-12-2021||India||State reports 456 new coronavirus cases||Karnataka reported 456 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and six deaths on Sunday, with places like Bengaluru and the coffee-growing region of Chikamagaluru witnessing a sharp uptick in infection, according to the state health department data. At least 59 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) in Chikmagalur, about 245 km from Bengaluru, were among 66 to be tested positive in the district in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Sunday. “We had conducted tests on 457 people in the JNV here, of which 59 students and 10 staff tested positive for Covid-19. They are asymptomatic but we have isolated them,” Dr SN Umesh, the district health officer was quoted as saying by PTI. The increase in Covid-19 cases has sparked fears in the southern state, where the first two cases of the new and highly mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2, Omicron, in the country were reported last week. All this has also added to residents’ concern of whether the state government will add more restrictions ahead of Christmas and New Year festivities. With several educational institutions reporting higher number of Covid-19 cases, many parents were hesitant about sending their wards for physical classes. On Saturday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that any place that reports more than three Covid-19 cases will be considered a cluster. Karnataka reported 456 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking the active case count to 7,132, the health department said on Sunday. The positivity rate climbed up to 0.41%. The state also reported six more deaths due to Covid-19, at the case fatality rate of 1.31%. Bengaluru recorded 256 new infections on Sunday, taking its active case count to 5,136, the health department said. Other districts with high caseload include Chikmgaluru that reported 66 new infections and has an active caseload of 108; Dharwad with 20 new infections took its active caseload to 314 while Mysuru, with saw its active case count jump to 307, according to the state health data. In the last eight days, the state has logged 2,814 new Covid-19 cases, with Bengaluru accounting for nearly half of them, data suggests. Mysuru recorded the highest positivity rate in the last seven days (till 5 pm on Saturday) at 0.70%, followed by Shivamogga at 0.64% and Benglauru Urban at 0.55%. The state average is at 0.38% till Saturday evening, as per data. The chief minister has, meanwhile, announced a slew of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, including allowing only fully vaccinated people into malls, cinema theatres and other public spaces to encourage more people to get inoculated. Karnataka has achieved around 94% coverage of the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while 62% of the eligible population has received both doses, according to the health department. Vaccine hesitancy remains a problem in the state, with videos of doctors and villagers forcing people to take the jabs continue to flood social media platforms. “Karnataka is witnessing large numbers of vaccine doses administered to its residents. Both doses must be taken to gain greater immunity,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health and family welfare had said on Friday. There have been stricter controls at the two international airports —Bengaluru and Mangaluru — in the state with only those testing negative being allowed to leave the premises. The government has also announced stricter checking at border posts to monitor and allow only vaccinated people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra. “Among those unvaccinated, they might have their reasons. Please discuss with health professionals and get them vaccinated,” Giridhara R. Babu, epidemiologist and member of Karnataka’s expert committee on Covid-19, posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-reports-456-new-coronavirus-cases-101638730898608.html
06-12-2021||India||Goa elections: Will increase financial aid for women if voted to power, says Kejriwal||Panaji The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced that it will increase the remuneration provided to women in Goa under a state-sponsored scheme and also promised financial assistance to women not covered under it, if it is voted to power in the forthcoming state Assembly elections.“This is going to be the biggest and most important women empowerment programme in the world, not only in India,” AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal claimed, while addressing a women’s convention in South Goa’s Navelim Assembly segment.The expenses under the scheme would be around ₹500 crore annually, which would be funded by the state government by completely eliminating corruption in the system, he said.The Delhi chief minister is on a two-day visit to Goa, where the Assembly polls are due early next year.Kejriwal said if his party comes to power in Goa, then the existing remuneration of ₹1,500 provided to women under the state-sponsored ‘Griha Aadhar Scheme’ would be increased to ₹2,500, while other women aged 18 and above, who are not covered under the scheme, would be paid ₹1,000 per month.He said financial stability is most important for any woman to feel empowered. “Once a woman is financially stable, she will feel empowered as she can spend the money to do those extra things for the family,” he said.Many girls, who have left the college due to financial constraints, can use ₹1,000 per month, which will be deposited into their accounts, for continuing their education, he said. If the AAP comes to power, the state government will give an option to women, who are financially well off, to opt out of the scheme, Kejriwal said.“We will offer the scheme to all women in the state. Those who feel they don’t require it, can opt out of it,” he said.Kejriwal said there is no dearth of finances to fund such schemes in Goa. “The state budget is ₹22,000 crore, of which approximately 20 per cent, which means ₹4,400 crore goes into corruption,” he alleged. “We will pump this money into the system to fund these schemes,” he said.The AAP leader said the annual expenses of all his guarantees made in Goa would be less than ₹1,000 crore.In the 2017 Goa polls, the AAP failed to win a single seat in the 40-member state Assembly.The Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House. But, the BJP at that time forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independent legislators to form government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-will-increase-financial-aid-for-women-if-voted-to-power-says-kejriwal-101638730897225.html
06-12-2021||India||AIADMK, Sasikala differences mar Jayalalithaa’s 5th death anniversary event||The differences between AIADMK and supporters of expelled leader V K Sasikala over being the true heir to the party spilled over on the streets at J Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum on Sunday on the late chief minister’s fifth death anniversary. AIADMK’s coordinator and joint coordinator O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami, who are the only duo to have filed nominations for internal party elections to the posts, are likely to be announced winners. They put up a united front at the mausoleum where they took a pledge that the party was a fortress that cannot be shaken by anyone. “We will not let enemies win through divide and rule conspiracies,” Panneerselvam said, and others followed suit.Later, a teary eyed Sasikala with her supporters gathered at the mausoleum, where she was hailed as general secretary of the party. They took a pledge to be united under Sasikala’s leadership to win future elections in Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK, which is allied with the Bharatiya Janata Party, lost power in the state assembly elections earlier this year.Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran, who in 2018 floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), a breakaway faction of AIADMK, took a pledge vowing to take over the parent party. There were tense moments when Palaniswami’s car was leaving, as cadres of AIADMK and AMMK raised slogans against one another.Amidst Sasikala trying to wrest control of AIADMK, a party she manoeuvred from behind the scenes as Jayalalithaa’s close confidante, and rebel voices growing in support of her return and against the dual leadership, Panneerselvam and Palaniswami have strengthened their positions in sharing power. Not too long ago, Sasikala found support in Panneerselvam, who told reporters they will discuss her re-induction, which Palaniswami disapproved of. One again, the duo seemed to have compromised to co-exist. “We convinced Panneerselvam against it. Both of them have to work together. There is no other way,” an AIADMK leader said, requesting anonymity. On December 1, AIADMK modified its bylaws to change their internal voting process for the top posts of coordinator and joint-coordinator. Primary members (party cadre who have been members for at least five years, about 15 million) will elect party positions by a “single voting system,” where one vote will be cast for the pair contesting for the top posts. A day later, internal elections for these and other organisational posts were announced to be held on December 7. As anticipated, AIADMK’s dual leadership, Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, is the only team to have filed nominations to the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator on Saturday. There were no other candidates. “They will be declared as winners in a unanimous decision,” the leader quoted above said. This comes amid allegations that a party worker was manhandled when he tried to file his nomination on Saturday, but this has been dismissed by the party’s election commissioners, C Ponniyan and Pollachi V Jayaraman. With the bylaws changed and with holding elections immediately has given the current AIADMK structure legal validity, according to political experts. This has created more obstructions for Sasikala. Reacting to the developments, Sasikala on Saturday released a statement saying that she will not be a mute spectator. “Sasikala is a prisoner of the past and Dhinakaran adopted wrong strategies after he won in R K Nagar (the constituency that fell vacant after Jayalalithaa’s death, which he won),” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “And AIADMK is EPS plus OPS, and neither of them will give up their authority in the party.” This may be a time to bring AIADMK together to speak in one voice, political analyst Maalan Narayanan said. “OPS has been issuing statements against the DMK, but he is soft pedalling, while EPS is giving bytes on all issues, and no one seems to be taking him seriously,” said Narayanan. “It appears that Sasikala and Dhinakaran, too, aren’t getting along well together.”“It’s time that the principal opposition has a leader who enjoys the support of the cadre, and they can speak in one voice ahead of the local body polls,” Narayanan said. “That’s AIADMK’s last chance.”As Palaniswami was leaving the premises of the mausoleum on Marina beach, an unidentified man flung a slipper towards his car. A member of the AIADMK filed a complaint at the D6 Anna Square police station accusing the AMMK cadre for attempting to attack the former chief minister. “Such things usually happen during political events and usually someone files a complaint,” said an officer of the station. Reacting to the complaint, Dhinakaran took to Twitter to take a dig at the AIADMK over the alleged incident that a party member was manhandled in the headquarters when he tried to file his nomination for the two top posts. “We do not have that kind of mentality...we do not believe in violence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-sasikala-differences-mar-jayalalithaa-s-5th-death-anniversary-event-101638730894910.html
06-12-2021||India||CPI (M) to take care of slain leader’s family: Kerala secretary Balakrishnan||The CPI(M) in Kerala on Sunday said it will take the responsibility of its slain leader Sandeep’s family and lashed out at the BJP-RSS leadership saying the murder was a ‘well-coordinated’ and ‘pre-planned one’.CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan visited the family of the party’s Peringara local secretary, P B Sandeep, who was murdered by a gang on December 2, and alleged that 15 Left activists have been killed by RSS since 2016.However, BJP state chief K Surendran claimed that the CPI(M) has links to the murder case.Speaking to reporters, Balakrishnan said, “This is a planned murder by the BJP-RSS leadership. They coordinated with people from various areas to execute it. This shows that it was a pre-planned crime. It’s now clear that a gang, led by a BJP activist, as instructed by the BJP leadership has committed the brutal act. Those who were behind this ghastly act must be identified and brought to book.”He said the CPI(M) will take the responsibility of Sandeep’s family and will ensure that his widow gets a job to sustain the family.”Since 2016, the RSS has killed 15 comrades of the CPI(M) and all these years the outfit has claimed that it was the ruling CPI(M) that killed our workers. The RSS has never confessed to any of the crimes they committed. We all know that Mahatma Gandhi was killed by Nathuram Vinayak Godse. Have the RSS owned up to the crime?” Balakrishnan asked.He further said the party will bring out “these facts before the people”.”The RSS must not think that they could put an end to communism by killing a few of our comrades. That’s not going to happen. We request the outfit to step away from violent, murderous politics,” he added.The police had on Friday arrested all the five accused, including an RSS worker, in connection with the murder of Sandeep at Peringara. The police stated that the murder was owing to political rivalry.However, BJP leader Surendran claimed that the murder was due to factional feud in the Left party.“As soon as the murder took place, the then acting secretary of CPI(M) A Vijayaraghavan said it was committed by the RSS. However, those arrested have CPI(M) links. The murder cannot take place without the knowledge of the CPI(M) leadership,” Surendran alleged.The BJP had said that Jishnu, prime accused in the murder case, was earlier ousted from the party and distanced itself from the incident. But, Jishnu’s social media profiles feature images of him with BJP leaders and identifies him as a Yuva Morcha officer bearer of Peringara village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpimto-take-care-of-slain-leader-s-family-kerala-secretary-balakrishnan-101638730837324.html
06-12-2021||India||Russian man tests Covid positive in Kerala amid Omicron scare||A Russian traveller, who reached Kochi on Saturday, tested positive for Covid-19, and his samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, senior health officials said on Sunday.The man was tested upon arrival at the airport on Saturday night. With the latest incident, a total of five samples have now been sent to the NIV to rule out the possibility of the new variant Omicron, a senior health ministry official said. Earlier, a doctor, his mother and maid arriving from the United Kingdom (UK) tested positive for Covid. The other one to test positive is a man from Thiruvananthapuram, information of whom, the government has withheld, the official said. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in another letter to the state on Saturday, asked Kerala to take strict measures to contain a high caseload and death rate. He also pointed out that 13 out of 14 districts in the state still report a high quantum of cases. In the letter addressed to state health secretary Rajan Khobragade, Bhushan said in four districts (Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Thrissur) average test positivity rate was more than 10 per cent and reiterated the need for better compliance with the test, track and treat measures to bring down the infection rate. On Sunday, the state reported 4,450 cases and 23 deaths. But 138 backlog deaths were added to the bulging list as the death toll rose to 41,600, according to the state health ministry. In fatality rate, Kerala is second after Maharashtra now. The state has inoculated 96.5 per cent of the eligible population with the first dose of the Covid vaccine and the second dose for 67.6 per cent, it said. The low death rate has been one of the key areas of improvement by the Kerala government, but the mounting addition of backlog dented its tall claims, statistics show. In the last two months, at least 5000 backlog deaths took place between March 2020 and June 2021, which were added to the fatality list later. Many public health experts and opposition parties alleged that the government was not transparent with its data and it was after records, but the latter said technical issues led to the omission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-man-tests-covid-positive-in-kerala-amid-omicron-scare-101638730834638.html
06-12-2021||India||Demand for Afspa repeal renews in Nagaland||The killing of 13 civilians in an ambush by security forces in Nagaland’s Mon district, amid the ongoing Naga peace talks, renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Power) Act (AFSPA), 1958 from the northeast on Sunday.AFSPA grants special powers to the armed forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”.As the Isak-Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim, the largest Naga rebel group, hit out at the “absurdity and insanity” of Indian security forces, it also pointed at the troubles faced by the state’s citizens in the hands of the “trigger-happy Indian security forces” under the controversial AFSPA in the past.“Unprecedented in recent history, the absurdity and insanity of the Indian security forces has been exposed in the most brutish manner, a ‘black day’ for the Nagas as the Nagas mourns the barbaric killing of innocent villagers in Oting village under Konyak Region on the evening of the 4th December, 2021,” the NSCN-IM, which is among five NSCN factions engaged in peace talks with the Centre, said.The rebel group, which signed a ceasefire pact in 1997 and a “framework agreement” in 2015, alleged that killings of civilians by security forces was an act to suppress the legitimate Naga political movement.Also Read| 5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killings“Notwithstanding the ongoing Indo-Naga political dialogue that has seen much fruition during the period running more than two decades, the violence against the Nagas continues unabated. This is one of the most unfortunate parts of the Indo-Naga ceasefire signed in 1997,” the organisation said.The Niki Sumi-led Khaplang faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-K) also expressed shock at the killings which occurred amid the ongoing peace talks.“For long, Nagas have borne the brunt of atrocities of security forces who come in the guise of friends but commit the most heinous acts on innocent public. Nagas demand justice and therefore, the Government of India and Government of Nagaland as well must not delay but initiate proper investigation and take appropriate action against those playing with the lives of innocent public,” the outfit said in a release.Calling for a time-bound probe into the incident, Forum for Naga Reconciliation (FNR) said AFSPA, by its very nature, was “anti-peace” and the state government must recommend its repeal and removal of armed forces from civilian areas.The influential Naga Mothers’ Association (NMA) appealed to all Naga tribes to not celebrate the ongoing Hornbill Festival in the state capital.“It is a taboo in our Naga tradition to be feasting, while we mourn our dead in our homes. Let the world know our grief and sorrow and may our voices of protest be heard against the continuing militarization and killings under AFSPA,” NMA president Abeiu Meru said in a release.The organisation demanded that the state government take cognizance of the repeated violations of human rights under AFSPA and repeal the Act.“We demand that besides the SIT, a high-level inquiry commission be set up, inclusive of civil society, to investigate and bring the guilty to book, as per the law. We demand that all Indian Army cantonments be immediately shifted from all civilian areas and habitations,” the statement added.Political parties in the state also condemned the incident.Bharatiya Janata Party state unit chief Temjen Imna Along said the killings can never be justified.“When the Government of India and the Naga political groups are engaged in a peace process and are at the threshold of settlement to the protracted Naga political issue, it is time to exercise extreme caution and patience in order to maintain hard earned peace after decades of violent, armed struggle,” Along said in a statement.“The innocent victims were labourers returning from a hard day’s work and were not armed with any firearms whatsoever. It is therefore tantamount to war crimes during peace time and amounts to summary execution as well as genocide,” the state BJP chief, who is also a minister in the Neiphiu Rio-led United Democratic Alliance (UDA) government in Nagaland, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-afspa-repeal-renews-in-nagaland-101638730774838.html
06-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Teenage girl raped after giving aphrodisiac drug, dies of bleeding, say police||Anuppur (Madhya Pradesh): A 17-year-old girl died due to excessive bleeding after she was allegedly raped by a man who gave her aphrodisiac capsules in Madhya Pradesh’s Anuppur district, a senior police officer said on Sunday. The incident occurred at a village under the Rajendragram police station, about 28 km away from the Anuppur district headquarter, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, the officer said. An aphrodisiac is a substance that increases sexual desire. Substances range from a variety of plants, foods, and certain chemicals. Talking to reporters, DC Sagar, additional director general (ADG) of police, Shahdol zone, said, “Police are making all efforts to nab the accused and a bounty of ₹30,000 was announced on his head.” The accused, identified as Yashwant Maravi, is on the run. A senior police officer at Rajendragram police station, Narendra Pal, on Sunday said the police had received information about the death of a 17-year-old girl on Saturday, following which a case was registered. The investigation and a short postmortem report revealed that the girl was raped and died due to excessive bleeding from her private part, he said. “The girl was given some aphrodisiac capsules by the accused, aged around 20-22 years, before committing the crime,” Pal said. He said the victim was in severe pain when she returned (to her home) on Saturday morning and narrated her ordeal to a woman member of family before her death. The accused was booked under sections 376 (Punishment for rape), 363, 366 (abduction) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Meanwhile, villagers on Sunday staged a protest at the Rajendragram police station alleging laxity by the police in nabbing the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-teenage-girl-raped-after-giving-aphrodisiac-drug-dies-of-bleeding-say-police-101638730594518.html
06-12-2021||India||‘Lungi-wearing’ remark: Akhilesh attacks Maurya, says BJP promoting hate||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit back at Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya over his “lungi-wearing people” remark, saying with the state elections coming to a close, “the language of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will change and go down further”.“As the elections get closer, the language of BJP will change and go down further. The BJP is dividing people and promoting hate politics,” the former chief minister said.Maurya, at an event on Friday, had described those wearing “lungi and topi” as a challenge to the law and order situation for previous governments in Uttar Pradesh. Maurya had also said that after 2017, ever since the BJP government was formed in the state, such ‘criminals’ have not been seen. “If you ask the BJP about the income of traders and businessmen, they will be silent. If you question them on unemployment, they will look elsewhere. Inflation has increased due to steps like demonetisation and GST,” Yadav said.The SP chief also alleged that the state government had failed to provide security to traders, alleging the dial-100 helpline started by his government has been rendered “useless” by the present regime.BJP leader Abhishek Pandey ‘Rupak’ said: “What did the SP leader find wrong in Keshav ji’s statement? Isn’t it a fact that appeasement politics was the norm prior to BJP coming to power at the centre and in UP?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lungiwearing-remark-akhilesh-attacks-maurya-says-bjp-promoting-hate-101638730534587.html
06-12-2021||India||WW-II veteran, who served in all 3 defence wings, dies||World War II veteran Col Prithipal Singh Gill (retd), a centenarian with the unique distinction of having served in all three wings of the armed forces – Air Force, Navy and Army – breathed his last on Sunday afternoon. He was 100 and died just a week before his 101st birthday.His last rites were performed at Sector 25 cremation ground in Chandigarh, with friends, relatives and officers from the army’s Western Command in attendence.Gill is survived by his wife, a son, three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.“He was perfectly alright, but age caught up with him. He was a little sluggish in the morning, and when we checked on him in the afternoon, we realised he had left us,” said his son Dr Ajaipal Singh Gill. “My father had a good life. He lived the way he wanted to.”Gill, a resident of Sector 35, had begun his service life with the Royal Indian Air Force in 1942. He joined as a flight cadet in Karachi. However, his father, Harpal Singh Gill, an army officer, was not too happy with his flying career and he had to give it up on his father’s insistence.Later, he joined the Navy when he was 23 and served for five years, from 1943 to 1948. After then joined the Army in 1951 and was posted to the Regiment of Artillery.Gill raised and commanded the 71 Medium Regiment during the India-Pakistan War of 1965. After attaining the rank of colonel, he took early retirement in 1970. He was a good sportsman as well.Even in the twilight years of his life, his charismatic smile and robust health made him stand out, which he had attributed to his inherited genes. Born in 1920 in Patiala, he studied at Government College, Lahore. In 1950, he married Preminder Kaur.A close family friend, Justice HS Bedi (retd), said: “Apart from being a distinguished serviceman, he was a wonderful human being. It’s a great loss for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wwii-veteran-col-prithipal-singh-gill-retd-who-served-in-all-3-defence-wings-dies-101638730414587.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland’s Mon district tense after stir over civilian killings turns violent||Nagaland’s Mon district remained on edge on Sunday as violent protests broke out against the killing of 13 civilians by the Indian Army in a botched counter-insurgency operation, prompting the authorities to impose curfew in the area and prohibit movement of all non-essential vehicles, people familiar with the matter said.On Saturday, army personnel gunned down seven coal mine workers after mistaking them to be insurgents. Soon after the incident, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by forces to “control the situation” in which at least six villagers and one soldier died, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| 5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killingsA mob protesting against Saturday’s incident surrounded an Assam Rifles’ camp in the district and set parts of it afire, officials familiar with the matter said. Security personnel opened fire on the mob, killing one civilian, they added. The protesters also ransacked the office of Konyak Union.The Nagaland government has banned mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text,” an official directive said.A notification issued by the state home department banning the services alluded to the “apprehension of grave law and order problems” in the district and said “Short Message Service (SMS), Whatsapp, Facebook, and other social media platforms could be used for spreading of rumours, fake news, and for circulating inflammatory texts, pictures, videos etc. which may inflame passions and thus exacerbate the law-and-order situation.”The gunning down of the civilians renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state. The Act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the state, with civil society members saying that it gives personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas.Also Read| Demand for Afspa repeal renews in Nagaland“It is under cover of the AFSPA that Indian Army personnel indulge in such acts of terror on innocent Nagas, go scot-free, and quickly return to calling themselves “friends” of the hill people,” The Naga People’s Front (NPF), a regional political party, said in a statement.The Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO) urged six tribes of the region to withdraw participation from the ongoing Hornbill Festival, which is the state’s biggest tourism attraction.“It has to be understood by all concerned that this order/move is not against the State Govt., but to show resentment against the security forces who have committed this heinous crime, and to show solidarity of the six tribes,” a release issued by the organisation said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagalands-mon-district-tense-after-stir-over-civilian-killings-turns-violent-101638730295882.html
06-12-2021||India||Woman in Kota jumps into well with five minor daughters: Cops||Upset over regular fights with her husband, a 40-year-old woman allegedly jumped into a well with her five minor daughters, all of whom died, when the man had gone to attend the condolence meeting of a relative, police said Sunday. They said the villagers spotted the six bodies Sunday morning and informed the police who rushed the bodies to a local hospital.The deceased woman was a mother of seven. While the five minor daughters died by drowning, the police said the two other daughters escaped the ill-fate as they remained asleep during the incident.Chechat Circle Officer DSP Praveen Nayak said prima facie the routine fights between the woman and her husband was the reason behind the woman taking the extreme step.Her husband worked as a blanket and cloth vendor.The CO said the man was not present at his home when the incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday on Sunday as he had gone to attend the condolence meeting at his relative’s home in another village.Chechat police station SHO Rajendra Meena said the well is just 100 meters from the house of the woman.The husband returned to home Sunday morning after being informed of the incident but he did not tell the police why his wife took the extreme step, the SHO said.A case under section 174 of CrPC would be lodged in the matter to investigate carried out, he said.The postmortem of the six bodies is underway, SHO Meena said. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-in-kota-jumps-into-well-with-five-minor-daughters-cops-101638730234621.html
06-12-2021||India||UP: Convoy of RLD leader who switched from BSP shot at||Five people were injured after a group of car-borne assailants opened fire at the convoy of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Haji Yunus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Sunday, police said.Yunus’ nephew, Anas, who is currently in jail, is suspected to be behind the attack, they added. Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar Singh said the incident took place near Rajwaha bridge in Kotwali area when the RLD leader was on his way to Mirzapur village after attending a wedding in Bhaipur village of Kotwali Dehat limits.Unidentified car-borne assailants arrived and opened fire at Yunus’ convoy, leaving five people, who were accompanying him, injured. The remaining supporters of the RLD leader opened fire in retaliation, following which the criminals fled, leaving behind their car, the SSP said.“At least 15 to 20 rounds were fired from both sides,” Singh said, adding that Yunus suspected the role of his nephew behind the attack. The SSP said that efforts are underway to identify the assailants.The attack came a day after Yunus quit the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and joined the RLD ahead of elections next year.No first information report was filed in connection with Sunday’s incident till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upconvoy-of-rld-leader-who-switched-from-bsp-shot-at-101638730054533.html
06-12-2021||India||AI pilots to meet aviation secretary to discuss demands||Air India pilots on Sunday announced that they will meet aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal, who is also the chairman and managing director of the airline, on Monday to discuss their demands of payment clearance before the airline is handed over to the new owner, before taking a decision on going on a strike.“Talks with management along with @PilotsIndian regarding 60% pay cut only for Licensed employees, inconclusive. Meeting management (CMD/ SECY MOCA) tomorrow to find a peaceful resolve. @MoCA_GoI @TataCompanies @RNTata2000#peacefulresolution,” the Air India’s Boeing pilots’ union, Indian Pilots’ Guild, tweeted on Sunday. Air India pilots had, on November 29, given an ultimatum of three days to the airline’s management to meet their demands and warned of “Industrial Action” if their paycuts and arrears were not duly paid before the takeover. The letter was written by the airline’s Airbus’ union — Indian Commercial Pilots’ Guild (ICPA) and Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) that represent over 900 pilots.“We are firm with our decision of industrial action. We are meeting our CMD with a hope that he will have a definite solution to our issues. We sincerely hope that the airline doesn’t not force us to take the extreme decision,” a senior pilot said on condition of anonymity.In their previous letters, the pilots complained that they are burdened by the “illegal pay cut” of 55% and demanded to be paid as per market standards. Mentioning their long-standing disinvestment issues, the pilots also demanded the withheld 25% arrears with interest, statement of gratuity, an option of leave encashment, medical benefits for all permanent employees, tax implication on withheld layover substance allowance, and release of pending grades to first officers.Senior Air India officials, however, said the meeting with representatives from both the pilot groups on December 3 was inconclusive. “The management was informed that we are aware of Air India’s revenues going back to pre-Covid levels and that most pilots are working more than they did pre-Covid. The management asked us to hold on till the takeover. However, both unions warned of serious consequences if the issued was not solved,” said a senior pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-pilots-to-meet-aviation-secretary-to-discuss-demands-101638729994667.html
06-12-2021||India||Jaishankar meets UAE leaders, discusses ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed here and expressed confidence that the bilateral strategic ties between India and the UAE will scale new heights in the years to come.Jaishankar is here to attend the 5th Indian Ocean Conference on December 4-5. The theme of the Indian Ocean Conference 2021 is “Indian Ocean: Ecology, Economy, Epidemic”.“Thank HH@MohamedBinZayed for receiving me today. Conveyed the greetings of Prime Minister @narendramodi on the Golden Jubilee of UAE,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi.“Confident that our close partnership will scale new heights in the years to come,” he wrote.Sheikh Mohamed and Jaishankar discussed cooperation and joint action that solidify the strategic partnership between the UAE and India and achieve their common interests and aspirations of their two friendly peoples. He and the visiting minister also exchanged views on various regional and international issues and developments of common interest, UAE’s official WAM news agency reported.Sheikh Mohamed welcomed the visit of Jaishankar, who conveyed the congratulations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the occasion of the UAE’s celebrations of its golden jubilee, his wishes for the country and its people further progress and prosperity, and for the relations between the two countries to advance and develop further.Sheikh Mohamed conveyed his greetings to the Indian Prime Minister and his wishes for further development and growth for the friendly Indian people. He expressed his thanks and appreciation to Prime Minister Modi for his good wishes for the UAE’s national day, the report said.Earlier, Jaishankar met his counterparts from the UAE and Oman and discussed bilateral cooperation with them before the start of an international conference on the Indian Ocean that began here on Saturday.Jaishankar also met Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who gave the inaugural address at the conference.“Good to meet President @GotabayaR at the 5th Indian Ocean Conference. His address was a prominent feature of the inaugural session,” he said.Over two days, senior leaders from Indian Ocean littoral countries will cover the issues related to the region in the pre-conference workshops and plenary sessions, the India Foundation said.“A pleasant moment before the start of the Indian Ocean Conference with my counterparts from UAE (Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed) and Oman (Sayyid Badr Albusaidi),” Jaishankar said in a tweet.“A warm meeting with UAE FM@ AB Zayed in Abu Dhabi. Noted the steady progress in our bilateral cooperation. As always, his insights on global and regional developments were of great value,” he said in another tweet.There will be around 200 delegates and over 50 speakers from 30 countries. The inaugural address will be delivered by President of Sri Lanka Gotabaya Rajapaksa, the think-tank said.The conference is being organised in collaboration with the RSIS Singapore, Institute of National Security Studies, Sri Lanka, and the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research, UAE, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-meets-uae-leaders-discusses-ties-101638729814651.html
06-12-2021||India||UP elections: Earlier governments ignored needs of Gorakhpur, says CM Yogi||December 7 will be etched in golden letters in the history of development of eastern Uttar Pradesh because Prime Minister Narendra Modi would gift projects worth almost ₹10,000 crore to the region, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday.These projects include a fertilizer factory worth ₹8600 crore, an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) worth ₹1,010 crores and three pathological laboratories at BRD Medical College.Modi had fulfilled the dreams of Purvanchal, Yogi said at a media briefing in Gorakhnath temple. The promised investment would be the largest ever in eastern Uttar Pradesh since Independence, and will propel the region on a path of growth and development.The Prime Minister had laid the foundation stones of the fertilizer factory and AIIMS at Manbela ground on July 22, 2016, during a rally in the run up to the 2017 assembly elections.The fertilizer factory that was once the pride of Purvanchal for producing urea was shut down following an accident, rendering many jobless, Yogi said. It always seemed impossible to restart this unit, but Modi made it possible by first laying its foundation and then inaugurating it, the chief minister said.“Whenever we demanded restoration of the closed fertilizer factory, we merely got assurances from the previous government. But Modiji realised that the fertilizer factory was necessary for prosperity of the region,” Yogi said.The fertilizer factory, to be built on an area of 600 acres with a capacity to manufacture 12 lakh metric tonnes of neem coated urea, was being set up by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan LimitedTalking about the deaths of children due to encephalitis and recalling his effort as Gorakhpur MP to fight against the disease, Yogi said, “There was a time when flood and disease became the identity of Purvanchal. Over the decades, 40,000 to 50,000 children died of encephalitis, but the previous government remained insensitive towards the condition of the poor and helpless people. It was PM Modi who understood their pain, and gave AIIMS for treatment of such diseases.”When the virus of encephalitis was first recognized in 1971 by the Institute of Virology in Pune, there were no labs in Gorakhpur and samples used to go to Pune for testing. “But now we have set up three highly advanced labs at the Regional Medical Centre, BRD Medical College,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-earlier-governments-ignored-needs-of-gorakhpur-says-cm-yogi-101638729757201.html
06-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Expert panel to meet on booster shot today||India’s expert panel on Covid-19 immunisation will likely decide on additional doses of vaccines on Monday, and the process would be implemented in phases, with those at high risk receiving priority, according to people familiar with the matter.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the panel that advises the central government on issues related to immunization, including Covid-19 vaccination, has been working on a comprehensive policy for both additional vaccine doses and vaccination among those less than 18 years of age.“This may be called an additional dose, which is being considered for immuno-compromised people to provide additional protection as they are at a higher risk. It’s different from a booster dose that is given after the immunity wanes,” a government expert said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’The government has maintained the booster dose was not its focus, as the priority was to vaccinate all eligible people as fast as possible.NTAGI will also take up the matter of vaccinating children against Covid-19. Even if a consensus is reached on starting vaccination in children among panel members, it is likely that the exercise will be conducted in a phased manner, where the first phase will include children with co-morbidities, the people said.Government experts are working on a list of co-morbidities that could determine which children are first eligible for the vaccine. The list is likely to have those on cancer treatment, transplant cases, and those with compromised immunity, among others.The decision to vaccinate children will not be taken in a hurry, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has said on several occasions.“The experts have to be fully convinced on the issue, as it is a matter of children,” Mandaviya said at a recent media briefing. “The decision of the experts will be final on this.”
06-12-2021||India||V-P Naidu meets govt, Opposition leaders on MPs’ suspension||With the Upper House crawling back to normalcy, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu met government managers and key Opposition leaders last Friday and told them to look into the possibilities of ending the suspension of 12 MPs who have been barred for the entire session.The revocation of the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs, who faced action for their conduct on the last day of the monsoon session, hinges on an expression of regret from the Opposition or a suo motu move by the government.“Since the suspension was done through a motion moved by the treasury bench, any subsequent motion to revoke the suspension has to be moved by the government only,” said a senior Rajya Sabha functionary.The Opposition has so far refused to express regret and even challenged the decision on technical points. On Monday, the Upper House would be discussing price rise—a pet issue for the Opposition. Opposition leaders maintained that they are keen to participate in the discussion but their protests would go on outside Parliament unless the suspension order is lifted.In the meeting, a functionary present said, Naidu urged both sides to talk among themselves and see if the suspension issue can be resolved. “A senior government leader maintained that a statement or a submission expressing regret in some way is expected from the Opposition.”Last Monday, six Congress MPs, a couple of MPs both from Trinamool and Shiv Sena and one lawmaker each from the CPI(M) and the CPI were suspended for the entire session.In the meeting, government managers proposed that the parties can give individual statements or the Leader of Opposition can speak for all of them. But so far, the government is still trying to extract an apology or expression of regret for the unruly scenes of the last session.“The Upper House, that lost 52.30% of the scheduled sitting time in the first week of the winter session, scored 100% productivity last Friday and 95% on the previous day last week, showing signs of return of the House to normal functioning,” said a Rajya Sabha official.On Friday, 22 private members’ bills were introduced in the Upper House but no discussion could take place. A private bill seeking to amend the Preamble of the Constitution was put on hold due to Opposition pressure.Addressing the Upper House on Friday, Naidu said, “It is human to err and it is also human to make amends. One cannot refuse to amend and insist on glossing over the wrong doings... I urge both the sides of this august House to talk it out and let the House do its mandated job.”As Opposition members argued that the suspension was not in order, Naidu said, “...Some of the respected leaders and members of this august House, in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as ‘undemocratic’. I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative being propagated but could not.”The leader of the Opposition had written to Naidu last week to maintain that moving the motion on suspension and its adoption was a “gross violation of Rules of Procedure regarding suspension of members provided under Rule 256” and he was not allowed to raise a point of order when the motion was being moved.“As per the well-established conventions, every member who seeks to raise a point of order has to be permitted by the Chair to raise a point of order. Furthermore, when the leader of the Opposition is seeking to raise a point of order, he has to be allowed to raise the same. I was, however, not allowed to raise my point or order. This in itself is a gross violation of the well-settled and time-honoured parliamentary conventions,” he said.
06-12-2021||India||Omicron count jumps to 21, experts stress on screening||As the number of cases of Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 continued to grow in India with at least four new clusters — two in Maharashtra and one each in Rajasthan and Delhi — emerging in the country on Sunday, experts stressed on the need for aggressive screening and contact tracing of all such cases to prevent the domestic spread of the highly mutated variant.On Sunday, 17 new cases of the newly identified variant were confirmed by genome sequencing across the country, taking the total number of such infections in India to 21.Of these, the biggest cluster was located in Jaipur, where nine people who were confirmed to have been infected with Omicron — this included four members of a family who had recently returned from South Africa, and five of their relatives, state officials said.The second major Omicron cluster detected on Sunday was situated in Pimpri-Chinchwad, on the outskirts of Pune, where seven people were found infected with the Omicron variant. This includes a 44-year-old Nigerian national of Indian origin, her two daughters, her brother, and his two daughters, officials said.Other than these two, clusters consisting of a standalone infection each were detected on Sunday in Pune and Delhi. The infection in Pune was a reported in a 47-year-old-man travelled to Finland last month, while the case in Delhi had a travel history to Tanzania, state officials said.This has taken the number of cases of the new in the country to 21.Experts, meanwhile, stressed that the strictness of how authorities handle the way cases are traced, tracked, and isolated, will go on to form a crucial part that will define the efforts to contain the spread and the possibility of more clusters emerging.“Covid19 appropriate behaviour is now more pertinent, with the emergence of this variant. And as the source of this variant is from outside the country, the need is to ensure effective screening. As of now, the possibility of having more Omicron clusters is not very high,” said Dr Sudheer Bhandari, principal of SMS Medical College in Jaipur.“How many people will be infected, and how many will need hospitalisation and how many will succumb to the infection will depend on the nature and status of individual immunity and how much we as a community will adhere to the Covid protocols. Even if the percentage of affected people or complications might be low; with increased transmission - the absolute numbers could be overwhelming,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, head, Infectious Diseases and Infection Control, Aster DM Healthcare’s India Units.In Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope stressed on the need for increasing vaccination coverage. “However, there is no cause for panic, as feedback about Omicron from South Africa, opinions of experts, and the study of this variant, indicates that it has mild symptoms, but high transmissibility,” he said, adding that in South Africa, there were no reports of any high need for hospitalisation, ICU admissions or death rate.To be sure, neither of those characteristics are still confirmed and scientists are carrying out studies to establish whether the variant is more transmissible, resistant or virulent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-count-jumps-to-21-experts-stress-on-screening-101638729577046.html
06-12-2021||India||Landslide warning system under trial, Parliament told||India is developing an early warning system for landslides that would help save lives and prevent damage to property, Parliament was told last week. The system, dubbed LEWS, is being tested by the Geological Survey of India in the two hilly districts of Darjeeling in West Bengal and Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu, and is likely to be operational by 2025, the earth sciences ministry informed the Rajya Sabha. The prototype regional Landslide Early Warning System (LEWS), being developed by the Geological Survey in collaboration with its British counterpart under the aegis of the National Environmental Research Council’s LANDSLIP project, is based on rainfall thresholds since 2017. There has been increasing incidence of landslides in the country, particularly due to excessive rainfall during the monsoon season in Kerala, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra. In response to a question on the number of people killed during the monsoon floods this year, the home ministry said: “This ministry does not maintain the centralised data regarding loss of human lives and crops due to any calamity. However, state-wise details of the human lives lost and loss of crops due to hydro-meteorological calamities, including floods, landslides, during the year 2021-22, as assessed/ reported by the state governments/ Union territories.” As per data shared by states and UTs, 2002 persons were killed in cyclonic storms/ heavy rains/ floods/ landslides in 2021-22 and crop area of 50.40 lakh ha was damaged. The LANDSLIP project developed a prototype last year based on terrain-specific rainfall thresholds in the two test areas. Since the 2020 southwest monsoon, the Geological Survey has started issuing daily landslide forecasts during the summer monsoon to district administrations in Darjeeling and Nilgiris, the central government said. GSI has also laid the groundwork to develop regional LEWS in other landslide-prone states like Uttarakhand, Kerala, Sikkim from this year and plans to add five more – Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Assam, Meghalaya and Mizoram – by 2022.“The evaluation and calibration of the models will continue during the next few monsoon years and the regional LEWS will be made operational in phases in all such 10 states, the earth sciences ministry told Parliament.India’s National Disaster Management Authority has also constituted a group that includes the National Institute of Hydrology, Indian space Research Organisation, Geological Survey of India and Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, among others, to develop a monitoring and early warning system for rock and snow avalanche events including glacier and landslide lake outburst floods to reduce cascading impacts like flash floods and landslides in downstream areas. The authority released guidelines on management of such floods and a summary for policy makers on October 13.India currently does not have an early warning system for glacier-related disasters but has conducted studies on their melting by assessing mass balance studies and monitoring the recession of selected Himalayan glaciers, which have been receding due to global warming.In a response to another question on increasing lightning deaths on December 1, the earth sciences ministry told the Lok Sabha that lightning activity has shown an increasing trend in the past two decades. “Northeast, east and parts of peninsular India have registered a sharp increase of lighting over the past two decades, the miniostry said in its response. As many as 2,357 persons died due to lightning strikes in 2018, it said. The number was 2,876 in 2019, and 2,862 in 2020. Rainfall patterns in many parts of country has also been changing, partly due to climate change. There is an increasing trend of heavy rainfall events over Saurashtra and Kutch, southeastern Rajasthan, northern Tamil Nadu, northern Andhra Pradesh, southwest Odisha, Chhattisgarh, southwest Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Manipur, Mizoram, Konkan, Goa and Uttarakhand, the ministry told the Lok Sabha on December 1.The India Meteorological Department has carried out an analysis of observed monsoon rainfall variability in all states. Five states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Nagaland – have shown significant decreasing trends in southwest monsoon rainfall between 1989 and 2018, the weather office found. “It is possible to develop an early warning system for landslides. In Uttarakhand, we have a proposal where landslides or avalanches can be mapped through a careful study of geology, faults, folds, thrusts, curvature, slope, magnitude of slope, vegetation cover, seismicity, etc, which can help us identify a large susceptibility zone. From IMD, we can get rainfall data and forecast for automatic weather station network and use artificial intelligence for quick decision making. An early warning system can be created which gives people 20 minutes time to evacuate. People should also respond to such a system, then it can be successful,” Kalachand Sain, director, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-warning-system-under-trial-parliament-told-101638729574888.html
06-12-2021||India||Face of Oppn will be decided by upa collectively, says Chhattisgarh CM||Days after Mamata Banerjee’s “no UPA” jibe, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said a decision on who would be the face of the Opposition that would take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 general election would be taken collectively by the constituents of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) that is headed by Sonia Gandhi.“Several parties comprise the UPA whose chairperson is Sonia Gandhi, and all parties will decide on the issue together,” Baghel said.Asked if Rahul Gandhi should be the face of the Opposition bloc to take on PM Modi in 2024, Baghel said he is “too small a person” to decide on such matters and is not authorised by the party to comment on all such issues. Baghel added that in the whole country, there is only one leader that is taking on the central government and BJP, and that is Rahul Gandhi.The Chattisgarh chief minister also attacked the TMC chief, saying she must clarify whether she wants to make TMC the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties.He also said no Opposition alliance is possible at the national level without the Congress which has to be the main pillar of the bloc taking on the BJP.Baghel said, “I would like to say to Mamata Banerjee that you want to become the main opposition party, it is a very good thing. If you want to move forward with a plan, harbouring a dream, it will be welcomed, but the question is whether you want to become the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-of-oppn-will-be-decided-by-upa-collectively-says-chhattisgarh-cm-101638729517115.html
06-12-2021||India||BJP won’t topple Rajasthan government, will win elections: Amit Shah||Refuting allegations that the Bharatiya Janata Party was trying to destabilize the Congress government in Rajasthan, Union home minister Amit Shah said the party had no such intention, expressing confidence that BJP will surely form the next government in the state with a strong mandate. “They are always in fear that their government will collapse. Who is going to topple the government? No one,” Shah said at a gathering of the BJP state lawmakers on Sunday. “BJP will never topple your government. BJP will go to the masses and will come to power with a strong mandate in 2023.”Attacking the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government over various issues such as poor law and order situation, corruption, unemployment and misgovernance, Shah called upon party workers to oust the Congress government from power. “Once again, we have to oust the useless and corrupt Gehlot government in Rajasthan and bring BJP to the power with a two-thirds majority,” he said. “If you think that your government is working well, then elections in Uttar Pradesh are also coming,” Shah said. “Get elections in Rajasthan also done along with it…you will get to know what the public wants. We want that you complete your tenure till 2023 and work for the people.”Although former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of the Congress gave a call of garibi hatao in the seventies, the work to eliminate poverty was started after Narendra Modi’s government came to power in 2014, Shah said. “Congress only worked to remove the poor instead of poverty,” the federal home minister said. “It was the Modi government which worked for the upliftment of the poor, and provided electricity, gas connections, toilets and pucca houses in rural households,” he said. Shah called upon BJP workers to mount pressure on the Gehlot government to reduce taxes. He alleged that the Gehlot government has shuttered many welfare programmes of the previous Vasundhara Raje government and is creating obstacles in the implementation of central schemes.“The Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan is invisible,” former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said at the event. “The law and order and government, both are invisible in the state. The government is completing three years, but not a single work is visible.”“The BJP will win assembly elections in 2023 and all 25 Lok Sabha seats in 2024 (national elections),” said BJP state chief Satish Poonia . Commenting on Shah’s visit, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara said BJP’s claim of returning to power with a two-thirds majority was a pipe dream. “They are arrogant. It was visible during the welcome of Shah, when he didn’t even look at party workers,” he said. The central government and BJP have only one agenda, that of dividing the people in name of religion, Dotasara said. Dotasara claimed that Shah was ill-informed as the Rajasthan government has already reduced state levies on petrol and diesel. 
06-12-2021||India||December 5: What we know about Omicron variant so far||The number of Omicron cases and their share in genotyped samples has consistently risen across several parts of the world over the weekend.The first two cases in India were confirmed on Thursday and by Sunday, the tally grew to 21. In South Africa, where the variant is believed to have taken hold in some regions, the weekly average of new infections jumped from less than 2,000 on November 28 to over 8,500 on December 4. In the UK, Omicron’s share in all samples analysed to determine their genome sequence roughly doubled every three days. Similar growth has been recorded in European genome surveillance.To be sure, some of these trends may reflect a bias – countries are now targeting testing at people suspected to have the variant (due to their travel and contact history) and are genotyping more samples. But they fit into a consistent trend seen since the beginning of the month from several parts of the world, reinforcing the assumption that the variant is significantly more transmissible.Reduced incubation?On Sunday, a press release by the UK government announcing mandatory pre-departure test for anyone wanting to enter the country cited new analysis by the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) that indicates “the window between infection and infectiousness may be shorter for the Omicron variant”.There are two ways to look at this: first, it strengthens the assumption that the large number of mutations in Omicron is causing changes in how Covid-19 could clinically manifest.Second, as the UK government noted, a reduced incubation period increases the likelihood that pre-departure tests will identify positive cases before travel.The UKHSA cited is yet to be released.Milder infections?Experts are watching local disclosures from hospitals in South Africa’s Tshwane, which is in the Gauteng province – the hotspot of Omicron infections. The university hospital in Pretoria released a patient snapshot of the district hospital in Tshwane, where about 21% of the patients were on oxygen support after developing Covid-19.The assessment adds: “This is a picture that has not been seen in previous waves. In the beginning of all three previous waves and throughout the course of these waves, there has always only been a sprinkling of patients on room air in the COVID ward”.The report, thus, implies that there are more Covid-19 patients in regular wards of the hospital than on oxygen support compared to previous Covid-19 waves which were caused by other variants.While this could be good news, there are several factors that could be involved – most of the infections may have happened in younger people, who are more likely to have high contacts. But, more importantly, it could simply be too soon for the infections to have progressed to a stage where people need oxygen support.The larger threatThe question over whether the variant causes more severe disease is one of two that scientists are racing to answer (that it has high transmissibility is all but confirmed) -- the other is how resistant is it?A recent mathematical modelling has shown that variants with higher transmissibility are bad in themselves, but they become significantly worse if they are resistant to antibodies (from past infection or vaccines).Published in the journal Cell, the study by researchers from Harvard said: “Variants with enhanced transmissibility frequently increase epidemic severity, whereas those with partial immune escape either fail to spread widely, or primarily cause reinfections and breakthrough infections”.But if a variant has both the traits – high transmissibility as well as the ability to escape immunity – “a variant can continue spreading even as immunity builds up in the population, limiting the impact of vaccination and exacerbating the epidemic.”Last week, a preliminary scientific assessment from South Africa said the variant appeared to be significantly more resistant to natural immunity in people who previously had Covid-19. They were yet to study the effects on those who had a vaccine, or both, a shot and an infection.The UKHSA, in a report released on Friday, said structural modelling by University of Oxford made similar conclusions.The wait for conclusive evidence on this, however, continues.
06-12-2021||India||Putin arrives today; defence, strategic issues on the agenda||India and Russia will hold the first 2+2 format dialogue in New Delhi on Monday, and discuss key bilateral, regional and international issues, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region, during Russian President Vladimir Putin’s day-long visit, according to officials. The two nations have been putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Putin. Ahead of Putin’s visit, the Indian government has already cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing. The annual summit – which has been held since 2000 – will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers. The ministers are expected to hold in-depth discussions of the key regional and international topics, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments in Afghanistan and Syria, as well as exchange views on interaction within the SCO and Russia, India and China (RIC), the Russian embassy has said. Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit, people familiar with the matter said. The two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases. The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, the people said. Modi and Putin had decided in August to have close consultations on Afghanistan and the two sides are coordinating on common concerns, the people added. Days before the summit, the government approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles at a factory at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday took up the ₹5,100-crore project. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. “The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/putin-arrives-today-defence-strategic-issues-on-the-agenda-101638728973836.html
06-12-2021||Today's||Was Bangladesh or Bhutto behind the Pakistani bomb?||This month, we complete 50 years of the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war. A recent, and well-timed, book by Ambassador Chandrashekhar Dasgupta revises some of our closely held assumptions and interpretations of that war.
06-12-2021||Today's||Why do Indian-Americans succeed?||To Americans, they have funny accents, eat spicy food, and wear strange outfits. Indian-Americans constitute just 1.2% of the population of the United States (US). Yet, you will find them at the helm of leading companies; as presidents and deans of America’s most prestigious colleges; at the pinnacles of journalism; dominating fields such as technology, scientific research and medicine; and thriving in industries such as hospitality, transportation and real estate. The governors of two of America’s most conservative states were of Indian origin — as is the vice president.
06-12-2021||Today's||In UP, the Opposition seems unwilling to take the BJP on over macro issues||Two months before polls, the election campaign in Uttar Pradesh (UP) is in a transitional phase.
06-12-2021||Today's||Ecostani | In NCR’s bleak winter, the SC must rise to fight bad air||On December 2, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana suggested that the Supreme Court (SC) appoint an administrator for Delhi to handle the national Capital’s toxic air. He directed his exasperation at the political class, which has shown little interest to take “harsh” decisions to ensure better air for residents.
06-12-2021||Today's||Climate and Us | Reiterating the need for climate finance||India’s stand on global climate action was clarified last week in replies to several questions raised in the Rajya Sabha on the outcome of the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP26).
