18-12-2021||Mumbai||SC rule could hit Maharashtra students||Mumbai: Admissions to undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) medical courses will witness big changes this year with the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) on Saturday releasing a notification that they will conduct four rounds of admissions for all India quota (AIQ) seats as opposed to two rounds conducted until last year. This notification follows a December 15 Supreme Court order after the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS) approached the apex court demanding this change. “For years it has been noticed that several top scoring students end up blocking seats in the AIQ round and then end up opting for another seat in state quota rounds as well, thus depriving other students with lower scores from getting admission. Henceforth, AIQ seats will only be filled by competent authority (MCC) and no seats from the quota will be surrendered to respective states,” an official statement by the DGHS said. AIQ rounds are conducted to fill up 15% seats in government and private UG medical institutes and 50% seats in government and private PG medical institutes. As per rules, AIQ and state admission rounds were conducted simultaneously because vacant seats in AIQ post the second round were surrendered for state quota. As per the latest notification of MCC, 2021-22 academic year onwards four AIQ rounds will be conducted – AIQ 1, AIQ 2, mop-up round 1 and stray vacancy round. “Fresh registration of candidates will be allowed in round 1, 2 and mop-up round. There will be no fresh registrations for candidates in AIQ stray vacancy round,” states the notification released by MCC on Saturday. Implementation of this rule will be a big blow to medical aspirants in states with high number of government medical institutes such as Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra. “Every year at least 200-250 AIQ seats would be surrendered to state quota and was approachable for students. While this move will ensure no seats are blocked by students in the first two rounds,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist. She added that on the contrary, states with fewer number of government medical institutes will benefit from this move. Maharashtra medical education minister Amit Deshmukh and Directorate of Medical Education and Research director Dilip Mhaisekar could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts via phone call and text messages. 
18-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Former MCG employee gets six years in jail for bribe||A local court has sentenced a former employee of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to six years in imprisonment for taking a bribe, said officials on Saturday.The case pertains to January 2019 when a resident of Mehrauli in Delhi was seeking a birth certificate of her son, who was born at a private hospital in DLF Phase 3 in November 2015, from the employee, a computer operator deputed in the health wing of the civic body.The operator, a contractual employee, demanded a bribe of ₹2,000 for issuing the certificate following which the woman registered a complaint with the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau.“The vigilance bureau caught the computer operator taking the bribe during the raid and he was subsequently arrested under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.On Thursday, additional sessions judge Ashwani Kumar issued the order against the computer operator and also imposed a ₹25,000 fine on him.“The court has sentenced an imprisonment of six years with a fine of ₹25,000 under the Prevention of Corruption Act in a case registered at Gurugram on January 16, 2019,” said a spokesperson of the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau.“There is no place for corruption in the MCG and the directions issued by the court reinstate the faith of the common citizens in justice and the law. This should serve as an example for MCG officials that they will be held accountable for any wrongdoings and action can also be initiated against them as per the law,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG.In March 2019, the court had issued an order against a revenue official of the MCG for taking a bribe of ₹20,000 for transferring a plot of land. The revenue official also had to pay a ₹25,000 fine and was sentenced to five years of imprisonment. The vigilance bureau had caught the revenue official accepting a bribe in April 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-former-mcg-employee-gets-six-years-in-jail-for-bribe-101639851911062.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 cases rise in Lucknow, 12 reported on Saturday||Lucknow reported a dozen fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, while Uttar Pradesh reported 33 fresh cases, which is highest in a single day after a gap of roughly four-months.On August 18, UP had reported 35 fresh Covid-19 cases. On August 4, Lucknow had reported 17 fresh Covid-19 cases, according to data from the health department.“We are getting genome sequencing done for all the 12 fresh cases,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow.Among the fresh cases, three are contacts of the woman who had returned from Punjab on December 12 and tested positive. All three contacts are from the family of the woman, who lives in the Ashiana area. Another case is of a contact of a Covid-19 positive person in Old Hyderabad area, said a senior health official.Two Lucknow residents, who had plans to travel abroad, tested positive when they gave their sample for mandatory Covid-19 testing before boarding the flight. Another Lucknow resident had to travel to a different state and had given the sample, which tested positive for Covid-19.One case is of a man who had returned from Punjab via Haryana. He gave a sample and the report came positive. Two other residents of Lucknow were having symptoms and their samples tested positive.Experts said family members of positive Covid-19 cases testing positive need attention both by authorities and families. “This is the second case in Lucknow in a week, where family members tested positive for Covid-19 after one returned from another state and tested positive. Any resident returning from another state or country should ensure they stay in a separate room and use separate washrooms during the entire home isolation period,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.On August 3, Lucknow had reported 11 fresh Covid-19 cases and on August 4 reported 17 fresh Covid-19 cases. Since then the number of fresh daily cases remained below 10. On September 22, there were 8 fresh cases and on October 4 also 8 fresh cases, while on the remaining days, fresh cases remained below 5.Uttar Pradesh now has 189 active Covid-19 cases under treatment, while the day before, there were 164 active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-cases-rise-in-lucknow-12-reported-on-saturday-101639851731400.html
18-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Woman found killed in her house in Manesar||A 28-year-old woman was found murdered in her rented accommodation on Friday morning in Manesar’s Khoh village while her husband was away for work, police said. The victim was identified as Shabnam Khatoon, who was living with her husband and their three children in a rented room in the village for the last one year, police said.On the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s husband Mohammad Qadir, an FIR was registered against her sister’s husband at Manesar police station, police said, adding that the suspect, identified as Mohammad Shahid, is at large since the incident.According to police, the suspect, who had come to the woman’s place to look for a job, allegedly strangled her to death after an argument. Police said that after receiving information about the murder, a team from IMT Manesar police station reached the spot and found the body lying on the bed. According to Qadir, who works as a tailor at a garment factory in IMT Manesar, on Thursday, he left for his shift at 7.30pm. “Shahid had been staying with us for the past five days. When I left for work, he was at my place. At 5am on Friday, one of my relatives informed me regarding the death of my wife,” he said. “My children were asleep next to my wife. She had injuries on her neck. One of my children told me that Shahid (the suspect) had a fight with my wife on Thursday night. I suspect that after the fight, he strangled her with a piece of cloth,” Qadir said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that they recorded the statements of the family members and sent the body for post mortem. “She had injury marks on her neck and face. We have started a probe in the case. The suspect will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-woman-found-killed-in-her-house-in-manesar-101639851671091.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Income tax raids on SP leaders’ premises in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Income tax raids on some Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders considered close to party chief Akhilesh Yadav hotted up the political atmosphere in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Saturday, with Yadav, who is on a tour of Rae Bareli, saying that the BJP was misusing the central agencies. Several teams of the income tax department raided offices and residences of the state’s main opposition party leaders who promptly dismissed them as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s coercion tactics just ahead of the elections. The raids began as early as 6 am and went on for several hours. As per sources, the I-T teams were from Lucknow, Jhansi, Agra, NOIDA, Ghaziabad, and Varanasi districts. According to information, those whose premises were searched included Jainendra Yadav, a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav. He was OSD when Akhilesh was the chief minister. His Vishal Khand, Gomti Nagar residence was searched. Others were the party’s spokesperson Rajiv Rai (Mau’s Sahadatpura premises) and a prominent contractor Manoj Yadav from Mainpuri. Manoj Yadav is owner of RCL Company and works as a government contractor. He is considered close to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. Rajiv Rai’s personal website describes him as the most important person in Team Akhilesh. He is also the founder and chairman of AVK Group of Institutions, a chain in Bengaluru. “What else could it be,” said Rajiv Rai when journalists asked him if he thought the raids were politically motivated. Income tax search operations are usually carried out on tip-offs about tax evasion. “I am a leader with no crime record. Yet these raids are being carried out. I want to tell my supporters is be calm and give no excuse to the police to make a case on the pretext of disturbing law and order,” Rai said. Manoj Yadav said he was among the 10 biggest tax payers in Mainpuri. “All know why such raids are being conducted and why I am being targeted’ he said. The income tax teams weren’t available for a comment and most other I-T officers also refused comment on the raids. There was no reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party or the state government on the issue so far. “We don’t know anything,” a BJP leader said. “This scared government is trying to scare rivals. But no one is going to be intimidated. This government is going. Such raids will backfire on them just as they did in Karnataka and West Bengal polls. There too there were such raids before the polls,” said Anshu Awasthi, UP Congress spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/income-tax-raids-on-sp-leaders-premises-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-101639851431439.html
18-12-2021||Gurugram||Nuh police impound 25 trucks carrying sand and stones from Aravallis||During a special drive against illegal mining on Friday night, two policemen were injured in Nuh when drivers of two dumper trucks, which were allegedly ferrying sand and stones from the Aravallis, tried to run over them after being asked to stop for checking, senior police officials said on Saturday. During the drive against illegal mining in the ecologically fragile Aravallis on Friday, Nuh police impounded 25 dumper trucks and registered 15 cases, besides slapping a fine to the tune of ₹5 lakh on the truck owners. Talking about the attack on the policemen, Varun Singla, superintendent of police, Nuh, said a police team was conducting a special drive on Friday night and checking overloaded vehicles on the roads coming from the Aravallis when they found a few dumper trucks parked at a dhaba. “We reached Ganduri village on Alwar Road and spotted several overloaded dumpers. When we went to check the material loaded in the dumpers, the drivers of two dumper trucks started the ignition and tried to run over the policemen. They also rammed the dumpers into our official vehicles,” said Singla. Two of the policemen fell on the ground and sustained injuries. Just when the drivers were about to ram the dumpers into Singla’s Scorpio and one more patrolling vehicle, he raised an alarm, following which he and other policemen jumped out of the vehicles and moved to a side to prevent coming in the way of the dumpers, the officials said. Singla said a police team tried to stop the drivers but they fled the spot. “We followed the dumpers and chased the vehicles for more than 20km. However, taking advantage of the dark, the driver left the dumpers and fled into the fields,” he said. A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the IPC was registered at Nagina police station on Saturday. “Over 100 vehicles were checked at six points in Nuh, Tauru, Punhana, Nagina, Bicchor and the outskirts of Sohna. The police impounded as many as 25 vehicles,” said Singla. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime) who is in charge of cracking down on illegal mining in the South Haryana region, said many gangs are operating in the area and are involved in the illegal mining of clay and sand and their transportation. They allegedly attack police teams and snatch their impounded vehicles too. “The mining operations have been taking place in the district for over two decades. In November 2019, special teams were formed to crack down on illegal mining in the Aravallis. Since then, we have been successful in controlling mining in Nuh, Tauru, and Faridabad belt,” said Sangwan. According to official data, since December 2019, police have registered around 2,600 cases against illegal mining, while the state has levied penalties to the tune of ₹70 crore. In 2020, 1,862 cases were registered against 900 people while in 2019, 185 people were arrested in over 150 registered cases, shows the police data.A total of 3,884 vehicles, such as tippers, trucks, tractor-trolleys, and earthmovers, have been seized by the police from December 2019 till December 16, 2021. This year, the police have already impounded over 600 vehicles. Sangwan said first-time offenders get their vehicles back upon paying a fine of ₹4 lakh, while second-time offenders have to pay at least 50% of the showroom value of the vehicle impounded. “The owner of the impounded vehicle has to pay a royalty--the value of the minerals loaded on the vehicles (either crushed stones or clay sand)-- along with ₹10,000, for releasing the impounded vehicles,” he said. 
18-12-2021||Other||Allahabad HC interim relief to ex-MLA son accused of rape, attempted forceful conversion||The Allahabad High Court had granted interim anticipatory bail to Quavi Ahmed, former Phulpur Samajwadi Party MLA Saeed Ahmad’s son, in a case registered under various sections of IPC including section 376 (rape) and Section 3 and 5(1) (attempt of forceful conversion) of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020.Justice SD Singh, while granting interim anticipatory bail to Quavi Ahmad, fixed January 7, 2022, as the next date of hearing while directing the state government to file a counter affidavit in the case.The petitioner’s plea was that false allegations were made in the FIR to pressurise him as he and the woman had business relations which went bad and they started incurring losses.According to the petition, “Allegation has been made in the FIR of the applicant having chased the informant through the market area Civil Lines in the early part of the evening and to have assaulted her whereupon the informant alleges to have taken shelter in the police chowki which fact is wholly uncorroborated.”On September 13, 2021, an FIR was registered against Ahmad under various sections of IPC alleging assault, loot and rape and under UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 alleging attempt to convert forcefully by misrepresentation. The FIR was lodged at Civil Lines police station of Prayagraj.As alleged in the FIR, the woman was preparing for Miss India competition and used to run a gym in Civil Lines. In 2018, she came in contact with Quavi Ahmad, who befriended her by changing his name. The accused took her to Lucknow on the pretext of running a beauty parlour. Here the accused exploited her sexually while giving her sedatives. He made obscene videos of her and started blackmailing her.On September 12, 2021, the accused attacked the woman in the Civil Lines area of the city and chased her. To save her life the victim ran into a police post after which she lodged the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-hc-interim-relief-to-ex-mla-son-accused-of-rape-attempted-forceful-conversion-101639851310969.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Mercury plummets, Lucknow shivers@7 degrees Celsius||LUCKNOW: The minimum temperature in the state capital dropped to 7 degrees Celsius (two degrees below normal) on Saturday. The temperature reflected a considerable drop of 8 degrees within a fortnight. “Recent snowfall in the Himalayas and the cold westerly winds moving from west to east are the primary reasons for the marked drop in temperatures across UP. The minimum temperature is expected to drop further in the coming days by around two degrees,” said JP Gupta, director of Uttar Pradesh Met department. As per the forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature across UP is expected to drop by three degrees by next week. Lucknow, as per the forecast, will experience minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The drop in temperature will be accompanied by a cold breeze. “A low-pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP which is responsible for drop in temperatures. The low-pressure zone will subside gradually over the next week,” said Gupta. The Met department has also warned of heavy fog across the state during morning hours. The state Met department has also alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions, suggesting to them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold. The minimum temperature in other cities also plummeted on Saturday. While Meerut recorded a minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius, the mercury dropped to 5.6 and 7.8 degrees Celsius in Muzaffarnagar and Agra respectively. Kanpur recorded a minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius and Varanasi 9.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mercury-plummets-lucknow-shivers-7-degrees-celsius-101639850651262.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||UP: Police prevent woman, daughter from making immolation bid||An around 30-year-old woman from Etawah, along with her seven-year-old daughter, on Saturday made an abortive bid to immolate themselves in front of the Vidhan Bhawan here alleging harassment by Shahjahanpur district police, police said. Quick intervention of police personnel deployed there, however, prevented the duo from taking the extreme step. Later, the police sent them to a hospital for a check-up. Confirming it, assistant commissioner of police, Hazratganj, Akhilesh Singh said, “A woman, who is a native of Etawah, has accused a constable posted in Shahjahanpur. She has alleged that Shahjahanpur district police are siding with the constables and not helping her. The officials concerned in Shahjahanpur police have been informed about her complaint requesting further action.”Minutes after the incident, Shahjahanpur police in a tweet from their official handle refuted the allegations made by the woman. Superintendent of police, Shahjahanpur, S Anand said, “The woman used to live with the constable and she complained about him in the woman police station of the district. As per the procedure, the officials at woman police station first tried to resolve the issue by counselling and later lodged an FIR against the constable on the basis of the complaint given by the woman. The said constable was also suspended. The allegation made by the woman that police are siding with the suspended constable is false.”Reportedly, the same woman had also met Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi a few days ago in Lucknow in connection with her alleged grievance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-police-prevent-woman-daughter-from-making-immolation-bid-101639850546673.html
18-12-2021||Noida||₹2,800 crore ‘scam’ in allotment of plots for farmhouses in Noida: CAG report||The Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) Performance Audit Report on Land Acquisition and Allotment of Properties in Noida in Uttar Pradesh, 2021, which was tabled by parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna in the UP assembly on Friday, said there was a loss of ₹55,000 crore to the state exchequer during the allotment of plots for residential, commercial and industrial purposes in Noida between 2005 and 2014. The CAG report said there were losses to the tune of ₹2,800 crore in one scheme alone, which dealt with allotment of plots for farmhouses. However, a 2013 report of the UP Lokayukta-- an independent government body probing corruption cases in the state, said there was ‘zero scam’ in the allotment process. These two crucial reports with differing conclusions have become a subject of debate. The losses incurred in allotment of plots for farmhouses also differ in two smaller probes, which were undertaken in 2013 to determine if there was a scam or not. The scam pertains to the allotment of about 150 plots measuring 1, 000 square metres in 12 villages to companies and individuals allegedly at throwaway prices and by flouting norms. The fertile farmland was acquired for industrial development and later allotted for the construction of farmhouses in 2008-10. “The farmhouse plot allotment was a scam because the purpose of land acquisition was for industrial use... later the industrial land was allotted to private companies and developers to build farmhouses that too at a very low price thereby causing a loss of at least ₹2,800 crore to the state exchequer,” said the CAG report. On August 7, 2013, the then UP government had asked the Lokayukta to conduct a probe. On December 11, 2013, justice (retired) N K Mehrotra, who presided over the UP Lokayukta that time, gave a clean chit to the then UP chief minister and about a dozen officials of the Noida authority stating that he found ‘no scam’ in the scheme of allotting plots for the construction of farmhouses. When approached, Mehrotra he said, “How can I go back on my report now? Whatever I did was correct as per the facts available to me. Our report was based on the evidence that was provided to us back then.”Back then, the UP Lokayukta’s disclosures contradicted with two other reports-- one of former chairman of Noida authority Rakesh Bahadur, whose findings claimed that the farmhouse scam runs into ₹1, 000 crore, and a local fund audit report which said the scam was worth ₹150 crore.“I doubt if anything will happen to those who allegedly allotted plots meant for industrial usage for construction of farmhouses by flouting norms. Even after three reports claimed that the farmhouse allotment scheme was scam a running into crores, nothing happened in the past. The CAG report will be a waste if no action is taken against officials involved,” said Praveen Bharatiya, founder president of Corruption free India, a social group in Noida.UP industry minister Satish Mahana said, “The CAG has established that there was corruption in allotment of farmhouse plots. Action will be taken against the guilty as per the law. No one will be spared.”
18-12-2021||Pune||Woman, daughter found dead inside their house in Rahatani||PUNE A woman and her minor daughter were found dead in their house in the Rahatani area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Saturday morning.The 36-year-old woman was a housewife, while her husband sold snacks on a handcart while the deceased 13-year-old daughter was a school student, according to the police.Their 10-year-old son and the man were sleeping on the terrace while the two were found in the bedroom of the house.“There is a video we have found in which she says take care of my kids. It prima facie looks like a case of marital trouble. The viscera of the bodies have been preserved to identify the cause of death as we found an insecticide in the same room,” said senior police inspector Vivek Mugalikar of Wakad police station.The police have registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against the deceased woman and a case of accidental death at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-daughter-found-dead-inside-their-house-in-rahatani-101639850170876.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Political parties must tell what they will do for farmers: BKU leader on UP polls||Addressing his first panchayat at Sisauli village of Muzaffarnagar district ever since the farmers’ stir ended, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait alleged that through the proposed privatisation of banks efforts were being made to grab farmers’ land by the corporate sector.“Farming is being made a deal of loss so that the corporate sector could snatch land of farmers and so the farmers should remain wary of it,” Tikait said at the panchayat held at Kisan Bhawan on Friday. Attacking the government, he said, “The farmers are not dishonest but ‘the pen which decides the prices of their crops in Delhi is dishonest’. However, now young farmers have woken up.”He also claimed that the rate of electricity in the state was higher than that of neighbouring Haryana. Tikait further said the issues of farmers would be raised before the state governments across the country. On the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the BKU leader demanded that political parties should clearly state in their manifestos as to what they intended to do for farmers.The BKU leader demanded that the alleged one-sided action in police stations must stop immediately or else another agitation would be launched. The farmers should be provided facilities from the income generated through “Mandis”, he said and urged the government to clear the dues of cane farmers. BKU president Naresh Tikait said as the farmers’ stir had ended, leaders of political parties could visit the villages in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/political-parties-must-tell-what-they-will-do-for-farmers-bku-leader-on-up-polls-101639850112690.html
18-12-2021||Noida||42-yr-old relative of Omicron infected elderly couple tests positive for Covid||A 42-year-old man--a family member of the elderly couple whose genome sequencing test report arrived on Friday and confirmed they were infected by the Omicron variant of Covid-19--tested positive for the viral infection on Saturday. District health officials said the elderly couple--a man aged 69 and his 66-year-old wife--travelled from Mumbai to Jaipur and arrived in Ghaziabad on November 29. When they started showing symptoms of Covid-19, they underwent a test, the report of which arrived on December 3 and confirmed their infection. They stayed in home isolation for 10 days, after which they again underwent an RT-PCR test, the report of which arrived on December 15 and showed they were negative to Covid-19. Dr R K Gupta, district surveillance officer, said when the couple tested positive in the first Covid-19 test, the report of which arrived on December 3, health teams collected about 60 samples of their family members and neighbours.“The 42-year-old man did not test positive in the first round of samples that were collected on December 3. After we received the genome-sequencing report of the elderly couple on Friday, their family members were tested again. This time, the man tested positive for Covid-19. We have sent his sample for genome-sequencing and are waiting for the reports of the tests done in the second round,” said Dr Gupta adding that the man has been asked to stay in home isolation. “Since the elderly couple has completed their course of home isolation and their RT-PCR results, which arrived on December 15, showed that they have tested negative for Covid-19, they were given permission to go and left for Mumbai on Saturday night,” said Dr Gupta. Officials said there are nine other members in the couple’s house, which includes a family staying on the first floor, whose samples have been collected for Covid-19. The elderly couple’s house has been turned into a micro-containment zone and the movement of the family members has been restricted. “A police team has been deployed outside the house to keep a check on outsiders visiting the family as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Gupta. Meanwhile, teams from the district health department have scaled up testing and set up a vaccination camp at Nehru Nagar, after the district health department on Friday found its first two Omicron cases in the elderly couple, who happen to be from the locality. “We have deployed teams who are collecting samples in the locality and another team for vaccinating eligible beneficiaries. We are taking samples from about 100 houses in the vicinity and about 250 samples will be collected in this exercise. The testing camp will be in place for two to three days,” said Dr Gupta. Health experts said they are expecting cases to rise further in December and January. “Covid cases have increased in Ghaziabad in December and are expected to rise further, although there is no severe heath complications among the current Covid patients till now. Still, all precautions need to be taken to prevent spread of infection. The health department should ensure that genome-sequencing test results arrive in time, unlike in the case of the elderly couple whose reports arrived after they tested negative for Covid,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “Officials should also ensure people take up at least the first vaccine shot in order to get some protection against Covid,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/42yrold-relative-of-omicron-infected-elderly-couple-tests-positive-for-covid-101639850050949.html
18-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Class 12 student dies by suicide||A 17-year-old girl studying in class 12 allegedly died by suicide in a village in Gurugram on Friday night. Police said they have recovered a suicide note, allegedly written by her, in which she said that she was taking the extreme step as she was under stress due to an exam scheduled for Saturday. According to police, the girl’s body was found on the railway tracks. The incident was reported around 8.30pm, following which a team from government railway police (GRP) station rushed to the spot, they said. Ramphal, in-charge of GRP station, said, “The girl left her home in Chauma on Friday evening on the pretext of going to a friend’s house. A note has been recovered. Her body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem on Saturday.” Police said the minor was studying in a government school and had participated in school-level football tournaments. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-class-12-student-dies-by-suicide-101639849932518.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Student to entrepreneur journey: Start-ups take centre stage at MIDAS Bazaar||PUNE Nine students of a Pune-based school have transformed their ideas into real businesses. The students along with some alumni presented over 20 businesses in an exhibition format at the fourth edition of MIDAS Bazaar on Friday. The event was held to catapult the start-ups to their successful transformation, becoming leading business organisations both at the national and global levels. The MIDAS Bazaar is a culmination of the student to entrepreneur journey that students undertake in their PGCM in entrepreneurship. The students go through an 11-month roller-coaster of a journey through identifying an idea, fitting it to their personality, validating the product, and incubating it, which finally results in showcasing their ideas to the world at large. Parag Shah, founder and chief mentor, MIDAS School of Entrepreneurship, which had organised the event, said, “We believe that we must encourage aspiring entrepreneurs to fail. But fail early and fail cheaply. We want to build responsible leaders who will shape the future of business and society while keeping innovation and excellence at the core. I envision that MIDAS will have many unicorns coming out of it in the near future.” Commenting about her business idea, Sriya Narella said, “My idea is to help traditional toddy sap extract by converting it into various by-products. As students we have learned many finer nuances of the trade due to the rich experience of our mentors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/student-to-entrepreneur-journey-start-ups-take-centre-stage-at-midas-bazaar-101639849930894.html
18-12-2021||Pune||MSEDCL unearths power thefts worth ₹44.53 lakh||PUNE The Maharashtra State Energy Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) flying squad has unearthed power thefts of two corporates to the tune of ₹25 lakh. The MSEDCL has recovered ₹44.53 lakh from them as penalty and also power litigation bills worth ₹1.69 lakh were settled in Lok Adalat. A police complaint against the two companies has been lodged at Chikhali police station.The MSEDCL authorities in their complaint stated that the two companies identified as H S Enterprises and Saleem Plastics located in Jadhavwadi in Haveli tampered with the meters and stole 1.52 lakh units of electricity causing an aggregate loss of ₹25.13 lakh. Both the companies have been charged with fines and an aggregate bill of ₹4 lakh was served to them.MSEDCL authorities further informed that Saleem Plastics was served ₹23.28 lakh notice while H S Enterprises was served a bill with penalty of ₹21.25 lakh. A complaint under anti power theft Act was also lodged at Chikhali police station under section 135. The action was taken under the guidance of regional head ( implementation and security) Commander Shivaji Indalkar along with additional executive engineer Narendra Rane and officers Nandkumar Jadhav and senior technician Deepak Khedkar, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-unearths-power-thefts-worth-44-53-lakh-101639849511334.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Aspiring model alleges rape, three booked in Pune||PUNE The Warje police have booked three persons in connection with issuing threats to a 25-year-old aspiring model from Hadapsar.According to the FIR , the accused identified as Abhijit Sathe (34), a resident of Warje allegedly raped the victim, took her private pictures and threatened to make it viral on social media if she did not pay ₹10 lakh ransom. According to police officials, the model earlier paid of ₹6 lakh to Sathe on the promise that she would get a role in Bollywood. Later, he blackmailed the model and said he would upload the private videos on social media. the complaint added. Besides Sathe, Rajesh Mallya and a woman have also been booked in the case. The crime took place between July 2017 till July 2021, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aspiring-model-alleges-rape-three-booked-in-pune-101639849152040.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati backs bankers’ stir against privatisation||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has backed the two-day stir of public sector bank unions against privastisation of banks while accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of pushing through the privatisation move in a hurry.Bank employees across the country went on strike from December 16. As a result, banks remained closed on December 16 and December 17. She said the stir by bankers could grow into a massive agitation like the one by farmers as the bankers had opted for salary cuts to proceed on a two-day strike.The banking unions are demanding the government to withdraw the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that would enable the government to reduce its share in public banks. “BSP understands the plight of the poor, hardworking people. That is why, instead of growth in the wealth of capitalists, it seeks growth of country’s financial muscle so that it could benefit the common man and the country. And that is why the BSP is not supportive of the move to privatise banks that the BJP government is pushing forward in a hurry,” Mayawati tweeted. “The strike by 9 lakh bankers against who opted for salary cuts to proceed on two-day strike on December 16 and 17 could grow into a gutsy, inspirational farmers’ type agitation. All will have to fight for their rights. We appeal that the government should reconsider its decision,” Mayawati tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-backs-bankers-stir-against-privatisation-101639849090648.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Cooler days and nights ahead for Pune||Pune: Cooler day and night temperatures are forecasted in the city for the next two weeks by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The minimum temperature is likely to reduce by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius for the next few days, according to the weather department officials. The day temperature at Shivajinagar on Saturday was reported to be 28.8 degrees Celsius which was 0.3 degrees cooler than normal. And night temperature for Shivajinagar was 12.6 degrees Celsius, 1.6 degrees warmer than normal. Speaking about the weather systems, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that at present there are no active systems around Maharashtra. “As there are no active systems around Maharashtra, weather for the next few days will be dry and clear skies for the state. However, there is a Western Disturbance (WD) in and around Jammu as cyclonic circulation. And cooler winds from north are likely to penetrate the state therefore reducing the minimum temperature further,” said Kashyapi. He said that a drop of two to four degrees Celsius in the minimum temperature is likely for Maharashtra and Pune city. There is no forecast for rainfall. “Till December 19, there may be partly cloudy conditions during the afternoon for some time. Also, late night and early morning haze is likely which will reduce visibility marginally,” said Kashyapi, adding that according to the extended range forecast, the day and night temperature are likely to remain below normal. “For the week, December 17 to 23, maximum temperature will be far less than normal and minimum temperature will also be less than normal. From December 24 to 30, the maximum temperature will be less than normal and minimum temperature will be marginally lower than normal. This also means that days and nights will be cooler for the next two weeks,” said Kashyapi. Minimum temperature across various parts of Pune city has consistently remained warmer than normal. Chinchwad on Saturday reported minimum temperature at 16.9 degrees Celsius which was 5.9 degrees warmer than normal. Lavale was 16.2 degrees Celsius which was 5.2 degrees warmer than normal and Magarpatta City reported night temperature at 17.6 degrees Celsius, 6.6 degrees warmer than normal. The lowest minimum temperature across Maharashtra was reported at 11.1 degrees Celsius at Ahmednagar on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cooler-days-and-nights-ahead-for-pune-101639848795861.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Patient’s kin clash with junior doctors at Prayagraj’s SRN Hospital||Attendants of a patient allegedly clashed with junior doctors and other medical staff at Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) Hospital, an affiliate of Moti Lal Nehru Medical College, late on Friday night.The patient’s attendants alleged that medical staff even assaulted them at the police outpost of the hospital. Junior doctors and other medical staff boycotted work in protest against the incident and alleged that they were attacked by the patient’s kin. Senior police officials later pacified the doctors. Principal, Moti Lal Nehru Medical College, Dr SP Singh said both the groups reached a compromise later in the night.According to reports, an 80-year-old woman who suffered a brain haemorrhage was admitted to ward number four of the trauma centre. Her attendants alleged that there was no proper care of the patient at the ward and even chairs were not available there. Despite making several complaints, the doctors and medical staff took no attention, they alleged.In the night there was an argument over the issue following which they were assaulted, the patient’s kin further alleged. However, junior doctors alleged that the attendants misbehaved with medical staff and assaulted a junior doctor. The enraged junior doctors and other medical staff boycotted work and raised slogans against police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/patients-kin-clash-with-junior-doctors-at-prayagraj-s-srn-hospital-101639848552130.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Police find link to Group C health dept paper leak from Beed hospital||PUNE The Pune police have found the link to the leak of Group C Maharashtra health department’s recruitment examination question paper through one of the arrested doctors from Beed mental hospital who was arrested for being part of the chain that leaked question paper of Group D.The state health department’s recruitment examinations were held on October 24 and 31 for Group C and D posts. At least 800,000 students had registered for the exam.Additionally, one of the high-level officials arrested from Latur was found to have made ₹30 lakh at least by illegally selling the question paper.The police made these submissions in the court of judicial magistrate first class SG Dolare in Pune on Saturday while seeking an extension in police custody of the doctor and seven others.The doctor from whom the link to Group C paper leak was found has been identified as Dr Sandeep Trimbakrao Jogdand, 36, medical officer at Beed mental hospital and a resident of Ambejogai.The officer who earned ₹30 lakh has been identified as Prashant Badgire, 50, chief administration officer at the public health department of Latur.“The scope of the investigation is increasing and so is the number of cases. There is need of much further investigation which is why the court was convinced to grant an extension,” said public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav.“We cannot reveal anything at this point because a leak can alert the people we are looking for. That has happened in the Maharashtra Housing & Area Development Authority (Mhada) case,” said police inspector Meenal Patil of the cyber police station.Along with Dr Jogdand, the police custody of Udhav Pralhad Nagargoje, 36, Dr Sham Mahadu Mhaske, 38, Rajendra Pandurang Sanap, 51, and Mahesh Satyavan Botle, 53, was extended till December 20. Botle, a joint director (non-technical) at the state national health mission in Mumbai, is represented by advocate Hrushikesh Subhedar.Three others, Ajay Chavan, 32, Krushna Shivaji Jadhav, 33, Ankit Chankhore, 23, were remanded to additional police custody till December 23.Mhada case: Police custody extendedThe police custody of three people arrested in the case of recruitment paper leak of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) was increased till December 23 by a court in Pune on Saturday.The three have been identified as Dr Pritish Deshmukh, 32, director of GS Software which conducts MHADA exam, Ankush Harkal, 44, and Santosh Harkal, 42, of coaching classes in Aurangabad.The police have found credentials and documents of multiple aspirants of various examinations including MHADA, TET, and health, among others.The police have identified multiple other accused in the case and have to investigate whether any government official from MHADA or other departments is involved, according to their submission in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-find-link-to-group-c-health-dept-paper-leak-from-beed-hospital-101639848550763.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Citing anomalies, aspiring teachers stage protest outside minister’s residence in Lucknow||Hundreds of aspiring teachers, who were not selected during the recent 69,000 teachers recruitment drive conducted by the state government, staged a protest outside basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi’s residence here on Saturday. The candidates alleged foul play by the basic education department in the reservation policy as a result of which they couldn’t get selected against the vacant positions. The protesters and police were seen exchanging heated words as cops tried to pacify them. The police took protesting teachers into custody and took them to police lines. Candidates claimed the education department gave only 3.86% reservations to OBCs against 27% and in scheduled caste category 16.6% reservations were given against 21%.In OBC category, against 18,598 candidates only 2637 were selected. All these amounts to gross violation of reservation policy, they alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/citing-anomalies-aspiring-teachers-stage-protest-outside-minister-s-residence-in-lucknow-101639848430941.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Sanatan Sanstha threatened my father to be harmed like Gandhi, says Hamid during deposition||Pune: Dr Hamid Dabholkar, son of slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar, claimed during his deposition that threats were issued to his father for his work by Sanatan Sanstha and warned to stop work or he would be harmed like Mahatma Gandhi. Hamid deposed before special court of Additional Sessions Judge SR Navander on Saturday when the defence lawyers cross questioned him about the financial workings of Dabholkar’s social work initiative Andhashradha Nirmoolan Samiti (ANiS). During the deposition, Hamid reiterated the tension between his father and the Sanatan Sanstha because of his work. He was shown the dairy of late Dr Dabholkar and asked if he can recognise his father’s handwriting, which he did. “My father’s work led to fights with members of Sanatan Sanstha. They had published in their daily mouthpiece newspaper ‘Sanatan Prabhat’ that if he did not stop his work, they will make him the second Gandhi,” said Dabholkar while being cross questioned by defence lawyer Salsingikar. Dr Dabholkar was facing over 15 defamation cases for the work published in a publication of ANiS, according to Hamid. Gandhi was assassinated in 1948 at 78 and after the trial Nathuram Godse was sentenced to death. Hamid told the court that his father had prepared a file on Sanatan Sanstha and submitted it to the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) Mumbai unit. Hamid added that he had seen one threat letter that was sent by Sanjeev Punalekar to his father. When the defence lawyers were further questioning Hamid about evidence of malice by Sanatan Sanstha, Salsingikar asked if there were any instance of physical violence by Sanatan members and ANiS workers. The witness said there were not. However, he cited an incident when devotees of a self-proclaimed godman named Narendra Maharaj had attacked ANiS workers in a public gathering. A case was registered against the devotees. Dr Dabholkar was shot dead near Omkareshwar bridge while he was on a morning walk on August 20, 2013. API Rangat, a Pune police officer who was first on the spot, and the complainant in the case, was cross-questioned during the last hearing. The case is being investigated by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) after it was taken over by them from the Pune police one year later. Hamid was asked whether he was questioned by the CBI in the case. However, the witness told the court that he was never questioned or summoned in the case, however, he had voluntarily visited CBI office on multiple occasions to give documents and learn about investigation progress. Hamid raised that on television debates, Dr Dabholkar had had fights with Sanatan Sanstha members Punalekar and Abhay Vartak. A copy of the show on a CD was made available to the court while Hamid claimed that he had paper cutting of the article threatening his father. In turn, the defence lawyers questioned him about the withdrawal of ₹60,000 for Dr Dabholkar and Dr 50,000 each for two other members of ANiS on March 25, 2008. Defence lawyers raised other accounting issues about the organisation. However, Hamid maintained his answer for all the questions about ANiS working before 2013. The cross-questioning of Dr Hamid Dabholkar will continue on January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sanatan-sanstha-threatened-my-father-to-be-harmed-like-gandhi-says-hamid-during-deposition-101639848314799.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Be wary of selfish politics before polls: Maya on Ganga E-way||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of 594-km Ganga Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur district on Saturday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said when her government had first decided on an eight lane Noida-Ballia expressway, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was among those who had opposed it. She also suggested that people should be wary of such announcements made closer to polls.“During the BSP government, an effort was made to come up with a Noida-Ballia 8 lane expressway that would have linked Delhi with eastern UP and help end problems of poverty, exodus and unemployment. Then the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Samajwadi Party all had opposed it,” she tweeted.“Now, nearer to the elections, despite five years of a double engine government, meaning 10 years in all, the foundation stone of Ganga Expressway has been laid after bifurcating it into two phases. For how long would people continue to be duped by such selfish politics? People need to exercise caution as it is important to do so during elections,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/be-wary-of-selfish-politics-before-polls-maya-on-ganga-eway-101639848072130.html
18-12-2021||Pune||NDA pays homage to Group Captain Varun Singh||Pune: A wreath laying ceremony was organised at the Hut of Remembrance at National Defence Academy (NDA) on Saturday in memory of Group Captain Varun Singh, SC, the lone survivor of the MI-17 helicopter crash on December 8, who succumbed to his injuries on December 15. Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, Commandant, NDA paid homage on behalf of the NDA fraternity. All key officials of the academy were present. Group Captain Varun Singh, SC was an alumnus of 104th NDA Course, India Squadron. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004 and mainly flew Jaguars and Tejas during his flying career. He was also an experimental test pilot and was presently posted at the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), as the directing staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nda-pays-homage-to-group-captain-varun-singh-101639848010687.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Gorakhpur’s DDU launches sensor-based telemedicine project||DDU Gorakhpur University has got the sanction for a telemedicine project which is based on sensor-based diagnostics. The project is part of an ambitious plan of the Prime Minister’s office to maintain a healthcare database based on sensor-based diagnostics.The aim is to maintain data of health parameters like electrocardiographic examination (heart check-up), heart rate measurement, blood pressure, sugar glucose, body temperature, blood oxygenation, lipid profile, haemoglobin, mother and child care (fetal doppler) etc.There is a provision that healthcare data of individuals will be immediately put online and will be saved in cloud storage. The data will be made available to a doctor whenever needed.DDU Gorakhpur University vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh said, “The project aims at providing quality medical care to underprivileged women and children living in remote areas at affordable costs. The project aims to demonstrate the efficacy of applying cutting edge tele-diagnostic technologies in reaching out to people living in remote areas get access to quality medical care.”A panel of eminent doctors has been constituted to assess the collected data and give advice or prescribe medicines, based on the data, to the people living in remote locations.This special project has been sanctioned in three districts- Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Kamjong in Manipur on a sample basis.The first phase of the project will target 60,000 families i.e. 20,000 each in Gorakhpur, Varanasi and Kamjong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gorakhpurs-ddu-launches-sensor-based-telemedicine-project-101639847650742.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Two alumni come on board to support IIT-K’s medical research school||The Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, announced the signing of MoUs with two of its distinguished alumni Dr Dev Joneja and Hemant Jalan to support the establishment of the School of Medical Research and Technology (SMRT) at IIT Kanpur. Dr Dev Joneja and his wife Terri Musson donated an amount of USD 2.5 million in the form of ‘Terri Musson and Dev Joneja Gift’ while Hemant Jalan donated ₹18 crore to support the infrastructure development for the school. Both the distinguished alumni will now be joining the advisory board of the SMRT as founder donors. IIT Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “We take great pride in our alumni and their work. They are our pillars of strength and glory. I would like to extend my gratitude to Dr Dev Joneja, Hemant Jalan and their families for their generous and selfless contribution to the SMRT and be a part of this noble journey towards revolutionising medical education in India.” School of Medical Research and Technology (SMRT) is a one-of-a-kind initiative by IIT Kanpur that aims to revolutionise medical education in India by bridging the gap between medical and technology disciplines. The first phase of the project would include setting up various Centres of Excellence (CoE) oriented towards cutting-edge medical research and innovation along with a 500-bed super-speciality hospital. The CoE’s are expected to work in confluence with the core clinical departments of the hospital and biomedical expertise of various engineering departments of IIT Kanpur. The school will offer Post Graduate Medical Degrees in various domains of Medical Science and Technology. The outcome of the SMRT at IIT Kanpur is expected to contribute to the overall betterment of healthcare infrastructure in the state of Uttar Pradesh and lead to a large number of MedTech inventions and innovations. “The SMRT initiative is a great combination of the established core strength of IIT in technology with a new direction in medical research, education and innovation. My wife Terri and I are confident that the Institute and its leadership will deliver on the ambitious project and are very gratified to be able to provide our support to this effort,” Dr Dev Joneja said. Hemant Jalan added, “Most IITK alumni attribute their success in life to the years that they spent at IIT, Kanpur, and it very much applies to me. I have always wanted to give back to the Institute in a meaningful way, and the concept of SMRT appealed immensely to me. I hope that the SMRT initiative will uplift the stature of IITK within the scientific community, and I’m very happy to be associated with this project as a founder.” “I hope many more alumni come forward to donate generously to this project, which is a path-breaking venture by IIT, Kanpur. I am confident that the SMRT will breed cutting-edge inter-disciplinary research between the field of medical sciences and the various schools of engineering, which is severely lacking in India today,” Jalan said. Dr Dev Joneja earned his undergraduate degree in Mechanical Engineering in 1984 from IIT Kanpur. He is currently the chief risk officer at Exodus Point Capital Management. Hemant Jalan received his bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from IIT, Kanpur, in 1977. He founded Indigo Paints in 2000, which has grown multi-fold over the years, culminating in a successful IPO of the company in early 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-alumni-come-on-board-to-support-iit-k-s-medical-research-school-101639847058821.html
18-12-2021||Pune||SPPU flyover work to begin in January 2022||PUNE The flyover work at Savitribai Phule Pune University chowk is likely to start by the first week of January next year. A meeting was held by the officials to finalise plan earlier in Friday.Pune Metropolitain Region Development Authority (PMRDA) officials and police officials on Friday visited the Pune Municipal Corporation and discussed various issues related to the road widening and proposed work of flyover. PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase, additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar, deputy commissioner of police Rahul Shrirame were present for the meeting.It was decided that PMC should transfer all the service lines and do the necessary road widening whenever possible to avoid traffic congestion. Multilevel flyover work will be going along simultaneously with the metro work. As this is an important junction for traffic, administration will be taking necessary care to avoid traffic snarls while work is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-flyover-work-to-begin-in-january-2022-101639847057467.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 206 fresh Covid cases on Saturday||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 206 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and one virus-related death on Saturday. This death was reported from Pune rural. One case of Omicron variant was reported from PMC. No deaths have been reported from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state Health department, PMC has so far reported 5,24,500 Covid cases and 9,233 deaths till Saturday. PCMC has reported 2,70,515 cases so far and a total of 3,518 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 3,68,926 total cases so far and 7,012 deaths due to Covid.In Pune district, there are a total of 11,63,951 lakh covid cases. Out of this, 11,41,969 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,113 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,869 active cases in Pune district.As per the state Health department, 804 patients were discharged on Saturday in Maharashtra taking the total to 64,96,733 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.71%. Across Maharashtra, 854 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Saturday and 11 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Saturday. The Case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated out of 6,75,70,939 laboratory samples, 66,48,694 have been tested positive till Saturday. That is 9.84% of patients till Saturday.Currently 80,039 people are in home quarantine and 886 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-206-fresh-covid-cases-on-saturday-101639846690600.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Just one expressway in Uttar Pradesh till 2017, six in the works now: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that from 1947 to 2017, just one expressway was made in Uttar Pradesh but since then work on six expressways was in progress in the state. Adityanath was speaking at a function in Shahjahanpur after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway. Yogi Adityanath said the Ganga Expressway will not only connect the districts of the state but also connect hearts.During the function, Modi credited Yogi with doing away with the “katta culture” (culture of firearms) that he said used to be prevalent in western UP during the past governments. “The foundation stone laying event at the hands of Prime Minister Modi will usher in new opportunities of growth and development. From 1947 to 2017, just one expressway was built in the state, but since then six expressways are being made,” he said. “Before 2014, slogans and announcements in the country used to be limited to elections promises only. But after 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi dealt with all those issues which used to be neglected earlier,” Yogi said.“Just a few days ago, the Prime Minister inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway. Today the foundation stone of Ganga Expressway is being laid which will connect East Uttar Pradesh with West and North. Prime Minister paid his respect to Maa Ganga. Ganga Expressway will not only connect many districts of the state but also connect the hearts,” Yogi added. “For the first time, labourers are being felicitated,” he said ,recalling how after the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi on December 13, PM had honoured those labourers who had played a part in the project.“During Prayagraj Kumbh, too, the PM had washed the feet of those workers who had kept the Kumbh venue clean,” Adityanath said. On the occasion, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya urged the people to help the BJP form a government with an even bigger majority than in 2017. UP ministers Suresh Khanna, Satish Mahana and Jitin Prasada also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/just-one-expressway-in-uttar-pradesh-till-2017-six-in-the-works-now-yogi-101639846630595.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown cause decrease in purchase of essential items: Study||A new study on people’s purchasing behaviour during the initial days of the pandemic indicated that a fear of infection as well as lockdown restrictions caused a decrease in the frequency of essential purchase but resulted in panic and excessive buying. Though online retail platforms had overtaken local vendors over the past few years, the trend was reversed during the lockdown.A team of professors from the civil engineering departments of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) Bombay, Palakkad and Hyderabad and the Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS) Pilani-Hyderabad campus analysed responses of over 700 respondents on their purchase of perishable and non-perishable essential commodities during the initial months of the lockdown. The study findings were recently published in Research in Transportation Business and Management journal.Participants were asked about their essentials shopping pattern before and after lockdown and it was revealed that around 56% of the respondents went shopping for essentials daily but this figure dropped to 34% post lockdown.“Some people had stocked up on essential commodities sensing the uncertainty of the situation and future, as a result of which people visited markets less frequently. People visiting markets once in two weeks increased from 7 to 14.1%,” the survey report stated.As per the survey report, 88% respondents (up from 77% before lockdown) preferred visiting local markets and vendors for perishable items whereas 72% (up from 44% before lockdown) opted to buy perishable items from the local vendors during first few months of lockdown.The survey was conducted via various digital platforms between April 29 and May 25, 2020, and a total 730 responses have been considered by the researchers. Around 63% of the respondents belonged to the tier 1 and tier 2 cities and came from 20 states across the country.“Consumer purchasing behaviour of essential commodities has consequences on retail stores, manufacturers, logistics companies, online stores, transportation planners, and policy makers during normal period. During emergencies such as a COVID-19 pandemic, studying the behaviour is even more critical, because it is the question of their survival and we should ensure that everyone has access to essential commodities. The purpose was to understand the shift during emergencies, which can help stake holders to make their systems resilient and to plan activities to minimize the negative impact,” said professor Gopal Patil of IIT Bombay and one of the authors of the study. “The increasing share of organised retail stores reversed during the lockdown because of their inability to cater to the excessive demand and the proximity of kirana stores,” the report stated.Other factors that accounted for this shift included difficulty in placing orders online especially since several items were not allowed to be sold online, lack of trust in retail vendor as well as restrictions in transport affecting supply chains.The researchers suggested that local shops should stock essentials commodities and efforts must be undertaken to facilitate local kirana stores to enhance their in-store purchasing by making electronic payment gateways accessible.
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow farmers take to cultivation of exotic vegetables||Broccoli, bok choy, lettuce, zucchini, and other exotic vegetables, which so far were available only in plush supermarkets or malls, would now be available in the local ‘sabzi mandis’ and that too at much cheaper prices. Thanks to the local farmers, who have gradually shifted from growing traditional vegetables to exotic ones. “This year, we have distributed more than 30,000 broccoli saplings to the farmers after they showed interest in its farming. The change is a good one. These exotic veggies, which so far were grown in other states or were brought from the market in Delhi, would now be available in the local markets at affordable prices,” said Shailendra Rajan, director ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH), Lucknow. On a similar pattern, other farmers have also shown interest in the farming of other exotic vegetables including, bok choy, lettuce, Swiss chard, Zucchini etc, the director CISH said. He however said changing the rigid mindset of the farmers was not an easy task. “Initially, we did the survey but barring one small group of farmers, none showed any interest, perhaps due to lack of knowledge. We distributed the plants of broccoli to these farmers who did well. It was then the farmers’ mindset began to change, and this year we have distributed many saplings among them,” he added. He said, being grown locally, the exotic vegetables would soon be available at the market at affordable prices and thus would reach the common man’s platter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-farmers-take-to-cultivation-of-exotic-vegetables-101639846452287.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Officials to plan home visits to speed up disbursement of Covid ex-gratia amount||Pune: Pune district collector has instructed officials in urban and rural parts to conduct a special drive of home visits to the next of kin of Covid victims in order to speed up the disbursement process for financial assistance. In a letter addressed to authorities in rural and civic administrations, Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh has asked them to plan such a drive in next three days. The state government has launched a website where kin of Covid victims can apply for the ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000. More than 8,000 applications have been received so far from Pune district. The officials have also been instructed to help the kin to fill up the application on the website and verify submitted details. “The drive should be planned in three days. The Supreme Court has instructed to disburse the ex-gratia amount as soon as possible to the next of the kins of Covid victims,” said Deshmukh. The state administration has been conducting frequent meetings with authorities from all districts to facilitate the ex-gratia application and disbursement process. However, verification of applications has proved to be a complicated procedure thereby delaying the disbursement process in some cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/officials-to-plan-home-visits-to-speed-up-disbursement-of-covid-ex-gratia-amount-101639846273875.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Citing NEP-2020 provisions, IIIT-A prof suggests changes in GATE pattern||A senior faculty member of the Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A) has suggested some minor but relevant changes in Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE)-2022 so as to suit the needs of the new integrated courses that would be starting under the provisions of the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. Prof Neetesh Purohit of electronics and communication engineering (ECE) department of IIIT-A has written a letter to chairman of National Coordination Board (NCB) of GATE-2022 Prof VK Tewari calling for changes in the GATE pattern to be implemented step wise from 2023 in the larger interest of students.“I have urged Prof Tewari (who is also IIT-Kharagpur director) that my suggestions be included in the agenda of the next meeting of NCB GATE-2022,” said Purohit.The GATE is an examination that primarily tests the comprehensive understanding of various undergraduate subjects in engineering and science for admission into the masters programme and recruitment by some public sector companies. The suggestions from Purohit are in line with new age courses as envisioned in NEP-2020. IIIT-A is already gearing up to start an unique eight-year post-schooling to PhD Flexible Academic Program (FAP) on its campus in accordance with the provisions of NEP-2020. The unique course would allow students to enroll for courses on the basis of single entrance exam and earn graduation, post-graduation and PhD degrees from the institute and have multiple exits with provisions of re-entry (from the point of exit in future), along with multi-disciplinary, multi-mode, multi-lingual and lateral entry features providing students an opportunity to study every semester from different institutes as per their convenience and wishes. For this, the institute led by IIIT-A director Prof P Nagabhushan is preparing to sign MoUs with various technical and educational institutions. In the missive e-mailed on December 14, Purohit has called for the current syllabus of GATE for each stream to be partitioned into four sections with section-1 more or less containing the contents that are usually taught in first year BTech/BE while the second, third and the fourth sections being close to whatever is taught in respective years of BTech/BE programes. “The GATE question paper should also have 4 parts. Each part should have the questions from the respective sections. Further, the score of the candidates should be recorded separately for each part of the question paper. And the final score may be obtained by adding these scores (it may be a simple addition or proportionate addition). All students studying in any BTech/BE/Integrated or equivalent courses in any year of their study should be officially allowed to appear for respective (including lower rung parts of the GATE paper) ie a student studying in 3rd year of BTech/BE program in any recognized institute/college/university should attempt the 1st, 2nd and 3rd part of the question paper. If he skips any part then zero score should be assigned to him in that particular part,” the proposal reads. Accordingly, the fee charged (perhaps time duration of writing answers too) for GATE exam may be proportional to the number of parts the student is supposed to attempt, ie if X is the full GATE fee then X/4 may be the fee for appearing in each part,” adds the missive. Prof Purohit has claimed that these small changes may lead to new possibilities, including PSU’s may like to use the GATE score after 3rd year instead of 4th year. Then, it will give a major jump to admissions in PG programme, as students who are to be placed already got their placement based on 3rd year level GATE score, he added. In the light of NEP-2020, a few novel innovative academic programmes may be designed which may allow movement of students during their course of study, ie after 1st /2nd /3rd year or so. The modified GATE scores (from various partitions) may play significant role in transparently moving the deserving students upwards and perhaps a few non-performing students downwards too, Prof Purohit has claimed. In long run, there may be many positive changes e.g significant reduction may be observed in the number of students who choose to drop one or more year to prepare for JEE Mains/Advance and private companies may organize all India Campus Placements (or internship) by innovatively using these part wise GATE scores and using online interviews. Some institutes may even be interested in linking these part wise GATE scores in CGPA calculation, and/or rules for awarding scholarships, merit/honors certificates, institute’s/Endowment medals etc, he has pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/citing-nep-2020-provisions-iiit-a-prof-suggests-changes-in-gate-pattern-101639845850607.html
18-12-2021||Pune||“Ghashiram’s universality can be interpreted in different times and yet will ring true,” says Mohan Agashe||PUNE Mohan Agashe was in his 20’s when he was offered the role of Nana Phadnavis, a character he has been most recognised as, albeit it was not the way he wanted to be known. As the play Ghashiram Kotwal enters its 50th year, Agashe takes a walk down the memory lane.Looking back to the role of Nana Phadnavis, how does it feel to be known as a cult hero?It is probably the first time that Nana’s character has been recognised as a cult figure. He was a character who was a womaniser, a politician and very astute, clever and dignified person, but it feels good that it has an identity of being part of cult hero. People still like the old Nana Phadnavis played by me. Initially, it felt good and also enjoyed the attention, but later it was disturbing, as I was performing in other plays like Kheliya in 1976, or Begam Barve, and there was always a departing line from the audience who came to watch these plays, that although you were good, there is no Nana as the way you acted. It’s like Nana Phadnavis was interfering in my other roles.When you first read the script, what was going on in your mind?It will difficult to remember what was happening in my mind 49 years ago, but since Vijay Tendulkar has written it as a new experimental play, it took precedence over everything else. To begin rehearsals of Ghashiram Kotwal, we closed down shows of ‘Ashi Pakhare yeti’, a play which repaid all the debts of Progressive Dramatic Association (PDA). No one knew about the play then. We had just passed from BJ medical college and trusted Jabbar Patel to direct. We had a lot of trust in him, he is a gifted director, Ghashiram Kotwal got him his first offer to make a Marathi film Samna.If the play was done today, how would you see Nana Phadnavis’ character played?I doubt it would have the same impact as it did then. The way things have gone in the recent times, I don’t even know if such a play will be allowed. There was a reason for this play, showcasing effects of powerful people on the commoners, then we also had resistance from the local political party Shiv Sena, but now it won’t have the same impact as it is an established play. Besides we lost Ghashiram when actor Ramesh Tilekar who made Ghashiram popular died and so are the others like Anand Modak, Nandu Pol who were part of the human curtain.Does the play’s premise still retain itself in the contemporary world?Absolutely, the premise still works. One of the reasons for the play to be popular is that is it about the universal truth, how absolute power corrupts, how people in power create monsters out of common man and when the purpose is served, they are thrown aside. Gashiram ‘s universality of the play can be interpreted in different times and yet will ring true. The introduction of the play by Tendulkar itself suggests that Ghashiram is not a historical play, it is a telltale story set in music, verse and dance and no intention of commenting on Nana, Ghashiram or Peshwai. If at all there is a moral in the story, look for it elsewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ghashirams-universality-can-be-interpreted-in-different-times-and-yet-will-ring-true-says-mohan-agashe-101639845731194.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Now, Ashish Mishra moves bail application before district court||Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Tikunia violence case in Lakhimpur Kheri, on Saturday moved a bail application under modified sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with FIR number 219 before the court of the district and sessions judge here. FIR number 219 pertains to the killing of four farmers and a local journalist during the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri where a total of eight people were killed on the day.The development came after the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) on Friday rejected Ashish Mishra’s previous bail application under sections 307, 326 of IPC and sections 3/25/30 read with section 35 of Arms act.The court of the district and sessions judge has scheduled the hearing on the new bail application on Monday. Ashish Mishra was arrested on October 9 and is in jail since then.District government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi said, “The second bail application of Ashish Mishra alias Monu was moved in the district and sessions court under modified sections of IPC namely section 307, 326 and section 3/25/30 read with section 35 in FIR number 219 (lodged with Tikunia kotwali in connection with the October 3 violence.)”“The court fixed December 20 as the date of hearing on the second bail plea,” Tripathi said.On December 14, the CJM court had allowed the special investigators to add sections 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous harm with dangerous weapons) of IPC and sections 3/25/30 read with section 35 of the Arms Act, which were not part of the original FIR number 219 in which Ashish Mishra is the main accused. There are 12 other accused in the FIR.The court had also allowed the SIT probing the Tikunia violence case to drop sections 279, 338 and 304A of the IPC from the FIR number 219. The modifications in the sections were allowed after chief investigating officer Vidyaram Diwakar, in his report to the court, described the act as premeditated with the intention to kill. Ashish Mishra had filed his first bail application in the CJM’s court on October 13 after his arrest on October 9 under sections 147, 148, 149, 279, 338, 304A, 302 and 120B of IPC invoked in FIR number 219/2021. The CJM court had rejected his first bail application the same day following which his bail application was moved before the district and sessions judge on October 21 but the district and sessions court also rejected his bail application on November 15.Later, his bail application was moved in the high court which is still pending. However, the modification in certain IPC sections in FIR number 219 mandated the accused to file a fresh application in the lower court to seek bail in new sections of IPC which were not part of the original FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-now-ashish-mishra-moves-bail-application-before-district-court-101639845550846.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Ghashiram Kotwal lives on in the memories of theatre lovers as it enters golden jubilee year||PUNE Eminent playwright Vijay Tendulkar’s iconic play Ghashiram Kotwal, written in 1972, begins its golden jubilee year. As it enters the 50th year, the play that stirred socio-political canvass of Maharashtra, is still relevant. This seemingly historical musical was about Nana Phadnavis, a prominent minister in the court of the Peshwa in Pune and Ghashiram Kotwal, a poor Brahmin who rose to become city’s police chief. Playwright Vijay Tendulkar was accused of turning a cult hero, Phadnavis, into a Marathi Machiavelli — who was corrupt, scheming and sexually exploited women. The effect of which still rings true to today’s world. “When Vijay Tendulkar wrote the play, it was to comment on stronghold of absolute power and corruption. It is a metaphor that still holds good where corruption shows us the fall of values even after the play stopped performing post 1992,” said Satish Alekar, playwright who also assisted Dr Jabbar Patel directing the play. According to Alekar, Ghanshiram Kotwal has become more relevant where the play of power is distinctly visible on democratic encroachment. The play,with its critical comment on society, through the characters of Nana Phadnavis and Ghashiram Kotwal shedding light on various discourses – class, caste, gender, sexuality and human tendencies has made an impact on the theatre scene and also changed the lives of many actors. The play Ghashiram Kotwal is a story, in prose, verse, music and dance set in a historical era, it is infact a critique on events that are relevant in the past, present and also in the future. For Shriram Ranade, who first stepped on the stage at Bharat Natya Mandir on December 16, 1972 in the role of the ‘sutradhar’ (narrator) for Dr Jabbar Patel’s directed first play for the Maharashtra State Drama Competition, it has been a journey of evolving himself as an actor. “I acted with Ghashiram Kotwal for 20 years, playing the role of the sutradhar, little did I know that this play will make my decision to take acting seriously and am glad I did. This role made me look at the society with a different view, where nothing has still changed, where greed, avarice and power still rule. This is indeed a milestone play, which helped me become a better person in life.” Dr Jabbar Patel, said, “Ghashiram Kotwal is a Marathi musical play, written by Tendulkar in the year 1972. It has been translated into various languages and staged worldwide. We are just at the beginning of the 50th year , so, wait for it to complete 50 years before we can comment on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ghashiram-kotwal-lives-on-in-the-memories-of-theatre-lovers-as-it-enters-golden-jubilee-year-101639845250845.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 8 more Omicron cases, tally rises to 48||Mumbai Maharashtra on Saturday reported eight more Omicron cases, taking the case tally of the heavily mutated variant in the state to 48. The new detections, including an eight-year-old girl and a 17-year-old, came from screening at the airport and surveillance of close contacts of the already infected persons, the state health department said. On Friday, Maharashtra had added eight cases.Of the new cases detected on Saturday, four were from Mumbai, three from Satara and one from Pune. However, only of the four is a resident of Mumbai, while two were from Chhattisgarh and Kerala, one was a resident of Jalgaon district in Maharashtra. Two of the infected persons had travel history to Africa, one to Tanzania and one to England. The four patients are fully vaccinated and are in isolation currently.The department added that the three patients, including an eight-year-old girl, from Satara, are the family with a travel history to East Africa. The three patients do not have any symptoms and are in isolation. Two of them are fully vaccinated. The patient from Pune, according to the health department, was a close contact with an international traveller. The 17-year-old girl has no symptoms and is unvaccinated as she is ineligible.So far, 48 patients infected with Omicron virus have been reported in the state, including 18 in Mumbai, 10 in Pimpri Chinchwad, six in Pune rural, three in Pune city, three in Satara, two in Kalyan-Dombivali and Osmanabad, one each in Latur, Buldhana, Nagpur, and Vasai Virar. Out of these, 28 cases have been discharged after a negative RT-PCR test, the health department said.Even as Mumbai saw fresh Omicron cases, it reported zero Covid related fatalities for the third time in December, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The civic body said that the zero Covid-19 deaths were reported for the first time in Mumbai on October 17, 2021. Earlier this month, zero deaths were reported in Mumbai on December 11 and 15. The death toll in Mumbai is 16,363Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 854 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 6,648,694. It recorded 11 deaths, pushing the death toll to 141,340. Mumbai added 274 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 766,729.(With inputs from Pratip Acharya)
18-12-2021||Other||Cong using ad hoc appointees to frame our leaders, SAD to ECI||Chandigarh Alleging that the ruling Congress party in Punjab was intent on using ad hoc appointees in the police and the administration to strike at it in the poll-bound state, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday requested the Election Commission of India (ECI) to ensure that police and administrative appointments were not used as a tool to harass it. It also implored upon the commission to appoint a regular DGP at the earliest. Addressing a press conference, party senior vice president Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said, “The Congress government appointed S Chattopadhyay as the new acting DGP in the middle of the night on December 16 after replacing the incumbent IPS Sahota. This was after the surfacing of a letter which questioned the Congress government’s resolve to implicate top SAD leaders, including president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former minister Bikramjit Singh Majithia in false cases.” He added, “This appointment was done despite the fact that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) is scheduled to take a decision on appointment of a regular DGP on December 21 and Chattopadhyay is not even among candidates shortlisted for consideration for the top post.”Questioning the government on the need to appoint Chattopadhyay for only four days, Cheema alleged that this appointment strengthened the hypothesis that Pradesh Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has been championing the cause of the officer since long, is behind this appointment. “It is clear that the officer has been given the charge of the acting DGP to implement the agenda of the Congress party,” he claimed. Cheema added that previously two heads of the Bureau of Investigation (BOI) had been replaced after they refused to become party to the vendetta exercise. “Now, the third head of the BOI, SK Ashtana, has been hospitalised after writing a letter questioning the very rationale of proceeding against Bikram Singh Majithia. Now, it seems all that is left is for Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa is to take on the powers of the SSP and the DGP and register false cases against the SAD leadership.” Asking the ECI to intervene, Cheema cited a precedent from 2019, when the ECI had intervened and asked the Punjab government to relieve the then IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh from his post not to give him any responsibility linked with the election process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-using-ad-hoc-appointees-to-frame-our-leaders-sad-to-eci-101639844050289.html
18-12-2021||Patna||Nitish to embark on statewide social reform yatra to create awakening, feel the pulse||With the Opposition and the allies alike raising a question mark over Bihar’s biggest social reform initiative of prohibition, which is into its sixth year despite unabated challenges of smuggling, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is set for what has been his trademark all through his long stint as the government head - to be in the midst of people to get direct feedback, create awareness and review governance and development work.Starting December 22, a day after the last cabinet meeting of the year in Valmikinagar, Kumar, known for embarking on statewide visits through his well-drafted ‘yatras’ attached with a cause that the masses could identify with, will be on ‘social reforms yatra‘ from Motihari in East Champaran, the place linked to Mahatma Gandhi, to tell the people about the benefits of prohibition, which he imposed responding to the call of women ahead of the 2015 assembly elections, and evils of liquor consumption.The yatra, according to cabinet coordination department notification, will cover one district each in six divisions and two districts each in three divisions. Kumar will also address public rallies in all the divisions and all the districts falling under the division will attend it. The yatra will culminate on January 15 with Patna and Nalanda programmes. The strong force of woman volunteers of the Jeevika self-help groups will participate in the CM’s programme, besides others.On Friday, Kumar said in Madhubani while launching ₹731-crore worth project for the construction of a barrage over Kamla Balan river and other flood protection work, that he would be on his ‘yatra’ till January 15 to make people understand the rationale of prohibition, how it is directly linked to their well being and that of the society and why public awakening was a prerequisite for state’s meaningful progress. “I know that barring a small percentage, most people welcome prohibition. Women are a happy lot and it has restored family bliss,” he added, exhorting women to use their empowerment in the last decade to keep a vigil on illicit liquor manufacturers and traders so that wrongdoers could be nabbed.But it is not just about prohibition, which Kumar does not feel the need to back out from. Also on his agenda are two other big social reforms initiatives which he initiated and also organised a movement with human chain across the state - anti-dowry and anti-child marriage campaigns. Besides, all through his yatra he will review the agriculture, development and welfare programmes with top officials and seek direct feedback from the people on governance issues, including law and order. All the officials have been asked to be ready with facts and figures for the review meetings. The local people’s representatives and in charge ministers will also be present at the review meetings.In 2019 December, his last statewide tour ahead of the 2020 assembly elections, he had embarked on ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Yatra’ to champion the environmental cause and feel the pulse of the masses. That had started from Bettiah in West Champaran. “After 2019, there was disruption due to Covid-19 pandemic. Nitish Kumar always feels that development has to go hand in hand with greater awareness in the society to make progress meaningful and that is the reason he has been as particular about administrative reforms as social reforms. He had earlier launched a mass campaign against child marriage, as it was quite prevalent in the state and he could see the ill effects. Now, the Centre has also increased the marriage age of girls from 18 to 21 years. Liquor ruined many poor families and so now he will create greater awareness about it by interacting with people, as any law can be successful with people’s cooperation only. Similarly, he had raised awareness about the environmental cause. So, it is his style of functioning to remain connected with the common people to know their issues and aspirations,” said Bihar minister Dr Ashok Choudhary. 
18-12-2021||Patna||Bihar Cong takes out padayatra against price rise||Ahead of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s social reform yatra, the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) carried out a padayatra across the state in protest against the spiralling prices of petroleum products and other consumables on Saturday.While the BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha led the protest march in Darbhanga, his home constituency, prominent leaders of the state Congress took out a protest march in the Digha area of the state capital in their bid to encourage the people to join their campaign to oust the BJP-led dispensation at the Centre.Jha said that the Narendra Modi government had created an artificial mechanism in the name of the pandemic to benefit his capitalist friends at the cost of common people. “Income of likes of Adani and Ambani is growing up steadily, even as the common men are grappling with joblessness, unprecedented inflation and an environment of distrust and hatred,” said Jha.In Patna, working president of BPCC Sameer Kumar Singh led the procession from Makhdumpur Ghat to Digha Ghat in which senior leaders and party workers marched in unison, holding placards and banners, denouncing the Central government’s reluctance to check in the prices of essential commodities despite the majority of people being pushed to the verge of starvation.Addressing the workers’ gathering at Digha, All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra alleged that the Modi government was framing policies and planning to suit the interest of rich people, while the Congress-led government always laid focus on ameliorating sufferings of the downtrodden and the middle class.The organisation in charge Brajesh Pandey said the BJP and prices rise had a common connection. “Prices of goods and consumables always shot up whenever the BJP remained in power,” said Pandey. Media in-charge Rajesh Rathore said that similar protests were carried out at all the district headquarters in which a large number of people also participated.
18-12-2021||Patna||Tejashwi to embark on ‘Berojgari Hatao’ yatra from mid-Jan||Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday announced that he would also embark on ‘Berojgari Hatao’ yatra from mid-January next year to highlight how the state government has failed on its promise of generating employment in the state.Tejashwi lashed out at the Nitish Kumar government for its failure to get a special status category for Bihar despite advocating the demand for long.“The NDA has its government both in Bihar and at the Centre. So, what has stopped the Centre to accord the special status category to Bihar? It only means the CM is not serious about it,” said the opposition leader.The Yadav scion said he was now focusing on party work and would tour the state soon. “I will be embarking on Berojgari Hatao yatra to highlight how the government has failed in fulfilling its promise of generating 19 lakh jobs. The situation in Bihar is pitiable. The law and order situation is bad while the state has failed to make any big inroads on the development front as per reports of various agencies,” he said, adding that his party would also hold a rally on the issue of unemployment at Gandhi Maidan in February.Party sources said the Yadav scion is expected to launch his yatra after January 15 following the Makar Sankranti festival..
18-12-2021||Kolkata||Kharagpur IIT should take the lead in innovations for the MSME sector : Pradhan||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan Saturday said IIT Kharagpur is of immense help to start-up and research being the "epicentre of innovation" and said it should take the lead in innovations for the country's MSME sector. Pradhan, who was speaking as the chief guest at the 67th Convocation of the premier institute which was held in a hybrid format, said there is also a need for its exploring alternative energy at a time when the country is spending crores of rupees for importing crude oil. The union minister said the institute should take further its activities in the fields of semiconductor technology and healthcare carried out during the COVID situation and complimented it for them. "We take to innovation when pushed to the wall. You (IIT Kharagpur) have already been the epicentre of innovation helping start-ups in areas that benefit people in COVID time. You have to take that forward, you have to align the innovation with the MSME sector," he said. He asked the premier institute to explore alternative energy by extracting methane as 90 per cent of the coal production of the country is from its nearby areas. India is now the number three energy consumer in the world but will become the number one by 2030-35. "Once the primary requirements of the people were water, food, shelter and health. Now energy and internet have been added to the list. Being in leadership, India has the most conducive atmosphere for exploring alternative energy. IITs can take up the challenge ... In 10 years the world will come to us as India will set the benchmark in using low-cost energy in various sectors." Pradhan said. In this context, Pradhan said that the cost of producing green energy in India is one-fourth of countries like Britain. So the country and its leading institutions can use the opportunity. Stating that the Centre is allocating thousands of crores of rupees in electronics sector of MSME in the country, he said "You (IIT Kharagpur) have to take the lead." The union minister said the East has the greatest resource in terms of low-cost manpower, natural resources and a long coastline. "Unless East grows, India cannot grow". Asserting that India can show the world new ideas, he said it has been the fastest growing economy during the pandemic. "From the dearth of PPE kits and sanitisers and masks at the outset of coronavirus in 2020, we not only attained self sufficiency but sent kits to other countries. This is the new India and our IITs are the new seats of learning behind this feat," he said. The country has already vaccinated 100 crore people and "We will jab 100 per cent of the population." IIT Kharagpur Director Prof Virendra Kumar Tewary said that in terms of innovation the institute is working in the fields of energy, electric vehicles, biomass, besides in niche areas including artificial intelligence. Its faculty has achieved many firsts in the field of semi conductor and ISRO and DRDO are working with it. The institute has made 75 innovations so far to help the industry and as part of its Interdisciplinary role the B C Roy MBBS College will start with 100 students in the campus by this month. Sixteen faculty members have joined the super speciality hospital named after Shyamaprasad Mukherjee which is expected to start soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kharagpur-iit-should-take-the-lead-in-inovations-for-the-msme-sector-pradhan-101639840900487.html
18-12-2021||Patna||As JD(U) increases pitch for spl status, tags PM, BJP chief says time to focus on generating internal resources||The NDA government in Bihar is not a new thing. It has been there since November 2005, barring a brief spell. But what is new this time is the different tunes its two major constituents - the JD(U) and the BJP - have been singing on major policy issues and still putting up a united front to thwart any chance for the RJD-led opposition, which continues to breathe down its neck.Be it the issue of corruption in universities, prohibition, special status demand, namaaz at public places, functioning of bureaucracy etc., there have been innumerable instances when the BJP leaders have spoken up publically, contrary to the scene before 2020 when the JD(U) used to behave like ‘big brother’. But its downsizing in the 2020 Assembly polls despite Nitish Kumar being the CM seems to have made BJP more vocal and pro-active.The latest flashpoint is the JD(U) national president Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh’s statement and a series of tweets tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Bihar’s demand for special status citing the “state’s bottom rank on all the important indices of Niti Aayog report despite appreciable progress in the last decade and a half”.“Hon’ble PM @narendramodi ji, pay attention. Give special status to Bihar, as it has a high density of population, 32% people are landless, 15/38 districts add flood-hit, the state is prone to natural disasters. Under Nitish Kumar’s leadership, Bihar has recorded around a 10% growth rate in the last decade and a half, still, it can’t reach the national average without special status. A resource started state after its bifurcation can’t be left on its own if the PM’s dream of self-reliant India is to be realised to make it a developed country,” he tweeted, tagging PM, a line which has also been endorsed by Nitish Kumar in his recent speeches, which were laced with sarcasm on Bihar’s poor ranking despite its “phenomenal growth in all spheres during his regime”.However, it has not gone down well with the BJP and it is planning to counter it with facts as to how Bihar is unable to generate its internal resources despite increasing taxes and losing on what it got earlier due to stringent laws for prohibition and why the demand of special status for the state no more carries any meaning. What this flashpoint could lead to, only time would tell.Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, who was a few months ago was critical of his own NDA government’s good governance claim, said it was not proper to tag PM with the demand for special status when such a provision no more exists and the state has been given adequate funds to grow. “The state should work on generating its internal resources. It is losing around ₹40000-crore due to sluggishness in the tourism, hotel and service/hospitality sector, which can be augmented. Registration of property is getting costlier in the state to compensate for the loss, but that is only hurting the common people. Our job is to raise pertinent issues and that we will keep doing. We are in alliance, but we do have our issues and we will not like to put our issues on the back burner. We know we are in the government, but raising important issues should not be misconstrued as opposition. The opposition in Bihar has no issues to talk about, as their dark legacy is what is dragging the state, and so when we talk about people’s concerns, it is seen differently,” he added.Jaiswal said that he would soon talk with documents on the special status issue. “If one is tagging PM with such demand, one should know the facts first. The reports of the Niti Aayog are not for just one state, nor it is for a particular period. Even Niti Aayog has said that Bihar has done well on certain parameters in the last decade, but that does not mean Bihar can be the best state. Niti Aayog reports are for all states on uniform parameters and consider overall status in terms of achievements. It is not done for Bihar only for a specific period. It is regarding the state’s performance over several decades, which unfortunately in Bihar’s case also includes the dark age of RJD before Nitish Kumar came to power and that may continue to pull it down in the overall analysis despite far better show since the NDA government came and Nitish Kumar became the CM,” he added.On JD(U) leaders claim that the demand for special status had been passed by a unanimous house resolution, Jaiswal said it did not happen during the present government and a lot of water has flown down the Ganga since then. “Even bills lapse. The fact to understand is that Niti Aayog does not do a performance audit of Nitish Kumar’s tenure of 15-16 years. If things have changed since Nitish Kunar took over as the head of the NDA government, that is always acknowledged, but it cannot reflect when the performance of all the states is weighed on a uniform scale. Many southern states achieved population stabilisation in the 1980s only and so they marched ahead. It is time for the government to focus on core issues. Raising a question mark over institutions is not the right way just because it does not suit one,” he said, adding that RJD making observations on Bihar’s position on the Niti Aayog index was a classic case of “pot calling the kettle black”.“RJD has no right to speak on it, as they are aware what was the agricultural productivity, infra development, per capita income, per capita power consumption etc. in Bihar during their 15-year tenure. People have seen the change and that is why they have trusted NDA. But JD(U) leaders should also be cautious,” he added.Nitish Kumar had also rebuked deputy CM Renu Devi earlier this week when his attention was drawn towards her statement that “special status had no meaning as the Centre was already giving special assistance to the state”. The CM said that her deputy might not be aware of the facts. However, this was enough for the RJD to take up the issue and its MP Manoj Jha raised it in the Rajya Sabha, moving a notice for an adjournment motion to discuss the issue.“In politics, you never know what is cooking until things become too apparent, but it is a fact in politics cooking never stops. One that clicks is talked about, as Bihar witnessed in the past. All the parties have their recipe. The way special status demand is again being raised, there may be an attempt to make it a rallying point with a definite objective, which the BJP would not like. How it all shapes up is interesting to watch, as there is no action without purpose in politics. JD(U)’s discomfort is well known, but the numbers in the Assembly are so stacked that it can do little, while the BJP, too, has no room to manoeuvre. That keeps RJD-led alliance interested,” said social analyst NK Choudhary.
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Fake vaccination certificate fraud committed during door-to-door campaign, says Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner||Investigations into the fake vaccination certificate case revealed that the two accused attached to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) committed the fraud while conducting the ‘har ghar dastak’ programme.“When the drives are conducted in camps, the staff involved are more and hence it is not possible for anyone to indulge in such a fraud. The two who were involved committed the fraud while conducting the door-to-door drive. Both were contractual employees and have been terminated with immediate effect. Henceforth, we will be more careful with the ‘har ghar dastak’ programme and will make sure that the nurse accompanies the drives and keeps a tab of the registration and the administering of the vaccine,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.APMC police had arrested three in the fake vaccination certificate case, two of them worked as drivers in NMMT and were currently working with the health department since the pandemic started. One of them was an operator at Turbhe Urban Primary Health Centre and was aware of the CoWIN portal’s user ID and password, which were used to register people and generate vaccination certificates without actually administering the vaccine. This was being done for ₹3,000 per person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fake-vaccination-certificate-fraud-committed-during-door-to-door-campaign-says-navi-mumbai-municipal-commissioner-101639842550234.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now is the opportunity to withdraw land acquisition amendment Bill: Kiran Choudhry||Pointing out omissions holding back the passage of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Haryana Amendment) Bill passed by the state assembly in August, former Haryana minister Kiran Choudhry on Saturday asked the BJP-JJP government in state to withdraw the amendment Bill in the larger public interest. The amendment Bill will need the assent of President to become a law.The amendment Bill had proposed to remove impediments in land acquisition by exempting certain development projects, rural infrastructure, affordable housing, industrial corridors, health and education and urban metro rail projects from the ambit of social impact assessment study and provision to safeguard food security.The Opposition, including Choudhry, had termed the amendment Bill draconian and against the spirit of the principal Act of 2013 passed by the Parliament. “It will hurt the interest of farmers,” she had said.Choudhry, at a press briefing on Saturday, said the governor has sent the amendment Bill back to the state government seeking clarification on whether or not it is a money bill.The financial memorandum of the amendment Bill says there will be financial implication on the state exchequer on account of payment of compensation for acquisition and rehabilitation and resettlement cost of land owners or farmers.“The amendment Bill has been referred to the legal remembrancer (LR) for deciding if it is a money bill or not. My information is that the LR has formed an opinion that it’s not a money bill,” the Congress MLA said.Secondly, Choudhry said there was also an omission in the Clause 3 of the amendment Bill pertaining to the newly-inserted Section 10-A (power to exempt certain projects). While the Clause 3 of the amendment Bill says “provided that before issuance of notification under sub-section (1), the state government shall ensure that the minimum extent of land required for acquisition for such project or purpose is notified”, there is actually no sub section (1) in the proposed section 10-A of the amendment Bill, the Congress MLA said.“It’s a substantive and not a mere typographical error. Only the state legislature can rectify this error of substance. Hence, it does not fall in the purview of section 162 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of Haryana assembly through which Speaker can correct patent errors and make consequential changes in a Bill passed by the House,” Choudhry said.“So, my point is that since the amendment Bill contained anomalies, has been wrongly passed by the assembly as a money bill and has not become a law, here is an opportunity for the state government to withdraw it in the interest of farmers. When the Central government has repealed the three farm laws, this amendment being as draconian as the three repealed farm laws needs to be purged,” the Tosham legislator said.Choudhry said the amendment Bill will give draconian powers to collector to announce awards without visiting the site or getting houses on acquired property vacated without 48-hour notice.“It will also throw the irrigated multi-cropped lands open to acquisition by the corporate. As this Bill diluted the welfare aspect of rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced farmers, it runs counter to the spirit of the principal Act,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-is-the-opportunity-to-withdraw-land-acquisition-amendment-bill-kiran-choudhry-101639842250751.html
18-12-2021||Jaipur||‘Will continue to improve on achievements’: Ashok Gehlot on completion of 3 years of state govt||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said his government will continue to improve on its achievements of last three years.He said the government will work on 'Public service is religion' theme.Gehlot was inaugurating a four-day exhibition named 'Aapka Vishwas-Hamara Prayas' based on the achievements of the state government in three years at Jawahar Kala Kendra here.On this occasion, he said, “Service is work, service is religion. The last three years have been 'your faith, our effort'. We will move forward in the same manner in which the state has achieved in three years."Gehlot said his government's "achievements" came despite a pandemic like coronavirus.He inspected almost every stall in this exhibition based on the achievements of various 22 departments and asked about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/will-continue-to-improve-on-achievements-ashok-gehlot-on-completion-of-3-years-of-state-govt-101639840680949.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Trap cameras set up for leopard in Thane||The forest officers conducted awareness programmes along Pokhran Road in Thane for the locals to know how to react in case they spotted a leopard.Trap cameras have also been set up near the residential areas where a leopard was claimed to have been spotted in the last couple of days.“Since the last two days, we have been receiving information from the locals that they have spotted a leopard at various locations. As per their records, it seems like the feline is trying to find its way back into the forest. They usually take the pipeline route behind Bhimnagar chawls, where it was spotted on Thursday night. We are hoping that it will return to the forest or will be able to go in the next two nights. Meanwhile, we have set up trap cameras at various locations,” said Sandeep More, Range Forest Officer, Thane.More and his team conducted workshops for security guards and residents at Voltas Company, Raymond Company and the nearby areas.“We have explained the measures that need to be taken in case one spots a leopard. It is imperative to know the precautionary measures and act wisely in such instances. Moreover, the forest department or local police need to be alerted immediately,” added More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trap-cameras-set-up-for-leopard-in-thane-101639840389908.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Amit Shah in Maharashtra: Cooperative university likely to come up in Pune||PUNE India’s first university for the co-operative sector is likely to come up in Pune with demand being made for it before Amit Shah. Union Minister for Home Affairs and Cooperation on Saturday announced to bring in skilled and effective manpower to ensure professionalism in the co-operative sector while adding that the Centre is coming up with various initiatives in the sector.Shah is currently on a two-day visit to Maharashtra, his first visit after becoming the union co-operative minister. He attended the co-operative rally at Pravaranagar (Loni) in Ahmednagar from where India’s first co-operative sugar mill started.During his speech, Shah spoke about various reforms and initiatives for the cooperative sector and even for establishing a university though he did not mention where it will come up.On behalf of the Maharashtra co-operative sector, Maharashtra co-operative banks administrator Vidyadhar Anaskar presented various demands of co-operative banks before Shah.“As union government is planning to set up a university for the co-operative sector, it should come up at Pune considering the base of the co-operative sector around it. We have even requested the minister to set up a university at the Vaikunth Bhai Mehta campus which works in the cooperative field,” said AnaskarDuring the event, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also promised whatever demands are being made, will be fulfilled by the Centre.Shah to visit Pune city todayOn Saturday, Shah visited the Saibaba temple at Shirdi. On Sunday, Amit Shah will be travelling to Pune, beginning his day at 10am with a visit to the Shrimant Dagdusheth Ganpati temple in the city.Later, he will inaugurate a new building of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Pune (CFSL) campus in Pune and then attend ‘Bada Khana’ – a practice in the Indian Army and paramilitary organisations to prepare lunch or dinner on important days – with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel.Shah will then travel to the Pune campus of the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management (VAMNICOM) – a grant-in-aid institution under the Union ministry of cooperation – to attend the convocation ceremony there at 2pm.After which the home minister will attend another function where the foundations of the statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Babasaheb Ambedkar will be laid at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) around 3.45pm.By Sunday evening, the minister will attend a conference of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Pune city workers at 4.40pm at the Ganesh Kala Centre. He will also pay homage to Babasaheb Purandare at his home at around 6.45pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amit-shah-in-maharashtra-cooperative-university-likely-to-come-up-in-pune-101639840210031.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||2 arrested in Thane for smuggling ambergis worth Rs1Cr||The Property Cell of the Thane Police Crime Branch, on Friday, arrested two accused for allegedly smuggling ambergris, also known as whale vomit, worth ₹1Cr.According to the officers, the accused were arrested on the basis of a tip off received earlier in the week, according to which some people were bringing a large quantity of ambergris near AP Shah College in Kasarvadavli.“We laid a trap and detained two suspects. A search of their belongings revealed around 750g of ambergris,” police inspector Anil Honrao, Property Cell, said.The accused, identified as Sushant Behra (32) and Manoj Sharma (40), were subsequently placed under arrest and charged under the Wildlife Protection Act.The accused and the seized contraband were subsequently handed over to the Kasarvadavli police for further investigation.“The accused have been remanded in our custody for five days. We are probing further to find out the source of the ambergris as well as who they intended to sell it to,” senior police inspector Rajesh Babshetty, Kasarvadavli police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-arrested-in-thane-for-smuggling-ambergis-worth-rs1cr-101639839730053.html
18-12-2021||Other||Mann challenges Singla to contest from Sangrur||Sangrur Challenging Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state public works department (PWD) minister Vijay Inder Singla’s claims of development and their dig at his profession as a comedian, two-time Sangrur MP and Aam Aadmi Party state unit chief Bhagwant Mann has dared Singla to take a ‘reality check’ by contesting from Sangrur. “Singla invited Channi to Sangrur; here, Channi claimed that jokes do not lead to development. They should know, however, that I had donated the ambulances present at their rally. I have given grants to schools and libraries and recommended cases for free treatment of cancer patients. Are these works, jokes or development? If Singla has forgotten his defeat in the 2014 parliamentary elections, we can test the waters again,” Mann told HT over phone. Earlier in the week, Channi had launched development projects in the district. At Deh Kalan village, without naming Mann, he had said, “There is no connection between politics and reciting jokes. To be a comedian is a different thing.”Mann added, “I also defeated Congress’ candidate Kewal Singh Dhillon in the 2019 general elections. Congress leaders are not ready to accept the mandate of people, who elected me a second time. If he wants a new mandate for me for the third time, we can contest from Sangrur.” He added that he had also defeated Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his son Parminder Dhindsa.“During the campaigning for 2014 general elections, Singla targeted my jokes, but this strategy resulted in him losing his security deposit. When people give a mandate, they should not challenge it. If there is any need and my party asks me, we will check the value of jokes again,” Mann claimed. PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “Sangrur residents know how much work I have done. I believe in serving the people of my constituency and my efforts will continue.”
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Ask Karnataka to take action, Thackeray tells PM Modi||Mumbai: Various parts of Maharashtra on Saturday saw angry reactions after the alleged desecration of the Chhatrapati Shivaji statue in Bengaluru on Friday.Protests were held in Belgaum, Mumbai, Kolhapur, Sangli, while leaders from all the parties in Maharashtra condemned the act. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanded intervention by prime minister Narendra Modi and urged him to take action against the people responsible for the incident and also atrocities against Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka.In a statement issued here, Thackeray said PM Modi should personally look into the heinous act and asked the BJP-led state government in Karnataka for strict action against the people behind it. He said that the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is worshipped not only in Maharashtra but across the country and even an iota of insult to him will not be tolerated.“The thorough investigation of this unwarranted incident is required. Marathi-speaking people in the border area of Belgaum have been facing atrocities for years. Now, the desecration of the Shivaji statue has taken place, despite which the state government of Karnataka has turned a blind eye to it. PM Modi, in his speech at Kashi Vishweshwar early this week, had praised Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj for his might and prowess. Days after the same, this incident of desecration has taken place. The local Karanataka government has been suppressing the voice of the Marathi-speaking people who condemned the incident,” he said in the statement.“Some people use Shivaji Maharaj’s name for politics but take no action when he is disrespected. They will have to pay the price for insulting Marathi pride,” Thackeray said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “The Centre and the Karnataka government should take a serious note of this entire episode and take action against the culprits to avert the repetition of such acts. The sentiments of the people of Maharashtra have been severely hurt. They will never pardon the people behind it and the ones who have been protecting them.”Sambhaji Chhatrapati, BJP MP and a descendent of the Maratha king tweeted on Saturday, “The desecration of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue at Bengaluru is highly condemnable. Let us not forget that the initial development of Bengaluru happened during Shahajiraje’s (Shivaji’s father) rule (there). Government at the Centre and Karnataka state should take serious action against the culprits.”After a video of a Shivaji statue being desecrated went viral on social media on Friday, hundreds of Marathi-speaking people took to the streets in Karnataka border areas. The incident happened soon after blank ink was thrown at a leader of Marathi Ekikaran Samiti, an outfit of Marathi speaking people that have been fighting for the inclusion of the border areas in Maharashtra.Tension prevailed in Karnataka’s border town of Belgaum, where Marathi speaking population is in large numbers, as people came out on the streets to condemn the desecration. The mob turned violent with demonstrators resorting to pelting stones at police vehicles.The local administration has imposed a ban on the assembly of people by imposing prohibitory orders. People in the border districts of Kolhapur and Sangli held flash protests condemning the incident in Bengaluru. A group of worshippers of Shivaji assembled at Shivaji Chowk in Kolhapur and performed ‘dudh abhishek’ of the statue. People in Miraj in Sangli took to the street to condemn the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ask-karnataka-to-take-action-thackeray-tells-pm-101639838889732.html
18-12-2021||Other||Union steel minister meets steel makers in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib Union steel minister Ram Chandra Prasad Singh met industrialists from the field in Mandi Gobindgarh on Saturday, where he told secondary steel manufacturers to upgrade rapidly, with his ministry willing to extend all possible help for this. Secondary steelmaking is performed in an electric arc furnace and uses scrap steel as the primary raw material.The National Institute of Secondary Steel Technology (NISST), Mandi Gobindgarh, in Fatehgarh Sahib district, had organised the interactive meeting. “Secondary steel sector is an important part of the Indian steel sector and the target of achieving 300 million tonne of steel capacity by the year 2030-31 can’t be achieved without active participation from you,” he told the unit owners. He added that the Centre had decriminalised many acts for better industry environment and the ease of doing business, and that the secondary steel sector had to contribute significantly in ensuring the success of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-sufficient India). The minister also visited the NISST campus, reviewed its infrastructure facilities and interact with NISST officials. He planted a sapling on campus and emphasised the need for a green and clean environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-steel-minister-meets-steel-makers-in-mandi-gobindgarh-101639838829975.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||8 new Omicron cases reported in Maharashtra, state’s tally climbs to 48||Omicron Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Maharashtra as eight more infections related to the latest variant of the coronavirus were detected, which have taken the state’s tally to 48, the state health department said on Saturday.Of the new cases, four were reported from Mumbai, three from Satara and one case from Pune, it added.In Mumbai, three patients were residents of Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, while one was a resident of the city.Also, two of the patients had travelled to Africa, one to Tanzania and another to the UK, the department also said. Further, all patients were fully vaccinated and asymptomatic and currently in isolation.Also read | Omicron: BMC chief warns violators ahead of festive season, urges cautionThe three patients from Satara, including an eight-year-old, who belonged to the same family, travelled to East Africa. They too have been observed to have no symptoms and except the child, the other two were vaccinated.On Friday, the Union health ministry said the Omicron tally in India stood at 113. New infections have also been reported from at least two other states in the last 24 hours.Karnataka reported six new Omicron cases – five of them were found in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada and one was a returnee from the United Kingdom – while Kerala also logged four fresh infections. The tally in Karnataka reached 14 while in Kerala it stood at 11.Meanwhile, the daily infections in Maharashtra dipped slightly after 854 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease across the state. On Friday, the state logged 902 new cases.Further, 11 people succumbed to their illness in the last 24 hours. The state has reported 6,648,694 total confirmed cases so far and the death toll climbed to 141,340.Mumbai added 274 new cases to the state’s toll while there were no new deaths in the city. The city’s total caseload reached 766,729 and the death toll remained at 16,363.Overall recoveries reached 6,496,733 after 804 people were discharged on the day. Medical workers in the state have so far tested 67,570,939 samples for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-new-omicron-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-state-s-tally-climbs-to-48-101639838188493.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron: Avoid gatherings, parties for Christmas & New year, says BMC||Mumbai Owing to increasing Omicron cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday appealed to citizens to avoid gathering or organising parties for Christmas or New Year’s Eve. The BMC is going to form teams at the ward level to keep an eye on weddings and parties.The BMC will also have to keep an eye on house parties in the city. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told HT, “Citizens are expected to practice self-regulation when it comes to house parties. We are not going to monitor them but we are keeping a watch on them.”BMC officials said that globally, lockdown has been announced due to Omicron and they are trying to avoid a similar situation in India. The BMC has reiterated that citizens should get fully vaccinated, hotels, restaurants and wedding organisers should follow all Covid-appropriate norms.In a statement issued on Saturday, the BMC said, “Omicron is spreading rapidly around the world, putting a strain on the health system. Despite repeated appeals by the government and administration to prevent a third wave, we have observed that Covid norms are not being followed properly in most places. Therefore, all citizens are requested to abide by the limits laid down by the government by avoiding crowding, wearing masks and getting fully vaccinated.”The BMC in a statement appealed to citizens to follow the existing rule of 50% capacity in marriage halls and 25% capacity in the open lawn. However, in case of more than 1,000 guests, permission will have to be taken from local district administration, said the BMC. Currently, restaurants, bars and nightclubs are allowed to remain open till 12.30 am at 50% capacity.Additionally, in the backdrop of several public figures from Bollywood testing positive after a gathering recently, the BMC in the statement has mentioned that eminent personalities should also ensure the following of Covid-19 norms. The statement in this context reads, “Eminent personalities, celebrities who have an influence on the society also need to be aware of all the issues and act accordingly. If any rules are found to be broken, the administration has now decided to take drastic action.”According to BMC officials, the state government has empowered the BMC to levy a ₹10,000 fine on individuals or establishments for violating norms.Meanwhile, as of Friday, the city had around 14 Omicron variant cases reported in the city, the highest in Maharashtra. The BMC on Friday had said that the period up to January 15, 2022, will be crucial to understand the spread of Omicron variant in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-avoid-gatherings-parties-for-christmas-new-year-says-bmc-101639838349636.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi records five-month high of 86 new Covid-19 cases||Delhi on Saturday registered 86 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest single-day rise in over five months, with the positivity rate touching 0.13 per cent.The day’s updated health bulletin showed there were no fresh deaths, while 68 people recovered from the viral disease. At present, the current active caseload stood at 484.On Thursday, the national capital saw 85 new cases of the virus being registered with the positivity rate hitting a nearly six-month high of 0.15 per cent. A day later, the number of fresh daily cases fell to 69 with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent.Also read | Omicron: Delhi converts these four private hospitals as dedicated centresThe rise in cases is being recorded in the wake of the Omicron scare in the national capital as the total number of patients infected with the latest highly contagious variant of coronavirus jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22.The number of Covid cases recorded in Delhi so far reached 14,42,090, while over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the disease.Two deaths due to the viral disease have, so far, been recorded in December in Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-five-month-high-of-86-new-covid-19-cases-101639836353705.html
18-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka confirms 6 new cases of Omicron, traveller from UK among those infected||Six new cases of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant were detected in Karnataka on Saturday, state health minister K Sudhakar informed in a tweet. With this, the total number of such cases in Karnataka has risen to 14.Also Read | Rising Omicron cases: Karnataka panel seeks curbs on new year revelriesOf the fresh Omicron infections, five were found from two clusters, with two educational institutions in Dakshin Kannada reporting a cluster each, the minister informed. The sixth case, he said, was of a traveller who returned from the United Kingdom.“Two cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshin Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron, Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron). A traveller from UK has also tested positive for #Omicron,” Sudhakar tweeted. Two cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron)Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron)A traveller from UK has also tested positive for #Omicron@BSBommai#OmicronindiaThe UK is among more than a dozen countries on the Union health ministry's ‘at-risk’ countries for Omicron.Among the new patients, the foreign returnee is an 18-year-old female, who arrived at Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport on December 10 and tested positive the same day, the Karnataka Health Department said. Double-jabbed with a Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine, she arrived with a negative RT-PCR report, the department further said.All cluster cases were reported among girls as well. Among them, only one is vaccinated (fully inoculated with Covishield), while others have not even taken their first dose.The southern state reported India's first two cases of Omicron as well. Since then, the nationwide infection tally has pushed beyond 100. Maharashtra, with 40 infections, is at the top, followed by Delhi (22) and Rajasthan (17), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-6-new-cases-of-omicron-traveller-from-uk-among-those-infected-101639834594847.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation increases daily testing for Covid from 7K to 11K||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has increased the testing from 7,000 to an average of 11,000 daily in order to trace maximum cases in the city. Of the 11,000 testing, 5,000 are RT-PCR and around 6,000 are rapid antigen.“The Nerul Hospital is running its lab in full capacity for RT-PCR tests that have been found to be very helpful for us as most people test negative in antigen but are positive in RT-PCR. We are thinking of increasing the capacity for the RT-PCR even if it means to increase in small numbers,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.NMMC has 23 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) wherein a total of around 4,000 tests are done daily. A total of around 2,000 tests are done in NMMC-run hospitals and around 5,000 tests are conducted via camps at housing societies, markets, malls, railway stations and MIDC area.“Testing is a very crucial aspect in the prevention of the spread of Covid. It helps us in identifying the trend and find cluster cases and zero down on containment areas to avoid further spread. Once a positive case is found, further contact tracing of the positive case is done to find if the infection has spread in the vicinity,” medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.While testing, special attention is given to find if any of the positive persons have any history of international travel or have come in contact with any international traveller in order to ensure that the corporation is able to trace any Omicron variant, if any. If a positive person has come in contact with an international traveller, the person is considered as Omicron-suspect and isolated at the CIDCO Bhavan No. 2.“The CIDCO Bhavan No. 1 was there right from the beginning of the pandemic. Later, the second one was started for paediatric cases. The percentage of occupancy was hardly 1% or 2% and hence we decided to shift them to the first facility and have dedicated the second facility with 150 beds exclusively only for Omicron suspects,” Dr Patil added.Till Saturday, there were 25 admissions at the facility No. 2 of CIDCO Bhavan. The reports of each person in facility No. 2 are sent for genome sequencing to NIV Pune.Of the 461 international travellers in Navi Mumbai, 371 have been tested, of which five were found to be positive. Of the five, three have been found to have the Delta variant. With a doubling rate of 3,326, NMMC currently has 355 active cases with average weekly cases of 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-increases-daily-testing-for-covid-from-7k-to-11k-101639835589569.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Will not be mute spectator, Amit Shah on cooperative sector||PUNE Union minister for home affairs and cooperation Amit Shah, on Saturday, said he will not be a mute spectator if politics is being brought while issuing bank guarantees to sugar mills.He further said that the government has ensured that the cooperative ministry has been formed not to destroy the sector but to boost it and join missing links.Shah was speaking at a function related to the cooperative sector in Ahmednagar district, known to be holding the distinction of setting up Asia’s first cooperative sugar mill, which is managed by Congress-turned-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil.Without naming the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state, Shah claimed that bank guarantees were not being issued to some sugar mills that have links to leaders of opposition parties.This practice, Shah said, is not right. “I have seen some state governments are not giving bank guarantees to sugar mills whose management is politically linked to opposition parties. Why can’t governments settle their sugar mill-related issues within the respective state instead of prompting us to hold hearings in New Delhi? The state government needs to rise above politics. I am not going to be a mute spectator in this sector. Maharashtra’s cooperation movement is as holy as Kashi for many people,” Shah said.Shah also asserted that his focus as minister will be to observe what the cooperative institutions were doing rather than “who manages it and their political inclinations.”Shah, while asserting that the cooperation sector needs modernisation and has to be competitive, said, “ The district central cooperative banks from Maharashtra were hailed for its good performance earlier, but most of them were poorly managed now. It is corruption that has paralysed these banks and not the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) rules and regulations.”Shah said, after 75 years, the co-operative ministry has started in the country.“Many people made various comments and raised doubts. Some even asked the question whether the co-operative movement is relevant these days? But the maximum share of sugar production, milk, wheat, and many products are coming from co-operative movement,” Shah said adding, “I have become co-operative minister to join missing links and not destroy it. I do not want to make any political comments here or criticise others who were leading this sector and now crying for the bad situation of the co-operative movement.”Shah said, it is the responsibility of the Centre and state government to help the sector.“We will help the sector temporarily. But at the same time, co-operative movement should need to introspect and check why it is in a bad patch?”Shah also questioned those raising questions on RBI not helping the sector“Now questions are being raised that RBI is not helping the sector but at first, we need to ask who weakened the co-operative sector? Earlier, all-district banks were working efficiently in Maharashtra, but now only three are working effectively?” he said.Commenting on auctions of sugar mills, Shah said, there is a trend to weaken the sugar mills and later auction it. “Later it would be purchased and run as a private mill. I am wishing that here onwards co-operative mills should not turn as a private mill,” he said.No new committee for co-operative sectorShah ensured that there would be no new committee to boost the sector. “There are enough committees and their reports are gathering dust. I will speak with experts in the field and take the necessary decisions. Soon RBI will give various permissions to the co-operative sector. We have resolved the income tax issue of sugar mills which was pending for the last 30 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/will-not-be-mute-spectator-amit-shah-on-cooperative-sector-101639834390930.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron: BMC chief warns violators ahead of festive season, urges caution||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday issued a fresh advisory for citizens ahead of the festive week in the wake of a number of cases of the highly contagious Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being reported from across the city and state.Civic body chief IS Chahal said ward-level squads will be formed to take action against violators of protocol. With the Christmas-New Year festival season round the corner, he said people in the metropolis must avoid crowding in hotels, restaurants, cinemas, malls and attendance caps in place for marriages and other functions would have to be adhered to strictly.In a veiled reference to Bollywood parties amid reports that some actors had contracted the virus, Chahal said celebrities and eminent personalities, who have an influence on society, must act responsibly and be aware of issues. Actors, including Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora, recently tested positive in the city after attending some gatherings and dinner parties.While the attendance limit is 50 per cent of capacity of confined/closed spaces, it is 25 per cent of capacity in open places, while permission of the Local Disaster Management Authority would have to be obtained for any gathering of over 1,000 people, Chahal said.Also read | How did several Bollywood celebs get covid? Here's what BMC says | 10 points"Use a mask properly, get fully vaccinated. A new variant of the Covid-19 virus called Omicron is spreading rapidly around the world, putting a strain on the health system. Despite repeated appeals by the government and administration to prevent a probable third wave, it has been observed that guidelines are not being followed properly in most places, especially in wedding functions and other ceremonies," the BMC chief said."Those violating Covid-19 rules will be dealt with severely by civic ward level teams as well as the police," he said, adding that the pandemic was under control at the moment in the country’s financial capital due to the cooperation of citizens as well as the excellent management and speed of the vaccination drive.The BMC chief said guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on November 27 as well as Mumbai police notifications warning of action against violators under IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act must be followed strictly by people."In the near future, the risk of Covid-19 virus spread may increase if ceremonies and functions are held on the occasion of Christmas and New Year. There is a need to curb the growing crowd at weddings and other ceremonies. Moreover, hotels, restaurants and other public establishments have also been found to be flouting norms," he said, and asked all stakeholders to adhere to guidelines strictly.Chahal asked citizens to get both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine as quickly as possible, warning that action will be taken if staff functioning at public places or establishments as well as attendees at events, ceremonies are found to be not fully vaccinated as it is mandatory.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-bmc-chief-warns-violators-ahead-of-festive-season-urges-caution-101639833830590.html
18-12-2021||Bangalore||'Will not allow anybody to take law into their hands': Karnataka CM Bommai on vandalisation of Sangolli Rayanna statue||Hours after the Sangolli Rayanna statue in Karnataka was vandalized by miscreants, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday asserted that he will not allow anyone to take law in their hands.Addressing the reporters over the matter, Bommai said, "Responsible people shouldn't provoke anybody. Shivaji Maharaj, Sangolli Rayanna and Rani Chennamma united the country. If we start fighting in their name, it will be an injustice to the fight by them.""The responsible people should not provoke others for violence and take law and order into their hands. As far as Karnataka is concerned, we will not allow anybody to take the law into their hands," the Chief Minister said.As many as 27 people have been arrested for allegedly attacking the Sangolli Rayanna statue in the Belagavi district of Karnataka, informed the police on Friday."27 arrested in 3 police station limits in Belagavi for attacking the Sangolli Rayanna statue," said K Tyagarajan, commissioner of police, Belagavi.Tension erupted in Belagavi after a purported video that showed some people pouring black ink on the face of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Sankey Tank Road in Bengaluru went viral. Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) followers gathered in Belagavi and protested against the Karnataka government at Dharmaveer Sambhaji Maharaj Chowk.The miscreants smashed around 26 vehicles of the Karnataka government and police at Belagavi. The protestors alleged that Kannada goons have defaced a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bangalore."The insult on Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bengaluru is an insult to Hindu society as well. Shivaji maharaja has dedicated His life to Hindu samaj. Act of Some miscreants insulting the statue of Shivaji maharaja is highly condemnable," said Abhay Patil, MLA Belagavi constituency."I request the chief minister as well as Home Minister to take appropriate action against the culprits behind the incident. The incident is an insult to the nation. I request the Chief Minister and Home Minister to take proper action against the culprits behind it and make sure this kind of incident will not occur again," he added.Meanwhile, the Karnataka Home minister said, "Strict action will be taken against anyone who indulged in such incidents. No one will be spared. I condemn the incident in which miscreants damaged the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a legendary hero of the state. Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji Maharaj, they are the pride of all of us. Every citizen is a proud and proud Indian son because of such personality.""In their name, some mischief, misconduct, and degrading linguistic and fraternal affiliation is an inexorable offense. I have received information on this, and have already filed an FIR related to the Bangalore and Belgavi incident and some have been detained. I urge the people of the state to cooperate in maintaining peace and harmony," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-not-allow-anybody-to-take-law-into-their-hands-says-karnataka-cm-bommai-on-vandalisation-of-sangolli-rayanna-statue-101639832415343.html
18-12-2021||City||Rohini court explosion: Scientist may have tried to harm lawyer, says top cop||Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said on Saturday scientist Bharat Bhushan Kataria arrested in the Rohini district court explosion case may have caused the blast to harm a lawyer.Kataria, a senior scientist with the Defence Research and Development Organisation, was arrested on Friday. Asthana said the scientist’s interrogation was underway. “Prima facie, his (Kataria's) motive was a protracted legal battle with an advocate. Perhaps, the incident took place to cause harm to the lawyer,” the top Delhi Police officer was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Custodial interrogation is underway. Prima facie, his (Bharat Bhushan Kataria's) motive was a protracted legal battle with an advocate. Perhaps, the incident took place to cause harm to the lawyer... Investigation continues: Delhi CP Rakesh Asthana pic.twitter.com/TEtPH2QKu8“On search, we recovered bomb-making material like shrapnels and other incriminating evidence from Kataria’s house,” Asthana further said.The scientist was arrested for planting an improvised explosive device (IED) in a tiffin box in the Rohini district court in Delhi earlier this month.Also read | Rohini court blast case solved, claim police; prime suspect heldThe IED triggered a low-intensity explosion in courtroom number 102 on December 9 that had left a person injured.Kataria had entered the court premises at 9.33am on the day of the incident with two bags and left one of those behind inside courtroom number 102. He left the court premises at 10.35am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohini-court-explosion-scientist-may-have-tried-to-harm-lawyer-says-top-cop-101639830991268.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||No lessons learnt from first two Covid waves in Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation limits, claim residents||With Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) having the only two Omicron cases in the district and being the worst-affected suburb in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the previous two waves, experts and residents claim that no lessons have been learnt yet.While KDMC continues to test less, there is also no crowd control as people continue to roam around without masks, claim the residents.The twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli were the worst affected in Thane district in the first and second waves of the Covid pandemic. Despite cases increasing in both instances, people continued to flout norms and attend social functions in large numbers, giving rise to cluster cases.This month, with two Omicron cases in the district from these two cities, the authorities claimed to have swung into action while the residents claimed otherwise.“Where are the preventive measures that need to be taken to ensure the cases don’t shoot up in the coming months like we saw in the first two waves? There are announcements about acting upon those not wearing masks and crowding. However, there is no implementation. There is no monitoring on marriages, events and shops in the city. There is a need for more effective preventive measures without delay,” said Sajita Nair, representative of Alert Citizen Forum, Kalyan.“A status check at the crowded station area itself is enough to understand whether KDMC is able to impose measures to curb the spread,” Nair added.‘NO STRICT ACTION TAKEN’KDMC reported its second case of Omicron on Friday while the reports of the three close contacts of the infected are awaited. A 45-year-old Nigeria returnee tested positive for Omicron in Dombivli on Friday, a day after he tested negative in Covid RT-PCR test. He was discharged after being in quarantine for 15 days and would continue to be in home isolation for another week. Earlier this month, a 33-year-old South Africa returnee tested positive to Omicron, marking the first case in the entire Maharashtra state.Earlier, when the first case of Omicron was reported in Kalyan, the KDMC chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, had warned the citizens of Kalyan-Dombivli of strict action if found without masks in public places. However, citizens claim that there is no such strict step taken.“Even today, the shops in the crowded places of Kalyan-Dombivli have shopkeepers without masks. There is no disinfection happening in the city. These are the basic measures KDMC should take up,” said Sangeeta Lal, 40, a resident of Tilak Chowk, Kalyan (W).Residents also claimed that there are no disinfection drives undertaken now-a-days by the KDMC in public places.“During the early months of the pandemic, KDMC was particular with the spraying of disinfectant in public places. However, there are no such measures undertaken now. This means KDMC is taking it for granted now,” said Rohit Talreja, a 36-year-old shopkeeper on Kalyan station road.Meanwhile, the KDMC health department has claimed that to tackle the suspected Omicron cases, the civic body is strictly imposing 14 days’ institutional quarantine for them. At the same time, instead of depending on the travellers’ list provided by the State Government, the civic body is also checking for such travellers during their door-to-door survey.“We are following the strict 14 days’ institutional quarantine for the suspected Omicron cases. At the same time, our health staff are checking if there are foreign returnees who are not listed in the list provided by the State. The 45-year-old man was found during the vaccination door-to-door survey. This is helping in early detection,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.55-BED FACILITYThe KDMC has prepared a dedicated section for the Omicron-suspected cases at the Art Gallery Covid Centre in Kalyan with a 55-bed facility. As per the KDMC, these beds can be increased if there are more cases in the coming months.The Covid testing conducted by the civic body is around 1,500-2,000 daily, which is low as the civic body did around 5,000-6,000 tests earlier during the second wave.“There is also a need for carrying out random testing at market places, station areas for vendors, shopkeepers and hawkers. Lack of policy for testing and vaccination of poor people is also a major matter of concern. Testing and contact tracing needs to be done methodically area wise,” said Nair.“The testing is low as the number of daily Covid cases has gone down tremendously with 10-20 cases reported daily. With this, the contacts are also less,” said Panpatil.
18-12-2021||Gurugram||1 killed, 3 injured of a family after e-scooter battery explodes and causes fire||A 60-year-old man suffocated to death and four others from his family sustained injuries (two severely critical) after a fire broke out in their one-room house in Kanhai village in Gurugram Sector 44 on Thursday night after the battery of their electric two-wheeler exploded during charging, said police on Friday.The victim, Suresh Sahu, was sleeping next to his wife Reena (50), and sons Manoj (25), Saroj (18) and Anuj (14) when the incident took place. The battery of the vehicle exploded inside their room, after which their blankets caught fire, and soon it spread to the entire room. The family was stuck in their room because of the smoke, and the neighbours had to break a window to rescue them.“We tried to open the door, but it was locked from inside. The room was filled with smoke due to which the Sahu family was stuck inside,” said Ramesh Kumar, a neighbour.The neighbours broke the window and rescued the family. They also informed the fire brigade and the police and it took around one hour to control the fire. All the victims were referred to Safdarjung Hospital for further treatment.Suresh ran a tea stall at a fuel station in Sector 44, Manoj and Saroj were shop workers, and Anuj a school student.Kuldeep Dahiya, station house officer (SHO), Sector 40 police station, said that the scooter, which was not even a year old, was parked outside their room and was being charged from inside. “The battery of the electric scooter exploded during charging, and it caused the fire... An investigation is underway, and more details in the case will be collected after the family members get well,” he said.Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, Civil Hospital, said that Sahu suffered 70% burn injuries. “He died on the spot,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/1-killed-3-injured-of-a-family-after-e-scooter-battery-explodes-and-causes-fire-101639827968696.html
18-12-2021||Gurugram||Cold wave alert issued in Gurugram; air quality remains ‘very poor’||Gurugram recorded the maximum temperature at 19.6 degrees Celsius (°C) — three degrees below normal — on Friday, following an alert for cold wave conditions issued by the India Meteorological Department for the city.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius — one degree above normal. The IMD issued a ‘severe cold wave’ alert in south Haryana, including Gurugram and Faridabad districts, for Saturday and Sunday and a ‘cold wave’ alert in Gurugram for MondayIn the morning hours, dense to very dense fog is likely at isolated pockets in the region, and ground frosting conditions are also likely at isolated pockets during the next three days, predicted the IMD. “There will be a gradual fall in the minimum temperature by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest India in the next four days. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from December 22, and it is likely to cause isolated to scattered rainfall or snowfall over the region from December 22 to 23. Thereafter, in quick succession, another western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains from December 24. It is likely to cause scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall over the western Himalayan region and light isolated rainfall over the adjoining plains from December 24 to 25,” the IMD said in a weather bulletin issued on Friday evening. Meanwhile, the air quality in Gurugram continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category for the fourth consecutive day on Friday. The average air quality index (AQI) in the city was recorded at 316 around 4pm on Friday against 331 a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.According to the Air Quality Early Warning System (AQEWS) for Delhi, the air quality over the National Capital Region is likely to improve to the ‘poor’ category and remain the same over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cold-wave-alert-issued-in-gurugram-air-quality-remains-very-poor-101639827908721.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Beautification of part of historic lake in Kalyan to be completed by May 2022||By May 2022, a part of the historic Kala Talao in Kalyan (West) will have a musical fountain, a jetty, a new play area for kids and a better pathway. The work for Phase 1 of the beautification of the lake is 40% completed.“We have set a target of finishing the first phase of the project by May next year. This will give better space for the residents with a garden, new pathways, a jetty for boating and a one-of-its-kind musical fountain,” said Surendra Tengale, officer in-charge, Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL).The second phase of the project is yet to be started and is delayed due to land acquisition in the premises.Kala Talao is a historic lake in Kalyan, built by Adil Shah of Bijapur and located 1.5km north of Kalyan railway station. It covers around 24 acres. Earlier known as ‘Shenale’, the lake is presently managed and maintained by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and is utilised by the public for various recreational activities and cultural events including rituals etc. The name, Kala Talao, became popular as there was a mosque called Kali Masjid nearby.The total project cost is ₹16Cr. The work order for the project was issued in February 2021 and the estimated period for completion was stated as 12 months. With the pandemic, six months’ extension is given for the completion of the project.“Seeing the work of Kala Talao inching forward, the Kalyan locals are excited as this is the only place for us to hang out in the entire city. There are regular visitors at this lake for jogging while some even consider this as a gathering point,” said Anand Joshi, a 37-year-old resident.
18-12-2021||Delhi||Third-wave apprehension brace Delhi traders to tighten Covid-19 norms||With the gradual spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in the national capital, the impact of dwindling number of shoppers is not lost on traders as they get ready to face an impending third wave of the pandemic.Twelve more people tested positive for the Omicron variant in Delhi on Friday, taking their number to 22, and officials said most of them are "fully vaccinated" and "asymptomatic".Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Vyapar Mandal said they are "waiting and watching" for now, even as they have requested authorities to increase the police presence in the area."We have verbally requested the authorities to increase the number of police personnel in the area who can enforce the Covid protocol among those taking it casually. Mostly hawkers and beggars do not follow any such norms," he told PTI.While observing a "visible decrease in footfall", he said the market association will soon be sending circulars to shopkeepers in the area to enforce Covid protocols."We will soon be asking all our traders to enforce Covid protocols in their shops. In the last 10 days, there is a visible decrease in footfall in the market. The business is slowing down due to the increasing cases of Omicron in the city," Bhargava added.Atul Bhargava, president, National Delhi Traders Association said even though the risk of a crowded and congested area is small in Connaught Place (CP), they have already sent out circulars to all traders."We have asked them to strictly adhere to Covid protocols in the shops like sanitising, insisting on wearing masks and taking the temperature of people coming in. Since CP is a large and open area, it is not much of a problem. And with police presence, people usually follow Covid protocols," he said.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Thursday said many international travellers were turning out Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport here.On Tuesday, he had said that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus had not spread in the community so far and the situation was under control.In view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant, the Delhi health department Friday evening issued an order directing hospitals to augment human resources, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation and security staff, on a contract or through existing outsourcing agencies against the vacant posts and extra 25 per cent of the sanctioned strength till March 31.Traders in Sarojini Nagar, another bustling market area of south Delhi, have been asked to paste social distancing circles outside and follow all Covid protocols inside their shops.Ashok Randhawa, president, Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders Association, said they have sent out a circular asking shop helpers to get their second doses as soon as possible."Almost all our traders are fully vaccinated, those who are not have been asked to do it as soon as possible. We have told everyone to follow Covid norms inside the shops," Randhawa told PTI.Even though the crowds have gone down 20-25 per cent in the area, he added that people were rushing to do their shopping now for the next wedding season in case another lockdown is announced."Most of the buyers are those who want to finish their shopping now. We too our apprehensive about another lockdown since we have just started picking up business," he said.The official added that the association has also requested the authorities to increase the number of civil defence volunteers and police personnel in the area."Shopkeepers can only manage people inside the shops, there are barely any policemen in the market. If people see police, they put on their masks. The authorities need to ensure that proper norms are followed," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thirdwave-apprehension-brace-delhi-traders-to-tighten-covid-19-norms-101639824197298.html
18-12-2021||Other||‘2 women Maoists killed in encounter in Dantewada jungles’: Police||Chhattisgarh Police claim to have killed two women Maoists, collectively carrying ₹6 lakh reward, in an encounter with security personnel in Dantewada district of Bastar region on Saturday. Three locally-fabricated rifles, ammunition, communication devices, explosive material and camping material were recovered from the spot, the statement issued by Dantewada police stated. Superintendent of Police, Dantewada, Abhishek Pallava, said that the encounter took place in the wee hours of Saturday. “A team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an anti-Naxal operation, in Aranpur area, when at around 5.30 am, in a forest near Gonderas village, the encounter started,” said Pallava After the encounter ended, the bodies of two Maoists, Hidme Kohrame and Pojje, were recovered, police said.“The duo was carrying a reward of ₹5 lakh and ₹1 lakh on their heads respectively. Kohrame was active as an Area Committee Member of Malanger Area Committee of CPI (Maoist), while the second one was active as in-charge of Chetna Natya Mandli (CNM-a cultural wing) in the same squad,” the SP stated. 
18-12-2021||Pune||Man shot dead in broad daylight at Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: A man was shot dead in broad daylight during a public event in Sangvi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Saturday morning. The police have identified two persons and suspect it to be a plan of around 11 people to kill the victim over local rivalry. The deceased was identified as Yogesh Jagtap, 36, a resident of Gangardenagar in Katepuram area of Pimple Gurav in Pimpri-Chinchwad. He was at Katepuram chowk in Sangvi when a man shot multiple rounds at him. Two of the bullets hit Jagtap and the police have found two empty shells at the spot. “One hit his chest and one abdomen. He collapsed on the spot. We have a few eye witnesses whose statements we are taking to determine how he escaped,” said senior inspector Sunil Tonpe of Sangvi police station. The police are in the process of recovering CCTV footage from at least two cameras on the spot. A case will be registered at Sangvi police station under Sections 302 (murder), 109, 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(25), 3(27) of Arms Act along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act. The incident has happened within two weeks of another such incident of daylight shooting in Katraj where a man was pumped with 6 bullets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-at-pimpri-chinchwad-101639826288678.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: When the ABCD of healthy eating for children is as simple as Alemeno||Alemeno is an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven platform that uses “gamification’ to motivate children to eat nutritious food. Alemeno’s co-founders Deepak Gaikwad and Shubham Jain say they are on a mission to create a generation of healthy children and make mealtimes nutritious and effortless for parents. In the beginning…Deepak Gaikwad, a 23 -year-old IIT Kharagpur graduate in Ocean Engineering and Naval Architecture, spent his first two years designing ships for the Indian Navy, after completing his education in 2010. However, the startup bug bit and Gaikwad resigned from his job and started up ‘SmashReport’, which failed miserably. Gaikwad then decided to gain some experience by working for a startup. Jain, a BTech in Biotechnology and MS in Computational Biology, worked as a data scientist in several companies before starting up Alemeno. Says Gaikwad, “I joined Internshala which aspired to become a leading internship platform. They wanted to create something to monetise and we experimented a lot. It was then I realised that online learning is what children are attracted to. I learned a lot then and after five years left the startup to join WhiteHat Jr. I shared a flat in Gurgaon with Jain and soon realised we had good understanding of complementary skills and solving problems.”Early signsWith his experience working for the younger population’s online education, Gaikwad fundamentally believed that e-learning will change everything. Gaikwad and Jain discussed several ideas. Says Gaikwad, “I thought that e-learning platforms would be about enhancing concentration, physical health, learning basics of communication, but I was surprised that children as young as five-years old were being taught coding. Indian parents were happy to pay ₹30,000 to ₹40,000 after completing a trial class. Second, disruptive products which were launched for working professionals had started to penetrate the younger population and parents were ok with the exposure of gadgets and technology to their kids. This segment is open and I believed that various things could happen here.”“Back then there was a lot of talk about healthy food, being physically and mentally fit, not being anxious. We read that there are three things important for a child to be healthy –eat well, sleep well and exercise. We asked 100 parents about their biggest challenge while feeding their child. We had given them options like they don’t have time, it’s expensive to provide healthy food, they don’t have information about what nutritious food to give and they have to convince the child to eat. The highest and consistent rating received in the small survey was parents found it difficult to convince their children while eating. We got our direction and we researched what is called ‘picky or fussy-eating habits’ in children,” Gaikwad said.Workshop successJain and Gaikwad decided to build a solution to solve this problem of picky eating habits in children. Since the lockdown was announced at the time, they decided to conduct an online summer camp and conduct various engaging activities for kids. Elaborating more on the workshop, Gaikwad said, “It was a two-week camp in which 100 parents participated. We educated children about healthy eating habits. The children responded positively, however, it did not reflect in their actual behaviour. It was during a painting activity that children were made to draw a baby dinosaur and they were told that this dinosaur will grow if they eat fruits and vegetables every day. So, parents used to remind their children about the dinosaur’s growth and the children started eating fruits and vegetables regularly. In response, we sent them images of a grown-up dinosaur. When we compiled the results after the workshop, children were showing about 50 per cent jump in healthy food eating habits.”PrototypeDelighted over the results Gaikwad started to read more about gamification and its applications. Jain said, “I was sure that if we want to solve this problem on scale then it has to be tech-based solution. Gaikwad was also sure of this idea and we started brainstorming about the ways in which the product could be built, and what are the technologies that could be used. In November 2020, we decided to make an app which the children can see, and into which their parents can easily input the data.”“I took a sabbatical from my job in January 2021 and we started building the website and basic application. I was working as a developer initially and Gaikwad was working as a product manager. We hired one UI/UX intern. In April we ended up with the first version of application. We started running basic advertisements on social networks and we got people onto the app,” Jain said.“Since then, our strategy has been that we are bringing about 100 to 300 parents every month to use the application. We take feedback from them and implement some new ideas. With every iteration we bring on 100 more to the app and we see if there is an improvement,” he added.In the moneySays Jain, “We started with the paid version of the application in October 2021. In these two months we have got 20 paying customers. In the premium plan too, we give 20 to 25 days of using the application for free. After the free trial period is over, users have to pay first. We don’t force or nudge parents to avail the premium plan. They can continue using our free version of application.”“Parents paying ₹400 to Rs900 for the application is a very strong validation for us. In India, two to three per cent of users of any app are paid customers and that is considered to be a good number. In our case, more 1,200 users have installed our application so far and about 20 of them have paid. Now it’s matter of how we scale it up,” he stated.After getting good response for their app, Jain and Gaikwad started applying for grants and looking for external funding. Sharing their experience with investors, Jain said, “So far we have bootstrapped and invested ₹8 lakh. We applied for the Startup India Seed Fund through which we got a grant of ₹10 lakh. We will spend the grant money in the next four months and we expect to reach our target of 10,000 users using this grant.”“Meanwhile, we also got in touch with some investors, but they say ‘give us some more validation’. Investors are wary about whether parents will be immediately convinced to pay for an app which helps children just to eat food. They say numbers at scale would give them the confidence to invest money. Some have asked us to increase our subscription numbers up to 10,000 and paid customers from 20 to 200. Investors feel that those numbers will be interesting to look at. That’s what we are chasing. Once we can show that we are a two- or three-million-dollar value company then we will be able to raise $500K,” explained Jain.The strategy to scale When asked about their strategy to scale up, Gaikwad said, “At present we are getting a decent number of users and engagement. I am confident that our customer acquisition cost would come down to less than ₹10 in near future. The network effect will also come into play as more parents will know about it. We are experimenting with a small model of up to 5,000 users and only focussing on Pune, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Delhi. We have hardly covered 0.1 per cent of our target group users in these four cities. After acquiring the customers, making them more engaged is the second step. We are continuously improving our free and premium business model. We will soon increase our average ticket price and lifetime value (LTV) and we are confident that we will become unit positive in the next two to three months.”User acquisitionUsing his experience in marketing at the previous companies, Gaikwad has figured a way of acquiring users through Facebook ads. “We are acquiring a user for about ₹30 from Facebook,” he said.Jain said, “On Facebook, if a parent sees our app, about 90 per cent of them end up installing the app. This is very high conversion rate for any product.”“We are at a stage where about 30 per cent of them end up becoming active users of the application and about 5 to 6 per cent of users end up paying. Network effects have started kicking in a lot now. We do tell parents that they will get one-month free subscription for each referral download. Even without any such incentive, 10 to 15 per cent of our users are now through referral,” informed Jain.Gaikwad also claims that they will not show ads to children on their app. “We were very clear while building the product that we don’t want to show them ads and we don’t want to monetise them. We don’t like the advertising model of social network companies where the user becomes the product,” stated Gaikwad. Future plansGaikwad believes that users tell you how and in which direction the product should go. “We are continuously assessing the overall user experience and their feedback. We are able to gather some directions parents are giving to us while going ahead. We are getting queries about getting a nutritionist appointment online through our app, nutritional information and what healthy food should be given to children and how to make kids eat on their own.”“At present there is no connection between the parents and the child psychologist or nutritionist directly. We plan to introduce it at later stage. The consultation add on would be entirely online and through our app,” he added. “We don’t want to build anything which might be addictive or harmful in the long run and hence we have medical experts on our advisory panel including Dr Krishna Dutt, a child psychologist and professor at St George Medical College in Lucknow. Dr Dutt runs an organisation called Asmita, which works for children with attention deficit disorder. He advises us to set every step in the product,” stated Gaikwad.Fine printOfficially registered in Thane the Alemeno safety net is that the firm only recommends (and show images of) fruits and vegetables as per WHO and government guidelines. “We don’t suggest or recommend any specific fruit or vegetable to eat. However, in case of allergy to certain products like peanuts, parents are advised to consult their own doctors or nutritionist. We will be putting a disclaimer about this on the app when the user subscribes. In future, we may add a feature asking parents about any allergy to their kids and then avoid showing those products to the particular user,” says Gaikwad.“The Alemeno gamification gives kids a sense of achievement in doing things beyond ordinary such as helping animals grow and saving the earth. It makes regular mealtime fun. The other thing that works for such gameplay is that it allows self-determination with regard to what to eat. Children learn about healthy food through small nudges and through exploration which is satisfying for their curiosity,” says - Dr Krishna Dutt, child psychologist and professor at St George Medical College in Lucknow. As for the use of smartphones, Dr Dutt adds, “Technology is a tool and its usage by children is inevitable; we should ensure this tool is used properly and for the right reasons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-when-the-abcd-of-healthy-eating-for-children-is-as-simple-as-alemeno-101639824968543.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi return to UP's Amethi, to hold padyatra in lost Congress bastion||Amid the mega foundation laying ceremony of Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday arrived at his lost bastion Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, along with his sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to lead a 6-km-long padyatra (foot march) ahead of the 2022 UP elections.The Wayanad MP is visiting Amethi after nearly two and a half years and for the first time since he lost the battalion in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.The brother-sister duo arrived in Lucknow on Saturday morning and are expected to reach Amethi by road. State Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu will also join them for the padyatra from Ramlila ground in Jagdishpur to Harimau. As many as 50,000 Congress workers are expected to arrive for the foot march.The padyatra is a part of the Congress’s nationwide campaign 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan' launched on November 14 to expose the alleged mismanagement of the economy by the Centre. Additionally, Rahul Gandhi will also hold 'chaupals' in rural areas.Rahul had represented Amethi, a stronghold of the Nehru-Gandhi family, for 15 years in Lok Sabha. However, in 2019, he was defeated in Amethi by the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Smriti Irani by 55,120 votes but won from Wayanad in Kerala.Gandhi’s visit to Amethi comes on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur to lay the foundation stone for Ganga Expressway as part of the election campaign. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is holding a rally in Raebareli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-return-to-up-s-amethi-to-hold-padyatra-in-lost-congress-bastion-101639823505752.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron: Delhi converts these four private hospitals as dedicated centres||The Delhi government on Saturday converted four private hospitals into dedicated centres to treat the Omicron variant of coronavirus.The private hospitals that now provide treatment for the highly contagious variant that was detected last month in South Africa are Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad.This is besides Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital that has so far been patients afflicted by the new strain of Covid-19 in the national capital.Delhi Govt converts 4 pvt hospitals - Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max (Saket), Fortis (Vasant Kunj) & Batra Hospital (Tughlakabad) - as Omicron dedicated centres. A total of 5 hospitals in Delhi, including LNJP hospital, will now provide the treatment for the variant.Ten new cases of the Omicron variant were registered in Delhi on Friday when the national capital saw the largest spike in cases in nearly four months with 85 fresh infections.Health minister Satyendar Jain said, “Ten new cases of Omicron variant have been reported in Delhi, taking the total number of cases of the strain here to 20. Of the 20 patients, 10 have been discharged.”So far, most patients of the new variant have shown mild symptoms and have been discharged within a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-delhi-converts-these-four-private-hospitals-as-dedicated-centres-101639819699450.html
18-12-2021||Other||Srinagar records season’s coldest night as mercury dips to -6||Srinagar on Saturday witnessed the season’s coldest night with the temperature dropping to minus 6 degrees Celsius.The drop in the night temperature by several notches was recorded across Kashmir. The cold has left waterbodies in the upper reaches frozen.The MeT department had already predicted intense winter and a drop in the temperature following light snowfall in the upper reaches. On Thursday, the higher reaches of Kashmir received light snowfall.Ski resort of Gulmarg recorded minus 8.5 degrees while two days ago, the mercury plunged to minus 10 degrees Celsius - the coldest night of the winter at the resort this winter.The Jammu and Kashmir MeT department said the nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 13th day.Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of -6 degrees Celsius. Last week, the temperature dipped to as low as minus 3.6 degrees Celsius. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -8.3°C. It was -7°C in Konibal, - 6.1°C in Kupwara, and -6°C in Qazigund.In the Union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded bone-chilling - 19.1°C while it was – 17°C in Leh during the night.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley — Chillai Kalan — starts from December 21.There is a forecast of snowfall on Christmas Eve.MeT office said that widespread moderate-to-heavy snowfall is most likely during December 23 and 25.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with a 40-day intense period from December 21 (locally called Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days which are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and then 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srinagar-records-season-s-coldest-night-as-mercury-dips-to-6-101639819749275.html
18-12-2021||Patna||Prominent trader gunned down, rural doctor shot at in separate incidents in Bihar||A 45-year-old prominent chicken trader of Naugachhia was shot dead late on Friday night at Rajendra Colony More in Patna, officials said. He was returning home from the market along with his brother. The deceased was identified as Mohammad Ahsan, a resident of Ujani under Naugacchia police station area. He fought the assembly election in 2015 as an independent candidate from Naugachhia constituency. Naugacchia SP Sushant Singh Saroj said that the deceased was travelling to Ujani village on his bike when two bike-borne assailants coming from the opposite direction shot him from point-blank range. “The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained,” said Saroj. When asked if the murder was a result of political or business rivalry, Saroj said the investigation will throw light on the situation. A case has been registered based on the statement of the deceased’s brother but there have been no arrests made so far. Police have found Ahsan’s bike, mobile phone and empty cartridges from the spot. Police said that earlier in 2020 armed assailants shot five rounds on him near Bhawanipur Tower chowk under Rangra police outpost when Ahsan was on his way to Naugachhia from Kursela (Purnea). Agitated over the incident, on Saturday morning, locals blocked Naugachhia-Bhagalpur road and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. They burnt tyres and shouted slogans against the administration. All the market establishment of the Naugachhia bazar was shut over the protests. In another incident, unidentified criminals shot at a rural medical practitioner identified as Mohammad Yahia Ansari (50) at Choukitand village under Khaira police station of Jamui district. The incident took place at around 10.30 pm when Ansari was on way to his home in Choukitand from an unknown destination after attending a patient. As soon as he reached the outskirt of the village, two criminals intercepted him and pumped four bullets into his body. Ansari was rushed to Sadar hospital where the doctor referred him to Patna Medical College and Hospital in critical condition. Sadar SDPO Dr Rakesh Kumar said police are investigating the matter and miscreants would be nabbed soon. 
18-12-2021||Gurugram||Multi-crore heist in Gurugram: One more aide of gangster held||The special task force (STF) on Friday arrested an associate of gangster Vikas Langharpuria, who is suspected to have planned the theft of ₹40 crore from the maintenance office of a residential society in Sector 84 on August 4. The police have so far arrested 16 people for their involvement in the case and an IPS officer has been suspended for his alleged involvement as well. STF said Ajit Badsi, a close aide of Langharpuria, was arrested from Rohtak bypass on Friday. Badsi has 30 criminal cases of murder, attempt to murder, loot, dacoity and theft registered against him in Hansi, Bhiwani and Gurugram, said police. STF deputy inspector general Satheesh Balan said, “Badsi was one of the key suspects who had executed the theft. We are interrogating him regarding his involvement in the heist and to identify other suspects in the case,” he said. According to police, the theft was committed at the maintenance office of the residential society in Sector 84 on August 4. On August 20, when an employee of the maintenance company went to collect the cash to deposit it in the bank, he realised that it was missing. After scanning the CCTV camera footage, the company discovered that the money had been stolen.Police said a case was registered at Kherki Daula police station on August 21 on the complaint of one Santosh Singh, an employee of Alpha G Corp Management Services Private Ltd. that manages the project Gurgaon One in Sector 84. The initial complaint did not mention the amount stolen. However, in a supplementary statement on August 26, the amount that was stolen was assumed to be around ₹50 lakh.Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The case was transferred to the STF on October 30 after allegations of unaccounted money and the involvement of former deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Dheeraj Setia came to the fore. Police have arrested at least 16 people in the case including three doctors, aides of gangster Langharpuria, and Vikas Gulia, a Delhi Police ASI. STF have also issued a notice to DCP Setia, who was suspended earlier this month for allegedly accepting a bribe. On November 11, the STF team arrested two Gurugram doctors -- Dr Sachinder Jain Nawal and Dr Gurpartap Singh alias Dr GP Singh -- for their alleged involvement in the multi-crore heist. The Gurugram Police said then that they suspected the stolen amount was nearly ₹4 crore. However, the STF later revealed that over ₹40 crore had been stolen and recovered nearly ₹5.8 crore from the arrested suspects. Police also arrested two employees of Alpha Corp for their alleged role--one of them had passed the information to Dr Nawal, following which the heist was planned. “Shyam Singh was associated with us since 2007 and Praveen was with us for five years. How they got involved in this case, we have no clue,” said a spokesperson of Alpha Corp.On December 10, additional sessions judge Jasbir Singh dismissed the bail applications of two accused, Dr Ashwani Kumar Tehlan and Sandeep Bhadwar. The court observed that, “The facts suggest that a case which was initially a theft of ₹50 lakh, subsequently, turned out to be a case of more than ₹30-40 crore and it may be of a bigger magnitude if the investigation is carried out with due care and caution. It is a case where an attempt has been made by the accused persons to cover up the heist by way of giving huge amount of bribe to DCP Dheeraj Setia.” 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM lays stone of bridge on Haripur Nala in Ropar Kandi||In a relief to residents of the Ropar Kandi area, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday laid the foundation stone of the high-level bridge on Haripur Nala and approach road up to 3km at Purkhali village of Ropar district. Also read: Punjab polls: Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni launches political partyThis was a long-pending demand because during the monsoon, people of 40 villages used to get cut off from the state capital Chandigarh. He said even students faced inconvenience in reaching their educational institutions in the absence of the bridge and approach road. Channi said that the bridge would reduce the distance to Chandigarh by 20km. He said when he first became MLA, villages of the area were part of Chamkaur Sahib constituency but after delimitation in 2012 they came under Ropar segment. Despite continued efforts, he said successive governments ignored his demand of a bridge on Haripur Nala. But now after becoming CM, he had managed to launch the project. The 82-metre long and 12-metre wide bridge would be built at a cost of ₹8.24 crore and would be ready in nine months. He said tenders have been allotted and work has started on the project. Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Singh Dhillon, PEPSU chairman Satinder Singh, Punjab State Backward Class Commission vice-chairperson Gurjnderpal Singh Billa, Ropar Improvement Trust chairman Sukhwinder Singh Whisky, Congress district president Ashwani Sharma, deputy commissioner Sonali Giri and Ropar police chief Vivek S Soni were present on the occasion. 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Instead of doing Bhangra…’: Amarinder’s double attack on Channi over interception of Pak drone||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday took a dig at the Congress-led state government after a Chinese-made drone from Pakistan was intercepted in Ferozpur near the international border.The drone, which was flying at a low height, was brought down by the Border Security Force (BSF) late on Friday.Amarinder Singh slammed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in a post on Twitter. “Instead of doing Bhangra all day CM Punjab should advice his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode,” he said.The former chief minister was referring to Channi’s bhangra performance at an event earlier in December.The BSF has shot down two such drones in the Punjab frontier area that originated in Pakistan and were carrying arms and ammunition in the past as well.BSF director general (DG) Pankaj Kumar Singh told reporters on November 30 that 67 drones have been sighted along the border in Punjab and Jammu areas this year.Instead of doing Bhangra all day CM Punjab should advice his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode. Also tell your party president (if he listens to you) to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab! https://t.co/oLBNydBPH2"Right now, the frequency of drones that are coming to our country are fairly small and these are by-and-large Chinese-made drones...they are very good...and carrying small payloads and in 95 per cent cases they are carrying drugs," Singh said.Amarinder Singh's next jibe was at Punjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu, with whom he had a power tussle when he was with the Congress party.“Also tell your party president (if he listens to you) to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab!” Amarinder Singh tweeted.Navjot Singh Sidhu in November called Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan as his 'bada bhai' (elder brother), attracting widespread flak from political parties. The cricketer-turned-politician also faced condemnation from his party colleagues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-launches-double-attack-on-punjab-govt-over-interception-of-pak-drone-101639813718555.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-born German writer Rajvinder Singh passes away in Berlin||Kapurthala-born German writer Rajvinder Singh died at a hospital in Berlin after a brief illness, his family said on Saturday. He was 66. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. Also read: Kapurthala-born poet to tell Punjab’s story to EuropeRajvinder, who had been staying in Berlin since 1981, aimed at showcasing Indian literature in world literary circles. A three-time German poet laureate, he wrote his PhD thesis in semiotics at Berlin’s Technical University and was translating Punjabi novel Parsa by Jnanpith Award winning author Gurdial Singh in German. He admitted that it was not an easy task as both languages have different dictions. Besides Punjabi and German, he also wrote in English, Hindi and Urdu. Rajvinder, a former national fellow of the Indian Institute of Advanced Study (IIAS) in Shimla, spent his initial years in Chandigarh and Jammu. His poems are inscribed in stone, and displayed at four public places, which include the city park and three senior schools in Trier, one of the oldest German cities where Karl Marx was born and brought up. “The Sikh social worldview teaches us to go beyond our personal ‘self-ness’ and care about the ‘other-ness’ as well,” the poet and dubbing actor had said in an interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabborn-german-writer-rajvinder-singh-passes-away-in-berlin-101639817707905.html
18-12-2021||Punjab||Punjab polls: Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni launches political party||Gurnam Singh Charuni of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)-Charuni unit, one of the prominent faces of the year-long farm agitation, on Saturday launched his political party in Punjab. The state is set to see a high-stakes assembly election in the next few months.Speaking to reporters at the Chandigarh Press Club, Charuni said the new outfit, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party, is planning to field candidates at all the 117 seats in the state.He said politics in India has become polluted and there is a need to change it. “Policymakers are promoting capitalism, policies are being framed to favour capitalists. Nothing is done for the common man, the poor. So, we are launching our new party, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party,” the farmer leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In November, Charuni had said he would not contest the elections but would field candidates and present a model of governance. “We will form our party for the polls... If our government comes to Punjab, the entire country in 2024 (when Lok Sabha elections are scheduled to be held) will look up to the Punjab model,” Charuni had said on November 25.“We are running 'Mission Punjab' -- those who have votes should rule, and not the ones who have money,” he had said, adding that if the former rules, the votes will be made in voters' favour but if it is the latter, then laws will be made in favour of the wealthy.As the Centre repealed the agricultural laws, ending a year-long agitation by the farmers, Charuni refused to thank any political party or leader for the same and credited the farmers for the feat.The top contenders for the upcoming election are the ruling Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) alliance.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has, meanwhile, formed a poll alliance with former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/punjab-assembly-election/punjab-polls-farmer-leader-gurnam-singh-charuni-launches-political-party-101639811226074.html
18-12-2021||Patna||23 IPS officers get promotion as DIG, IG, ADG and DG in Bihar||Ahead of New Year, the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar gifted promotion and selection grades to 31 officers of Indian Police Services (IPS). The departmental promotion committee on Friday evening, comprising the chief secretary, board of revenue member, the Director-General of Police and home secretary, cleared the names of police officers for promotion to the next senior rank. People familiar with the matter in the home department said that most of the posts in the police headquarters were upgraded. According to a notification issued by the Bihar home department under the sign of Home Secretary Santhil Kumar, three IPS officers of Additional Director General (ADG) rank have been promoted to Director General (DG) rank, two from Inspector-General to ADG rank and five from Deputy Inspector General (DIG) to Inspector General (IG) rank. A total of 13 IPS officers of the rank of Superintendent of Police (SP)/Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) have been promoted as the DIG while seven officers of the 2009 batch and one from the 2008 batch have been given selection grades. All the promotions will be effective from January 1, 2022. The three senior IPS officers of the 1991 and the 1992 batch promoted as DG are ADG (Wireless) Amrendra Kumar Ambedkar, ADGs Praveen Vasisth and Preeta Verma. Praveen and Preeta, who are currently on central deputation, were given “paper promotion”. The IGs promoted to ADG rank are central range IG Sanjay Singh and Darbhanga range IG Ajitabh Kumar. The DIGs promoted as IGs are STF DIG Binay Kumar, deputy director Bihar police academy Prantosh Kumar Das, Munger DIG Pankaj Sinha, Koshi range DIG Lalan Mohan Prasad and home guard DIG Jitendra Kumar Mishra. The 13 IPS officers promoted to DIG rank include senior SP Patna Upendra Sharma, Bhagalpur SSP Nitasha Guria, Rail SP Bikash Burman, Bihar special auxiliary police (BSAP-9) commandant Satyaveer Singh, BSAP-14 commandant Kim, BSAP-13 commandant Ashwini Kumar, Supaul SP Manoj Kumar, Katihar SP Bikas Kumar, Vigilance SP Amjad Ali, BSAP (AIG) Arvind Thakur, Katihar rail SP Dilip Kumar Mishra, Sanjay Singh and Sunil Kumar. Their posting would be withheld on December 31. Those who have been given selection grades are—2009 batch IPS officer Navin Chandra Jha, Babu Ram, Jayant Kant, MS Dhillon, Harpreet Kaur, Mohammad Abdullah, Binod Kumar and 2008 batch IPS officer Vivekanand. 
18-12-2021||City||More chill ahead: Forecasters say Delhi temperature to fall below 5°C on Sunday||National capital Delhi witnessed a cold morning on Saturday, recording a minimum temperature of six degrees Celsius. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum is likely to be 20 degrees Celsius.This is the lowest temperature so far this season, according to IMD.  There is also a possibility of shallow fog, the weather department said.According to IMD data, a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius was recorded in Delhi (in Ridge and Ayanagar areas) while Safdarjung (which provides representative data for Delhi) recorded a minimum of 6 degrees Celsius.The IMD had earlier issued a warning about a frosty weekend in Delhi. “The temperature over the weekend is likely to fall slightly to around 5-6°C. The trend of dipping temperature was seen across many states in north India, and similar recordings are likely over the weekend,” a senior Met official said on Friday.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, said this drop in temperatures in Delhi was because of the cold winds blowing from the northern side of the country. On December 21-22, temperatures could increase slightly under the impact of a western disturbance, he added."Over the weekend, some parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) could also see the temperatures dropping to around 4 degrees Celsius,” said Palawat.Meanwhile, the national capital's average air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 280 at 8 am on Saturday, which falls under the ‘poor category’. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.A dip in temperature is witnessed across north India - on Friday, Narnaul in Haryana recorded a low of 3 degrees Celsius, the temperature in Punjab's Amritsar was 0.7 degrees Celsius, and Churu in Rajasthan shivered at -1.1 degrees, as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-chill-ahead-forecasters-say-delhi-temperature-to-fall-below-5-c-on-sunday-101639811824492.html
18-12-2021||Patna||‘Bihar’s fertility rate drops to 3 from 4.3’: Chief minister Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said that the state government made arrangements to increase the level of awareness among females, including young girls, to bring down the fertility rate in the state to 3 from 4.3 previously.“We decided to make arrangements for education up to Intermediate level in all the panchayats, which would reduce the fertility rate. We emphasised the need to educate girls,” said the CM. He pointed out that as of now, the fertility rate in the state has come down to 3. “The way we are working, the fertility rate in Bihar will come down to 2,” he added.Addressing a ceremony on the occasion of commencement of construction work of Kamla barrage at Jayanagar in Madhubani district and the upgradation, strengthening and paving work of Kamla Balan left and right embankment phase-1, the CM said with these schemes lakhs of the population will get relief from irrigation facilities besides reducing floods in the region. The scheme was being executed under the aegis of the state water resources department (WRD).“There are two types of work in the WRD. The department had to work on taking flood relief measures and irrigation management together. That’s why we instructed the department to conduct its operation in two parts so that both these works can be performed smoothly,” the CM averred.The CM told the gathering that earlier, no work had been done for flood relief in the state. “When people gave us a chance to work, we implemented the disaster management programme. He said that in June last year, he had asked the WRD officials to convert the weir on the Kamla river into a barrage to create additional irrigation capacity.“The weir was built in 1970. Due to the rise in water level, now it was necessary to build a barrage on Kamala. With the completion of this work, people will get protection from floods, as well as irrigation facility will be available to them,” the CM added. The chief minister also reiterated the ill effects of liquor consumption on health. Kumar imposed a liquor ban in the state following a demand particularly raised by women of the state in 2015. The CM called upon the women to ensure strict vigil on any violation of prohibition in the state for which yet another campaign would be launched on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-fertility-rate-drops-to-3-from-4-3-chief-minister-nitish-kumar-101639811888721.html
18-12-2021||Bangalore||Unrest in Karnataka's Belagavi over viral video amid border dispute with Maharashtra, 27 held||27 people had been arrested for attacking the Sangolli Rayanna statue in the Belagavi district of Karnataka, informed the police."27 arrested in 3 police station limits in Belagavi for attacking the Sangolli Rayanna statue," said K Tyagarajan, commissioner of police, Belagavi.Tension erupted in Belagavi after a purported video that showed some people pouring black ink on the face of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Sankey Tank Road in Bengaluru went viral.Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) followers gathered in Belagavi and protested against the Karnataka government at Dharmaveer Sambhaji Maharaj Chowk.The miscreants smashed around 26 vehicles of the Karnataka government and police at Belagavi.The protestors alleged that Kannada goons have defaced a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bangalore."The insult on Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bengaluru is an insult to Hindu society as well. Shivaji maharaja has dedicated His life to Hindu samaj. Act of Some miscreants insulting the statue of Shivaji maharaja is highly condemnable," said Abhay Patil, MLA Belagavi constituency."I request the chief minister as well as Home Minister to take appropriate action against the culprits behind the incident. The incident is an insult to the nation. I request the Chief Minister and Home Minister to take proper action against the culprits behind it and make sure this kind of incident will not occur again," he added.Meanwhile, the Karnataka Home minister said, "Strict action will be taken against anyone who indulged in such incidents, no one will be spared," said Araga Jnanendra"."I condemn the incident in which miscreants damaged the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a legendary hero of the state," he said."Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji Maharaj, they are the pride of all of us. Every citizen is a proud and proud Indian son because of such personality," he stated."In their name, some mischief, misconduct, and degrading linguistic and fraternal affiliation is an inexorable offense," he further stated."I have received information on this, and have already filed an FIR related to the Bangalore and Belgavi incident and some have been detained. I urge the people of the state to cooperate in maintaining peace and harmony," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/unrest-in-karnataka-s-belagavi-over-viral-video-amid-border-dispute-with-maharashtra-27-held-101639809637339.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||16 students of Navi Mumbai school test positive for Covid-19||Sixteen students of a school at Ghansoli in Navi Mumbai have tested positive for coronavirus and admitted to a local Covid Care Centre, a civic official said on Saturday. They are students of Classes 8 to 11, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) official said. "The father of one of the students had returned from Qatar on December 9. The man, who resides with his family at Gothivali in Ghansoli, had tested negative for the Covid-19 infection. However, when his family members were tested, his son, a Class 11 student of the school, was found infected," he said. After this, the process to test all the students in the school - Shetkari Shikshan Sanstha - began, and so far, 16 were found positive, he added. "Till now, 811 students in the school have been tested over the last three days and this exercise will be carried out on 600 others on Saturday," the official said. The infected students are undergoing treatment at the facility in Vashi, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/16-students-of-navi-mumbai-school-test-positive-for-covid19-101639808940214.html
18-12-2021||Bangalore||BBMP clarifies on mandatory quarantine for international arrivals amid Omicron threat||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has clarified that no decision has been taken regarding the compulsory quarantine for international arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countries, even if they test negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Issuing a letter on Friday, the BBMP said, “Any decision taken in this (compulsory institutional quarantine for foreign arrivals from 'at-risk' countries) regard would be after due consultation of experts and in conformity with GoI and State govt guidelines.”The Bengaluru civic body's clarification comes days after Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar, in view of the Omicron variant, said that all international travellers coming to Karnataka will have to undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test.Dr Sudhakar had said on November 30 that those who test negative for Covid-19 will be home quarantined for a duration of seven days.Also Read| Karnataka government mandates RT-PCR test and quarantine for int’l passengers"Those who are symptomatic and negative will have to undergo testing at home on the fifth day. Asymptomatic will be tested on the seventh day. If positive, they will be immediately hospitalized. And they will be treated separately," he had said.Such passengers will only be allowed to move out if they test negative after the quarantine, the Karnataka health minister also said.Till now, the state has reported eight cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, which was first detected in South Africa. Health minister Dr Sudhakar told news agency ANI on Friday that all primary and secondary contacts of these eight patients are being tracked. "We have tested them and are taking a lot of steps so that it does not spread," he said.The Karnataka government is working towards establishing a Genome sequencing lab that will conduct tests for Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bbmp-clarifies-on-mandatory-quarantine-for-int-l-arrivals-amid-omicron-threat-101639794367596.html
18-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Bommai pays last respects to former Union minister RL Jalappa||Kolar (Karnataka) [India], December 18 (ANI): Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday paid his last respects to former Union minister RL Jalappa who passed away due to health complications.Earlier, the Chief Minister condoled the death of veteran politicians and former union minister RL Jalappa and said that he was credited with the establishment of many educational institutions and social work."RL Jalappa was credited with the establishment of many educational institutions and social work. May the Lord give peace to their soul. I pray for the family and the fans to give them the strength to overcome this pain," said an official statement issued by CMO.On Friday, the veteran politician who served as a Union minister passed away due to health complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-pays-last-respects-to-former-union-minister-rl-jalappa-101639792424904.html
18-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron detected in US returnee, who took 3 doses of Pfizer vaccine: BMC||One of the new patients in Mumbai who tested positive for the Omicron variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus after returning from New York had taken three doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday in a press release. Elaborating on the particular Omicron case, the Mumbai civic body said that the 29-year-old man was tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the city's airport on November 9. His results, subsequently, came back positive and after his samples were sent for genome sequencing, they confirmed the presence of the Omicron variant.The man had taken three doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, sold under the brand name Comirnaty, in the United States. He, however, was asymptomatic and Omicron's presence was confirmed only after testing, the BMC release added.Soon after the person tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, he was admitted to a hospital as a precautionary measure. The civic authorities also initiated contact tracing, but two of his “high-risk contacts” tested negative for Covid-19, according to the official statement.Notably, US pharmaceutical firm Pfizer expressed concerns on Friday that the pandemic could extend to 2024 amid reports that the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus was five times more likely to reinfect people than its predecessor, Delta.Pfizer developed its Covid-19 vaccine with Germany's BioNTech SE. The companies have been developing a version of their vaccine tailored to combat the Omicron variant, but have not yet decided whether it will be needed. They expect to start a clinical trial for the updated vaccine in January, according to a Reuters report citing Pfizer executives familiar with the developments.Meanwhile, with the recently reported Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the updated tally of Omicron patients in the country's financial capital has gone up to 14, including the five who are from outside Mumbai.It is to be noted, however, that 13 of these patients have already been discharged from hospitals. In fact, none of the 14 Omicron patients found in the city so far have reported any severe symptoms of the infectious disease, the BMC said in its release. The cumulative state-wide tally of Omicron patients in Maharashtra has reached 40, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-detected-in-us-returnee-who-took-3-doses-of-pfizer-vaccine-bmc-101639791054052.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to reopen for Class 6 and above from today; air quality remains in very ‘poor category’||Schools in the national capital will reopen for Class 6 and above from Saturday, a day after approval was given by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the national capital region and adjoining areas. On Friday, the CAQM reviewed the restrictions imposed on the reopening of schools, colleges and educational institutions."All the government, government aided, unaided recognized, NDMC, MCDs and Delhi Cantonment Board Schools will reopen from December 18 for classes 6 onwards," the Delhi government said in a statement issued right after the CAQM's order on Friday.For students up to Class 5, physical classes will resume from December 27, taking into consideration the Air Quality Index (AQI) and the winter vacation schedule, the CAQM said.However, classes will be conducted in a hybrid model with both online and offline lectures. Teachers, parents and experts welcomed the above decision as they pointed out that students were deprived of interpersonal interactions for a long timeEarlier, schools in Delhi were set to resume physical classes from November 29. However, environment minister Gopal Rai announced on December 2 that schools will be closed until further orders.His statement came as the Supreme Court pulled up the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led- Delhi government for resuming classes amid an alarming rise in the levels of air pollution in the Capital."When the government implemented work from home for adults then why are children being forced to go to school?," the Supreme Court had asked the government on December 2.Meanwhile, the air quality in Delhi remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday with the Air Quality Index (AQI) at 319, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India. A layer of fog has been formed in the Capital and temperature is expected to drop further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-for-class-6-and-above-from-today-101639786295019.html
18-12-2021||Gurugram||Right-wing groups disrupt namaz again||Right-wing groups disrupted namaz at two parks in Udyog Vihar and a site in Sector 22 on Friday, even as Muslims performed prayers at five other public sites, on the first Friday after the Gurugram administration withdrew permission to perform prayers on 20 sites where they were previously allowed. No new sites have been designated since.According to eyewitnesses and police officers deployed in Udyog Vihar, Muslims started gathering in groups at the two parks there as well as in Sector 22 on Friday afternoon even as people from right-wing outfits reached there and asked Muslims to leave. The police intervened after tempers ran high and both sides resorted to sloganeering. The Muslims finally left after the police asked them to find an alternative place to pray.Meanwhile, namaz was performed peacefully at sites in Sector 29, Sector 44, Sector 22, Sector 56 and Badshahpur as Hindu groups did not turn up at these places to create disruptions. Right-wing leaders later said they were focusing on other sites and could not reach these places.District administration officials would only confirm that there was an “incident” in Udyog Vihar, but added that there was no law and order situation anywhere in the city.Mohammad Adeeb, a former Rajya Sabha member and a Gurugram resident, on Wednesday filed a contempt petition before the Supreme Court against Haryana chief secretary and the director general of police for not complying with a 2018 order of the apex court in which the court laid down guidelines to prevent mob vigilantism of the kind that Gurugram has been seeing every Friday.The court, however, is yet to take cognizance of the plea.Hindu groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in public spaces in Gurugram for the past three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to pray on Fridays. However, last month, the number of sites was reduced to 20 after members of right-wing groups and locals started protesting against Friday prayers and disrupted namaz gatherings at several places. Muslim groups claim that they are forced to use public spaces as there are not enough mosques in the city.There are only 13 mosques in Gurugram for its 500,000-strong Muslim population, Gurgaon Muslim Council members said, adding that Waqf land in several places has been encroached upon in recent years.A senior official of the district administration, who asked not to be named, said they received information regarding disruptions at two sites on Friday but that the situation was controlled within a short time. “Police were deployed at all sites and they intervened when things started getting out of hand. We are yet to finalise the sites for namaz prayers — the exercise will take some more time. Until then, Muslims can offer prayers at the old designated sites with permission from area residents,” he said.Permission to pray at the 20 designated sites was withdrawn after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said last Friday that namaz in open spaces will not be tolerated. The chief minister said new sites would be earmarked after discussions between all stakeholders and the district administration. That is yet to happen.Arif Khan, executive with a private telecommunication company in Udyog Vihar, said they have been offering namaz in the park for the past six years and no one had ever objected to it before. “We were about to start our prayers when Hindu groups started shouting slogans and forced us to say ”Bharat Mata Ki Jai” and ”Hindustan Zindabad”. Even after we shouted these slogans, they asked us to leave the park and even threatened us,” he said.A video of the alleged incident was circulated on social media and it purportedly showed a few youth, sporting saffron cloths, behaving in an aggressive manner and forcing Muslims to chant slogans with them.Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson, Gurgaon Muslim Council, said it seems like vigilantism has taken over law and order in the city. “The far-right groups are defining how juma namaz will be offered and where. The Udyog Vihar Phase 5 incident is just one example of vigilantes forcing Muslims to raise ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans. One can be assured that no police action will be taken against them. When Haryana CM made a statement around two months ago, that people should honour the 37 agreed upon places where namaz can happen in Gurgaon, the administration couldn’t implement or honour that statement. Instead, it kept reducing prayer sites from 37 to 20 and finally to six. However, after the CM went back on his stand, the police and administration lost no time in denying Muslims the right to offer namaz in open places,” he said.Ahmad added that in spite of the Muslim community approaching the administration this week to resolve the namaz row, they haven’t been called to discuss the matter. “The Gurgaon Muslim community strongly feels that the right wing groups will continue to oppress minorities and fulfil their agenda of hate politics,” he said.Praveen Yadav, a member of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, said they have been protesting against namaz happening in the open for the past three months. “We have already informed the Muslims that we will not let them offer prayers; yet, they are coming to the parks. We deployed more than 50 people at one of the sites and did not let them pray there.”Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police, said there were disruptions at two sites in Udyog Vihar but the police teams controlled the situation before it got ugly. “We have not received any complaint as yet; if Muslims want to file a complaint, we will register a case against those who disrupted namaz on Friday,” he said
18-12-2021||Delhi||SC declines plea for bench change||The Supreme Court on Friday declined a request by victims of the 2020 Delhi riots to send their petition, pending before a bench headed by chief justice of the Delhi high court, to another bench, but directed the high court to expeditiously decide the matter, preferably within three months.The victims, led by Mohammad Nazim, approached the top court with identical demands made before the Delhi high court for registering criminal cases against some Bharatiya Janata Party leaders for alleged hate speeches that fuelled the riots, leading to 53 deaths and the destruction of property and houses. The petition also demanded for an independent probe by a special investigation team (SIT) comprising officers from outside Delhi into the incidents of riots and the preservation of CCTV footage.Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the victims, said that on March 4, 2020, the top court directed this matter to be heard expeditiously by the Delhi high court while transferring it from Supreme Court. After this order, the high court took up the case on March 6 last year, but since then hearings have been adjourned on several occasions on the ground that they will be taken up after conclusion the of arguments in another incident involving violence against Jamia Milia Islamia students.“We appreciate your concern. The only relief we can grant you is to ask the high court to hear this matter early and dispose of it,” said a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai.Gonsalves insisted the top court to hear the matter as he required less than an hour to demonstrate how the alleged hate speech by some people including BJP leaders required to be probed for instigating the rioters. When the bench was not inclined, Gonsalves said, “The minority community is losing hope. Send it back to another bench. People are losing faith. What justice will be there for Jamia students, what justice will be there for those affected in Delhi riots….Even after almost two years, the case has yet not started in both Jamia ma tter and Delhi riots matters.”The bench refused, saying, “That we cannot do”.However, the bench added, “The writ petition is dismissed… We request the high court to dispose of the writ petition filed by the petitioner expeditiously, preferably within a period of three months from today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scdeclines-plea-for-bench-change-101639777423757.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||52-year-old succumbs to Covid in Panchkula; 15 new cases in tricity||A 52-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula on Friday, becoming the second virus-related fatality in the district in December.The patient was a resident of Sector 21, and had multiple ailments, including hypertension, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease.So far in December, Mohali has reported one fatality, while no death has been logged in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, 15 fresh Covid cases were detected in the tricity. As many as six cases surfaced in Mohali, followed by five in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula.For the past 13 days, the single-day tally of the tricity has remained in double digits.In Mohali, four cases were reported from Dhakoli and two from Gharuan. Chandigarh’s infections were reported from Sectors 29, 49 and 51, Khuda Alisher and Manimajra. In Panchkula, the cases cropped up in Sectors 4, 9 and 17.With this, tricity’s active cases reached 157, including 74 patients in Chandigarh, 53 in Mohali and 30 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,678 positive cases, of which 64,528 have recovered and 1,076 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded till date are 69,050. Among these, 67,924 patients have been cured and 1,073 have succumbed to the virus. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,890 includes 30,479 recoveries and 380 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52yearold-succumbs-to-covid-in-panchkula-15-new-cases-in-tricity-101639777503529.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Conwoman booked for cheating for seventh time||Another case of cheating has been registered against a Chandigarh woman, who has been duping people on the pretext of getting them Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) booths and flats with the help of her “closeness to top UT bureaucrats”.This is the seventh case of cheating against Manjit Kaur and her son, Vijay Pal Singh, residents of Sector 51. The fresh case was registered on complaint of Judge Paul Mehta, of Sector 51-A, Chandigarh, originally hailing from Ferozepur, who alleged that he was cheated of ₹97 lakh on the pretext of allotment of flats under discretionary quota in Sector 51-A. He alleged that through various self-adulatory claims, Manjit claimed that she could get him two flats at ₹58.9 lakhs each and two booths at ₹6.5 lakhs each.Therefore, he paid ₹1.35 crore between December 6, 2019, and January 28, 2020. But Manjit neither provided him allotment nor refunded the complete amount deposited.As such, Mehta filed a police complaint, and a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-conwoman-booked-for-cheating-for-seventh-time-101639777384194.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Book on military justice launched||City-based author and lawyer Navdeep Singh launched his new book ‘March to Justice: Global Military Law Landmarks’. The book was released on Friday by Gen VP Malik (retd), former chief of army staff. Moderators were former HC judge Rajive Bhalla and Major General Neeraj Bali (retd), founder and CEO, Leadscape. The book is a compilation of essays and commentaries on milestone judgments of constitutional courts on military law. Navdeep is an HC lawyer and was the founder president of the Armed Forces Tribunal Bar Association at Chandigarh. Foundation stone laid for 80ft road to Jujhar Nagar Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday laid the foundation stone of an 80ft road from Dara studio to Jujhar Nagar and a bridge. About ₹9.86 crore will be spent on the 870m road, which will connect 11 villages of the area. The work is expected to be completed in the next four to five months. Musical evening organised by NGOA musical evening was organised by NGO Citizen Awareness Group at Chandigarh Press Club on Friday. Additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain was the chief guest at the event. Singer Rishu Arora and anchor Shelly Taneja were the guests of honour. Surinder Verma, NGO chairperson, felicitated the guests.Chandigarh cop gets national award Sub-inspector Shamsher Singh Nain of Chandigarh Police has been awarded by Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Union home secretary, for his significant contribution in the implementation of crime and criminal tracking network and system during a virtual conference held by NCRB, ministry of home affairs on Friday. JC Anand memorial lecture held at PUProfessor JC Anand Memorial Lecture was held at PU and delivered by Chintamani Mahapatra , pro-V-C, JNU. The lecture was chaired by VR Sinha, DUI, PU. Mahapatra referred to the critical shift in the geostrategic sphere of Indo-Pacific Region. He drew attention to the emerging opportunities and significance of the region in terms of trade and security. 4-day ‘ragini’ fest draws crowdMusic lovers from across the tricity flocked to Kalagram on Friday for ‘Ragini and Saang Mahotsava’. The events are organised by the North Zone Cultural Centre to relish the typical folk music of Haryana. Master Ranvir Sharma, a famous folk artiste of Haryana, also performed at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-book-on-military-justice-launched-101639777143790.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||No more cut-offs as DU okays entrance exam||The Delhi University’s executive council (EC), the highest decision-making body of the varsity, on Friday approved a proposal for the introduction of a common entrance test (CET) for conducting admissions to undergraduate courses from the next academic session onwards.The proposal was ratified by the EC after being passed by the academic council (AC) last week. While 16 members of the AC, out of over a 100, dissented against the proposal, two EC members, out of 22, marked their dissent against the move on Friday.Until this year, admissions to undergraduate courses of Delhi University were done on the basis of cutoff marks as announced by the varsity. Since there is no first-come, first-served policy in Delhi University, colleges are required to give admissions to all applicants who meet the announced cutoff criteria, leading to over-admissions. Over the years, soaring cutoffs, many of them remaining at 100% in the first list, had become a feature of the DU admission cycle.In October, Delhi University constituted a nine-member committee to deliberate on undergraduate admission reforms. The committee in its interim report recommended that admissions be carried out through a common entrance test which can be conducted by the university through a well-devised internal mechanism or through an external agency, depending on the operational feasibility.In their dissent note on Friday, EC members Seema Das and Ashok Aggarwal agreed with the concerns flagged by the dissenting members of the academic council. They questioned the data analysis on the basis of which the recommendation was made and the modality of the entrance exam. They noted that students will have to deal with increased pressure if an additional entrance exam was put in place, besides the fact that students who switch streams and courses after class 12, on the basis of cutoff scores, might be put at a disadvantage with the implementation of a common entrance test.Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava welcomed the introduction of CET next year. “We welcome the decision and support the administration in the implementation of the proposal. Among the various options for admission that one can brainstorm on, there is a possibility that the entrance might give us some relief from high cutoffs and over-admissions,” said Srivastava.Besides giving a go-ahead to the CET, the EC also approved paid maternity leave for ad hoc teachers and contractual staff, which has been a long-standing demand among the varsity staff.The EC also approved the recommendations of a five-member committee, constituted earlier this year to make suggestions on this issue. “The committee notes that ad hoc/contractual women teaching and non-teaching employees are engaged for a fixed term, and paid maternity leave may be granted to such women employees of the University/Colleges for a maximum period of 26 weeks within the specified time of such fixed term engagement,” the committee report said.AC member Seema Das said that the decision on maternity leave was historic and a testimony of the victory of the teachers’ movement.Shabana Azmi, president, Ad hoc Teachers Front (ATF), welcomed the introduction of maternity leave for ad hoc teachers and said the decision should have come earlier. “Maternity benefits are the basic right of a mother and an employee who has been contributing to the economic process. This move towards paid maternity leave is commendable indeed but lately achieved. It’s sad that it had to be demanded. Many women ad hoc colleagues have been sacrificing a lot for past many years due to unavailability of these benefits,” ATF said in a statement.The council deferred a proposal for the creation of the Institute of Nano Medicine (INM) under the Centre of Excellence.EC members shared that a committee has been constituted to look into concerns that had been raised earlier by AC members.Last week, at least 15 AC members had recorded their dissent on a proposal for the creation of INM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-more-cut-offs-as-du-okays-entrance-exam-101639776952582.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Truck union’s stir suspends traffic movement in Zirakpur||A two-hour long traffic jam was witnessed in Zirakpur on Friday as All India Truck Ekta Union members blocked the Patiala crossing as well as Chhat village junction in Zirakpur. The protesters are demanding restoration of truck unions and have blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala highway for 12 days now. The protest led to massive traffic jam on the national highway as well as Zirakpur-Patiala state highway. Even though Mohali police had made arrangements to divert the traffic from Chhat village traffic lights to other possible roads, long queues were seen on the highway from Chandigarh to Zirakpur. The protesters parked a truck trailer diagonally at Patiala crossing in Zirakpur to block the traffic movement towards the Chhat village traffic light point. The commuters had a harrowing time and were seen helplessly waiting for the police to clear the jam. The traffic on the flyover had also come to a standstill owing to the blockade. Union’s district vice-president Amandeep Singh said, “The Punjab government has turned a deaf ear to our problems, so to ensure they hear us out, we will block the traffic daily till our demands are met. We are asking for revival of truck unions and the rates of transport should be increased as truck operators are already suffering from the economic downturn.” He said the step to abolish truck unions had proved to be a “retrograde” one as a new syndicate has emerged, which has monopolised the trade, resulting in losses to both owners as well as traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/truck-union-s-stir-suspends-traffic-movement-in-zirakpur-101639776903545.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Court exonerates former Unitech promoters in bribery case||A Delhi court has exonerated Ajay Chandra and Ramesh Chandra, former Unitech promoters, among others in a case related to bribing a police official in one of the several cases registered against them for cheating the home buyers. However, both will continue to remain in jail, for their alleged roles in other cases.According to the prosecution, it received information from a source that the accused people, Neeraj Kumar and Sanjay Sharma, a former inspector at Hauz Khas police station, conspiring with lawyer Neeraj Walia and in connivance with Seema Manga and Pradeep Kumar of Unitech Limited were obtaining “undue advantage” in the form of illegal gratification from the company through Walia for improperly and dishonestly performing their duties in the investigation of the criminal cases against the directors/promoters of the company.In a December 16 judgment, special judge Harish Kumar, cleared the Chandras, along with four others, of criminal conspiracy and relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, for paying a ₹2 lakh bribe to Neeraj Kumar, the then Station House Office (SHO) of Saket police station.The court said it did not find sufficient grounds to proceed against the accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-exonerates-former-unitech-promoters-in-bribery-case-101639776599664.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A time to reflect||The receding sun has stained the sky with tints of red. And not only the sky — it looks like the lake’s waters, too, are on fire. Yet, the air is cold.Winter evenings in south Delhi’s Hauz Khas, the area around the lake, turn the place into more than what it really is. For a moment, this pool, or hauz, of partially-treated wastewater, surrounded with a tree-lined walking track, gets infused with an assortment of colours and moods.On one rare evening, the sky is free of the customary Delhi smog, enabling the setting sun to take centre stage. From certain vantage points, its golden colour seems to be bleeding straight into the water, and the glassy surface of the lake turns into an alternate sky. A handful of evening walkers can be spotted here and there, along with a few monkeys. The area is dense with grass, and some days ago, this reporter had come across a snake slithering down this very path.The few ducks navigating the waters seem to parallel the few birds crisscrossing in the air. Some of these birds come to land on the water surface, bobbing up and down the wavelets without tripping over. One bird has settled at the top of a dead tree. The tree is partially submerged, its bare trunks spreading over the placid lake like latitudes and longitudes. The entire scenery feels remote, making the visitor feel that they have travelled too far from the familiar world. It’s impossible to believe that the chaotic Outer Ring Road is merely a ten-minute walk away.In one corner of the lake, a boat is marooned. It is lying tilted, its front tipped upwards, its rear half-sunk.Soon, the sky turns a deeper red, and so does the water. The colour gets more intense, so solid and tangible that you might as well raise your hand and pluck it like a fruit from the tree.And then suddenly it’s gone, all of it. The red colour, the sun and the magic. Some light lingers for a moment, and then everything turns black. The lake disappears, looking like a shiny void. This is the moment when the island in the centre of the lake comes alive, with hundreds of bats flying out of its many trees. Now another magic begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-time-to-reflect-101639775444441.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police goes on night domination drive||Panchkula police organised a domination drive on the intervening night of December 16 and 17. Barricading was done at 58 places wherein 1,328 vehicles were checked.During this exercise, which was conducted from 10pm till 4am, police officials patrolled in their respective areas and checked hotels, rest houses, eateries and ATMs. The vehicles which were checked included 329 two-wheelers, 592 four-wheelers, 268 light vehicles, 139 heavy vehicles. Eighteen challans were issued under the Motor Vehicles Act and 55 to those not wearing a mask. Apart from this, 18 challans were issued to those who were found intoxicated while driving.During this night drive, seven gamblers were booked and ₹10,430 was recovered from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-goes-on-night-domination-drive-101639775463782.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachalis’ votes to be decisive in Chandigarh MC polls: Jai Ram||The votes of Himachal people, who have made Chandigarh their permanent home, will play a decisive role in the upcoming local municipal corporation (MC) elections, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said while addressing public rallies for the BJP candidates on Friday. Thakur was canvassing for BJP candidates in view of the upcoming local bodies elections, polling of which is scheduled for December 24. He campaigned for ward number 6’s candidate Sarvjit Kaur Dhillon at Manimajra; ward 14’s candidate Kuljeet Singh Sandhu at Dhanas; ward 11’s candidate Anoop Gupta in Sector 21; ward 29’s candidate Ravinder Pathania in Sector 56; ward 31’s candidate Bharat Kumar at Sector 52; and ward 30’s candidate Shakti Devshali at Sector 41. Later, Thakur attended an event organised by the party’s Himachal cell. “There is a mutual family bond between the Himachalis and Chandigarh. For the convenience of Himachalis settled in Chandigarh, CM single window has been started at the Himachal Bhawan, which helps native residents living in Chandigarh to file their complaints and suggestions for the development of the state,” Thakur said. He further said that Himachalis have not faced any problem in UT in the last five years. This is a clear evidence that the BJP-led MC has protected the interest of the people of Himachal, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachalis-votes-to-be-decisive-in-chandigarh-mc-polls-jai-ram-101639774803459.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Palampur shepherd wins Breed Conservation Award -2021||Nandu Ram, 85, a shepherd belonging to the Gaddi tribe and resident of Band Vihar village in Palampur of Kangra district has won the ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources’ Breed Conservation Award-2021.The award will be conferred on December 23 during the Kisan Divas and Breed Conservation Award ceremony at Karnal, vice-chancellor of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU), Palampur, Prof HK Chaudhary said on Thursday.Ram will be awarded in the individual category. It carries a cash prize of ₹10,000 along with a certificate of achievement. Prof Chaudhary said Ram’s flock was included in the ‘All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Goat Improvement-Gaddi Field Unit project’ by HPAU in 2011.The scientists helped him to increase his flock strength from 70 to over 400 goats and extended continuous scientific support in the form of supply of high genetically elite breeding bucks of Gaddi breed, he said.Vaccination against foot and mouth disease and contagious PPR diseases was done from time to time besides providing strategic nutritional interventions and health support.“There was remarkable progress in the flock in terms of the improved health status of animals, decreased mortality and production enhancement like body weight at different ages,” said Prof Chaudhary.He said that Ram has also been designated as ‘KrishiDoot’ of the university for his excellent work in breed conservation and propagation of Gaddi goats.The award was instituted by ICAR- NBAGR for conserving and maintaining the registered breeds of livestock and poultry in 2017.Ram has a family of a total of eight members and 20 kanals of landholding. He has been into sheep rearing for the last 75 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/palampur-shepherd-wins-breed-conservation-award-2021-101639773604087.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: December 22-24 to be dry days||In view of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections next week, the UT administration has declared December 22, 23, 24, and December 27 (counting day) as dry days.All liquor licence holders (both wholesale and retail), hotels, eating houses, taverns, shops or any other places, public or private, within the polling area and other establishments, which have been issued licences to sell liquor, have been prohibited to sell and serve liquor during the dry days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-december-22-24-to-be-dry-days-101639772712372.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh feels the chill under season’s first dense fog||Even though the minimum temperature went up from 5.4°C on Thursday to 5.6°C on Friday, the day felt chillier due to dense fog in the morning that dropped the visibility to just 50 metres. This was the first dense fog of the season and similar conditions will continue in the coming days as well, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).At 15.3°C, the maximum temperature was also the lowest so far this season and six degrees below normal. It had gone down lower only on January 24 earlier this year, when it was recorded at 14.5°C.Friday was also the first “cold day” of the season. A cold day is defined by IMD as a day when the minimum temperature goes below 10°C and maximum temperature falls 4.5°C to 6.4°C below normal. Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “Earlier a western disturbance was keeping the city warm, but as it has passed, the temperature is now going down. Mercury can drop further by 2-3 degrees in the coming days, when moderate to dense fog is also expected.”Yellow alert for cold waveIMD has also sounded a yellow alert for chances of cold wave on Saturday and Sunday. The second of the four-level alert system used by IMD, yellow alert is used to ask people to “be updated”.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in the plains.Over the next three days, the maximum temperature is likely to rise to 20°C, while the minimum temperature will remain around 5°C.Air quality deterioratesThe Air Quality Index (AQI) of the city also remained between 200 and 300 for most part of the day and went up to 302 at 6pm at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) in Sector 22. Between 300-400, AQI is described as “very poor” and can cause respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure. Between 200-300, it is classified as “poor” and can cause breathing discomfort in most people on prolonged exposure. Meanwhile, AQI stayed between 100-200 at the Sector 25 station, which is described as “moderate”.“The main reason for this increase is the change in weather conditions. Fall in temperature leads to temperature inversion and causes AQI to rise. Further, fog also increases AQI, as seen on Thursday,” said Debendra Dalai, secretary of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee.As per IMD, there are chances of light rain in the city around December 24, following which the air quality is expected to improve.Delay at source cities affects departure of nine flightsDue to delayed departure from their source cities amid unfavourable weather, nine flights left and arrived late at the Chandigarh International Airport, where visibility was within permissible limits on Friday.Air India Express’ Sharjah flight arrived at 5.05pm against the scheduled time of 4.45pm. The airline’s airport manager said the flight left Sharjah late at 12.39pm against the scheduled departure of 12pm. Therefore, it also took off late by 1 hour from Chandigarh. Due to fog in Delhi, the arrival of three domestic flights here was also affected. Besides, Indigo’s Jaipur flight left after a delay of 47 minutes, Go First’s flight to Srinagar departed late by 30 minutes, while Indigo’s to Ahmedabad, Go First’s to Ahmedabad and Vistara’s to Delhi were delayed by 15 minutes each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-feels-the-chill-under-season-s-first-dense-fog-101639772711150.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to campaign for AAP candidates in Chandigarh on December 19||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be in Chandigarh on December 19. He will address a public meeting at Dussehra Ground in Sector 43 to seek votes for party candidates ahead of the municipal corporation elections on December 24. He will be accompanied by Bhagwant Mann, party in-charge, Punjab; Jarnail Singh, in-charge, Chandigarh affairs; and Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema.Meanwhile, Ashu Chaudhary, state general secretary, Youth Congress, along with his supporters, joined the AAP at the party headquarters on Thursday. Chaudhary said the Congress Party was limited to one family and the youth’s voice was being suppressed there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-to-campaign-for-aap-candidates-in-chandigarh-on-december-19-101639772709095.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘BJP should apologise to Chandigarh residents for misdeeds over past 6 years’||Congress’ national spokesperson Pawan Khera on Friday said BJP leaders should seek apology from Chandigarh people for their misdeeds committed in the past six years, before seeking their votes in the upcoming elections.Addressing a press conference at the Chandigarh Congress Bhawan in Sector 35, Khera said after electing BJP in the last elections, the people of Chandigarh only got inflated bills, pollution, contaminated water and poor rankings in Swachh Survekshan.Meanwhile, BJP’s former Himachal cell president Varinder Guleria, along with dozens of members, joined the Congress in the presence of Khera, Pawan Kumar Bansal, treasurer, All-India Congress Committee; and Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Congress.A team of over 60 leaders from the Himachal Congress, including MLAs and ex-MLAs, also reached Chandigarh on Friday and took charge as coordinators for Congress candidates. The teams were sent to different sectors of Chandigarh to canvass for Congress candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-should-apologise-to-chandigarh-residents-for-misdeeds-over-past-6-years-101639772707709.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kadian re-elected as Panchkula Bar body president||Advocate Satish Kadian retained his position as the president of the Panchkula District Bar Association.Of the total 870 votes, Kadian secured 441, while his rival Jagpal got 429. The post of vice-president was won by Sidharth, that of secretary by Ketan, while Shammi was elected as treasurer.The counting of votes to elect the executive members of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association was underway till late night on the high court premises. As many as 3,246 lawyers had cast their votes out of 4,075 eligible voters this time.Votes to elect the Chandigarh District Bar Association members were also being counted till post midnight at the Sector-43 District Courts Complex. Over 1,700 advocates voted in the elections earlier in the day.Snehpreet to lead Mohali DBA 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Election panel to step up campaign to pull voters||In a bid to maximise voter turnout during the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections on December 24, the State Election Commission (SEC) will be intensifying its voter awareness campaign in the coming days.SEC has already roped in golfer Jeev Milkha Singh and cricketer Anjum Chopra for the campaign, while more Chandigarh-based sportspersons, including Kapil Dev, Yuvraj Singh and Abhinav Bindra, are also likely to join in.Their pictures will be used in awareness posters, voices in radio jingles and video messages in movie theatres.“The voter awareness campaign is picking momentum and will be reaching its crescendo in the few days before polling day, so that it has the most positive impact on the voter turnout,” said a senior SEC official.In the last two consecutive municipal elections, the voter turnout had stagnated at around 59%.This year, with the polling day falling at the start of the long winter holidays, there are strong apprehensions among authorities and political parties that the voting percentage might dip further.There is added concern that people might put off voting due to the Covid-19 pandemic. ‘Every voter matters in democracy’The tagline for the awareness campaign is, “Every voter matters in democracy”. “We want to share with voters how important every vote is and that they should come out in large numbers on the voting day,” the official said.SEC has already started broadcasting awareness jingles on local radio stations and issued print media advertisements. One-minute video clips will also be started in the city’s multiplexes from Saturday, when the campaign for school and college students will also begin.“On Saturday, we will be organising a competition for school children at the Sector 10 museum. There will also be debate and quiz around the theme of voter awareness at the Sector 42 girls’ college,” said the official. Mobile app ‘Nigam Chunav’ launchedFor greater involvement of voters and ease of casting of votes, SEC has also launched a mobile app, “Nigam Chunav”.“Voters can check their voter registration through the app. They can also locate a polling station with an inbuilt Google map. Full details about the candidate in the fray in every ward can be accessed on the app, which can also be used to register complaints anonymously,” said the official.The app further gives in detail the contact information of returning officers, assistant returning officers, election observers and expenditure observers. Regular updates of SEC can also be accessed on the app, including a link to the SEC official website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-election-panel-to-step-up-campaign-to-pull-voters-101639772704474.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Winter break for Chandigarh govt schools extended||As a precautionary measure against Covid-19, the UT education department has extended the winter break for government and government-aided schools from the earlier December 27 to January 5 to December 20 to January 7. Since January 8 will be a second Saturday, schools will reopen on January 10. However, exams will continue as per schedule. Staff on election duty will also continue their work. Private recognised schools have also been advised to adopt these instructions.In the past few days, two students of two private schools in Sector 26 and a student of a government school had tested positive for Covid, and their schools and classrooms were sanitised as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/winter-break-for-chandigarh-govt-schools-extended-101639772702546.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba, Omar slam changes in Jammu and Kashmir land use policy||Former chief ministers Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah on Friday criticised the J&K government’s decision to change the land use from agricultural to non-agricultural purposes and termed it a “nefarious” design to make demographic changes in the UT.Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the agenda of development by BJP is a “ruse”.“The J&K administration’s new policy enabling conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes reveals their nefarious designs of engineering demographic changes. The development agenda is a ruse. The latest regulation doesn’t even require the 15-year domicile certificate as a prerequisite. After depriving locals of their rightful share of government jobs, such abrupt policy decisions that pave the way for outsiders to buy land in J&K are taken only to further disempower locals,” tweeted Mufti.National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah also termed the decision as “another nail in the coffin” of “land to tiller” reforms.“Allowing the use of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes is another nail in the coffin of the ‘land to the tiller’ reforms in J&K. This landmark reform has been a major reason for the low levels of poverty and it will also threaten the food security of the people of J&K,” tweeted Omar. He said that new land conversion doesn’t even require a domicile certificate. “The fact that this conversion of land use doesn’t even require the 15-year domicile certificate as a prerequisite will also rekindle fears about the motives behind such decisions,” Omar said in another tweet.On Thursday, the J&K government had permitted change of land use from agricultural to non-agricultural purposes and deputy commissioners have been empowered to grant the change of land use permissions within the time limit of 30 days fixed for the permissions.The government termed the decision significant and was taken by the lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, after chairing the meeting of the administrative council. The council approved the regulations framed by the board of revenue for conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes.“These regulations were necessitated after the legislative changes in the land revenue act post-reorganisation of the erstwhile state,” the official spokesman said.The spokesman in a statement said that these regulations have been issued to regulate the uncontrolled conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes on the one hand and keeping the development aspirations of the UT and the people on the other hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-omar-slam-changes-in-jammu-and-kashmir-land-use-policy-101639772284293.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu municipal corporation failed to provide basic amenities: Apni Party leader||Apni Party youth wing state general secretary Abhay Bakaya on Friday strongly condemned the casual approach of the Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) for its inability to provide basic amenities in the district which is being developed as a Smart City. Addressing a public meeting in Jammu West, Abhay said, “It seems that JMC officials have completed the Smart City project with the development of a vertical garden near Dogra Chowk and installation of signboards across the city. In fact, there is no development, no mechanism to redress issues of basic amenities in Jammu municipal limits.” “As far as the development of wards is concerned, there are no efforts from the JMC and routine issues like clean lanes, drains, drinking water supply or electricity supply are still a major concern being confronted by the residents in different wards of Jammu municipal corporation,” he said. “The youth are mainly confronting the issue of ever-increasing unemployment,” he added when the youth present in the meeting complained that the government has not advertised the vacant posts in different departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-municipal-corporation-failed-to-provide-basic-amenities-apni-party-leader-101639772282600.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Court directs Moga MC to attach salaries of 3 employees in loan default case||A local court has directed the Moga municipal corporation (MC) commissioner to attach one-third salary of an accountant and two clerks in a loan default case. The accountant, Paramjit Singh, had taken a loan from the Moga Cooperative Agriculture Bank while the clerks pledged his guaranty. The orders were issued under section 60 of the Civil Procedure Code. The commissioner was directed to attach the salaries till payment of ₹9.58 lakh pending recovery. Paramjit Singh said, “I had taken a loan of ₹4 lakh around 7 years back. Due to some reason I couldn’t pay installments for around 4 years. But I have been paying ₹15,000 every month to the bank for the last two-and-a-half years. This is just an attempt by a few bank officials to humiliate me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-directs-moga-mc-to-attach-salaries-of-3-employees-in-loan-default-case-101639771982394.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir sees 136 fresh Covid cases, two deaths; highest infections in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir reported two deaths and 136 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total, 96 cases and one fatality was reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 40 infections and a death.The summer capital, Srinagar, had the highest number of cases at 54, and was followed by Baramulla district with 10 cases and Jammu with 18 cases. Srinagar district also has the highest number of active cases at 516 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 213 and 190 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 121 with active positive cases reaching 1,448.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 59,856 vaccine doses were administered on the day, taking the overall doses administered in the UT to 1.756 crore.Officials said that 59,408 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-136-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-highest-infections-in-srinagar-101639771564109.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Why interrogation of accused shouldn’t be videographed, HC asks Punjab, Haryana DGPs||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the director generals of police (DGPs) of the two states as to why videography of the interrogation of accused in police custody should not be conducted, at least in certain cases, to mitigate allegations of inhumane treatment. Across the civilized world, interrogation is recorded in video to ensure that no inhuman methods of interrogation are adopted by the police. the court said. “Proper methods of investigation and interrogation also result in criminals being convicted. Thus there would be no excuse to say that if interrogation is made subject to videography, it may not have the desired results,” bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh observed.Also, a disclosure statement made in police custody, unless it leads to actual recovery etc, would normally not be admissible in evidence, it added.The court was hearing a plea from Kaushal, an alleged gangster, whose name recently cropped up in a broad daylight gruesome murder of Youth Akal Dal leader Vikramjit Middukhera in Mohali. He had demanded that videography be conducted whenever he is taken for interrogation — right from leaving the jail premises to his reaching the police station concerned. Also, he sought videography during interrogation so that he can ask the court concerned to provide him a copy, if needed, to show that he was tortured during questioning.Kaushal (39), who is lodged in a Sangrur jail with 38 criminal cases against him, had further claimed that agencies are conspiring to kill him or eliminate him in a fake encounter at the behest of a rival gangster. “They spit on the floor and ask me to lick it. If I refuse, they forced me to do so. Officers urinate on me after removing clothes and give me merciless beatings. Sharp objects are inserted in my private parts besides giving electric shocks in the jail as well as when on remand,” he alleged without naming the police, prompting the court to seek response from the top cops. The Punjab government had told the HC that videography of 26,542 persons lodged in different jails of the state would be very difficult every time when they are taken to courts.However, CCTV cameras are installed at the police stations, in and around prisons and on the court premises, the HC was informed. Haryana too had shared similar views.Kaushal’s counsel Bipan Ghai had argued that even a criminal of the worst kind can’t even be subjected to inhuman treatment.The high court observed that the kind of allegations levelled by Kushal were of the most depraved kind of behavior.It sought affidavits of both the DGPs. 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL working crippled as JEs’ strike enters 52nd day, power consumers suffer||With the strike of junior engineers (JEs) entering 52nd day on Friday, the working of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has come to a grinding halt and consumers are a harried lot. The strike that started on October 27 with boycott of stores, metering labs and field checking has hit all the works related to maintenance of power lines, transformers and associated infrastructure. Also, thousands of new connections are pending installation. It is taking a long time for resolution of supply when faults develop in power lines. Dipesh, a contractor, said, “I had applied for a connection in November- mid but I am yet to get one. I am getting construction work done by using a diesel-run generator and it is costing me dear.” A PSPCL official said nearly 6,000 connections were pending installation when the strike started and the number has grown manifold as one cannot apply for a new connection without the feasibility report of a JE. Also, the chain hunger strike by the JEs in front of the PSPCL headquarters in Patiala entered 31st day on Friday. “The PSPCL management maintained an indifferent and insensitive attitude towards the legitimate demands of JEs is least bothered about the sufferings of power consumers,” said Paramjit Singh Khattra, president of the JEs’ Council. The Power Transmission Employees’ Association (PTEA), Punjab, has also extended support to the ongoing strike of JEs, saying its members will keep their official mobile phones switched off and will not carry out store-related works.The protesting JEs’ main demand is enhancement in entry-level pay. The council members are on mass casual leave from December 10 to 21 and will also hold a state-level dharna on December 21 in front of the PSPCL headquarters.A PSPCL spokesman said corporation chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad held a meeting with the protesting employees and has forwarded their demands to the government for speedy resolution.
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Yuva Rajput Sabha threatens protest over denial of holiday on Hari Singh’s birth anniv||Infuriated over continual denial of state holiday on September 23—the birth anniversary of Maharaja Hari Singh in the state holiday calendar for 2022, Yuva Rajput Sabha on Friday strongly castigated BJP government at the Centre and the L-G’s administration. The Yuva Rajput Sabha threatened to take to the streets soon to press the government to announce a state holiday on the birth anniversary of the visionary Dogra ruler. The UT administration on Thursday released the list of holidays for the calendar year-2022, under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 wherein no holiday on the birth anniversary of the Maharaja was declared despite a persistent demand of the people widespread protests across different parts of the Jammu region. “The BJP is peddling lies and nothing else. The UT president of the BJP, Ravinder Raina told us that the demand has been met and their MP (Jugal Kishore) claimed in Parliament that the metro rail project is nearing completion in Jammu. The BJP is simply befooling the people of Jammu,” Yuva Rajput Sabha leader Rajan Singh told media persons here. He recalled that a delegation of the Sabha had also met LG Manoj Sinha in this regard. “This time around we will rope J&K High Court Bar Association, Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry besides motor transporters association and soon take to the streets to press the government,” he added. Jammu-based political and social groups, Bar association, traders and civil society groups have been vociferously demanding a public holiday on September 23. 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAGD to hold meet in Jammu at Dr Farooq Abdullah’s residence||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will hold its second meeting at Jammu residence of the National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Dr Farooq Abdullah on December 21. All leaders of all constituents of the PAGD will attend the meeting. This will be the second time that the PAGD is holding its meeting in Jammu since its formation on October 20, 2020. “We are going to hold the second meeting of the PAGD at my Bhatindi residence here in Jammu. The agenda has not been decided as yet but first let all of us meet,” said Dr Farooq Abdullah. It may be stated here that the PAGD has started mulling ways to bring Jammu on board in its ‘struggle’ for restoration of Articles 370 and 35-A. On December 13, PAGD spokesperson and CPI (M) leader MY Tarigami had said that “Kashmir cannot march ahead without Jammu and Jammu cannot ignore Kashmir. Both (Jammu and Kashmir), including Ladakh, have to move together. We are linked with our history and common interests.” When asked whether it would be a meeting in that direction, Dr Farooq said, “Why not, we will definitely try to bring Jammu on board and we have always taken Jammu along. We will do it this time as well”. “He (Tarigami) is a dear friend and god willing we will talk to everyone,” added Dr Farooq. He said that following the meeting, media will be briefed about the discussion. “We are committed to the restoration of our constitutional rights and we have to reach out to Jammu and Ladakh in this quest,” said PAGD spokesperson Tarigami. The PAGD, commonly called Gupkar Alliance, is an amalgam of regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, including the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party and the CPI (M). 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Upper reaches of Kashmir get snow, Srinagar shivers at -3.8 °C; white Christmas expected||After light snowfall in the upper reaches on Thursday, cold waves sweep different parts of the Valley with Srinagar recording -3.8 °C during the night.On Thursday the higher reaches of Kashmir had received light snowfall. Due to snowfall and clouds, the night temperature increased in the ski resort of Gulmarg as it recorded - 8.6°C, a day earlier mercury had plunged to - 10 °C - the coldest night of the winter at the resort that has many tourists enjoying snow there. Gulmarg had received 0.5 cm of snow, while it snowed 0.3 cm in Pahalgam.J&K MeT department said the nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 13th day. Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of -3.8 °C. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -5.6°C.It was -4.5°C in Konibal, - 4.4°C in Kupwara and -3.2°C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded bone-chilling - 18.1°C while it was – 12.1°C in Leh during the night.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley — Chillai Kalan — starts from December 21.There is a forecast of snowfall on Christmas eve.The MeT office said widespread moderate to heavy snowfall is most likely during December 23 and 25.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with a 40-day intense period from December 21 (locally called Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upper-reaches-of-kashmir-get-snow-srinagar-shivers-at-3-8-c-white-christmas-expected-101639771266355.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Foreign militants involved in attacks on Jammu and Kashmir cops: Police||After two attacks on the police in Kashmir at Bandipore and Pantha Chowk, the police say foreigners were involved in these attacks and the attackers could have recently sneaked into the Valley.The police admit that there had been some incidents of infiltration in north Kashmir in the recent past and officials believe the attack in Bandipore in which two policemen were killed was carried by militants who had recently sneaked into Kashmir.Police sources said they have inputs that a number of foreign militants are currently active in north Kashmir districts.A senior police officer privy to details said that they also suspect that a recently infiltrated group of militants are behind the attack on policemen in Bandipore district.“We have increased cordon and search operations, especially in Bandipore district. We are hopeful to neutralise the group soon that carried the attack on policemen in the town,” said the officer.After the killing of two cops in Bandipore in north Kashmir when J&K director general of police, Dilbag Singh, visited the house of cops killed in the attack and admitted that some infiltration had taken place. “There has been some recent infiltration from Pakistan in north Kashmir and we are targeting them,” Singh told reporters in Sopore.Five policemen were killed in two attacks in the last week. These two attacks are the major terror attack in the Valley after a string of targeted civilian killings in the union territory. On last Friday in Bandipore, militants targeted police escort at Gulshan market at Bandipora killing two cops. Two days later, militants in another attack at Pantha Chowk killed three policemen after they attacked a bus carrying 25 police personnel towards the camp.Vijay Kumar, IG, Kashmir, soon after both the attacks said foreign militants were responsible for these attacks along with local militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/foreign-militants-involved-in-attacks-on-jammu-and-kashmir-cops-police-101639771262233.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Channi, Kejriwal start campaign to reach out to Punjab voters via mobile phones||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Friday launched campaigns to connect with people via mobile phones for the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Both Channi and Kejriwal are aiming to maximise the voter reach of their parties, but have taken a slightly different approach. Channi, who took over as the chief minister about three months ago, has opted for mobile phone calls with a pre-recorded voice message in which he urges people to join hands with him to make Punjab spectacular once again. “Sat Sri Akal ji, this is Charanjit Singh Channi, chief minister of Punjab, calling. You have given me a chance to serve Punjab. I want that we should work together with honesty and sincerity to make Punjab spectacular once again. For this, I need you,” he says in the recorded message before asking them to press a number key on their phone to confirm their willingness to work together with him. Anyone who presses the key gets a welcome SMS with the link to a registration form and for giving suggestions. “The party has set up a call centre which then gets in touch with the respondents to directly connect and inform them about the CM’s vision and achievements, besides responding to their suggestions and issues,” a member of the Punjab Congress social media group said. Chief minister’ son Rhythmjit Singh, who manages his social media accounts, is handling the campaign. The AAP, on the other hand, has opted for the ‘missed call’ campaign for its ‘Mission Nawan te Sunhera Punjab’ to make an appeal to people to help it bring change in the state. Kejriwal, in a video that was put on social media to launch the campaign, says the situation in Punjab is bad as children do not have jobs and many have gone abroad or taken to drugs. “Politicians and parties have destroyed Punjab. Only you can change Punjab…if you want to bring change, join this mission…there has been enough politics. Now, we need to stop rajneeti and do Punjabneeti,” the AAP national convener says before appealing to Punjabis to give a missed call at the number given by him. AAP’s Punjab affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh said their thinking was different from other parties. “The AAP activities are centered around people, and not leaders. We involve people in everything from drafting our vision and policies to their implementation after forming the government. This is the beginning of that process,” he said. The missed call data and follow-up will be done by the central team of the AAP which has also tried this successfully in polls in Delhi where the party is in power. Want to cash in on state’s high teledensityBoth parties plan to use mobile phones aggressively for forging a connection with the voters and intensify their efforts as the elections draw closer. The reasons are not hard to find. The mobile teledensity in Punjab, according to the Niti Aayog Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) India Index 2020-21, is among the highest in the country with 122.19 mobile phone connections per 100 persons, thereby indicating that some people have two connections. This is much higher than the all-India teledensity of 84.38, according to the report. The state also has the best internet penetration among the major states with 84.32 subscribers per 100 persons whereas only 55 of every 100 people have an internet connection in the country. A member of the AAP’s media management team said that given the number of smartphones and internet connections, the party would actively use social media and messaging services. “It is an effective tool even though not a substitute for campaigning on the ground. We still need to go out and directly connect with voters,” he added. 
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Ex-staffer booked for deleting social media account of newspaper||Six months after the social media account of a vernacular daily was hacked and deleted, a former staffer was booked on Friday. The accused, Amritpal Singh of Maharana Partap Nagar, a cameraman, said he had deleted the newspaper’s Instagram account as he was upset with his former employers. The managing director of the daily, Balwinder Singh Saini, had filed a complain on June 6 saying that an unidentified accused had hacked and deleted the newspaper’s Instagram account on May 25. The accused had also linked the account to a different phone number so that it could not be recovered. A probe was carried out by the assistant commissioner of police (ACP, cyber cell), who traced the listed phone number to one Neeraj, a former colleague of Saini, who runs his own web channel. Howeber, Neeraj said that other people associated with the web channel also used the mobile number registered on his name. Later, the police zeroed-in on Amritpal who confessed to using Neeraj’s phone number to delete the social media account. A case was registered under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Information and Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ex-staffer-booked-for-deleting-social-media-account-of-newspaper-101639770782021.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege cases: Ram Rahim bound to be involved in crime, Punjab Police tells HC||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 has told the high court that jailed Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is bound to be involved in the crime. The high court was hearing a plea from Ram Rahim, challenging a Faridkot court order on production warrants of Ram Rahim. Three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, the holiest scripture of Sikhs, were reported in Faridkot district of Punjab in 2015. In an affidavit filed in the high court, SIT member Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar has stated that confessional statements of the accused of these cases clearly indicate that a conspiracy was hatched at the administrative block of Dera Sacha Suada headquarters in Sirsa. The common accused, namely Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kler, who were members of the national committee of the dera, directed the actual perpetrators to commit these acts of sacrilege, Bhullar stated. “…keeping in mind the criminal bend of Ram Rahim’s mind as he has been convicted in three cases of murder and rape, it can be easily concluded that he was the main culprit behind all these cases. Moreover, it is an open secret that the members of the Dera did not do a single act without the permission of the petitioner and were willing to lay down their lives for him,” he has submitted. Earlier, the SIT led by inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar submitted a status report with the high court by way of an affidavit. An interrogation report, including the copies of the questionnaires as well as replies, of Ram Rahim and dera vice-chairperson Prithvi Raj Nain, was filed along with the affidavit. The SIT claims Pardeep Kumar, an accused, in his statement said the dera chief was not happy with Sikhs for not allowing screening of his movie. After some dera followers were humiliated in Burj Jawaharpur Singh Wala village, Ram Rahim allegedly deputed a 45-member team to commit sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib. After these incidents, “elated” Ram Rahim rewarded them, one of the accused (Pardeep of Faridkot) said in his confessional statement before a court. The SIT claims that it is clear that the planning of the crime was made at the dera and “the petitioner being the head of dera is bound to be involved”. The SIT further says it interrogated Ram Rahim and his replies were evasive and he pretended to be ignorant of the occurrences around him, the SIT has said, seeking his custodial interrogation. The SIT was allowed to grill Ram Rahim in Rohtak jail itself. The high court, however, did not agree to bring Ram Rahim to Punjab even as police had submitted that it will make adequate arrangements. Ram Rahim has been questioning the state’s hurry in bringing him to Punjab and linking him to these cases, alleging that same was being done for political reasons. The Dera head is lodged in Sunaria jail of Rohtak since August 25, 2017. In 2017, he was awarded 20-year jail term for the rape of two disciples. Subsequently, he has been convicted in murder cases of a journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati and former dera manager Ranjit Singh in which life sentence was awarded to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-cases-ram-rahim-bound-to-be-involved-in-crime-punjab-police-tells-hc-101639770602509.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Four men tie up shop worker, rob ₹26 lakh from store in Delhi||Four unidentified men allegedly barged into a store in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar area and robbed ₹26 lakh from the safe after tying up a shop worker and two others on Friday, police said. Police said they received the information regarding the robbery at Sadar Bazar police station at 1.15pm. Police reached the Jyoti Metal Store, Nawab Road, Sadar Bazar, where the complainant Pawan Pachauri (54), who works at the shop, stated that around 12.45pm, four unidentified people, one of whom was carrying a pistol, entered the shop, deputy commissioner of police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said.They tied up Pachauri and two others present in the shop and robbed ₹26,01,450 from the safe. The suspects also hit Pachauri on the head with the butt of the pistol, police said.Police said that a case under relevant sections has been registered and a crime team has investigated the spot. The CCTV camera footage of the area is being checked and further investigation is underway, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-men-tie-up-shop-worker-rob-26-lakh-from-store-in-delhi-101639770542410.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Nurses’ strike paralyses health services in Ludhiana||Health services across the district remained paralysed for the second consecutive day on Friday as around 200 nurses participated in the statewide indefinite strike against the recommendations of the sixth pay commission. The working of the Mother And Child Hospital was the worst affected as cases requiring an emergency Caesarian section had to be referred to other government hospitals, primarily Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, which were also reeling due to a shortage of nurses. Patients and their family members had to run pillar to post to get admitted to a hospital. Now, the department is dependent on contractual nursing staff and final-year nursing students who have been deputed from Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital due to the emergency. Senior medical officer RS Chahal said, “We were able to manage normal deliveries with the help of contractual staff and nursing students, but Caesarian deliveries cannot be carried out without trained staff.” “We had referred two C-Section deliveries to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Thursday, but they sent the patients back, saying they did not have nursing staff. The government is trying to resolve the issue,” said Chahal. Meanwhile, the nursing staff said that the strike will continue until their demands, which include pay parity, and payment of allowances, are fulfilled.Punjab Nurses Association ( Ludhiana unit) general secretary Ravinder Kaur said, “Rather than increasing the pay grade of nurses, our pay has been reduced under the sixth pay commission, and allowances due to us are being withheld. Our representatives met the deputy chief minister, OP Soni, but nothing came of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nurses-strike-paralyses-health-services-in-ludhiana-101639770485345.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s east civic body proposes regularisation of contractual junior engineers||The standing committee of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), on Thursday, passed a proposal for the regularisation of its contractual junior engineers. Satpal Singh, EDMC’s leader of the House, said that he had proposed the regularisation because contractual junior engineers are working like their regularised counterparts. “For the same job, they are getting much less salary than regularised junior engineers. To end this discrimination, we have sent the proposal to the commissioner,” he said. When contacted, Vikas Anand, the EDMC commissioner, said that the requisition for the regular appointment of the junior engineers in the corporation has already been sent to the Delhi subordinate services board (DSSB). “The DSSB will make the appointments of the junior engineers as per the stipulated norms, which do not have any reservation for contractual appointments currently. However, they may get some age relaxation in the selection procedure,” he said. Meanwhile, in another proposal, the standing committee said that the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi had reduced its employer’s share, in the new pension scheme, from 14% to 10% for some of its employees. “Since all employees are equal before their employer, we have proposed the reinstatement of the corporation’s contribution to 14%, so that they can avail of more benefits after their retirement,” the leader of the House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-east-civic-body-proposes-regularisation-of-contractual-junior-engineers-101639770422155.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||3 held for armed robbery at south Delhi home||The Delhi Police on Friday said they arrested three men with criminal histories for allegedly robbing the chief executive officer (CEO) of a multinational company at gunpoint in south Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar on the afternoon of December 14.All three had recently been released from jail on bail. One of them was identified as Shubham alias Tunwa, who allegedly planned the robbery. The other two arrested men were identified as Asif and Mohammad Shariful Mullah, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.On December 14, the multinational company’s CEO Aditya Kumar, who lives in Sarojini Nagar, said in his complaint that he was alone at home around 3.30pm when someone rang the doorbell. As Kumar opened the door, three men pushed him inside and pointed a gun at him. They assaulted him and asked him to hand over all the cash and valuables in the house, said Sharma.“When he resisted, they tied him up with clothes and ransacked the house. They fled with his laptop, mobile phones, and a trolley bag containing clothes, jacket, shoes and a wristwatch. They also took away his scooter,” said the DCP, adding that a case was registered and several teams were formed to identify and nab the robbers.During the probe, the police said, Kumar told them that two suspects referred to the third man as Shubham. Investigators then scanned the dossiers of registered criminals with the name.“Nearly 150 dossiers of criminals bearing the name of Shubham were scrutinised. Investigators zeroed in on Shubham alias Tunwa, who was a resident of RK Puram and had been bailed out in November. We raided his house and learned that Shubham had not been home for the last 15 days,” said the DCP.On Friday, the police caught Shubham and his two associates riding the stolen scooter in Sarojini Nagar. Their interrogation led to the recovery of all the items stolen from Kumar’s flat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-held-for-armed-robbery-at-south-delhi-home-101639770062117.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Expedite disposal of UAPA cases before special courts: hc: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Friday directed its administrative department to indicate the steps it has taken to streamline the expeditious disposal of trials in Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act cases pending before National Investigation Agency (NIA) special courts in the national Capital.Justice Mukta Gupta said that it is paramount that offences under UAPA, whether investigated by the NIA or Special Cell, Delhi Police, are tried expeditiously by special courts, which are not adjudicating other matters.“In all these matters, they don’t get back bail and most of them are foreign nationals. Therefore expeditious disposal of a trial is really mandated... in serious offences it is difficult to grant them bail,” the judge remarked.The court was hearing a plea by one Manzer Imam, who has been in custody since 2013 in a case registered by NIA under UAPA. Imam, through his counsel, sought day-to-day hearings in his case. In his plea, Imam stated that there was a delay in the trial in his case because there were only two designated courts that were also hearing non-NIA cases, including bail matters, other IPC offences and MCOCA matters.The high court’s administrative department filed an affidavit, to which the court said, “This is not a proper affidavit. What their claim was that UAPA is both investigated by the NIA and Special Cell. Since you have designated a special court for NIA, you have less work whereas the UAPA cases investigated by special cells are piling up. You need to designate more NIA courts,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/expedite-disposal-of-uapa-cases-before-special-courts-delhi-hc-101639769821873.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Construction ban to continue, projects related to health, public to resume||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday allowed some exemptions to the construction ban that was put in place across the National Capital Region (NCR) to curb toxic air pollution levels. However, the panel has left all other provisions of the ban in place till further review.The Commission exempted health care-related projects, such as the construction of hospitals, nursing homes or other health care facilities; all “linear public projects” such as highways, roads, flyovers, over bridges, power transmission, pipelines etc; sanitation and public utility projects, such as sewage treatment plants, water pumping stations etc; and ancillary activities related to these exempted categories.Earlier, projects related to railways, airports,inter-state bus terminals, Metro and work pertaining to national security and importance, were the sole exemptions to the ban.“The exemptions are subject to strict compliance of the construction and demolition waste management rules, dust prevention and control norms including compliance with the directions of the Commission issued from time to time in this regard,” the pollution monitoring panel’s order said.On November 16, on the directions of the Supreme Court, the CAQM banned construction and demolition activities across Delhi and NCR, along with calling in other curbs on polluting sources such as banning the entry of trucks into the national capital, except those carrying essential items.It also ordered action against industries operating on unclean fuels and allowing only scheduled operations for thermal power plants.Experts said monitoring bodies will need to keep a watch on exempted sites to ensure all dust control guidelines are followed.
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pak national with speech, hearing impairment to be repatriated||A hearing and speech impaired Pakistani national, who is lodged in a juvenile home here for last seven years, will finally be repatriated, officials of the women and child development department have informed. The person, aged around 18, had inadvertently crossed the border and was arrested by the Border Security Force in 2014. He has since been in the protective custody of the Punjab government.Superintendent of Bal Sudhar Ghar, Naresh Kumar confirmed that the child would be handed over to his guardians on Saturday. Being hearing and speech impaired, the boy was unable to tell officials about his antecedent. The department and the juvenile justice court, Gurdaspur, which heard the matter, took the services of a Madhya Pardesh-based NGO that works with speech and hearing impaired individuals to locate the family, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pak-national-with-speech-hearing-impairment-to-be-repatriated-101639769101296.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Autonomy of universities: Doubts about govt interference in varsities baseless, says Kanwar Pal||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Friday said the reservations expressed by the Opposition MLAs regarding dilution of autonomy of state universities are completely baseless.The minister was replying to a calling attention motion moved by Congress MLAs on the opening day of the assembly session. The Opposition MLAs said the decision of the state government to appoint teaching and non-teaching officials in universities through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) is a direct attack on the autonomy of these institutions. The move, they said, will have an adverse effect on the education and research work in the varsities.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal asked the state government to take back the decision and allow the universities to function independently without any government interference.“There will be no fair selections in the universities in view of the recent HPSC recruitment scam,” the Congress MLAs said.Beri MLA Dr Raghuvir Singh Kadian said the issue needs to be deliberated among the academicians, bureaucrats and law makers before it is put in practice.Meanwhile, the education minister, in his reply, said the state universities are autonomous bodies governed by the provisions of their respective Acts. “These Acts provide substantial autonomy to the universities in matters of administration and education. The state government provides complete independence to the state universities in academic and administrative matters. There is complete transparency in the affairs of universities,” he said.He said the most important factor in success of higher education institutions is quality and commitment of its teachers. Recognising the importance of teachers in achieving the goals of higher education, various initiatives have been taken over the years to streamline recruitment and career progression and to ensure equal representation from different groups in teacher recruitment.“Faculty plays an important role in the building of an institution. The core of a college or university is its faculty – teaching and non-teaching staff. The directions issued by the state government on November 8 are self-explanatory and do not affect the autonomy of the university in any way. It is clear in these instructions that the vice-chancellors are involved in all the process of selection. They will chair the selection committee and the committees have been made more comprehensive,” Pal said.“Even in the search-cum-selection committee for the appointment of registrar, finance officer, controller of examinations and librarian, the chairmanship of the V-Cs has been suggested. The HPSC and the HSSC will conduct written examination and the selection committee will be headed by the V-Cs,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/autonomy-of-universities-doubts-about-govt-interference-in-varsities-baseless-says-kanwar-pal-101639768681429.html
18-12-2021||Noida||Elderly couple tests positive for Omicron variant in Ghaziabad||The Ghaziabad district reported its first two cases of Omicron, the new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 coronavirus that is said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, with an elderly couple — a man aged 69 years and his 66-year-old wife — testing positive for the new strain. The health department received the genome-sequencing test reports from state officials on Friday confirming the two cases.Officials of the district health department said while they received the genome-sequencing reports of the two people, both residents of Nehru Nagar in Ghaziabad, on Friday, the couple already got themselves tested at a private laboratory, and their RT-PCR reports, which arrived on December 15, showed that they tested negative for Covid-19.Earlier, the two underwent a Covid-19 test after they started showing symptoms, the reports of which arrived on December 3 and confirmed their infection, following which their samples were sent for genome-sequencing.“The two have a travel history from Mumbai, from where they went to Jaipur before arriving in Ghaziabad on November 29. They had wet cough and underwent a Covid-19 test, which confirmed their infection. They were asked to stay in home isolation. After a span of 10 days, they again underwent an RT-PCR test, the report of which arrived on December 15 and confirmed that they no longer had Covid,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer of Ghaziabad.He added three of their contacts also tested positive for Covid but they have recovered. Their samples too have been sent for genome sequencing.Officials said the couple was travelling to Mumbai on Friday, when the district officials received the genome-sequencing report, confirming their positivity to the Omicron variant.“Technically, both of them are negative and have completed their home isolation, but we requested them to stay home for now. In the meantime, our teams have reached their residence for further follow up on their health. When they had tested positive for Covid, we gathered samples of 39 of their contacts and none of them reported positive for Omicron,” Dr Gupta added.Chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar said teams from the health department are conducting another round of tracing and testing the contacts of the couple.“Their contacts were initially traced and tested... our teams are now conducting another round of tracing their contacts. Our officers are also in touch with the couple and a comprehensive testing will be undertaken in the nearby houses and the Nehru Nagar locality,” said Shankhdhar.Officials said several cases of Covid have emerged in Nehru Nagar, all of whom have a travel history. Four members of a family tested positive for Covid-19 on December 14. Officials said they have a history of travelling to Goa from where they returned to Ghaziabad on December 4 while visiting Karnal in Haryana in between.According to official records, patients testing Covid positive in the last week of November and in December, have shown different symptoms ranging from loss of taste, loss of smell, fever, chest pain and cough among others.According to the state control room figures, till Friday, with 26 cases, Ghaziabad district has the third highest active cases in the state after Lucknow (31) and Gautam Budh Nagar (29). The overall tally of active cases in the state was 164 till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/elderly-couple-tests-positive-for-omicron-variant-in-ghaziabad-101639768621398.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Forcible eviction of tenant: Punjab and Haryana high court tells Jalandhar DIG to look into role of cops||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has directed the deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Jalandhar range, to look into the role of cops in the forcible eviction of a divorcee woman and her three children from their rented accommodation in Kapurthala, in these extreme weather conditions. The high court bench of justice JS Puri also directed the DIG to ensure that the woman and her minor children are provided shelter immediately. The woman, in her plea to the court, had stated that she has three children—aged 1, 8 and 14— and supports the family by working as a labourer. On December 1, her landlord, along with several unknown persons, threw out the family’s possessions on the road and got them to leave the accommodation. Since then, the family has been homeless, she stated while adding that the act was done with active aid of the police. A video of the incident, purportedly showing the owner being aided by the police, had also been shot. She said the police was approached but it did not act even as she had an order in her favour. The state’s counsel had told the court that so far as the injunction order passed by the court is concerned, it was passed after a compromise between both parties, which was not honoured by the petitioner. The bench observed that it is a strange case where the property is an urban area and the purported landlord seeks the help of police for eviction. Instead of taking action against the persons who have allegedly trespassed into the house of the petitioner and also violated the order of the civil court, police did not do anything despite being on the spot, the court added. It further observed that prima facie it appears to be a case of “high-handedness” by police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forcible-eviction-of-tenant-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-jalandhar-dig-to-look-into-role-of-cops-101639768561430.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha pays tributes to CDS Rawat||Haryana Vidhan Sabha paid rich tributes to late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 others who were killed in a helicopter crash on December 8.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar led the House in remembering the departed souls and the members placed on record a deep sense of sorrow on the untimely demise of India’s first CDS, his wife and others.“General Bipin Rawat had made a valuable contribution in strengthening the defence system of the country. He will always be remembered for his devotion and commitment towards the Indian Army as well as for his country,” said Khattar as he read out the obituary resolutions.The House also paid tributes to other victims of the chopper crash including brigadier Lakhwinder Singh Lidder, group captain Varun Singh, lieutenant colonel Harjinder Singh, wing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, squadron leader Kuldeep Singh, junior warrant officer Rana Pratap Das, junior warrant officer Pradeep Arakkal, havildar Satpal Rai, naik Gursewak Singh, naik Jitender Kumar, lance naik Vivek Kumar, and lance naik B Sai Teja.While saluting these soldiers, the House resolved to convey its heartfelt condolences to members of the bereaved families.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda also read out the obituary resolutions. The members also paid tributes to 16 other soldiers of Haryana who were killed in action in the recent past.Tributes were also paid to five freedom fighters, and former member of Parliament (MP) Hari Singh Nalwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vidhan-sabha-pays-tributes-to-cds-rawat-101639768442262.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: SSB personnel honoured on 58th foundation day||Lucknow: The 58th anniversary celebrations of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) were organised at its headquarters here on Friday. Inspector general, Lucknow Frontier, Ratn Sanjay, deputy inspector generals Abhishek Pathak and DK Sinha, Hockey Olympian Sujit Kumar, SSB officers and their families were present on the occasion. The 50th battalion Balrampur of Lucknow Frontier was selected as the best operational battalion for the year 2021. Lucknow Frontier got first position in the field of seizure of wildlife and forest products, and prevention of human trafficking. Inspector general, Lucknow Frontier, congratulated all the personnel for this achievement. Inspector general Ratn Sanjay said, “Sashastra Seema Bal is working efficiently even in adverse conditions. Apart from protecting Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders, it is also performing the responsibility of internal security, naxal operation and election duties. The force has also brought a sense of security among people of the border areas,” said the officer. The inspector general also presented “Union Home Minister Medal for excellence in police training” to Ranvir Singh Gahlawat. He also awarded Utkrishth Seva Medal to two personnel for their special service and excellent work. Golden disc of force was awarded to two personnel while 37 others received silver disc for their exceptional work. Appreciation letter was also given to the members of the Hockey Team of SSB that won gold medal in 70th All India Police Hockey Championship held earlier this year in Bangalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-ssb-personnel-honoured-on-58th-foundation-day-101639768262805.html
18-12-2021||Noida||Man held, minor detained for murder of former village pradhan in Dadri||Police on Thursday night arrested two people, including a 15-year-old boy, on Thursday night for their alleged involvement in the murder of a 65-year-old former village pradhan in Nainsukh village in Dadri. The man was identified as Vineet Kumar (26), a resident of Nainsukh village in Dadri. Police identified the victim as Nanhu Singh. Amit Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said around 2:30pm on Tuesday, Singh was working in his farm when the two suspects reached there and shot him dead. A case was registered against 14 people under sections 302 (murder) and 147 (rioting) of the IPC and also under Section 3(2) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at Dadri police station.During investigation, the police found that Singh had a dispute with Vineet Kumar, who was then picked up for questioning. “Kumar’s father and Singh’s brother had a quarrel over some property six months ago, where Singh acted as the mediator. Since then, Kumar nursed a grudge against Singh,” said the DCP. The DCP said Kumar roped in the boy from his village to conduct a recce of the victim. “On Tuesday, when Singh was spraying fertilizer on the wheat crop in the field, the suspects reached there and shot him. Singh received three bullet injuries and died on the spot,” he said. The DCP said on Thursday night, the suspects were arrested from their village. Police recovered a country-made gun and a motorcycle used in the crime from the suspects. “The two of them revealed that they had planned to kill more people involved in the quarrel. Kumar was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The boy was sent to a juvenile home after being produced before a child welfare committee,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-minor-detained-for-murder-of-former-village-pradhan-in-dadri-101639768261294.html
18-12-2021||Gurugram||Minor killed, dumped near Aravalli hills by friend’s father over free kachoris||The body of a 14-year-old boy was found with his hands and legs tied near the Aravalli hills in Faridabad’s Surajkund, with police suspecting that he was strangled and bludgeoned to death allegedly by his friend’s father as he used to frequently eat kachoris at the latter’s cart without paying for it.Police said they were yet to trace the suspect, Dashrath Singh, a native of Bihar, but added that they have arrested one of his accomplices, Upendra Yadav (30), an autorickshaw driver, on Thursday for allegedly helping to carry out the murder.According to police, a missing persons complaint was registered at Dabua police station on Tuesday after the victim’s father approached police.Police were informed that the boy only used visit the main suspect’s family.During investigation, police found CCTV footage showing the boy going in an autorickshaw on Monday.“We identified the autorickshaw from its registration plate, and nabbed Yadav on Thursday. Yadav told police that Singh was annoyed with the boy as he frequently visited his cart and had free kachoris... On Monday, they took the boy in Yadav’s auto to an isolated spot behind a banquet hall near the Aravallis. There he tied his hands and legs with cables and beat him brutally. He first strangled him, and also hit him with a rock. The boy succumbed to the injuries on the spot,” said Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police, Faridabad.The boy’s body was recovered after Yadav took police to the spot near Surajkund where the body was dumped.A police team that subsequently reached Singh’s house found the doors locked, and was informed by neighbours that the family left for their village on Tuesday morning.“Two teams have also been sent to Bihar to look for him,” the DCP said.
18-12-2021||Gurugram||9 containment zones in Gurugram after 14 cases, active Covid cases touch 97||The Gurugram administration declared nine containment zones in as many localities after 14 residents tested positive for Covid-19 over a week, senior officials said on Friday. The district deputy commissioner, Yash Garg, in an order issued on Thursday — a copy of which is with HT — also listed an action plan to combat the situation and conduct Covid-19 testing on symptomatic people and quarantining them. They have also asked the people in the containment zones to follow all Covid-19 protocols strictly. A containment zone will be “denotified” after a period of 14 days, after a patient recovers from the infection, and depending on the number of Covid-19 cases in the area, Garg stated in the order.With a total of 30 cases reported so far, the nine containment zones are residential complexes — one each — in Sector 49 (four cases), Sushant Lok 1 (four cases), Sector 84 (four cases) and Sector 58 (four cases); and Sector 50 (three cases), DLF Phase 4 (three cases), Sector 91 (three cases), Sector 83 (three cases) and Sector 54 (three cases), said the officials. The total tally of active cases in Gurugram reached 97, with 15 fresh cases reported on Friday, along with 21 discharges, according to the district surveillance unit’s daily Covid bulletin.“Movement of public of the inhabitants of a containment zone shall be restricted, other than for essential services and emergency purposes. Police personnel will be deployed, and checkpoints will be set up among others to seal a containment zone,” the order said, adding that it will be ensured that all necessary essential services or emergency movements or authorised pass movements will be facilitated in these areas. Rajeev Asthana, general secretary of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) in Sector 49, said they are following all Covid-19 protocols strictly. “Four members of a family are positive in the residential complex. The parents have a travel history to Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain. Their floor has been isolated, and the entire building is being sanitised,” he said. Rahul Singla, director of a residential complex in Sector 83, said, “We are holding sanitation drives in the housing complex regularly... We have instructed all the residents to follow Covid-19 guidelines strictly.” Precautionary steps are being taken across the country with the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, coming to the fore in India and the state government issuing directions to check the spread of the infection. According to the district bulletin, 4,070,663 people — 1,532 with the first dose and 6,379 the second dose — in Gurugram have been administered the jab till Friday.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said they have traced contacts of all the Covid-19 positive patients in all the nine areas. “We had asked the district administration to declare these areas as containment zones, to prevent the spread of the virus. People showing Covid symptoms or even primary and secondary contacts of a Covid-19 patient should wear masks and isolate themselves,” he said. According to Yadav, there is an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram as people have been organising several parties and events ahead of the New Year. “We have requested the police to direct station house officers (SHOs) concerned to ensure that all the Covid-19 patients are in home isolation,” he said.Spokesperson of the residential complex in Sector 84 said the authorities have been sanitising lifts and the lift lobbies thrice a day. “We have also asked maintenance and security staff to sanitise several times a day. We have requested all the residents to wear face masks and get fully vaccinated at the earliest,” he said.
18-12-2021||Noida||Two security guards held for opening fire to celebrate birthday in Greater Noida||Two security guards were arrested on Friday for opening fire to celebrate a birthday in Greater Noida West’s Paramount Emotion Society around 12:30am on Thursday, said police.The suspects — identified as Badam Singh, 40, and Sanjay Kumar, 45 — residents of Badaun and Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, told police that they fired two shots in the air after a local resident (yet to be identified) requested them to do so during the birthday party organised by him, along with two others. Police have launched a search to nab the party organisers, said officials.Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida Central, said that the police got to know about the celebratory firing through a video posted on social media. “...Police scanned CCTV footage of nearby areas and identified the two security guards involved in the incident, and arrested them from the residential complex on Friday and seized their licenced double-barrel guns,” he said.In the 10-second video, which was widely shared on social media platforms, a group of three men and the two security guards were seen celebrating the birthday of one of the three persons with a cake on a car’s bonnet. One of the security guards, wearing a black jacket and a muffler around his head, suddenly shot twice in the air as the group cheered.A case has been registered against the two security guards and the three unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), and sections 25, 27 and 30 of the Arms Act at the Noida Central police station on Thursday.“We have seized the two double-barrel rifles used in the celebratory firing, and the two suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Friday. We have initiated a cancellation process for the weapons following the misconduct. The party organisers have not been identified yet, and police have launched a search to nab them at the earliest,” said Elamaran G.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-security-guards-held-for-opening-fire-to-celebrate-birthday-in-greater-noida-101639768023176.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Agency approves traffic plans for Central Vista, New Delhi railway station||The apex body for traffic planning in Delhi, chaired by state Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, on Friday approved the traffic circulation and transport infrastructure development plans for the Central Vista redevelopment plan as well as the New Delhi Railway Station revamp.The two proposals were presented before the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) on Friday.Baijal on Friday tweeted, “After detailed deliberations following proposals have been approved: Traffic Circulation and Transport Infrastructure Plan for the Redevelopment of New Delhi Railway Station and transportation plan for Development/ Redevelopment of Parliament House, Common Central Secretariat and Central Vista Avenue at New Delhi.”A senior official aware of the development said the proposal concerning the Central Vista revamp involved the infrastructure upgrades on some major roads, including Rafi Marg, Rajendra Prasad Road, Maulana Azad Road, Janpath, Mansingh Road. “These are already very wide roads and don’t have much scope for further widening. The existing infrastructure will be upgraded and made more pedestrian and cyclist-friendly. Parking issues will be addressed,” said the official.As part of the New Delhi Railway Station redevelopment, the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has prepared a detailed traffic upgrade plan that involves elevated corridors, widening of roads etc.In the ₹1,000-crore plan (as part of the total Phase 1 cost of ₹6,500 crore), RLDA has proposed construction of 23 lane km of elevated corridors (approx 11km) and widening of arterial roads around the station complex.Currently, 450,000 passengers visit the station every day. RLDA officials said the projected increase in peak hour passenger volume (the number of passengers visiting the station per hour) is likely to go up from 45,000 to 55,000 in the next two decades.The plan also proposes widening Panchkuian Road, Basant Road, Chelmsford Road, Bhavbhuti Road and Minto Road. There will be separate entry and exit routes to the station.To provide connectivity to the station’s entry, flyovers have been proposed on Basant Road (which can be accessed from Panchkuian road) and Chelmsford Road, which will have an elevated section and will connect till the concourse of the station.For vehicles leaving the station, ramps will be provided on Asaf Ali Road, Bhavbhuti Road and Chelmsford Road (a little ahead of the entry point).The State Entry Road is proposed to be developed as a pedestrian street connecting the station complex to Connaught Place.Meanwhile, Baijal chaired the second meeting of Delhi Biodiversity Society along with Delhi Development Authority (DDA) vice-chairman Manish Gupta.“Emphasized on the provision of eco- friendly public amenities and utilities in the biodiversity parks including drinking water, sit-outs, etc. for convenience of visitors. Also advised the officials to create a digital platform to enhance awareness about the parks and to elicit feedback from citizens for further improvisation,” the LG tweeted after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/agency-approves-traffic-plans-for-central-vista-new-delhi-railway-station-101639768021299.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana logs two more Covid cases||Two fresh Covid cases were reported from the district in the last 24 hours, as per the district health department officials on Friday. The total count of cases in the district has reached 87,715. As many as 85,569 patients have recovered in the district till now, while 2,116 have succumbed to the disease. There are 30 active cases in the district. No case of dengue was reported in the last 24 hours. HTCSome more short stories from Ludhiana MC razes three illegal colonies in Ludhiana 
18-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Offices to welcome employees back with ‘natural’ interiors||Inspired by Gautam Budh Nagar’s Okhla bird sanctuary, tech giant Microsoft’s latest office in Noida feels like a walk through nature. Wide open corridors are fitted with vibrant murals depicting the region’s flora and fauna. Installations of greater flamingos, closed-winged ducks, cranes, and other bird species at the sanctuary are strategically placed to pay homage to NCR’s rich biodiversity.The newest worksite of Microsoft India Development Center (IDC) is spread across 150,000 square feet at KP Towers in Sector 16-B and was launched on November 20. The building’s design and architecture offer a panoramic view of the Yamuna river and let employees enjoy its natural vistas and ample natural sunlight.Earlier in January this year, Microsoft had launched its third IDC in Sector 16-A inspired by Agra’s Taj Mahal. The latest office in Sector 16-B is an extension of the same and will have departments of Cloud & AI, Experiences and Devices Group, Microsoft Digital Teams, and the new Gaming division. Almost 6% of the office space is devoted to indigenous plants, said a statement from the company. It is also fitted with efficient water and light conservation systems.“The expansion of the India Development Center in Noida is our continued effort to empower every person and every organization on this planet to achieve more. The excellent facilities at the KP Towers workplace provide the right environment for shaping the future of the IT industry in this part of the world,” said Rajiv Kumar, managing director, Microsoft India Development Center.Marking a confluence of modern art with workspaces, the commercial office space Max Towers in Sector 16-B is adorned with installations crafted by international artists.“Max Towers greets you with the installation called ‘Holderstebolder’ at the entrance lobby, which urges one to look at life from a different perspective. Another artwork called ‘Birds of a Feather Flock Together’ at the reception signifies freedom and unity,” said Rishi Raj, COO, Max Estates Ltd.‘Holderstebolder’ is the creation of South African artist Angus Taylor that shows a man upside down, to depict art devoid of agenda in its visual parlance.More offices in Noida are changing their interiors themed on sustainability and Indian art. Overlooking the river Yamuna, multinational software firm Esri India’s office is located on the 10th floor of Max Towers in Sector 16-B, Noida and maximizes the use of natural light to save on energy.Agendra Kumar, managing director, Esri India, said, “We have provided an environment friendly office where each employee can contribute towards a sustainable environment. We have also tried to bring nature into the workplace, which can help boost creativity and focus, making it a happy working place.”Using plants as a central theme, various partition walls at the office are made of planters while the meeting rooms are named after flowers including magnolia, dahlia, petunia, and gardenia.In the industrial area of Noida’s Sector 63, the headquarters of Everest Industries in Noida is adorned with intricate Gond artwork, which is a folk art of the Gond tribe of the Indian peninsula.“The artwork serves as a visual backdrop for the central breakout space at the Everest Industries headquarters in Noida. The paintings are a storytelling device depicting the legacy of the firm,” said Asha Sairam, principal architect at Studio Lotus that developed the design.The pandemic has given an opportunity to firms to redesign their office space based on the new trends. While workplaces will eventually adapt to post-Covid scenarios, people’s work lifestyles have drastically changed, say experts. “Sustainability was the leading trend before the pandemic. However, the pandemic has made employers acknowledge that people and their health matter the most. As a result, employers are now focusing on the overall health and well being of their employees,” said Ravideep Singh, associate director, Creative Designer Architects.
18-12-2021||Lucknow||UP TET paper leak: Shamli man held for buying, selling of question paper||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) on Friday arrested a man from Shamli district of Western Uttar Pradesh, in connection with the UP TET (Teacher Eligibility Test) paper leak case, the STF officials said. So far, total 35 people had been arrested in this case, they added. Confirming the arrest, additional director general (ADG) of STF, Amitabh Yash said, “Our team arrested Vikas Pawar, one of the masterminds behind the UP TET paper leak. Pawar was one of the persons who received a copy of the question paper a day before the TET exam and circulated it. Pawar is a native of Shamli.” Question paper of UP TET exam, scheduled to be held on November 28, was leaked hours before the examination. The state government cancelled the paper and handed over the case to the STF to investigate the matter. The STF used ground intelligence along with mobile surveillance data of the suspects to nab the accused involved in the incident. “When Pawar came to know about the paper leak, he destroyed the copies of the obtained question paper and kept a low profile. We learned from intelligence sources that he is planning to leave Shamli. Our team acted on the intelligence and arrested him,” said the officer. Pawar told the STF that he brought the copies of the question paper for ₹10 lakh from one of the accused and sold them to another person for extra money. The STF officials also recovered some copies of the question paper from Pawar’s house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-tet-paper-leak-shamli-man-held-for-buying-selling-of-question-paper-101639767725531.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools welcome order to reopen, winter break likely from January 1||School administrators in the national capital welcomed the government decision to resume in-person sessions from Saturday for students from class 6 onwards even though most schools said they are likely to reopen only on Monday so that they have time to plan the reopening and take parents’ consent.School heads said the learning gap has been exacerbated due to frequent closures and expressed a hope that institutions would be allowed to function without further disruptions. They said the resumption of in-person classes was crucial to plug the learning gap and for bringing students back to normal school life.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday allowed the reopening of schools in Delhi and the National Capital Region in a phased manner. The Delhi government then announced that physical lessons for classes 6 and above will resume from December 18.Physical classes in Delhi schools were suspended for the most part of November because of pollution. After the Delhi government decided to resume classes from November 29, the Supreme Court took note that while the government allowed work-from-home for office goers, it reopened schools exposing children to the hazards of pollution.According to the Delhi government’s academic calendar for 2021-22, winter vacations are scheduled from January 1 till January 15. While schools said expect the vacation schedule to remain as is, some said they may conduct online lessons for students in classes 10 and 12 during the vacation to complete the syllabus.Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said the school will reopen on Monday after talks with stakeholders.“We can’t open on a single day’s notice. We will hold discussions Saturday and make arrangements for the reopening. Since there is a cap on classroom occupancy, according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders, we will have to review seating arrangements. Consent from parents will also have to be sought,” said Acharya.She said her school had plans to call students of class 10 and 12 immediately, once board exams for class 12 are over, since the second term syllabus had to be completed before the CBSE term 2 exams scheduled for March-April.“We will call in students from class 6 to 11 on Monday and try to resume classes for class 12 students as soon as their board exams are over. When we opened last time, we saw a huge learning gap among students. Children have lost their writing skills and it will be crucial for us to work on these gaps during in-person classes,” said Acharya.She said the school will discuss the winter vacation schedule with parents and explore the possibility of holding in-person classes for students in class 9 and above during the vacation.Bharat Arora, general secretary, Action Committee of Private Unaided Schools, a consortium of more than 2,000 schools across Delhi, said his school was looking forward to uninterrupted learning now. “Earlier, winter vacation would take place towards the end of December. For the past four-five years, schools have usually declared vacations in the beginning of January. So, classes can continue without any break for the next few weeks,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-welcome-order-to-reopen-winter-break-likely-from-january-1-101639767661340.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||First sentencing in Delhi riots: Convict let off with jail term undergone||In the first sentencing in the north-east Delhi riots, a city court on Friday let off a convict by awarding him a period already undergone in jail and imposing a fine of ₹2,000, after he admitted to harbouring Shahrukh Pathan, the man who allegedly aimed a pistol at a police officer on February 24, 2020.Pathan allegedly fled after the incident and was nabbed from a bus stand in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli on March 3, 2020.On December 7, the court convicted Kaleem Ahmed for giving shelter to Pathan at Shamli, after he pleaded guilty to the crime.To be sure, this is the second conviction in riots cases. On December 6, a city court convicted Dinesh Yadav, alias Michael (25), for setting on fire a 73-year old woman’s house in Gokalpuri during the communal violence. The court will hear arguments on sentencing on December 22.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat on Friday said that Ahmed had shown remorse, prayed leniency and pleaded to having been misled by Pathan. The judge said that Ahmed has already suffered imprisonment from March 17, 2020, to September 7, 2021, but noted that the maximum sentence that can be awarded is three years. “Considering family status of convict, his whole individual position, the factum of his voluntary plea of guilt and the fact that his apparent act of contrition deserves to be taken at the face value to give another chance to him to reform himself and considering his role and the offence, the convict is sentenced to the period already undergone by him and also to a fine of ₹2,000, in default of payment of fine, simple imprisonment of one month,” the court said.The court also noted that there were nine persons dependent on Ahmed, including a paralysed father.Communal riots had broken out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, leaving 53 dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-sentencing-in-delhi-riots-convict-let-off-with-jail-term-undergone-101639767603187.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Four of family killed, two missing as car plunges into Indira Canal||Lucknow: Four members of a family, including two children, were killed and two others went missing when the car they were travelling in plunged into the Indira Canal under Nagram police station limits in Lucknow on Friday night, police officials said. Three occupants of the car were rescued by police with help of locals and were taken to a hospital for treatment, they added. Teams of local police along with divers and experts from State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) were trying to locate the missing persons, said a senior police official. Informing about the accident, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Dileep Kumar Singh said, “The accident occurred in the evening when the car fell into the canal while crossing a narrow culvert. Police teams from Nagraj police station soon reached the spot and started rescue work. Three persons have been rescued while two others are still missing. The bodies of the four persons have also been recovered.” According to police, the car was coming from Bilsanda area in Pilibhit district. One Sangeeta, 35, was travelling to Lucknow to meet her father along with her mother-in-law Rupa Devi, 57, brother-in-law Godhan, her children Chahat, Ananya, Rudra and children of her brother-in-law, Kapil and Rupesh. One Kuldeep of their village was driving the car. “Police have recovered bodies of two women--Sangeeta, Rupa Devi and two minors. The identities of the three recovered and two missing individuals were yet to be confirmed by the police. The police have informed the family members of the deceased in Pilibhit regarding the accident,” said Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-four-of-family-killed-two-missing-as-car-plunges-into-indira-canal-101639767361323.html
18-12-2021||Other||SEC: Polling in OBC seats to be held as Open Category on Jan 18||Mumbai Turning down the state’s request to re-schedule polling in 2,100 local body seats to be held on December 21 till reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) reservation is restored, the State Election Commission (SEC) announced Friday that it will hold the elections for the hitherto reserved seats on January 18 as Open Category seats in keeping with the Supreme Court’s ruling earlier this week. While the election to 567 local body seats will take place next month, polling in the remaining 1,533 seats will take place as scheduled, on December 21, the SEC announced. Counting of votes for the polls held on December 21 and January 18 will take place on January 19. On December 15, the state cabinet passed a resolution to request the SEC to reschedule the polls after the top court on the same day shot down the Maharashtra government’s plea to stay the entire poll process until empirical data on OBC communities can be gathered. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar on Wednesday directed the SEC to issue a fresh notification declaring 567 seats out of a total of 2,100 as general category seats instead of OBC seats. Accordingly, the SEC announced the schedule for these reserved seats (27% of the total number) — spread across district councils, panchayat samitis, nagar panchayats and municipal corporations, and gram panchayats — on Friday. “As per the SC order, the seats reserved for the OBC are now made open for general category and election to them will be held on January 18, 2022. The remaining seats will go to polls as per the schedule on December 21. However, the counting of both the polls will be held on January 19,” state election commissioner UPS Madan said. “The elections are announced as per the SC order. The decision on the state’s request made to postpone all the forthcoming elections will be taken according to the statutory and constitutional provisions and in due course. The SC order however is self explanatory,” SEC secretary Kiran Kurundkar said.“We received the letter from the state government requesting us to postpone the elections to be held on December 21. However, they cannot be postponed as the SC order is very specific and does not leave any room for postponement. The apex court, in its earlier order in August, too had clarified that the elections could not be put on hold because of reservation. We have not replied to the state government but notification issued to hold the election implies that the request has been turned down,” an SEC official said requesting anonymity. Expressing unhappiness over the decision, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said: “There would be law and order situation if the elections are held without the reservation of 27% to OBCs.” Earlier, food and civil supply minister and prominent OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal had said that the government was unwilling to hold the elections in “a piecemeal manner” as it would not be fair to the OBC communities. The top court had on March 4 quashed 27% political reservation to OBC candidates in local body polls and asked the state to conduct a rigorous empirical survey to ascertain the nature of the socio-economic backwardness of the communities that fall within the OBC category, in order to determine the reservation that ought to be granted to them. The state formed a 10-member Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC) in June, and gave it the mandate to conduct the survey. However, MSBCC officials are yet to begin the survey and told Hindustan Times that the state was considering changing the Terms of Reference, seeking to limit the exercise to a sample survey. The government in September further issued an Ordinance granting up to 27% reservation to OBC candidates. Following this, the SEC had released a schedule for the December 21 local body polls, which included OBC reserved seats. However, the SC stayed the Ordinance on December 6 as there was no empirical data to back this up. In its order on Wednesday, the top court further declared SEC’s November 24 notification “non est” (non-existent). “We direct that SEC notification with respect to OBC be treated as non est where elections have been notified, and renotify them as general category seats so that elections can take place. In other words, SEC must issue fresh notification for 27% seats reserved for OBC as general category and initiate election process for these seats along with the remaining seats,” the bench ordered. Noting that the election process for the remaining 73% seats is already underway, the court directed that the counting and declaration of results for all seats would, however, be done simultaneously and on the same day. This will also include bypolls, the bench clarified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sec-polling-in-obc-seats-to-be-held-as-open-category-on-jan-18-101639767180496.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||EDMC to set up helplines and collection mechanism for scrap materials||Soon residents as well as commercial units in east Delhi will be able dispose of their scrap material in an environment friendly manner while also getting some value back for it. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) is now moving towards setting up a helpline, website and collection mechanism, specifically meant for scrap material, old metallic products and disused vehicles in the trans-Yamuna areas. Justifying the need for the new mechanism, a letter from the municipal commissioner Vikas Anand to the standing committee on Friday said there were various unorganized sectors and households generating a high volume of scrap material in the EDMC jurisdiction and these places were not under the ambit of regulations for scientific disposal of scrap material. Therefore, it has become essential to create an environment for scrap chain management through the association of various stakeholders. Unscientific demolition and processing of scrap leads to environmental pollution and currently, none of the three civic bodies of Delhi has a scrap waste collection mechanism.A chief engineer overseeing the project said a private company will be appointed specifically to create the scrap chain management in the unorganized sector — mainly scrap shops. “We had taken the lead in empanelling agencies for handling electronic waste and now we plan to become the first corporation to do the same for scrap waste. The EDMC will act as a facilitator by empanelling agencies that will collect, transport, process and scientifically store the scrap waste in accordance with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the Central Pollution Control Board norms. In the first phase, only people from unorganised sectors who are willing to be a part of this mechanism will be incorporated,” the official said, asking not to be named.The east corporation officials said a large chunk of scrap waste management is in the unorganized sector and the project will be the first step towards its formalisation. “It will take more time to integrate the sector and we will review the progress after one year,” the official said. The EDMC will help in empaneling agencies and also float toll free numbers and a website for streamlining collection of scrap waste. “The empanelled agencies will pay residential, industrial as well as commercial operators as per the salvage value and a fixed royalty will be ensured so that EDMC too gets some revenue,” official added. The standing committee will undertake further deliberations on the proposal and the matter has been postponed till the next meeting on Friday.The EDMC launched a similar initiative for collection of electronic waste in July and the civic body has processed over 70 requests so far. In April 2019, while following the National Green Tribunal’s orders, the authorities had undertaken large-scale sealing drive in west Delhi’s Mayapuri, which had become a hub for illegal dismantling and processing of scrap metal. In June this year, the tribunal asked the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and other authorities to create public awareness against unauthorised scrapping activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmcto-set-up-helplines-and-collection-mechanism-for-scrap-materials-101639767121184.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Brace for the chill, says Met: Delhi temperature may fall below 5°C this weekend||Residents of the Capital have been advised to brace for the chill, with temperatures set to fall to around 5 degrees Celsius this weekend, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.Mercury levels at the Safdarjung weather station, Delhi’s base station, fell to 7.7°C in the early hours of Friday. The day’s maximum temperature, meanwhile, was 20.4°C, two below the season’s normal.At the Palam observatory, the maximum temperature fell to 18.4°C — four below normal.The minimum temperature fell to 5.3°C at Jaffarpur in outer Delhi, while they hovered around the 6°C mark at several places in the city, including Lodhi Road (6.1°C) and Aya Nagar (6.6°C).“The temperature over the weekend is likely to fall slightly to around 5-6°C. The trend of dipping temperature was seen across many states in north India, and similar recordings are likely over the weekend,” said a senior Met official.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, said this drop in temperatures in Delhi was because of the cold winds blowing from the northern side of the country. On December 21-22, temperatures could increase slightly under the impact of a western disturbance, he said.“Over the next two days, temperatures will fall and by Monday, it will settle and remain in the same range. Over the weekend, some parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) could also see the temperatures dropping to around 4 degrees Celsius,” Palawat explained.The cold and strong northerly winds on Friday also helped ease the Capital’s pollution levels marginally, even as it stayed in the ‘very poor’ zone for the fifth straight day, owing largely to the dipping temperature.The city’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) on Friday was 329, considered to be in the ‘very poor’ range. On Thursday, the average AQI of the city was 368, also ‘very poor’.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.“Strong winds helped improve the air quality a little. Improvement will be visible on Saturday as well,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/brace-for-the-chill-says-met-delhi-temperature-may-fall-below-5c-101639767061070.html
18-12-2021||Pune||Vanrai felicitates India’s ‘Metro man’ E Sreedharan with Rashtranirman award||PUNE The Vanrai foundation felicitated E Sreedharan, the man credited with the Metro projects in India, with the Dr Mohan Dhariya Rashtranirman award for 2021. The award includes a Rs1 lakh cash prize and a memento.Vanrai president Ravindra Dhariya said, “Previously scientist Raghunath Mashelkar, social crusader Anna Hazare, scientist Jayant Naralikar, former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, agriculture scientist M S Swaminathan, scientist Anil Kakodkar and Dr Kasturirangan were felicitated with this award.”Sreedharan said, “I got many awards but I remember that I got first award from Maharashtra government with a cash prize of Rs25,000. Today I am getting an award from the prestigious Vanrai organisation which is also from Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vanrai-felicitates-india-s-metro-man-e-sreedharan-with-rashtranirman-award-101639766583541.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Disguised as cheap goods, diamonds worth ₹1.56 crore seized at Delhi airport||Diamonds worth ₹1.56 crore were seized at the Delhi airport, Delhi customs said on Friday. Sanjay Bansal, commissioner (export), Customs, said that the diamonds were being exported through air cargo after being concealed in packets of “plastic hot fix” material. “On Thursday, the officers of Air Cargo Export Commissionerate, Delhi, on the basis of suspicion, examined a consignment that was declared as ‘plastic hot fix’ with a value of ₹5,000. Our officers found that the packet contained cut and polished diamonds weighing 1082 carats. Hot fix sparklers were pasted on the packet to avoid detection,” he said. The investigation revealed that the consignment was being sent to Hong Kong. “This appears to be a unique case of sending diamonds out of the country through concealment in the parcels through air cargo. This is one of the largest seizures of polished diamonds in Delhi in recent times,” Bansal added. The department is probing the identity of the people who brought the consignment to the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/disguised-as-cheap-goods-diamonds-worth-1-56-crore-seized-at-delhi-airport-101639766580878.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||IIT-Kanpur, FICCI to set up AIIDE-CoE in Noida||With a view to giving impetus to innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem by leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML), the Uttar Pradesh government has entrusted IIT Kanpur and FICCI to establish a world-class Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Noida. The Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Driven Entrepreneurship Centre of Excellence (AIIDE-CoE) will help nurture and incubate 250 startups from the AI/ML domain over a period of five years. The startups will have access to world-class infrastructure and lab facilities, mentors and investors to help accelerate their product development.The centre will develop the startup ecosystem in Uttar Pradesh in the field of artificial intelligence and help bridge the gap between academia and industries. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma inaugurated the website of AIIDE-CoE in Lucknow recently and the registration also began that very day for startups in the field of AI/ML. “We have firm belief that a premier institute like IIT Kanpur along with FICCI will ensure that Uttar Pradesh leaves a mark globally on the AI/ML landscape,” Sharma said on the occasion.Prof AR Harish, dean, research and development at IIT Kanpur, who is chairing the governing body of the AIIDE-CoE initiative said, “The website is an integral part of this unique initiative as the centre of excellence is focused upon the field of AI/ML.”“We are sure that it will add substantial value to the entrepreneurs who will get associated through it. This website is the cornerstone to the initiative as it works as a multifunctional portal for the initiative,” he added. “It will have an open-source resource bank for students and researchers to gain knowledge from and have live discussions about the latest research and white papers on new emerging technologies,” Prof Harish said.Nikhil Agarwal, CEO, AIIDE-CoE, said, “We are delighted to take AI/ML to every stakeholder who can potentially benefit from this initiative. Our website shall reach out to those who are geographically far from the centre and augment efforts of those physically accessing the infrastructure at CoE in Noida.”A dedicated login portal for registered startups, students, innovators, and other stakeholders will provide access to the activities and progress of the centre. Arvind Kumar, additional chief secretary, IT and Electronics, UP, said, “The Uttar Pradesh government will continue to provide all necessary support required to ensure best-in-class entrepreneurship ecosystem and handholding startups operating in the domain of AI/ML.”The government will also be able to track the initiative through the website. The various benefits provided through the website will include connect with mentors and investors, access to scheduled and past webinars, access to soft infrastructure and various other functions.Ujjwal Kumar, IAS, managing director, UP Electronics Corporation Ltd (UPCL) said, “AIIDE-CoE will not just support startups from Uttar Pradesh but also reach out to the corners of the state to sensitise students, innovators, university professors and other entrepreneurial enthusiasts about the application and effectiveness of AI/ML across various domains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitkanpur-ficci-to-set-up-aiide-coe-in-noida-101639766401283.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||AAP blames Delhi civic bodies for failing to keep stray cattle in check||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Friday blamed the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations for failing to control the “stray cattle menace in the city over the last 15 years”. The BJP, however, dismissed the claims as “cheap politics”.Bharadwaj said that illegal dairies are functioning in Delhi under the protection of BJP functionaries and people can find stray cows “on roads and near dumpsters anywhere in the city”. “If you visit the garbage dumps in any locality in Delhi, you will see cows trying to find food in discarded polythene bags. The polythene chokes their insides,” he said.The AAP spokesperson alleged that the numbers of stray animals have only increased over the last three-four years.He further claimed that stray cattle cause at least 250 road accidents in the city each month. “These stray cows are milked and then released back to wander across the city. This is an organised gang who exploit cows,” Bharadwaj alleged.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor dismissed Bharadwaj’s charges.He said, “No doubt we can see cows around garbage dhalaos or sitting on roads, often becoming the cause of road accidents but holding MCDs alone responsible for this or calling it a case of corruption by MCD leaders is proof of AAP’s dirty politics. Bharadwaj said that Delhi has a cow mafia... Bharadwaj himself lives in Chirag Delhi village and the Zamrudpur village, where dozens of people keep cows and there are several dairies too, is in his constituency. Does he feel that these too are being run by any mafia under municipal patronage? And has he as an MLA complained against this mafia to get these diaries shut?”Noting that most stray cattle belong to private dairy owners, Kapoor said the solution lies in shifting dairies to outer areas.Delhi will go to the civic polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiaap-blames-mcds-for-failing-to-keep-stray-cattle-in-check-101639766349210.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||KGMU staffers’ strike work, resume work two hours later||Healthcare facilities were hampered for about two hours on the King George’s Medical University campus from 9 am on Friday, as over 5,000 staff members went on strike demanding cadre restructuring.University officials said the protest did not affect services. “In all 3,318 patient registrations were done and they could see a doctor and get services on the campus,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson KGMU. A day before, over 2,800 registrations had been done.The university had deployed contractual staff to run services smoothly during the protest. Many patients who reached the campus for getting diagnostic tests done or to see a doctor could not get the OPD registration done as staff, leaving work behind, staged a protest from 9 am.The strike was called off at around 11 am after assurance from the medical education department but the patients did face trouble.Several patients, who came early in the morning, returned watching the staff sitting in the OPD block raising slogans with placards in hands. “I have to take the report of my father but the staff is protesting and I am waiting,” said Rakesh Kumar, an attendant.“The matter of the strike reached the CM office after which medical education minister Suresh Khanna and senior officials met us in the vice-chancellor’s office. They assured us that our files regarding cadre restructuring shall be executed in a day or two after which we called off the strike,” said Pradip Gangwar, president of the KGMU Employees’ Council.He said that three government orders for cadre restructuring of physiotherapists, occupational therapists and perfusionists were issued. Gangwar said the CM shall meet a delegation of the employees in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-staffers-strike-work-resume-work-two-hours-later-101639766347919.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to open for Class 6 and above||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas on Friday allowed schools and other educational institutions to be reopened in a phased manner from Saturday, and told the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to take an “immediate decision” to allow students from Class 6 and above to attend physical classes.For students in Class 5 and below, schools can reopen from December 27, taking into account the air quality of the city around the time, and the winter vacation schedule, the CAQM directions said.Just minutes after CAQM’s order, the Delhi government issued directions to open schools in the Capital from December 18.“All state governments of Delhi and NCR have to follow a phased reopening of schools, colleges and educational institutions located within NCR. State governments of NCR and Delhi have been advised to take an immediate decision for resumption of physical classes in schools for classes 6 onwards, colleges, educational institutions, skill development and training institutes, other training institutes and libraries,” the CAQM statement said.“The governments should also take the decision for resumption of physical classes, for students up to Class 5, with effect from December 27, duly considering the AQI and the winter vacation schedule,” it added.air Schools said they expect vacations to take place as per schedule, but added that lessons for students in classes 10 and 12 may continue during this period to make up for lost time. It was not immediately clear if the education department will allow schools to conduct in-person classes in that time.Delhi’s directorate of education (DoE) on Friday ordered that “all government, government-aided, unaided recognised, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), municipal and Delhi Cantonment Board schools will reopen from December 18 for Classes 6 onwards”.The decision was welcomed by school principals, parents and experts, who have rued how the long break in physical classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the frequent closures after that because of pollution have not just impacted learning levels but even led to complaints of mental health problems among children.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said the frequent closure of schools was adversely impacting children, especially adolescents, who needed interaction with peers. “Children are not interacting the way they did earlier. They feel unsure and under-confident in online classes. They are missing out on the experience of growing up with peers,” said Joshi.After the Covid-19 outbreak first hit India, schools in the Capital were shut on March 12, 2020. On January 18, 2021, schools were opened for classes 10 and 12, keeping practical work and board exam preparations in mind. On February 5, schools were reopened for the students of classes 9 and 11. Delhi’s fourth Covid-19 wave forced schools shut again from April 9. From September, reopening began in phases, with classes opening for 9-12 grades first, before the remaining were allowed to return to in-person attendance from November 1.Pollution then forced schools to shut again for 13 days in mid-November. Schools reopened on November 29 as pollution eased marginally, but the state government issued yet another closure order on December 2, after the Supreme Court pulled up authorities for sending children to school even while parents were working from home. The top court, however, clarified the next day that it neither passed any order requiring schools to be shut, nor did it suggest the government close schools.Experts said that while online classes have been ongoing during the repeated closures, they don’t match up in with physical classes in terms of learning and developmental outcomes, apart from prevailing concerns over the digital divide.AK Jha, principal of the Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Rohini, said, “Students and teachers are able to connect better when the interaction takes place face to face. Students also benefit from peer learning.”Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said that schools were eagerly waiting for students to return to campuses after prolonged delays on account of abrupt closures.“Finally, we are relieved that schools have reopened. When we reopened last time, we noticed that there was a huge learning gap. Students were struggling with writing and other skills too required polishing,” said Acharya.Meanwhile, though schools are being allowed to reopen, restrictions on construction activities in Delhi-NCR and the entry of trucks into the Capital’s limits are still in place, according to CAQM. Some relaxations were given for operations of industries and thermal power plants in the NCR states on December 15.Pollution levels in the Capital have stayed in the “very poor” zone for five straight days, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board, with local sources contributing to a majority of the city’s bad air. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 329 on Friday, down from 368 the previous day, as strong winds helped wash out pollutants to a certain extent.In a statement, CAQM said that they received several representations arguing the “compelling necessity to open the schools and educational institutions with immediate effect”.Nidhi Mehta, a parent whose daughter studies in Class 4, said she will send her child to school whenever classes resume. “It doesn’t make any sense to not send children to school while we are going ahead with other activities. My daughter is keen on going to school and we will happily send her. One cannot stay at home forever,” said Mehta.
18-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man killed, wife injured after rent dispute with landlord, his aides||A 38-year-old man was killed and his wife seriously injured after their landlord and his associates attacked them with a knife, an iron rod, and stones in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri late Thursday night, police said. The landlord was also injured in the brawl, police said.According to police, the two groups fought over the rent and electricity bills that the couple had allegedly not paid for the past few months.The couple had rented a jhuggi owned by the prime suspect, Murugan (49), who was arrested on Friday along with two of his associates. At least one more suspect is still on the run, the police said.The deceased, identified as Kale Khan, lived with his wife Maheshwari (36), and three sons in a rented jhuggi at block 22 in Trilokpuri. On Thursday around 11pm, their landlord Murugan came to their house and demanded the pending rent and electricity bills.An argument ensued between Murugan and Maheshwari, during which he caught hold of her hair. The woman slapped him in retaliation, said deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap, quoting the statement of the couple’s minor son.“Murugan left the place. The couple was sitting outside their jhuggi with their sons when Murugan returned with three associates Arumugam, Sahil and Ajay, and started fighting with the couple. Arumugam stabbed Khan in the chest with a knife. Murugan assaulted the couple with an iron rod. The other two men pelted stones on them,” Kashyap said.Hearing the commotion, some neighbours arrived and rushed the injured to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, where Khan was declared dead on arrival. Police arrested Murugan along with Arumugam and Ajay. Sahil is on the run, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-killed-wife-injured-after-rent-dispute-with-landlord-his-aides-101639766162514.html
18-12-2021||Noida||Noida authority’s governance led to poor outcomes, says CAG audit||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in its performance audit report, has claimed gaps in the governance structure of the Noida authority, which has translated into extremely poor outcomes for all principal stakeholders including the authority, the government of Uttar Pradesh, industries, and residents, specifically homebuyers.The absence of any internal audit led to the unchecked violation of rules, orders and procedures. All of these translated into a failure to achieve the objectives of Noida, distress for end user stakeholders such as homebuyers, who invested their lifesavings in schemes of the Noida authority, and losses to authority and the government to the tune of thousands of crores of rupees, the CAG said.The CAG report was on the Performance Audit Report on Land Acquisition and Allotment of Properties in Noida in Uttar Pradesh, 2021, and was tabled by parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna in the UP assembly on Friday.The report contains six chapters— general planning, acquisition of land, pricing of properties, allotment of properties and internal control. It states that the Uttar Pradesh government constituted Noida in April 1976 under Section 3 of the UP Industrial Area Development Act, 1976, with the objective of creating a planned, integrated and modern industrial city that is well connected with Delhi. While the authority is in operation since April 1976, it was only in July 2017 that the UP government entrusted the audit of Noida to CAG. In January, the UP government appointed CAG as the sole auditor from the year 2005-06 onwards.CAG said Noida has the mandate to develop industrial areas.However, development and allocation of land for industrial purposes did not receive priority and only 23% area was developed for industrial activities. Instead, residential development has been the predominant activity with 52% land allocation as on March 2020.Noida prepared the Master Plan-2031 without a corresponding regional plan in place. Without addressing the concerns and observations raised by chief town and country planner (CTCP) and National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB), the authority proceeded with the implementation of the unapproved master plan, despite the adverse observations by the NCRPB.The report noticed that land acquisition under Land Acquisition Act, 1894, by the authority was predominantly based on the use of the urgency clause. Approximately 80% land was acquired by using this provision.The policy framework for the pricing of properties in Noida had a serious gap, the CAG said. The audit noticed that neither was any guideline prescribed by the UP government, nor did Noida prepare its own costing manual/standards/norms, and nor did it adopt guidelines of similar authority/organisation. It was also observed that Noida had wrongly categorised sectors while allotting group housing plots, which led to lower fixation of reserve price and a consequent loss of possible revenue of ₹798.69 crore.Asked about the CAG’s audit, the Noida authority said it was yet to study the report, which runs around 500 pages and covers years after 2005.“Gaps in allotment which had been highlighted in the past are being streamlined now. There have been certain areas of concern pointed in draft report, some of which were agreed to by us while to some others Noida had presented counter facts also. Final report is yet to be studied,” Noida authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari told news agency PTI.“The detailed report is yet to be studied by us and we will take action as per the government’s directions to us,” the senior IAS officer added.
18-12-2021||Mumbai||City’s air quality plummets to ‘poor’, south Mumbai most polluted||Mumbai: On Friday, the city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) slipped to ‘poor’ category with a value of 262, marking the highest level of air pollution observed this month. South Mumbai’s Mazagaon and Colaba were the most polluted locations with AQIs of 358 and 346 respectively, in the ‘very poor’ category, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Friday’s AQI was up from 120 (moderate) the previous day, as per SAFAR’s network of 10 air quality monitors in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. Of these, six recorded either ‘poor’ or ‘very poor’ air on Friday, indicating a widespread deterioration in air quality. Mumbai had previously seen such high pollution levels on November 16, when the AQI touched a season high of 268. Officials attributed Friday’s pollution spike to a sudden slowing down of winds. “From almost 16kmph on Thursday, the wind speeds on Friday were less than 8kmph in most parts of the city. As a result, particulate matter could have accumulated. Since temperatures are also low, the pollutants are settling closer to the ground. Slowing of winds could also indicate that colder conditions will set in over the next day or two,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. While Navi Mumbai, recorded a ‘poor’ AQI of 300, Andheri, Malad and Chembur clocked ‘poor’ AQIs of 266, 242 and 228 respectively. The daytime maximum temperature on Friday stood at 29.9 degrees Celsius (three degrees below normal) while the minimum temperature stood at 19.6 (two degrees below normal). Mumbai has reported lower than normal temperatures since Tuesday this week, after the temporary onset of cooling, north-easterly winds. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, there will be a gradual decrease in temperature over the next week. The daytime maximum is expected to settle around 28 degrees Celsius by December 23, while the minimum is expected to dip more sharply, touching 16 degrees Celsius by December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/citys-air-quality-plummets-to-poor-south-mumbai-most-polluted-101639766106029.html
18-12-2021||Delhi||Woman dragged on Delhi road during snatching: 1 held, search on for other||A day after a 23-year-old nursing attendant was dragged on the road for around 100 metres during a snatching bid in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, Delhi Police on Friday arrested one of the two bike-borne men allegedly behind the crime. Police said they have also recovered the scooty used by the snatchers and said that it was stolen from north Delhi’s Roop Nagar.According to police, the suspect, Vipin (21), is a habitual criminal and was previously involved in another case under the Excise Act. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said they have identified the second suspect and are carrying out raids to arrest him.The incident, which was captured on CCTV footage from the area, was widely shared on social media. The video showed the woman, Payal Sisodia, being dragged along the road by the snatchers as she held on to her phone and a suspect’s jacket.“Payal was lucky that no vehicle hit her,” Payal’s brother Deepanshu (18) told HT.“I will not even be able to go to work for some time, I’m too scared to venture out,” said Payal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-dragged-on-delhi-road-during-snatching-1-held-search-on-for-other-101639765980780.html
18-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held with 420 spools of banned plastic kite string||A resident of Basant Nagar was arrested with 420 spools of banned plastic kite string on Thursday.The accused has been identified as Sanjiv Kumar.Assistant sub-inspector Raj Kumar stated that they arrested Kumar following a tip-off that he was selling the banned around factories on Bahadurke Road.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered.The police commissioner has banned the storage and sale of plastic kite string under Section 144 of CrPC, terming it dangerous for humans as well as animals.Recent recoveriesOn December 15, 1,200 spools of the string was recovered with the arrest of a pickup auto driver. On November 13, the Division Number 3 police had recovered 1,795 spools of plastic kite string from a pick-up auto, but the driver had managed to escape from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-with-420-spools-of-banned-plastic-kite-string-101639765923973.html
18-12-2021||Pune||PCB wins Raksha Mantri’s award for Excellence||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has bagged the Raksha Mantri’s award for Excellence 2021 for ‘improvements to the Cantonment General Hospital’. This is the third consecutive time the board has been conferred with the award after in 2019 and 2020. PCB CEO Amit Kumar, along with resident medical officer (RMO) Usha Tapase, Mrunali Small, the matron associated with the hospital and PCB nominated member Sachin Mathurawala received the award from defence minister Rajnath Singh. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “Since the pandemic, the entire year has been operationally very challenging for all the hospital staff who had rendered professional services with the hard work and dedication towards alleviating the sufferings of Covid-19 patients. We are thankful to all our team members, the DGDE office and the ministry for appreciating our work for the citizens of the Cantonment area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcb-wins-raksha-mantri-s-award-for-excellence-101639765920774.html
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party not to leave any seats for Congress in its bastions||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said his party and its allies will contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, including Rae Bareli and Amethi, thereby not leaving any seats for the Congress even in its two pocket boroughs. The state assembly polls are due early next year.All the alliances that the SP has announced so far were firmed up after working out the seat-sharing formula with the partners, Yadav said to newspersons at the start of the seventh phase of his Vijay Yatra (political rath yatra for 2022 polls) in Rae Bareli.Asked if his party would leave any seats in Rae Bareli and Amethi for the Congress, Akhilesh said: “The SP, with its allies, will contest all the 403 assembly seats in the state, including Rae Bareli and Amethi, will contest the elections at full throttle and form the next government in the state.”Rae Bareli is the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress leader Sonia Gandhi. Rahul Gandhi had been winning the Amethi Lok Sabha seat since 2004 till BJP’s Smriti Irani wrested it from him in 2019.Explaining the decision, Akhilesh said: “Out of respect and courtesy, the SP and Congress had been leaving seats for each other (for each other’s top family members) in Lok Sabha elections. But these are the Vidhan Sabha polls, and SP had always contested assembly elections with full force. The SP had registered big wins in the assembly polls in these constituencies also.”Responding to Akhilesh’s comment about not leaving seats, UP Congress spokesperson Zeeshan Haider said: “Who cares? It’s their party, whatever they decide. We are also contesting all 403 seats and we too are not leaving any seats in Etawah and Mainpuri.”When asked about the alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav, who heads the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L), and seat-sharing, Akhilesh said: “Each alliance was announced only after deciding seat-sharing with the allies. Our endeavour was to bring regional parties together, and his (Shivpal’s) party too is a regional party. The alliance will get seats in their respective regions of influence.”The Samajwadi Party had allied with the Congress for the 2017 UP assembly polls and with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but this time steered clear of any big parties. Instead, the SP has tied up with several small, regional parties such as Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Janwadi Party (Socialist), Apna Dal (Krishna Patel)in eastern UP and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in western UP and Mahan Dal in the Rohilkhand region of the state.Attacking the BJP government, he said people faced “dikkat, killat, zillat (adversity, scarcity, humiliation)” under its rule.Akhilesh embarked on the rath yatra through Rae Bareli, addressing people at three different places.He alleged that the Yogi Adityanath-led government has taken Uttar Pradesh to top position in the country in custodial deaths, hunger index and farmer suicides.Addressing the people from atop the campaign bus, Akhilesh Yadav said, “Those who claim to make Uttar Pradesh number one in the country have actually taken it to the top position in custodial deaths, hunger index, farmer suicides, in selling public enterprises and banks and in burying cows alive. Can anyone image that cows can be buried alive?”Responding to the verbal attack on his party, BJP leader Abhishek Pandey ‘Rupak’ said: “Akhilesh ji knows the 2022 UP campaign is over and that is why he is talking nonsense. There is little point in responding to a politician who talks of country’s divider Jinnah in the same breath as one who kept country united Sardar Patel, who first makes a shocking remark against PM and then clarifies, who doesn’t think it proper to admonish his party MP for making a shockingly irresponsible statement on increasing the (marriage) age of women. This leader talks of Covid vaccine as BJP’s vaccine. I would advise him to take the same vaccine now. As for dikkat, killat, zillat charge, that happened during the days when Yadav’s government was in power.”SP chief hints at unemployment allowance in manifestoHe also said that on coming to power, the SP government will also give honorarium to former panchayat representatives. Even those who had been public representatives deserve the honour, he said.“People should wait for the SP manifesto which might also talk about unemployment allowance and employment opportunities,” he added.
18-12-2021||Lucknow||Modi asks mayors to preserve heritage while ensuring development of cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked mayors to preserve heritage while ensuring development in their respective cities to make them vibrant hubs of economic activities. He was addressing the All India Mayors’ Conference in Varanasi after virtually inaugurating it. As many as 120 mayors from different states attended the conference at Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre in Varanasi. The theme of the meet is New Urban India.Both “heritage” and “development” are needed, the Prime Minister stated.He also said the development of Varanasi, also known as Kashi, can be a roadmap for the entire country.The development of the city has been carried out in a traditional manner which has set an example of how local skills and products can become the identity of a city, he said.He also said the mayors may learn from Kashi model of development in which antiquity, the heritage of city has been maintained while ensuring development.“I am looking at the All India Mayors’ Conference programme being held in Kashi with many possibilities. On the one hand the world’s oldest city Banaras and on the other hand (there is) the outline of the modern cities of modern India. During my recent visit to Kashi, I said Kashi’s development can become a roadmap for the entire country. Most of the cities in our country are traditional cities, which have developed in the traditional way,” PM Modi said.“In this era of modernisation, the antiquity of these cities is equally important. That is why we need to modernize the cities while preserving our rich heritage and traditions as we are doing in Kashi. Keeping in mind the future needs, we will have to make a modern city, we will have to nurture heritage. Virasat bhi chahiye, vikas bhi chahiye (both heritage and development are needed),” PM Modi said.“In urban development, we need to believe in evolution as India doesn’t need revolution. We need to transform the cities. There is no need to break all that is old. While preserving the old, we need to develop and equip our cities with modern facilities to meet the future needs,” PM Modi said. He suggested a beauty competition among wards wherein the most beautiful ward should be awarded. PM Modi also said that the cities which are not doing anything for cleanliness and development should be identified. Big posters of these cities should be placed and it will compel them to take steps for development, he said.“All the mayors should pledge that next time your city should not lag behind in terms of cleanliness. We are already recognising those states which are topping in terms of cleanliness but we will also honour those who are putting in all their efforts to perform their best. We should also take into account those states which are not at all performing on this parameter and advertise these non-performing states so that public pressure forces them to put in efforts,” PM Modi added.“Unless we keep our cities clean and pay attention to sanitation and hygiene, no matter how many hospitals we build, we will fall short as these are the main causes of diseases,” he said.PM also laid stress on a sensitive approach towards rivers and lakes. Water crisis was a global phenomenon and attention needed to be paid to rivers flowing by towns, he added.He urged mayors to organise river festivals annually on river banks in order to make people aware of their historical and cultural importance. He told the mayors to promote local products as Uttar Pradesh is doing through the One District One Product (ODOP) scheme in order that these local items become famous, help generate employment opportunities, preserve skills and foster economic growth. He gave the example of Banarasi paan and Banarasi sarees, which are famous worldwide and both are contributing to the economic growth of the city.He emphasised the importance of public participation in the all-round development of cities.The Prime Minister said, “The more public participation we witness, the better it will be for the city. For instance, can NCC cadets take care of all statues of Indian heroes in their respective cities? We can also enlighten our cadets about their heroics. Mayors can ensure this during their tenure.”The Prime Minister suggested that people use LED bulbs to significantly bring down their electricity bills and urged the mayors participating in the event to ensure that every street and corner of their city has proper lighting.About the traffic problem in cities, he said increasing the number of flyovers is not the permanent solution, rather public transport is the only way of easy mobility and it will have to be promoted. He said that Surat has become a city of flyovers. Underlining the importance of local government, PM Modi said even Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel started his career as the mayor of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (when it was a small municipality) before independence, pointing out that it is a big responsibility which, if taken seriously, could benefit those pursuing a career in politics immensely. PM Modi also stressed on the need to empower micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and develop local industries by establishing the right environment for businesses to flourish.Modi appealed to the mayors to make a list of street vendors and organise training on carrying out financial transactions from mobile phones and ensure that they get the benefit of PM Svanidhi Yojana.He spoke about increasing the accessibility of resources to the specially-abled.“Keeping in view the persons with disabilities in cities, every new building, new road, or other construction work should follow the provisions of Accessible India Campaign. It is important to keep the sufferings of the handicapped in mind while making your plans,” he said.PM Modi addressed the mayors via video conference while Union housing and urban Development minister Hardeep Singh Puri was present at the venue in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-asks-mayors-to-preserve-heritage-while-ensuring-development-of-cities-101639743176707.html
18-12-2021||World||Afghanistan: Taliban leaders appeal for help as migrant crisis looms||Senior Taliban officials appealed on Saturday for international help to combat a deepening economic crisis that has fuelled fears of another refugee exodus from Afghanistan.The comments, at a special meeting to mark the UN's international migrants day, underlined the new Islamist Taliban government's push to engage with the world community, four months after they seized power in Kabul.The movement's deputy Foreign Minister, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, said it was the responsibility of countries like the United States, which have blocked billions of dollars of central bank reserves, to help Afghanistan recover after decades of war."The impact of the frozen funds is on the common people and not Taliban authorities," he told the conference, attended by representatives of the International Organization for Migration (IOM) and UNHCR, the United Nations refugee organization.UN bodies estimate that millions of Afghans could face hunger over the winter without urgent help, but aid has been hampered by international unwillingness to engage directly with the Taliban, in part because of concern over rights for women and political inclusion.The abrupt withdrawal of foreign aid following the Taliban victory has pushed Afghanistan's fragile economy close to collapse. Millions are without work and the banking system is only partially functional."If the political and economic situation doesn't change, there will be more migration," Stanikzai said.The United States has issued guidance that would permit personal cash remittances to Afghanistan but it has not relented on its refusal to release the $9 billion in central bank reserves or lift sanctions on a number of Taliban leaders.Taliban Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi met representatives from the International Committee of the Red Cross on Saturday in Islamabad, ahead of a meeting of foreign ministers from the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation to discuss the situation in Afghanistan.He said the Taliban welcomed international humanitarian organisations and gave assurances that they would be allowed to work unimpeded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-taliban-leaders-appeal-for-help-as-migrant-crisis-looms-101639844054493.html
18-12-2021||World||UK's confirmed Omicron tally jumps by 10,000 cases in 24 hours; now at 24,968||Cases in the United Kingdom of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus jumped sharply to almost 25,000 while the total number of reported deaths among people with it so far rose to seven, according to British health authorities.Confirmed Omicron-variant Covid-19 cases hit 24,968 as of 1800 GMT on Dec. 17, up by just over 10,000 cases from 24 hours earlier, the UK Health Security Agency said on Saturday.Deaths of people who had the Omicron strain rose to seven as of Dec. 16, up from one in the UKHSA's previous data which ran up to Dec. 14, and hospitalisations increased to 85 from 65.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-confirmed-omicron-tally-jumps-by-10-000-cases-in-24-hours-now-at-24968-101639838786030.html
18-12-2021||World||Circuit-breaker lockdown on cards as Omicron wreaks havoc in UK: Reports||The British government is planning a short two-week circuit breaker lockdown after Christmas to keep pace with the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of coronavirus, according to UK media reports. The draft regulations of the lockdown are being drawn up which would ban indoor mixing except for work purposes, the reports said citing leaked minutes of a meeting of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage).The advisory group has reportedly presented UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson with a number of options under Plan C, ranging from "mild guidance to nudge people, right through to lockdown".With an exponential surge in Covid cases, the UK is witnessing around 700 to 800 hospital admissions every day for the last seven days and the Sage has warned that stringent measures would be required to prevent the number to reach the levels of January when the country was reporting over 3,700 hospital admissions a day."If the aim is to reduce the levels of infection in the population and prevent hospitalisations reaching these levels, more stringent measures would need to be implemented very soon," the Sage minutes said, as quoted by BBC.According to Sage minutes, the timing of more stringent measures is crucial and delaying it would greatly reduce the effectiveness of such interventions, reported BBC.The reports have emerged amid a worrying rise in confirmed cases of Omicron in Britain. On Saturday, the UK Health Security Agency said that almost 25,000 Omicron cases has been detected as of December 17, up by just over 10,000 cases from 24 hours earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/circuitbreaker-lockdown-on-cards-as-omicron-wreaks-havoc-in-uk-reports-101639838821202.html
18-12-2021||World||Omicron cases doubling in 1.5 to 3 days in areas with community transmission: WHO||The number of Omicron cases is doubling in 1.5 to three days in areas with community transmission and infections pertaining to the new variant have been reported from 89 countries, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Saturday.“There is consistent evidence that Omicron has a substantial growth advantage over Delta. It is spreading significantly faster than the Delta variant in countries with documented community transmission, with a doubling time between 1.5–3 days,” the WHO said in a media advisory.The UN health body also said it was uncertain about how much can the rapid transmission of Omicron could be because of escaping immunity against the disease.“Omicron is spreading rapidly in countries with high levels of population immunity and it remains uncertain to what extent the observed rapid growth rate can be attributed to immune evasion, intrinsic increased transmissibility or a combination of both,” it said.Also read | Omicron-driven third wave likely to arrive early next year, peak in Feb: Covid Supermodel panel“However, given current available data, it is likely that Omicron will outpace Delta where community transmission occurs,” it added.The WHO said there was only limited data regarding the clinical severity of the disease caused by the variant and more data was needed to understand the severity and how it was impacted by vaccination and existing immunity.However, the global health body also warned increasing cases could choke healthcare systems.“Hospitalizations in the UK and South Africa continue to rise, and given rapidly increasing case counts, it is possible that many healthcare systems may become quickly overwhelmed,” it said.Preliminary findings from England indicated a “significant reduction” in vaccine effectiveness against the symptomatic disease of Omicron as compared to the Delta variant following two vaccine doses of either the Pfizer BioNTech or the AstraZeneca vaccines, the WHO said.“There was, however, higher effectiveness two weeks after a Pfizer BioNTech-Comirnaty booster, which was slightly lower or comparable to that against Delta,” it also said.It warned that the preliminary findings need to be considered with caution as the “designs may be subject to selection bias and the results are based on relatively small numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-cases-doubling-in-1-5-to-3-days-in-areas-with-community-transmission-who-101639835437063.html
18-12-2021||World||At least 12 killed, many injured in blast in Pakistan's Karachi: Report||At least 12 people were reportedly killed and scores injured in a blast in Karachi city of Pakistan on Saturday, according to local media. The reports suggest that the explosion occurred in a drain beneath a private bank near Paracha Chowk in Karachi's Shershah area.Station house officer Zafar Ali Shah said the bank had been served a notice to vacate the building so the drain could be cleaned up, adding that the accumulation of gases in the drain is suspected as the cause of the blast, reported Dawn. According to Geo TV, the police said the explosion occurred in a gas pipeline running through the drain.The footage of the blast shared on social media platforms shows a damaged building and debris lying at the site of the explosion.Police spokesperson Sohail Jokhio said it was not immediately clear what ignited the gas and a team of explosives experts was summoned to investigate, reported Associated Press.The spokesperson added that the powerful explosion shattered the windows of nearby buildings and badly damaged a parked vehicle.A second blast also took place during the rescue operation when a few electric wires collided with the gas line, according to Geo News, but no loss of life was reported in the second incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-10-killed-many-injured-in-blast-in-pakistan-s-karachi-report-101639823334656.html
18-12-2021||World||Covid: Canada’s top doctor urges caution as Omicron spreads||Canada’s chief public health officer on Friday called on citizens to take extra precautions over the holiday season to reduce pressure on a “profoundly exhausted healthcare workforce” as fresh daily Covid cases climb sharply in the country, and the new Omicron variant becomes more widespread.Dr Theresa Tam urged Canadians to “carefully consider and adjust your holiday plans to minimise risks and maximise layers and quality of protections” as “a profoundly exhausted healthcare workforce is faced with a potential looming crisis in the weeks to come”.Canada has seen an average of more than 5,000 new Covid cases daily in the past week, a 45% increase from the week before, Tam said. There have also been 344 confirmed cases linked to the Omicron variant, reported in 11 Canadian provinces and territories, she added, warning that “these cases likely represent just the tip of the iceberg”.Tam warned that while health authorities were still investigating “the severity profile of this variant”, if Omicron were to replace Delta, “it’s expected the sheer number of cases could inundate the health system in a very short period of time”.The threat of a potential Omicron-driven winter wave comes as Covid deaths in Canada topped a grim milestone 30,000 this week. Provincial governments are increasing restrictions including on gatherings in churches, cinemas, and other venues. A drive to administer booster shots of Covid vaccines has been launched and opened to all those above 18 years of age.The government has formally advised Canadians against non-essential travel abroad, less than three months after it lifted Covid-related restrictions that were introduced in 2020.“We do not want you to be stranded or to be sick abroad,” said health minister Jean-Yves Duclos.Meanwhile, Tam added that “a growing number of cases across the country are not linked to travel”, which indicated that community transmission of Omicron was “established in many parts of Canada and outbreaks are being reported in a multiple settings”. The cases have been reported in both vaccinated and unvaccinated people in Canada, as well as in those previously infected, she said. 
18-12-2021||World||Inside South African virology labs: Hunting for the next coronavirus variant||As the port city of Durban eases into South Africa’s annual summer holiday season, scientists at a virology laboratory at the Africa Health Research Institute are working around the clock.The discovery of the omicron Covid-19 variant by South African and Botswanan scientists last month has lent urgency to efforts to isolate the virus and test its ability to evade vaccines the world is pinning its hopes on to end a two-year pandemic. The goal is to figure out “what happened? How does it happen? What can we do to decrease it,” said Alex Sigal, 51, who runs the lab that was the first to isolate the beta variant, the Covid-19 strain that’s been most successful in getting past inoculations. We “then figure out a way to quickly adjust our responses,” he said.South African labs have been critical to combating the coronavirus. They’ve identified two of the five so-called variants of concern and trained scientists from across the continent on how to gene sequence to spot and track variants. Sigal’s lab was the first to test omicron against blood plasma from people who’d received two doses of the shot produced by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. It also updated a paper that hypothesizes that variants may develop in immuno-suppressed people who’re unable to easily shake off the virus, allowing it to mutate.To many outside medical science circles, the role South Africa-based scientists have played in fighting the pandemic has come as a surprise. But with an HIV epidemic, the world’s biggest, nearing its fourth decade and hundreds of thousands of people infected with tuberculosis, South Africa has been a magnet for the scientists from around the world who track the pathogens that kill us.The country has set up a network of seven genomic surveillance labs with one at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases and six at academic institutions.Sigal is Israeli-Canadian and a few floors below his lab in an eight-floor glass and face brick building is Krisp, a gene-sequencing laboratory whose Brazilian head, Tulio de Oliveira, announced omicron’s discovery to the world. “There’s a lot of technical capacity in South Africa to do genomic sequencing of pathogens because we’ve built up that expertise over many years for HIV and TB, ” said Richard Lessells, a Scottish infectious diseases specialist at Krisp. “Very early on in the pandemic, we recognized that genomic sequencing and genomic surveillance was going to be very important.”Scientists identify new drug that could treat COVID-19 pneumonia: LancetLocal TalentWith the onset of omicron that has meant sleepless nights for many of the scientists. “I’ve been working to get the Pfizer vaccine efficacy study ready,” said Sigal, who becomes animated when he watches a time-lapse video of the omicron variant attacking cells. “I worked through the night.” Sigal’s lab has made another important contribution to the country’s ability to monitor changes in the pandemic. When Covid hit, getting supplies across borders became tricky. The scientists quickly realized they couldn’t get cells in which to culture the virus, so they made their own line from human lung cells that had first been engineered by Sigal while completing his doctorate. This cell line, known as H1299-ACE2, is now being used widely in South Africa in various Covid-19 tests, including omicron.Omicron hit South Africa first and so far there’s much to be concerned about. The variant appears to be much more transmissible than earlier variants with daily cases hitting a record this week. Still, hospitalizations and deaths, so far, are substantially lower than in previous waves.While foreign scientists have flooded into South Africa to tackle the diseases that weigh on a country that straddles the first and third worlds, local talent is robust and developing rapidly.Sandile Cele, a 33-year-old from a small village near Durban, is part of Sigal’s team of seven scientists who culture cells, spin out plasma and wash test plates. In all, the Africa Health Research Institute, founded in 2016, has 550 students, staff and scientists.Nepal makes 2-week quarantine mandatory for travellers arriving from 67 nationsTB, HIVIt was quite challenging to suddenly switch from TB and HIV to coronaviruses, said Cele, who like most of the team is a graduate of the University of KwaZulu-Natal, about two miles from where he works.“But now with the emergence of new variants there is pressure,” Cele said. “For omicron especially we’re expected to give answers. Everyone has been looking in our direction.”While Sigal and his team are now focused on omicron, their aim is to help end the pandemic by getting ahead of a virus that rapidly mutates -- a task that won’t be easy.We need to start by “understanding how these variants evolve and in doing more surveillance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inside-south-african-virology-labs-hunting-for-the-next-coronavirus-variant-101639820088109.html
18-12-2021||World||Taliban govt resumes issuing Afghan passports in Kabul||Afghanistan's Taliban authorities said Saturday they will resume issuing passports in Kabul, giving hope to citizens who feel threatened living under the Islamists' rule.Thousands of Afghans have also applied for new travel documents to escape a growing economic and humanitarian crisis described by the UN as an "avalanche of hunger".The authorities will start issuing the travel documents from Sunday at Kabul's passport office, Alam Gul Haqqani, the head of the passport department in the interior ministry, told reporters.The Taliban stopped issuing passports shortly after their August 15 return to power, as tens of thousands of people scrambled to Kabul's only airport in a bid to catch any international flight that could evacuate them.In October the authorities reopened the passport office in Kabul only to suspend work days later as a flood of thousands of applications caused the biometric equipment used there to break down."All the technical issues have now been resolved," Haqqani said, adding that initially travel documents will be given to those who had already applied before the office suspended work.New applications will be accepted from January 10, he said.Issuing passports is seen as a test of the Taliban's commitment to the international community to allow eligible people to leave amid the growing humanitarian crisis.The Taliban are pressing donors to restore billions of dollars in aid that was suspended when the previous Western-backed regime imploded in the final stages of a US military withdrawal.The abrupt withholding of aid amounts to an "unprecedented" shock for an economy already battered by drought and decades of war, according to the United Nations Development Programme.The crisis has forced many in the capital to sell household possessions to buy food for their families.International flights, mainly to Dubai and Abu Dhabi, have slowly resumed at Kabul airport after the facility was trashed in August when crowds of people scrambled to evacuate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-govt-resumes-issuing-afghan-passports-in-kabul-101639817179468.html
18-12-2021||World||TikTok school shooting threat in US: Student arrested for carrying gun in backpack||A student of a school in United States’ Utah was arrested on Friday for bringing a gun to school amid heightened alert due to a disturbing TikTok trend. The student was arrested in Salt Lake City.The police said that they were alerted about a student of the East High School carrying a gun. He was taken into custody as soon as he arrived in school.Later, when the backpack of the student was checked, officers found a gun and some bullets, the police said.The student was taken to the Salt Lake City detention centre where the case will be produced before a judge. The identity of the student has not been revealed because he is a minor.After the arrest of the student, the school administrators sent a letter to the parents of other students who alerted the police about the potential threat.Schools across the US are on alert after rumours of potential shootings on Friday spread on TikTok, though authorities said no credible threat had been found.Some schools - already on edge after a recent shooting - sent warnings to parents and stepped up security; a number of districts also cancelled classes for the day.TikTok said that it was working with law enforcement to investigate reported videos discussing an upcoming school shooting, but had "found nothing.""If we did find promotion of violence on our platform, we'd remove and report it to law enforcement," it added.TikTok, one of the most popular social media services with school-aged children, has already come under fire for allowing the posting of short videos challenging people to risky, damaging and illegal acts.Earlier this year the viral "Devious Licks" challenge video encouraged students to vandalize bathrooms at schools and make copycat TikTok videos of it.That led to numerous cases of minor destruction of school property around the country.According to Everytown for Gun Safety, an anti-gun violence nonprofit, at least 149 school shootings have occurred in the United States so far this year, with 32 deaths and 94 injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-school-shooting-threat-student-arrested-for-carrying-gun-in-backpack-101639813999834.html
18-12-2021||World||Nepal makes 2-week quarantine mandatory for travellers arriving from 67 nations||Nepal on Saturday made two weeks quarantine mandatory for travellers arriving from 67 different countries, mainly from European and African countries, in wake of the rising Omicron variant of coronavirus."Passengers, travelling from the countries mentioned, are requested to stay in Hotel Quarantine for 7 days at their own expense. After staying seven days in Hotel Quarantine, in case of a negative test of Covid-19 by RT-PCR method, it is requested to stay in the home quarantine for additional 7 days and send the person with a positive result to the designated isolation center or hospital,"Nepal's Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement."Considering the upsurging spread of the new variant of Covid-19 (Omicron) initially found in African countries and gradually spreading in European and Asian countries, Nepal (Council of Ministers) has decided on 29 November 2021 to arrange provision the travelers traveling to and from Nepal," read the statement.The statement said that the following arrangements have been made for the arrival of passengers from 67 countries in Nepal.The European and Asian countries are mainly included in the list of countries, including Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada, United States."The entry/exit management of other travelers except mentioned above will be regulated as per the prior notice of the Department of Immigration dated 24 September 2021 and 2 December 2021 published as per the Travel Management Order for the Travelers Arriving and Deporting from Nepal 2021," the statement added.A new variant of Covid-19 was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year.On November 26, the WHO named the new Covid-19 variant B.1.1.529, which has been detected in South Africa, as 'Omicron'. The WHO has classified Omicron as a 'variant of concern'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-makes-2-week-quarantine-mandatory-for-travellers-arriving-from-67-nations-101639807993774.html
18-12-2021||World||Scientists identify new drug that could treat COVID-19 pneumonia: Lancet||A newly identified drug may be used to effectively treat some patients hospitalised with COVID-19 pneumonia, according to a study published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine journal.The team, including researchers from the University of Birmingham and the University of Oxford, UK, tested namilumab -- an antibody already in late-stage trials to treat rheumatoid arthritis -- in patients hospitalised with COVID-19 pneumonia.The patients were receiving 'usual' care, as well as having high levels in their blood of a marker of inflammation known as C reactive protein (CRP).CRP levels rise when there is inflammation in the body, and elevated levels of CRP have been found to be a potential early marker to predict risk for severity of COVID-19, the researchers said."Our research has provided important proof-of-concept evidence that namilumab reduces inflammation in hospitalised patients with COVID-19 pneumonia," said Ben Fisher, co-chief investigator of the trial at the University of Birmingham and University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust (UHB)."However, our sample size is too small for a definitive assessment of clinical outcomes and further studies are required for this, as well as to understand better the population that may benefit most,” Fisher said.Namilumab targets a ‘cytokine’ which is naturally secreted by immune cells in the body, but in uncontrolled levels is believed to be a key driver of the excessive and dangerous lung inflammation seen in COVID-19 patients.The trial carried out between June 2020 and February 2021 involved patients aged over 16 with COVID-19 pneumonia either being treated on a ward or Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at nine hospitals across the UK.The study involved 54 patients receiving 'usual care' -- treatment with steroids and oxygen or ventilation -- and 57 patients given usual care as well as a single intravenous dose of 150mg of namilumab.As well as COVID-19 pneumonia, all study participants had CRP levels greater than 40mg/l.The researchers compared the probability of the reduction of levels of CRP in patients.Compared to usual care alone, the researchers found that there was a 97 per cent probability of CRP being reduced over time in those given namilumab when compared with usual care alone.The patients were monitored, and after 28 days the study also showed there were fewer deaths and more discharges from hospital or ICU in those who had been given namilumab compared to those receiving usual care alone.By day 28, 78 per cent of the patients receiving namilumab were discharged from hospital or ICU, compared to 61 per cent given usual care.In the namilumab group, 11 per cent were still in hospital by day 28, compared to 20 per cent in the usual care group, according to the researchers. Of those in the namilumab group, 11 per cent patients died compared to 19 per cent who died in the usual care group by day 28, they said.The team calculated the differences between the two groups in overall probability of those being discharged from ICU or a ward at 28 days. Of those on a ward, the probability of discharge at day 28 was 64 per cent in the usual care group, compared to 77 per cent in the namilumab cohort.Of those in ICU, probability of discharge at day 28 was 47 per cent in the usual care group, compared to 66 per cent in the namilumab cohort, according to the study.The researchers noted that the study results may not generalise to hospitalised patients without evidence of pneumonia or raised CRP or patients not requiring hospitalisation.It is important, therefore, that namilumab is now prioritised for further COVID-19 research in a much larger phase 3 clinical trial, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-identify-new-drug-that-could-treat-covid-19-pneumonia-lancet-101639806094436.html
18-12-2021||World||Typhoon Rai: Death toll in the Philippines rises to 18||The death toll from the strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines this year has risen to 18 as the disaster agency warned Saturday of "severe damage" in the hardest-hit areas.More than 300,000 people fled their homes and beachfront resorts as Typhoon Rai ravaged the southern and central regions of the country, knocking out communications in many areas and toppling concrete power poles.Rai was a super typhoon when it smashed into the popular tourist island of Siargao on Thursday, packing maximum sustained winds of 195 kilometres per hour (120 miles per hour).Its wind speeds eased to 150 kph as it barrelled across the archipelago, ripping roofs off houses, uprooting trees and littering streets with debris.More than 18,000 military, police, coast guard and fire personnel will join search and rescue efforts in the worst-affected regions, Mark Timbal, spokesman for the national disaster agency, told AFP."There has been severe damage" in Surigao and Siargao, Timbal said, referring to the areas that bore the brunt of the typhoon.Communications were still down in Siargao and in the nearby city of Surigao, which is on the northern tip of the southern island of Mindanao.Philippine Coast Guard has shared photos on social media showing widespread destruction around Surigao, with roofs torn off buildings, wooden structures shattered and palm trees stripped of fronds.Aerial footage showed swathes of rice fields under water.Dinagat Vice Governor Nilo Demerey told broadcaster ABS-CBN the storm devastated the island near Siargao and left at least six people dead.That takes the overall death toll to 18, with the disaster agency also reporting seven missing and two injured."Odette was so strong," Demerey said, using the local name for the typhoon.Residents "are trying to repair their houses because even our evacuation centres were torn down. They can't seek refuge anywhere else... everything was destroyed."After lashing Palawan island, Rai emerged over the South China Sea on Saturday and was headed towards Vietnam, the state weather forecaster said.Rai hit the Philippines late in the typhoon season -- most cyclones typically develop between July and October.Scientists have long warned that typhoons are becoming more powerful and strengthening more rapidly as the world becomes warmer because of human-driven climate change.The Philippines -- ranked as one of the world's most vulnerable countries to the impacts of climate change -- is hit by an average of 20 storms and typhoons every year, which typically wipe out harvests, homes, and infrastructure in already impoverished areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/typhoon-rai-death-toll-in-the-philippines-rises-to-18-101639797214289.html
18-12-2021||World||Covid-19: Amid Omicron surge, Pfizer says pandemic could extend to 2024||Pfizer Inc on Friday forecast that the Covid-19 pandemic would not be behind us until 2024 and said a lower-dose version of its vaccine for 2- to 4-year-olds generated a weaker immune response than expected, potentially delaying authorization.Pfizer chief scientific officer Mikael Dolsten said in a presentation to investors that the company expects some regions to continue to see pandemic levels of Covid-19 cases over the next year or two. Other countries will transition to "endemic" with low, manageable caseloads during that same time period.By 2024, the disease should be endemic around the globe, the company projected."When and how exactly this happens will depend on the evolution of the disease, how effectively society deploys vaccines and treatments, and equitable distribution to places where vaccination rates are low," Dolsten said. "The emergence of new variants could also impact how the pandemic continues to play out."Pfizer developed its Covid-19 vaccine with Germany's BioNTech SE and currently expects it to generate revenue of $31 billion next year. It plans to make 4 billion shots next year.The drugmaker also has an experimental antiviral pill called Paxlovid which reduced hospitalizations and deaths in high-risk individuals by nearly 90% in a clinical trial. Three analysts estimate sales of $15 billion to $25 billion for it next year, according to IBES data from Refinitiv.Pfizer's forecast came after the emergence of the Omicron variant last month, which has more than 50 mutations compared with the original version of the virus. That has reduced the effectiveness of two doses of the vaccine against infection and spurred fear of rapid spread around the globe.Prior to the Omicron variant, top U.S. disease doctor Anthony Fauci forecast the pandemic would end in 2022 in the United States.Pediatric vaccineThe Pfizer vaccine is authorized in the United States for people age 5 and older. But it said on Friday that its study in children between the ages of 2 and 4 who were given two 3-microgram doses of the vaccine found it did not create the same immune response that a larger dose of the vaccine had in older children.The 3-microgram dose did generate a similar immune response in children aged 6 to 24 months, the company said.The company said it will now test a three-dose course in both age groups, as well as in older children. It had previously expected data from 2- to 4-year-olds this year but said it did not expect the delay would meaningfully change plans to file for emergency use authorization in the second quarter of 2022.Pfizer and BioNTech have also been developing a version of their vaccine tailored to combat the quick-spreading Omicron variant, although they have not decided whether it will be needed. They expect to start a clinical trial for the updated vaccine in January, Pfizer executives said.Variant-specific shots, if needed, could boost sales in 2022.The highly-transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus has been detected in over 77 countries and has spread to about one-third of U.S. states.The vaccine was around 95% effective in the adult clinical trial, but Pfizer has said that immunity wanes some months after the second dose. Early data suggests that three doses of the shot may be necessary to protect against the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-amid-omicron-surge-pfizer-says-pandemic-could-extend-to-2024-101639788936218.html
18-12-2021||World||Can Delta and Omicron combine to make a super strain? It's possible, say experts||Amid the worry around the new Omicron variant of coronavirus, a new warning from some health experts has led to concerns across the world. The Omicron, since its discovery in South Africa last month, is on its way to become the dominant strain in the United States, replacing the delta variant.But can these two highly transmissible strains combine and create a super variant? It’s possible, according to Moderna’s Chief Medical Officer Dr Paul Burton.Appearing before the UK Parliament’s Science and Technology committee earlier this week, Dr Burton said that a new super variant could be created if Omicron and delta infect someone at the same time.“There's certainly data, there have been some papers published again from South Africa earlier from the pandemic when people - and certainly immunocompromised people - can harbour both viruses,” Dr Burton was quoted as saying by the Daily Mail.He said the high number of both delta and Omicron cases currently circulating in the United Kingdom has made this scenario more likely. On Friday, Britain reported 3,201 cases of the new variant, the biggest daily increase since Omicron was detected in the country, taking the total such cases to 14,909, according to official figures.Dr Burton told the parliamentarians that it was certainly possible that both the strains can swap genes and trigger a more dangerous variant. Researchers have warned that such “recombination events” are extremely rare but possible if conditions are right and there is a coincidence of mostly uncontrollable events.Peter White, a virologist at the University of New South Wales, too had warned about the possibility of a super strain emerging earlier this month in an interview to Bloomberg.Only three such recombination events have taken place so far. One such event was recorded by British health experts when the alpha variant merged with B.1.177, which first emerged in Spain, in late January.Scientists in California said in February that they identified another recombination variant when the Kent strain merged with B.1.429.However, such events have so far not led to any large outbreaks or a more dangerous version of the virus. But looking at the transmissibility of Omicron, and its mutations, the health experts are keeping a keen eye on what the future holds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-delta-and-omicron-combine-to-make-a-super-strain-it-s-possible-say-experts-101639787517424.html
18-12-2021||World||Can booster shot stop Omicron? Here's what a new study says||As the world grapples with ways to stop the Omicron variant of coronavirus from spreading, a new study has thrown light on how effective a booster dose can be. The study has been conducted by the researchers at the Imperial College London.Also Read | Vaccinating all to get priority over booster dose, says Indian govtThe study said that the booster shot can provide about 85 per cent protection against the fast-spreading variant.The study is based on the limited data that is available on Omicron, which emerged in South Africa last month and has spread to nearly 80 countries till now.The same model has suggested a higher effectiveness – about 97 per cent – against the delta variant of coronavirus.“Integrating immunological model within a model of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, we show that booster doses will be critical to mitigate the impact of future Omicron waves in countries with high levels of circulating virus. They will also be needed in ‘zero-Covid’ countries where there is little prior infection-induced immunity in order to open up safely,” the researchers said in the study.Omicron has been spreading rapidly across the world. On Friday, Britain reported 3,201 cases of the new variant, the biggest daily increase since Omicron was detected in the country, taking the total such cases to 14,909, according to official figures.Also Read | Omicron is unstoppable nowThe data from UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) also said that the country recorded 93,045 coronavirus cases in the latest 24-hour period, breaking the daily record for the third consecutive day and bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 11,190,354.New York too reported a one-day record of more than 21,000 infections on Friday as the Omicron variant accelerates its spread across the US.In a bid to limit disruption, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention backed “test-to-stay” strategies that avoid sending unvaccinated kids home from school. France is curbing New Year’s Eve celebrations as Europe seeks to stem Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-booster-shot-stop-omicron-here-s-what-a-new-study-says-101639786033546.html
18-12-2021||World||US offers 18 million barrels of oil from its emergency reserves to cool prices||The US Department of Energy on Friday said it will sell 18 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, with offers from companies to purchase it due on Jan. 4, as part of a previously announced release aimed to cool fuel prices.The announcement of the sale was expected, after the Biden administration announced it as part of a wider 50 million barrel release from the reserve in coordination with other oil-consuming countries including China, India and South Korea. The Energy Department said last Friday the sale would be posted on Dec. 17.The administration has been trying to deal with the concerns of US consumers about high fuel costs and inflation as they travel more, even though President Joe Biden has few tools to deal with the price of crude, which is traded in a global market.In conducting the sale, the Energy Department is speeding up an auction that had been authorized by Congress in 2018 to fund the government.Deliveries of oil to companies from the SPR, a series of caverns on the Texas and Louisiana coasts, will be from Feb. 1 to March 31, the department said.The department also plans to loan up to 32 million barrels of oil from the SPR to companies required to return the crude with interest. The first batch of that exchange will be 4.8 million barrels with Exxon Mobil Corp, the largest U.S. oil company, the department said last Friday.Brent crude prices settled down 2% on Friday to $73.52 a barrel as surging cases of the Omicron variant raised fears that new restrictions could hit fuel demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-offers-18-million-barrels-of-oil-from-its-emergency-reserves-to-cool-prices-101639781199685.html
18-12-2021||World||Ahead of key polls, Malaysian opposition struggles to garner support||Voters in Malaysia’s biggest state are set to reject the opposition alliance in elections on Saturday, increasing pressure on Anwar Ibrahim to step aside as de facto leader and forcing a rethink in strategy ahead of a national vote that may be called as soon as next year.The polls in Sarawak in Borneo island is expected to present another major defeat for Anwar’s Pakatan Harapan. That’s a given because the local parties that have controlled the state since independence are aligned with the ruling United Malays National Organization.The opposition has already been thrashed last month in a state election in peninsular Malaysia thanks to an UMNO campaign led by disgraced former premier Najib Razak who focused on reviving a pandemic-battered economy. Najib criticized the opposition for harping on his corruption trials linked to troubled state fund 1MDB, although an appeals court upheld a guilty verdict soon after the polls. UMNO won’t contest in the Sarawak polls, preferring to back local parties in the resource-rich state. Their certain victory will help it consolidate its power after the pro-Malay party returned to the top seat of government four months ago and could bring forward the next general election that must be held by 2023.Blaming Anwar’s leadership alone for Pakatan Harapan’s inability to make any headway in Sarawak would be “hoping for a quick fix, but little would change,” said Wong Chin Huat, a professor of political science at the Jeffrey Sachs Center on Sustainable Development at Sunway University in Malaysia.Pakatan Harapan needs to transform into a policy-based coalition instead of a mere election-based alliance and form a shadow cabinet if it wants to compete, Wong said. “With a shadow cabinet, Anwar’s potential heirs will naturally emerge. Without that, a new captain without a functioning team will not keep any excitement for long.”Anwar’s own fortunes are also seeing a slide along with that of the opposition coalition.There have been calls for him to resign and make way for younger leaders after the dismal showing at the Malacca state election that saw his own party completely wiped out. Anwar has acknowledged the calls within the opposition coalition to step down but has brushed aside the need to do so immediately.Anwar’s Parti Keadilan Rakyat still backs him as the opposition leader, although internal party elections that must be held by May 2023 could see some changes. “We don’t see a change at the very top. Keadilan will have party elections soon that will see a clearer, younger line-up post Anwar, but Anwar will still be leading the campaign for GE15,” said Nik Nazmi Nik Ahmad, a PKR lawmaker, referring to the next general election.Anwar has struggled for decades to take power in Malaysia. He was seen as Mahathir Mohamad’s successor in the 1990s before he was fired and spent six years in jail for abuse of power and sodomy. He went back to jail again in 2015 on a subsequent sodomy charge during Najib’s time as prime minister. It was only after Anwar’s party joined forces with other opposition groups and his old foe Mahathir to unseat UMNO in a shock election win that he was released, thanks to a royal pardon. But his turn at the top job still eluded him.Mahathir, who was supposed to make way for Anwar to become prime minister, kept pushing back the handover date that eventually led to the unraveling of the government.Rural SarawakAnwar and Mahathir mainly tapped voter disillusionment with UMNO in the 2018 elections to win big, focusing on Najib’s troubles with debt-laden state fund 1MDB. This holds little traction in rural Sarawak then and now, as pledges on building roads and raising incomes are the main issues. “It is very, very difficult to dislodge the government there,” said James Chin, a professor at the University of Tasmania. That’s mainly because much of Sarawak is made up of small villages patronized by government-aligned chiefs who dictate which parties the voters should support, he said.Elections in Sarawak are often an opportunity for voters to get cash and food handouts from the ruling parties in exchange for their support at the ballot box, which is illegal by a law that is rarely enforced. Some 1.25 million voters in Sarawak will elect 82 lawmakers to the state assembly in the polls that were delayed due to a five-month Covid-induced emergency that lifted in November. While the opposition has been unable to agree on who should lead their campaign for the Sarawak elections, there has been consensus on seat allocations and they have been campaigning separately under a looser platform. Some in Pakatan Harapan see that as a good road map for the next national elections, a reversal from the coalition’s earlier strategy to contest under Anwar’s party logo in the 2018 polls.“Component parties should highlight their own manifestos and use their own logos,” said Nik Nazmi Nik Ahmad. The opposition is going into Sarawak as “very much the underdogs,” he added, a scenario similar to the future national polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-key-polls-malaysian-opposition-struggles-to-garner-support-101639781177480.html
18-12-2021||World||Epstein sex abuse trial: Ghislaine Maxwell declines to testify||Ghislaine Maxwell's defense rested its case in her sex abuse trial on Friday after the British socialite told the judge prosecutors had not proven their case beyond a reasonable doubt.In two days of testimony from former employees of Jeffrey Epstein, a psychologist specializing in memory, and an ex-girlfriend of the late financier, the defense sought to undercut the testimony of four women who said Maxwell set them up for sexual abuse by Epstein when they were teenagers.Ghislaine Maxwell's defense rested its case in her sex abuse trial on Friday after the British socialite told the judge prosecutors had not proven their case beyond a reasonable doubt.In two days of testimony from former employees of Jeffrey Epstein, a psychologist specializing in memory, and an ex-girlfriend of the late financier, the defense sought to undercut the testimony of four women who said Maxwell set them up for sexual abuse by Epstein when they were teenagers.|#+|Maxwell, 59, pleaded not guilty to eight counts of sex trafficking and other crimes. Her attorneys argued she is being scapegoated for Epstein's conduct. Epstein killed himself in 2019 at the age of 66 in a Manhattan jail cell while awaiting trial on sex crimes charges.Maxwell told US District Judge Alison Nathan that she would not testify in her own defense on Friday."Your honor, the government has not proven the case beyond a reasonable doubt and so there is no need for me to testify," said Maxwell, standing up in the courtroom.Maxwell's attorney Bobbi Sternheim wrapped her arm around her back as she spoke. Defendants in US criminal trials are not required to testify, and often do not, since the burden of proof is on prosecutors.Closing arguments in the trial are expected on Monday in federal court in Manhattan. The jury would then begin deliberations.Nathan advised jurors to "be cautious out there" before sending them home for the weekend. COVID-19 cases are on the rise in New York, and Nathan earlier on Friday said she wanted to avoid "unnecessary delays" to the trial."I want to see everybody back here Monday," Nathan said.During the trial, Maxwell's defense sought to portray her four accusers as not credible, arguing their memories had been corrupted since the events were said to have happened between 1994 and 2004 and that they were motivated by the prospect of a payout from a compensation fund for Epstein's victims.On Friday afternoon, Maxwell attorney Christian Everdell read a stipulation agreed upon by both sides indicating that an attorney for one of the women, known by the pseudonym Jane, had told her that cooperating with prosecutors could "help her case," without providing details.The lawyer, Robert Glassman, also told her that cooperating was the "morally right thing to do," the stipulation said.Jane testified during the trial's first week that she was awarded $5 million from the fund but did not think participating in Maxwell's criminal case would help her claim.Jurors earlier on Friday heard from an FBI agent who interviewed Jane multiple times before Maxwell's July 2020 arrest. The agent acknowledged that Jane had not initially told them she was ever in a room alone with Epstein and Maxwell. Jane testified that Maxwell sometimes participated in sex acts with her and Epstein.Jane, who said she was 14 when Epstein began abusing her in 1994, testified that "memory is not linear." She also said she was not comfortable enough during her first few meetings with the FBI to share everything that happened to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/epstein-sex-abuse-trial-ghislaine-maxwell-declines-to-testify-101639780693887.html
18-12-2021||World||Google, Meta win US security agency support for undersea fiber optic cable||US security officials recommended approval for Alphabet Inc.’s Google and Facebook Inc. parent Meta Platforms Inc. to build an undersea fiber optic cable linking the US to Taiwan and the Philippines.The companies agreed to restrict access to equipment and information for Hong Kong-based partner Pacific Light Data Communication Co., which earlier withdrew its application for a link to Hong Kong, the Justice Department said in a news release Friday.“These agreements enable Google and Meta to take advantage of critical, additional cable capacity while protecting US persons’ privacy and security through terms that reflect the current threat environment,” said Assistant Attorney General Matthew G. Olsen of the Justice Department’s National Security Division.The companies proposed the Pacific Light Cable Network project in 2017, listing all three trans-Pacific destinations. American security agencies in 2020 asked the FCC to deny the link to Hong Kong, saying it would give China a way to acquire Americans’ personal data. The agencies called Pacific Light Data a subsidiary of mainland China’s Dr. Peng Telecom & Media Group Co.The data-sharing restrictions announced Friday reflect the Chinese government’s “sustained efforts to acquire the sensitive personal data of millions of U.S. persons,” the Justice Department said in its statement. It also cited the Chinese government’s access to other countries’ data through digital infrastructure investments, and recent intelligence and cybersecurity laws.The security agencies on Friday recommended that the Federal Communications Commission approve the cable, which now lacks a Hong Kong link.The companies’ agreements were made with the departments of Justice, Defense and Homeland Security in their roles as members of the committee for the Assessment of Foreign Participation in the U.S. Telecommunications and Services Sector, known informally as Team Telecom.“We are encouraged by the administration’s recommendation,” a Meta spokesperson said in an email. “This cable system increases internet capacity between the two countries to help people stay connected and share content, like photos and videos” via cables that feature advanced encryption.Google didn’t immediately respond to an emailed query, nor did the FCC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-meta-win-us-security-agency-support-for-undersea-fiber-optic-cable-101639780467037.html
18-12-2021||World||US on alert for violence after rumors of school shooting spread on TikTok||The United States was on heightened alert for school violence Friday after rumors of potential shootings spread on TikTok, though authorities said no credible threat had been found.Some schools -- already on edge after a recent shooting -- sent warnings to parents and stepped up security, with a number of districts also canceling classes for the day."The White House and federal law enforcement are closely monitoring threats of violence in schools circulating on social media," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said on Twitter.TikTok said that it was working with law enforcement to investigate reported videos discussing an upcoming school shooting, but had "found nothing.""Local authorities, the FBI, and DHS (Department of Homeland Security) have confirmed there's no credible threat," the company said, "so we're working to remove alarmist warnings that violate our misinformation policy.""If we did find promotion of violence on our platform, we'd remove and report it to law enforcement," it added.The FBI said it was examining supposed threats, and the DHS said in a tweet that it did "not have any information indicating any specific, credible threats to schools."Recent school shootingsComing less than three weeks after the latest mass shooting in a US high school -- which left four students dead in Oxford, Michigan -- school administrators were quick to respond to the rumors."There is information circulating that today may be a day of attacks on schools. Administration and DC Police are very aware of this and on close watch," a message sent to parents by a school in Washington said Friday morning.The Pennsbury School District in Pennsylvania told parents that there would be an increased police presence even though they "do not believe the threat to be credible."Psaki said that "today is another reminder of how many kids and parents live in fear of school shootings or violence. It is unacceptable."TikTok, one of the most popular social media services with school-aged children, has already come under fire for allowing the posting of short videos challenging people to risky, damaging and illegal acts.Earlier this year the viral "Devious Licks" challenge video encouraged students to vandalize bathrooms at schools and make copycat TikTok videos of it.That led to numerous cases of minor destruction of school property around the country.At the time TikTok said it was taking action to remove videos and minimize their spread "to discourage such behavior."According to Everytown for Gun Safety, an anti-gun violence nonprofit, at least 149 school shootings have occurred in the United States so far this year, with 32 deaths and 94 injuries.Sandy Hook Promise, a group formed in response to the 2012 mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, condemned the alleged threat."Gun violence is not a subject for jokes or pranks. All threats need to be taken seriously," they said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-on-alert-for-violence-after-rumors-of-school-shooting-spread-on-tiktok-101639780162603.html
18-12-2021||India||12 more Omicron cases found in Telangana, state tally rises to 20||Telangana has reported a steep increase in the number of cases of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus on Saturday, with as many as 12 international passengers testing positive for the infection.State director of public health G Srinivasa Rao, in an official bulletin, said 12 international passengers from at-risk and non-at-risk countries, who had arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Hyderabad, were found to be positive for Omicron.With this, the total number of international passengers who arrived at RGIA and tested positive for the Omicron variant since December 1, has gone up to 21, which includes the 7-year-old child, who along with his family members, took an onward flight to Kolkata on December 12.“So, the present number of Omicron cases in Telangana stands at 20,” Rao said, adding that the reports of three more passengers are awaited.Out of the 12 passengers who tested positive for the variant on Saturday, nine were of foreign origin and three are of Indian origin. “Of them, six people came from Kenya, two each from Somalia and UAE and one each from Ghana and Tanzania,” the director of health said.Health department officials briefed chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao about the growing number of Omicron cases in Telangana. However, they said there was no reason for the people to panic and the situation was under control.“But, the chief minister asked the health department authorities to take all precautions to see that the new variant doesn’t spread. He appealed to the people to take all precautions and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols,” an official release, quoting the chief minister said.In the last 24 hours, as many as 185 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Telangana, out of 41,484 people tested for the virus. There was only one death during this period. In all, 205 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and at present; there are 3,761 active cases in the state.
18-12-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, Modi lays ₹36k-cr expressway stone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday for boosting development and eliminating crime as he accused political opponents for obstructionism months before the high-stakes elections in the state.Laying the foundation stone of the ₹36,250 crore Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur district, Modi paid tribute to freedom fighters and underlined the benefits of a “double-engine” government, a reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) being in power both at the Centre and in the state.“UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi (UP plus Yogi is very useful),” Modi said. Adityanath is hoping to steer the BJP to a second consecutive term in India’s most politically important state.Poor law and order triggered an exodus of people from the state earlier, but Adityanath cracked down on criminals and the mafia, Modi said. “In earlier days, as the sun set, people with katta (country-made pistols) used to roam the streets and make the lives of people hell,” the Prime Minister said. “That culture of katta ended under the Adityanath government.”This is the second high-profile expressway project Modi has inaugurated in the poll-bound state in the past 30 days. When completed in 2024, the 594km expressway will be the state’s longest, passing through 12 districts and connecting Meerut in western Uttar Pradesh to Prayagraj in the east.A 3.5km air strip to assist emergency take-off and landing of planes will also be constructed on the expressway in Shahjahanpur. At least one industrial corridor is proposed to be built along it.The expressway will usher in opportunities, employment and growth, Modi said, stressing on the importance of the double-engine BJP government. “The kind of energy and vision required to run a state as big as UP is being shown by this double-engine government,” he said. “This project will not only bring east and west UP closer, but would also reduce travel time between Delhi and Bihar.”Modi attacked political opponents, who had a problem with the country’s “virasat aur vikas (legacy and development)”. “They had a problem with virasat due to vote bank concerns and with vikas to ensure that the poor remained dependent on them,” he said.“These people have a problem with the construction of a grand corridor of Baba Vishwanath in Kashi and with the construction of a grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya,” Modi said. “These people have a problem with the swachhta (cleanliness) campaign of Ganga and these are the ones who question the army’s action against terrorists. They also put the corona vaccine developed by Indian scientists in the dock.”He told the audience that power supply in the state was earlier limited to a few districts but has improved since then. The state government has provided eight million free power connections, Modi said.“Earlier, big-ticket projects were announced only on paper so that these people (opposition) could fill up their treasury. And now, they are being announced to save your money and time,” the Prime Minister said. “Today when bulldozers raze unauthorised properties of mafias, the pain is felt by those patronising them.”The country’s resources belonged to the people and not “a handful of families”, Modi said, while talking of how his government had provided houses to three million people and set aside ₹2 trillion for the purpose.He paid glowing tributes to freedom fighters Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqullah Khan and Roshan Singh, who were born in Shahjahanpur. “Tomorrow is the martyrdom day of Pandit Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqullah Khan and Thakur Roshan Singh. These three sons of Shahjahanpur, who challenged British rule, were hanged on December 19. We owe a huge debt to such heroes who laid down their lives for the country’s freedom,” he said, adding that a grand memorial for the freedom fighters will be built in Shahjahanpur.Soon after the foundation stone laying event, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said people should be wary of such announcements closer to the elections. “Now, nearer to the elections, despite five years of a double engine government, meaning 10 years in all, the Ganga Expressway has been inaugurated after bifiurcating it in two phases. For long would people continue to be duped by such selfish politics? People need to exercise caution as it is important to do so during elections,” she said in a series of tweets.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted, “Hathras’ daughter, Lakhimpur farmers, Gorakhpur traders, unsafe women, unemployed youth, daily and backwards all are saying the present government is ‘unupyogi (useless)’ than ‘up-yogi’.”
18-12-2021||India||India, France to jointly make aero engines, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that France has agreed to jointly manufacture aero engines in India under the government’s strategic partnership model to boost self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector, his comments coming a day after he held the 3rd annual defence dialogue with his French counterpart Florence Parly.“A big French company will manufacture an engine in India, thus far not made in the country, in collaboration with an Indian firm,” Singh said at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).Singh did not divulge details of the proposed cooperation with France. Aero engines are a glaring capability gap in India’s defence manufacturing sector, with major indigenous flying platforms equipped with imported engines. The strategic partnership model Singh referred to is an important element of the country’s Defence Procurement Procedure, and seeks to provide fillip to the government’s Make in India programme. It aims at bringing high-end military technology into the country, and lays down the template for partnership between Indian companies and foreign military contractors to build advanced platforms. Singh said the current reforms undertaken by the government will help the Indian defence and aerospace sector clock a turnover of ₹five lakh crore by 2047, compared to the current ₹85,000 crore. The steps taken by the government to boost indigenisation include increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) limit from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware. “For the security of India, it is necessary that we develop our defence capacity and capability (to a level) that even the most powerful country in the world has to think a thousand times before planning anything that endangers our interests. Our government’s aim is not to attack anyone, but prepare our armed forces to be ready at all times to give a befitting reply to the country’s enemies,” Singh said. Referring to the recent deal with Russia to build assault rifles in the country, the minister said the government was focused on --- Make in India, Make for India and Make for the world. India and Russia on December 6 concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district. The deal was finalised at the 20th meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military & Military Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC) led by Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.
18-12-2021||India||'Deep-rooted conspiracy': SAD after alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday expressed shock over the alleged attempt to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple in Punjab’s Amritsar and said there was “clearly a deep-rooted conspiracy" behind it.Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement came after a man was beaten to death at the Golden Temple for allegedly attempting sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy Sikh scripture, at the sanctum sanctorum."There clearly is a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it. Never since the Mughals, the Masands and Operation Bluestar has the sanctity of Harmandar Sahib been made the target of such outrage. This is beyond belief," Badal said in a statement and added it is impossible to believe it was an act of just one person, according to news agency PTI.The SAD leader said that there seems a "conspiracy to inflict wounds of Sikh minds and to disturb the peace and communal harmony" in the state. He said the incident has left the entire Sikh population in a state of shock.Also read | Man held for ‘throwing’ holy gutka into Golden Temple sarovarBadal also slammed the state government, saying there were strong indications of such a conspiracy being weaved."Only the other day, there was a shocking incident of gutka sahib being thrown in the holy sarovar. After that, the state agencies could not have been unaware of a deep-rooted conspiracy that led to today's shocking sequent of events. But no one did anything nor took any steps to prevent such a heinous crime from happening. What are the intelligence agencies doing?" asked Badal.He was referring to the incident on Wednesday when a man was held for allegedly throwing the handbook of Gurbani into the holy tank of the Golden Temple.Also watch | Sacrilege bid at Amritsar's Golden Temple: accused beaten to death by mob 
18-12-2021||India||Goa Liberation Day 2021: Looking forward to join celebrations, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will visit Goa on December 19 to attend the state’s Liberation Day celebrations, said on Saturday he is looking forward to being in the coastal state, adding that his visit will also see inauguration of several development projects.Also Read | Goa Liberation Day 2021: PM Modi to attend independence movement celebrations tomorrow“I look forward to being in Goa tomorrow to join the Goa Liberation Day celebrations. Multiple development projects will also be inaugurated which will positively transform the lives of Goa’s wonderful people,” PM Modi shared on Twitter. I look forward to being in Goa tomorrow to join the Goa Liberation Day celebrations. Multiple development works will also be inaugurated tomorrow which will positively transform the lives of Goa’s wonderful people. https://t.co/cRlDVZhGW5 pic.twitter.com/x2JpRwto1pAccording to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Liberation Day celebrations will begin at around 3pm at the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium. This will be followed by unveiling of projects such as the renovated Fort Agauda Jail Museum, Super Speciality Block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, Aviation Skill Development Center at Mopa Airport and the Gas insulated Substation at Dabolim-Navelim, Margao, the PMO said.The Prime Minister's engagements also include the laying of foundation stone of the India International University of Legal Education and Research of Bar Council of India Trust, his office noted further.Meanwhile, Goa CM Pramod Sawant urged people to be seated at the venue by 12:30pm to avoid any inconvenience. Requesting all people attending the Goa Liberation Day Celebrations at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium on 19 December 2021 to be seated at the venue by 12:30 PM to avoid any inconvenience. https://t.co/7DpqQfe8cbWith ‘deep sense of gratitude’ workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also presented invitation to freedom fighters to attend the event, Sawant informed in a subsequent tweet.
18-12-2021||India||Review of VVIP flying protocols after probe report on CDS chopper crash||Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday said that protocols governing VVIP flights will be reviewed after a top inquiry panel submits its report on the Coonoor helicopter crash in which 14 people, including India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, were killed. “The VVIP protocols to fly will be reviewed. The review will be based on the findings of the court of inquiry into the crash,” he said on the margins of a graduation parade at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal near Hyderabad Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, the IAF’s senior-most helicopter pilot and currently serving as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is probing the CDS chopper crash. Singh has defied death multiple times in his 39-year military career, including once during one of the gravest emergencies in IAF history involving the Russian-origin Mi-17 helicopter. Rawat and the others were killed in a Mi-17V5, an advanced variant of the Mi-17, crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Those killed included the only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, who died on Wednesday after battling for his life for a week. The others died instantly on December 8. The inquiry into the crash is likely to be concluded in a few weeks. “I wouldn’t like to pre-empt the findings of the court of inquiry as it’s a thorough process. It will investigate every single angle and look into every single aspect of what could’ve gone wrong, and come out with suitable recommendations and findings,” Chaudhari said. The CDS helicopter crash which sent shock waves not only through the Indian military establishment but the entire country, has been dubbed a devastating setback for the ongoing military reforms and raised questions about succession in the armed forces. At this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the weather in the area where it went down did not have good visibility. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the chopper crashed. The Mi-17V5 took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am, and was scheduled to land in Wellington at 12.15 pm. But the air traffic control at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm when it was just seven minutes from its destination. The air force currently operates around 145 such choppers --- considered advanced, reliable and safe. India contracted 151 Mi-17V5 helicopters from Russia, and at least six of them have been lost in accidents since their induction a decade ago. Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. It can also airdrop assault forces behind enemy lines. The helicopter, capable of day and night missions in adverse weather, is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and advanced features that significantly enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for offensive roles. It has service ceiling of 6,000 metre, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of 1,180 km with additional fuel tanks. Chaudhari said India was continuously evaluating the threats from Pakistan and China and was well aware of the situation at the borders. “The stand-off with China still continues. Though disengagement of troops has taken place in certain areas in Ladakh, complete disengagement has not taken place. IAF will continue to maintain deployment at forward locations. We are prepared to take on any challenge that we may face in that area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-of-vvip-flying-protocols-after-probe-report-on-cds-chopper-crash-101639845970615.html
18-12-2021||India||Belagavi unrest: Maharashtra CM seeks PM Modi's intervention, Karnataka warns ‘miscreants’ | Top developments||Karnataka's Belagavi remained on the edge on Saturday, after clashes erupted Friday night between the police and protestors, who were agitating against the alleged desecration of a Chhatrapati Shivaji statue in Bengaluru.The border town has been a source of dispute between the southern state, and Maharashtra.Here are the latest developments on the fresh faceoff between Karnataka and Maharashtra:(1.) Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to resolve the latest flashpoint. PM Modi should ‘personally look into the heinous act,’ Thackeray said in a statement.Also Read | Ask Karnataka to take action, Thackeray tells PM(2.) Thackeray’s Karnataka counterpart Basavaraj Bommai, meanwhile, said that nobody will be allowed to take law into their hands. Also Read | Karnataka CM Bommai on vandalisation of Sangolli Rayanna statue(3.) The Belagavi Police have arrested as many as 27 people who allegedly desecrated a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in retaliation to the Bengaluru incident.Also Read | Unrest in Karnataka's Belagavi over viral video amid border dispute with Maharashtra, 27 held(4.) Prohibitory measures in the district, which were clamped following the violence, have been extended for 24 hours, from 6am on December 19 to 6am on December 20, the police said. Karnataka | In the wake of protests after the desecration of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj & Sangolli Rayanna statues last night, a prohibitory order has been extended under Sec 144 CRPC from 6AM on Dec 19 to 6AM on Dec 20 in Belagavi: Dr K. Thiyagarajan, Police Commissioner https://t.co/pmafAddI5l(5). Protests broke out in various parts of Maharashtra against the purported desecration of the Shivaji statue. Videos emerged on social media of protestors, allegedly from the ruling Shiv Sena, vandalising vehicles with Karnataka number plates, in Sangli.(6.) Political parties, too, waded into the controversy. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which governs Karnataka, questioned the opposition Congress if it would question the Shiv Sena, the latter's alliance partner in the western state. Shiv Sena Goons have indulged in anti-kannada acts in Belagavi. Our Govt will initiate action against these Goons.Will CONgress President @DKShivakumar & Opposition leader @siddaramaiah condemn their partners in Maharashtra?Do they have the courage to stand up for Kannadigas?(7.) Sanjay Raut, the Sena's Rajya Sabha MP, condemned what he described as ‘’angering scenes from Bengaluru.' Raut tweeted: “While on one hand, PM Modi honored Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Kashi, and on the other hand our Maharaj is insulted in Karnataka.”(8.) Sambhaji Chhatrapti, a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji and a BJP MP, also spoke strongly against the purported defacing. “Let’s not forget that the initial development of Bengaluru happened during Shahajiraje’s rule. Government at the Centre and Karnataka State should take serious action against the culprits,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/belagavi-unrest-maharashtra-cm-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention-karnataka-warns-miscreants-top-developments-101639841518008.html
18-12-2021||India||Four more cases of Omicron variant detected in Kerala, tally now 11||Four more new cases of the Omicron variant were detected from Kerala on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 11, the state health department said. Two cases of the new variant of the coronavirus were detected from Thiruvananthapuram in patients aged 17 and 44. One case was detected in Malappuram, aged 37 and another case was a 49-year-old patient from Thrissur district. "The 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram came from the UK while the 44-year-old reached the state from Tunisia in a chartered flight. The patient in Malappuram came from Tanzania while the Thrissur native came from Kenya," Health Minister Veena George said in a release. George said since Kenya and Tunisia were not among the list of high-risk countries, they were asked to isolate themselves. The minister said the 17-year-old boy from the UK reached the state on December 9 along with his father, mother and sister. His grandmother is also in the contact list and all are under treatment. The patient in Malappuram is a south Karnataka native and was admitted to the hospital as he tested positive on arrival on December 13. The new variant was confirmed in the testing conducted at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here. The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive. Four more cases of the new variant were confirmed on December 15. Yesterday two cases were confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-more-cases-of-omicron-variant-detected-in-kerala-tally-now-11-101639837932731.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's Omicron tally at 131 as 3 states report new cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's Omicron cases at 131 after Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala log new infectionsIndia's Omicron cases climbed to 131 after 18 new infections related to the new variant were reported from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, according to local officials on Saturday. Read moreWill not be mute spectator, Amit Shah on cooperative sectorUnion minister for home affairs and cooperation Amit Shah, on Saturday, said he will not be a mute spectator if politics is being brought while issuing bank guarantees to sugar mills. Read moreAsk Karnataka to take action, Thackeray tells PMVarious parts of Maharashtra on Saturday saw angry reactions after the alleged desecration of the Chhatrapati Shivaji statue in Bengaluru on Friday. Read more'Somewhere down the line, he will have the opportunity': Ganguly reveals an India legend 'was keen on national team job'In November, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) named Rahul Dravid as the head coach of the Indian men's team for a contract of two years. Read moreRhea Kapoor throws Christmas party with Masaba Gupta, lets fans know ‘we are all tested’. See picsFashion designer Rhea Kapoor hosted a Christmas dinner party at her house on Friday. Rhea also informed her fans and followers that she and the other people who attended the dinner were all vaccinated. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-omicron-tally-at-119-as-3-states-report-new-cases-and-all-the-latest-news-101639841569767.html
18-12-2021||India||India's Omicron cases rise to 143 after 4 states, including Maharashtra, log new infections||India's Omicron cases climbed to 143 after 30 new infections related to the new variant were reported from Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala, according to local officials on Saturday.The country on Friday logged the highest single-day rise of 26 cases of the new Omicron variant, even as the Centre advised people to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep New Year celebrations low key.In Maharashtra, the state health department said eight more cases of Omicron were detected, which have taken the state’s tally to 48. Four Omicron cases were reported from Mumbai, three from Satara and one case from Pune, the health department said.Also read | Omicron-driven wave likely to arrive early next year, peak in Feb: Expert panelIn Mumbai, three patients were residents of Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, while one was a resident of the city.A Telangana health department bulletin said the number of Omicron cases in the state rose to 20 as 12 more people tested positive for the new coronavirus variant.It said of the 12 new cases, two were passengers from countries declared "at risk" by the Centre and 10 others came from other nations. Samples of three people are awaited for their Omicron variant status.Karnataka reported six new Omicron cases—five of them were found in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada and one came back from the United Kingdom—taking the number of such infections in the southern state to 14."Two cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron). Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron). A traveller from UK has also tested positive for Omicron," Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said in a tweet.The international passenger from the UK and a 19-year-old from one of the clusters are fully vaccinated and the other four are not.Also read | Omicron cases doubling in 1.5 to 3 days in areas with community transmissionKerala’s tally of Omicron cases rose to 11 after four fresh infections were detected from Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram and from the Thrissur district, according to the state health minister Veena George."The 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram came from the UK while the 44-year-old reached the state from Tunisia in a chartered flight. The patient in Malappuram came from Tanzania while the Thrissur native came from Kenya," George said in a release.Also read | Experts highlight 1 worrying factor of Omicron, warn of 'inevitable' third waveOn Friday, the Centre also warned the spread of Omicron will outpace the Delta variant where there is community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-omicron-cases-rise-to-143-after-4-states-including-maharashtra-log-new-infections-101639839844001.html
18-12-2021||India||DRDO tests Agni P missile for second time, can hit targets at 2,000 km||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Saturday successfully tested an advanced variant of the Agni class of missiles from the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island test facility off the Odisha coast, the defence ministry said. The new generation nuclear-capable ballistic missile, named Agni P, can strike targets at a maximum range of 2,000 km and will further strengthen India’s credible deterrence capabilities, officials said. “Various telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and ships positioned along the eastern coast tracked and monitored the missile trajectory and parameters. The missile followed a textbook trajectory meeting all mission objectives with high level of accuracy,” the ministry said in a statement. This was the second test of the missile --- it was earlier tested in June. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO for the successful flight test. It is a canisterised missile with a range between 1,000 and 2,000 km. It comes with significant advancements in technology including composites, propulsion system, and guidance and control mechanisms. The other variants of the Agni missiles developed by DRDO include the 700-km Pakistan-specific Agni-I, the 2,000-km range Agni-II, the 3,000-km range Agni-III, 4,000-km range Agni-IV and the 5,000-km range Agni-V missile. The Agni P test came a week after India successfully tested a new locally-developed anti-tank missile and concluded a series of tests of extended range rockets also developed indigenously, weapons that will inducted into the armed forces shortly. The weapons successfully tested on December 11 were the helicopter launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile and Pinaka extended range (ER) rocket systems. SANT has a range of 10 km. The IAF’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters are expected to be equipped with the missile to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy tanks from an improved stand-off range. The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of five km. The other weapons on the gunship include rockets of different calibre, 500 kg bombs, 12.7mm guns, and a 23mm cannon. The existing anti-tank missiles developed by DRDO --- the Nag and Helina --- have an effective range of under five km. While the Nag missile is launched from a modified infantry combat vehicle (called the Nag missile carrier or Namica) and has a range of four km, the Helina or helicopter-based Nag is for mounting on the Dhruv advanced light helicopter and can strike targets up to five km away. The new Pinaka rocket system has longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant. While Pinaka Mk-1 rockets have a range of 36 km, the ER variant can hit targets more than 48 km away and has been developed as per the requirements of the Indian Army.
18-12-2021||India||IT raids on Samajwadi Party leaders in poll-bound UP are intimidation tactics: Akhilesh||Income tax raids on some Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders considered close to party chief Akhilesh Yadav warmed up the political atmosphere in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Saturday, with Yadav, who is on a tour of Rae Bareli, saying that the BJP was misusing the central agencies. “The BJP too is acting like the Congress did in the past. Turn back the pages and you will see that whenever the Congress had to intimidate anyone, they would misuse the central agencies,” Yadav said in Rae Bareli soon after news about the raids on SP leaders trickled in. Several teams of the income tax department raided offices and residences of the state’s main opposition party leaders who promptly dismissed them as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s coercion tactics just ahead of the elections. According to the information that is available, those leaders whose premises were searched included Jainendra Yadav, a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav. Vishal Khand’s Gomtinagar residence was also searched. Others whose premises were searched were the party’s spokesperson Rajiv Rai (Mau’s Sahadatpura premises) and a prominent contractor Manoj Yadav from Punjabi Bagh locality of Mainpuri, who is also believed to be close to Yadav. “What else could it be,” said Rajiv Rai when journalists asked him if he thought the raids were politically motivated. Income tax search operations are usually carried out on tip-offs about tax evasion. “I am a leader with no criminal record. Yet these raids are being carried out. All I want to tell to my supporters is to maintain calm and give no excuse to the police to make a case against you on the pretext of disturbing law and order,” Rai said while blaming the income tax officials for “unnecessarily” delaying the entire exercise. “I told them to go ahead with the exercise and do it quickly. If they want, they can finish all in 15 minutes. But they are delaying things. They told me that all my friends, acquaintances and family, including those in Bangalore, were under the scanner. But I want to tell them that I won’t be bullied and will continue to help the poor,” he said. The income tax teams and their leaders weren’t available for comment and most other IT officers too refused comment on the raids that are expected to become the latest flashpoint between the ruling BJP and the main opposition Samajwadi Party. There was no reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party or the state government on the issue so far. “We don’t know anything,” a BJP leader said. Reacting to the raids, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav said: “Now, the income tax department has jumped into the election fray (from the BJP government’s side).” Addressing a press conference in Rae Bareli before starting his second day of the Vijay Yatra, he quipped: “We were wondering where the IT department was. This (raids on SP leaders) was awaited. Now IT has come, soon ED and other agencies will come in. I had always been saying that as imminent defeat is nagging BJP, such things will begin. And they have begun. Anyone who takes on this government will be victimized. Look at Azam Khan (SP MP who is in jail for land grabbing issue), look at the farmers--what did this BJP government do to them?”Akhilesh said: “Rajiv Rai is our leader. He is a spokesperson of the party. Why did the raid come shortly before the elections? Why did the IT department not act when he submitted his balance sheet and other documents?”The SP leader also said that “socialism is Ramraj” and attacked the BJP over chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s criticism of socialism on Thursday. “The CM said that remove socialism, bring Ramraj. He doesn’t understand that socialism is Ramraj.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-on-samajwadi-party-leaders-in-poll-bound-up-are-intimidation-tactics-akhilesh-101639835769813.html
18-12-2021||India||Omicron-driven third wave likely to arrive early next year, peak in Feb: Covid Supermodel panel||There will be definitely a third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India once the Omicron variant starts replacing Delta as the dominant strain, according to members of the National Covid-19 Supermodel Committee. Vidyasagar, the head of the Covid Supermodel panel, told news agency ANI that the third wave, driven by Omicron, is likely to arrive early next year and peak in February."Third wave is likely to arrive early next year in India. It should be milder than the second wave due to a large-scale immunity present in the country now. There will definitely be a third wave. Right now, we are at around 7,500 cases per day which is sure to go up once Omicron starts displacing Delta as the dominant variant," ANI quoted Vidyasagar as saying.He, however, said that India witnessing more daily infection than the second Covid wave is “extremely unlikely”. Vidyasagar, who is also a professor at IIT Hyderabad, underlined that the vaccine program was extended to those other than frontline workers when the Delta variant had just hit, suggesting that most of the population was unvaccinated during the start of the second Covid wave.Citing the seroprevalence data in India, the IIT professor further stated only a tiny fraction of the public has not come into contact with the coronavirus."So the third wave will not see as many as daily cases as the second wave. We have also built up our capacity based on that experience, so we should be able to cope without difficulty," he added.Experts highlight 1 worrying factor of Omicron, warn of 'inevitable' third waveVidyasagar said the number of cases would depend on the ability of Omicron to escape vaccine-induced immunity and natural immunity by prior exposure to the virus.“Because these are not known, we have generated various "scenarios," assuming (for example) 100 per cent vaccine protection remains, or only 50 per cent remains, or all of it goes away. The same for natural immunity escape. For each scenario, we project the number of cases that could result," he said, adding that India will not have more than two lakh cases per day in the worst-case scenario.But he cautioned that these are projections and not predictions, which could be made once there is more data to show how it is “behaving” with the Indian population.Another panel member, Maninda Agrawal, said India is expected to report one lakh to two lakh cases per day which will be less than the second wave, reported ANI.Although the UK has high vaccine penetration, Agrawal said, it has low seroprevalence.“The UK also has an older population as well as more problems with obesity etc. This is why yesterday the UK had 93,045 cases while India, with 20 times the population, had 7,145 cases. In my view, people trying to draw inferences about what would happen in India, based on what is happening in the UK, would be making a major error,” Agrawal added, as quoted by ANI.India has detected over 100 cases of Omicron cases so far. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul cited the steep rise in infections in Britain to sound alarm bells during a media briefing on Friday. Paul said the population-level conversion would mean 14 lakh daily Covid cases in India.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-driven-third-wave-likely-to-arrive-early-next-year-peak-in-feb-covid-supermodel-panel-101639832355830.html
18-12-2021||India||Goa Liberation Day 2021: PM Modi to attend independence movement celebrations tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday visit Goa to attend Goa Liberation Day celebrations to mark the coastal state’s independence from Portuguese rule.Goa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year to mark the success of 'Operation Vijay' undertaken by Indian armed forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule.Unlike the rest of India, Goa did not achieve independence on August 15, 1947, and was ruled by the Portuguese for nearly a decade more. Apart from Goa, the Portuguese also ruled Daman, Diu, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Anjediva Island.As part of the celebrations this year, PM Modi will attend the Goa Liberation Day function at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium in Taleigao at around 3pm, where he will felicitate freedom fighters and veterans of Operation Vijay, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said.The Prime Minister will also inaugurate several development projects, including the renovated Fort Aguada Jail Museum, Super Speciality Block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, Aviation Skill Development Center at Mopa Airport and the Gas-insulated Substation at Dabolim-Navelim, Margao during his visit.He will also lay the foundation stone for the India International University of Legal Education and Research of Bar Council of India Trust at Goa.At around 2:15pm, PM Modi will also pay floral tributes at Martyr's Memorial at Azad Maidan in Panaji. At around 2:30 pm, he will attend the Sail Parade and flypast at Miramar.Besides these, PM Modi will also release a special cover and special cancellation to mark the commemoration of the Indian armed forces freeing Goa from Portuguese rule.The Prime Minister will also release 'My Stamp' depicting the Hutatma Smarak, which recognises those who laid down their lives during the Goa Liberation Movement, at Patradevi. A 'Meghdoot Post Card' depicting a collage of pictures of different events during the Goa Liberation Struggle will also be presented to the Prime Minister.He will also distribute awards to the best Panchayat/Municipality, Swayampurna Mitras and beneficiaries of the Swayampurna Goa Programme.Notably, Goa is among five states headed for assembly polls early next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-liberation-day-2021-pm-modi-to-attend-independence-movement-celebrations-tomorrow-101639831585904.html
18-12-2021||India||Avoid gatherings, Christmas and New Year parties, says BMC amid rising Omicron cases||Owing to the threat of a third wave due to the Omicron variant, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday appealed to citizens to avoid gatherings and not to organise parties for Christmas or New Year’s Eve. The BMC is going to form teams at ward levels to keep an eye on weddings and parties to ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed. According to BMC officials, globally lockdown has been announced owing to spread of the Omicron variant, and to avoid a similar situation in India, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour needs to be followed strictly. The BMC has reiterated that citizens should get fully vaccinated as well as hotels, restaurants and wedding organisers should follow all Covid-19 appropriate norms.In a statement issued on Saturday, the BMC said, “Omicron is spreading rapidly around the world, putting a strain on the health system. Despite repeated appeals by the government and administration to prevent a third wave of Covid-19, it is being observed that Covid-19 norms are not being followed properly in most places, especially, in wedding ceremonies and other ceremonies. Therefore, all citizens are requested to abide by the norms laid down by the government by avoiding crowding, wearing masks and getting fully vaccinated.”The BMC in a statement appealed to citizens to follow the existing rule of 50% capacity in marriage halls and 25% capacity in open lawns. However, in case of more than 1,000 guests, permission will have to be taken from the local district administration, said the BMC.Further, in the backdrop of several public figures from Bollywood testing positive for Covid-19 after a gathering, the BMC in the statement has mentioned that eminent personalities should also ensure following of Covid-19 norms. The statement in this context reads, “Eminent persons who have an impact on society also need to be aware of all the issues. If any rules are found to be broken, the administration has now decided to take drastic action.”In case of Christmas and New Year’s parties, the BMC has appealed to citizens to avoid gatherings or avoid organising parties. It has also once again appealed to commercial establishments to ensure employees of public and private sectors are fully vaccinated.According to BMC officials, if any violation is found when it comes to Covid-19 norms, the state government has empowered the BMC to levy a ₹10,000 fine on such individuals or establishments.On Friday, the city had around 14 Omicron cases-- the highest in Maharashtra. The BMC on Friday had said that the period up to January 15, 2022, will be crucial to understand the spread of the Omicron variant in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-gatherings-christmas-and-new-year-parties-says-bmc-amid-rising-omicron-cases-101639830969077.html
18-12-2021||India||Omicron: Tamil Nadu urges Centre to issue norms for passengers arriving in state from non ‘at-risk’ countries||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday wrote to the Union health ministry, urging it to issue fresh guidelines for passengers arriving in the southern state from countries not on India's ‘at-risk’ list for the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant.The letter was written by Dr TS Selvavinayagam, who heads the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (DPHPM), after Tamil Nadu recorded its first case of the Omicron variant, with a Nigerian national, who arrived in Chennai from Nigeria via Doha, testing positive for it.Also Read | Nigerian man is Tamil Nadu’s first Omicron patientNigeria is not among the more than a dozen countries which are on India's ‘at-risk’ list.“Passengers arriving here should undergo mandatory post-arrival testing for Covid-19, as against the current practice of testing only those coming from ‘at-risk’ nations. 28 passengers, who flew in from various overseas destinations till Friday, were detected with ‘s’ gene drop, indicating infection from the B.1.1.529 variant. Among them, only for were from ‘at-risk’ nations,” Selvavinayagam wrote in his letter to the Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, according to news agency PTI.He then pointed out that while all protocols are being followed for travellers flying in from the ‘at-risk’ nations, there is no additional protocol for those landing from countries not on the list. “All arrivals in Tamil Nadu from international destinations should be mandatorily tested for Covid-19 upon landing. The ones found infected will be treated as per the existing norms, while boarding of transit flights should be allowed only in case of negative test result. Those who do not have a transit flight but have tested negative should undergo home quarantine for a week, followed by a re-test on the eighth day,” the latter suggested.Selvavinayagam also warned that only 2 per cent of passengers coming from non ‘at-risk’ countries are being tested randomly with RT-PCR. “This allows passengers, who may have contracted Omicron, to leave, thus increasing the possibility of its rapid transmission in the community,” he warned.Also Read | Omicron: From December 20, pre-booking RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countriesIndia currently has more than 100 infections of Omicron. The detection of the variant led to a further delay in the resumption of regular international passenger flights, which have been under suspension since last March. The ban has now been extended till at least January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-tamil-nadu-urges-centre-to-issue-fresh-norms-for-passengers-arriving-in-state-from-non-at-risk-nations-101639828455406.html
18-12-2021||India||Ex-SC judge Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, who probed Godhra and anti-Sikh riots, passes away at 86||Former Supreme Court judge Justice Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, who investigated the 1984 anti-Sikh and the 2002 Godhra riots, passed away on Saturday.He was 86.The former Supreme Court judge died of a cardiac failure at 1:15 pm on Saturday in Gujarat, family members said.Nanavati, born on February 17, 1935, was enrolled as an advocate in the Bombay High Court on February 11, 1958. He was appointed as permanent Judge of the Gujarat High Court from July 19, 1979, and transferred to the Orissa High Court on December 14, 1993. Nanavati was appointed as the chief justice of the Orissa High Court with effect from January 31, 1994. He was transferred as Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court from September 28, 1994. Nanavati was appointed as judge of the Supreme Court with effect from March 6, 1995, and retired on February 16, 2000.Justices Nanavati and Akshay Mehta had in 2014 submitted their final report on the 2002 riots to the then Gujarat chief minister Anandiben Patel. Over 1,000 people, mainly from the minority community, were killed in the violence.The commission was appointed in 2002 by the then chief minister Narendra Modi to probe the riots, that took place after the burning of two coaches of the Sabarmati Express train near the Godhra railway station, in which 59 'karsevaks' died.Nanavati was appointed by the NDA government to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. He was the sole member of the Nanavati commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exsc-judge-girish-thakorlal-nanavati-who-probed-godhra-and-anti-sikh-riots-passes-away-at-86-101639829883582.html
18-12-2021||India||Paika Bidroha: Odisha community demands 1817 rebellion be called first war of independence||The calls for recognising and declaring the ‘Paika Bidroha’, or the rebellion by the Paikas against the British in 1817, as the first war of independence gathered strength in Odisha as the community took out a protest rally in the state for their demands to be met.People belonging to the community held a rally in the capital city of Bhubaneswar on Friday, demonstrating their martial skills with traditional swords and other weapons, demanding the recognition of their ancestors’ rebellion against the British as India’s first war of independence. Currently, the 1857 rebellion or the ‘Sepoy Mutiny’ that began in Meerut is referred to as the first major uprising in the country against the British.Who are ‘Paikas’?The ‘Paikas’ were originally a group of farmer-soldiers who constituted the army of Khurda king and battled against the occupying British forces in 1817 under the leadership of Bakshi Jagabandhu, according to a report by PTI.The rebellion preceded the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 by at least 40 years and from this rises the demand for recognising this as India’s first war of independence.The Paika rallySeveral members of the community, led by the president of Veera Paika Sangathan Prakash Shrichandran marched from the Barunei shrine to Bhubaneswar. They then proceeded towards the Ekamra Haat in the city where they also held a large meeting, according to a report by local news agency Odishatv.in.The group has also warned of intensifying its agitation if their demands are not met.“Our fight will continue till the Central government gives the status of First War of Independence to ‘Paika Bidroha’… Next time, to make our demands louder, a similar Paika procession will be organised at Red Fort in New Delhi,” Shrichandran told news agency PTI.Reactions in OdishaMeanwhile, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJP) in Odisha has extended its support to the cause and pressed the Centre in the past regarding the demands.The party protested inside Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session regarding the recognition of the 1817 rebellion. Several delegations, consisting of party MPs and leaders, have met with the Centre, notably Union minister of state for culture Arjun Ram Meghwal, and submitted their demands.‘Paika rebellion can’t be called the first war’The Centre has, however, said the rebellion can not be called the ‘First War of Independence’ but yielded that the war “set an example for the classes as well as the masses in India to follow later on.”In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Union minister of culture G Kishan Reddy said, “Ministry of Culture received a reference from Chief Minister of Odisha through Ministry of Home Affairs requesting for declaration of Paika Rebellion 1817 of Odisha as the first war of independence. The matter was examined in consultation with Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) under Ministry of HRD (Now Ministry of Education). As per comments received from ICHR, Paika Rebellion cannot be called the First War of Independence.”“However, from a historical point of view, it can be said that the Paika Bidroha", which was set off in March, 1817 and continued until May, 1825, had set an example for the classes as well as the masses in India to follow later on. Accordingly, considering that this is one of the beginnings of popular uprisings against the British in India, it has been decided to include it as a 'case-study' in the Class VIII history textbook of NCERT, which deals with the 1857 event,” he further noted in the reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paika-bidroha-odisha-community-demands-1817-rebellion-be-called-first-war-of-independence-101639829955740.html
18-12-2021||India||UP+Yogi, bahut upyogi: PM Modi praises Adityanath in poll-bound state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday heaped praises on Yogi Adityanath and listed the achievements of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year."UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi (Uttar Pradesh plus Yogi have great utility),” he said while addressing a rally after laying the foundation stone of 594-km-long Ganga Expressway in the state’s Shahjahanpur district. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is looking to retain power in UP for the second time, has already declared Adityanath as its face in the upcoming assembly elections in the politically crucial state. Also watch | PM Modi showers praise on U.P CM Yogi, Akhilesh hits back with 'useless' jibe 
18-12-2021||India||‘Photos, video show Siddharth Pithani passed on contraband to Sushant Singh Rajput’: Court||Photographs and videos recovered by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) show that Siddharth Pithani was passing contraband material to his flatmate, late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, when they smoked together, the special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court observed while rejecting Pithani’s bail plea. In his detailed order, special NDPS judge DB Mane said the material on record prima facie shows involvement of the applicant , Pithani, in the procurement, transportation, sell, purchase, consumption and preparation of the contraband. “This material on record prima facie establishes the applicant’s involvement in illegal activities - abatement and conspiracy,” the court added. On December 14, the court rejected Pithani’s bail plea. The detailed order became available on Saturday. Pithani was arrested May 26, 2021 after the NCB filed charge-sheet against him. The court said Pithani and Rajput’s housekeeper Dipesh Sawant were using bank application for making payments for drugs purchases, using code words like “Pooja Samagri” as reference in the net banking application. Advocate Taraq Sayyed had argued on behalf of Pithani that his was a case similar to that of Bollywood Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who has been granted bail by the Bombay High Court. There was no recovery of any contraband material from Pithani as well and there is no evidence in the form of medical test,” Sayyed had said. The court rejected the contention, observing that the facts in the Aryan Khan case and the present case were different and in this case there was prima facie material about financial transactions and Pithani’s involvement in procurement, transaction, sell, purchase, consumption and preparation of the contraband....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-video-show-siddharth-pithani-passed-on-contraband-to-sushant-singh-rajput-court-101639828570088.html
18-12-2021||India||Experts highlight 1 worrying factor of Omicron, warn of 'inevitable' third wave||The Omicron variant of coronavirus might be less severe but the high transmissibility rate could be a worrying factor, according to health experts. The health experts in India have emphasised the need for a booster dose and Covid-appropriate behaviour to fight the spread of the Omicron variant. They have highlighted that keeping a close watch on the situation and announcing tough preventive measures could be critical in the fight against a possible resurgence of Covid-19."We have seen Covid-19 spread in India after a time lag of 3-4 months from its spread in Western Europe, hence we need to be just as cautious as we were in the second wave,” said Dr G C Khilnani, Chairman Pulmonology, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, PSRI Hospital, as quoted by ANI.“The protection that vaccination offered against infection also declines with the passage of time. It is time we announce a policy for a booster dose for people with comorbidities," Khilnani added.Scientists identify new drug that could treat COVID-19 pneumonia: LancetDr Sheeba Marwah, Covid-19 nodal officer, Safdarjung Hospital, said Omicron’s rate of replication, 70 times faster than its predecessor, is the cause of worry."Having the propensity to making even the fully vaccinated its prey, we might head toward inevitable third wave," added Marwah.India has detected over 100 cases of Omicron within a month of its identification by South African and Botswanan scientists. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul cited the steep rise in infections in Britain to sound alarm bells during a media briefing on Friday. Paul said the population-level conversion would mean 14 lakh daily Covid cases in India.The Union health ministry advised people to avoid non-essential travel and keep New Year celebrations low-key."As the Omicron variant is spreading very fast across Europe and most parts of the world, there is a need to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep festivities low-key," ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-highlight-1-worrying-factor-of-omicron-warn-of-inevitable-third-wave-101639827267345.html
18-12-2021||India||Back in Amethi, Rahul Gandhi says a 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in Ganga||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday brought back his ‘Hindu versus Hindutvavadi’ analogy as he described someone bathing alone in the Ganga as one belonging to the second category, while the former would be one who takes crores along in his journey.Addressing a gathering in his former Lok Sabha constituency Amethi along with sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul also spoke about the true meaning of a Hindu as someone who only follows the path of truth and never converts his fear into violence, hate and anger.“A 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people. (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect the truth? He said he would give two crore youth jobs, where did he do so? He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of Covid… Hindu or Hindutvadi?” the former Congress president was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | A 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people...Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect truth?...He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of COVID...Hindu or Hindutvadi?: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in Amethi pic.twitter.com/S51O22YxF9In a widely televised event, Modi was recently seen taking a bath in the Ganga in Varanasi ahead of inaugurating the first phase of the Kashi-Vishwanath corridor in his Lok Sabha constituency."For the first time I saw just one person taking bath in the Ganga, removed Yogi (Adityanath), sidelined Rajnath Singh... The entire world saw only one person was bathing in the Ganga… Remember when Narendra ji was young he fought with a crocodile, I thought he didn't know swimming...struggling with his handsRahul further spoke about the difference between Mahatma Gandhi and his assassin Nathuram Godse. “Mahatma Gandhi spent all his life understanding truth and then there is Godse- a 'Hindutvavadi'. Nobody calls him (Godse) a ‘Mahatma’ (a revered soul) because he killed a Hindu who always spoke the truth… Godse was a coward, a weak man. He could not face his fears,” the Wayanad MP said.“I will tell you the meaning of Hindu. It is someone who only follows the path of truth, the one who never gives up to fear, and the one who never converts his fear into violence, hate and anger... It's best example is Mahatma Gandhi.”“The PM bought farm laws and said they are going to benefit farmers. After one year when all farmers stood together against the laws, the PM had to apologise. We asked about the compensation to be given to farmers’ families who died in the protest, he said no farmers died in the protest.”“You are aware of the situation today. Unemployment and inflation are the biggest questions that neither the CM nor PM will answer. The PM was taking a dip in Ganga a few days ago, but would not talk about unemployment. I will tell you why the youth is deprived of jobs.”“Middle-class people and the poor were badly affected by some of the decisions taken by the PM, which also resulted in large-scale unemployment. Demonetisation, wrongly implicated GST, no help during the Covid-19 crisis are some of the major reasons for unemployment in India,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-in-amethi-rahul-gandhi-says-a-hindutvavadi-bathes-alone-in-ganga-101639827070670.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi Police arrest prime suspect in Rohini court blast case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rohini court blast case solved, claim Police; prime suspect heldThe Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have solved the Rohini courtroom IED blast case, after arresting a man in connection with the case. Read more‘We’re very tolerant of criticism': KTR says Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra are welcome to perform in HyderabadDescribing Hyderabad as a ‘truly cosmopolitan’ city, the minister said that the Telangana govt, in fact, receives brickbats everyday from the opposition. Read more'Do you think it is possible?': Ravichandran Ashwin answers whether he can break Muralitharan's 800-wicket world recordThe off-spinner, currently at 427 wickets in 81 Tests, is only eight short of surpassing legendary former captain Kapil Dev. Read moreDid you know Swades was inspired by a 90's show with Ashutosh Gowariker in Shah Rukh Khan's role? Watch hereAshutosh Gowariker's film Swades completed 17 years on Friday. The critically acclaimed film is still considered one of his best works. Read moreMan meets mother after six years, cries while hugging her. WatchThe video of the man hugging his mother and crying while meeting her after six years has left people emotional. Read moreHaving irregular periods? Try these herbal drinksIf you have been facing the problem of irregular periods for quite some time now, you must try these Ayurveda remedies. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-police-arrest-prime-suspect-in-rohini-court-blast-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101639824146712.html
18-12-2021||India||‘Now Income Tax dept has jumped into UP election fray...’: Akhilesh Yadav after raids on SP leaders||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav reacted to the reported Income Tax department raids on some party leaders and associated members since Saturday morning and said, “Now, Income Tax department has jumped into election fray (from BJP government side).”Akhilesh Yadav was addressing a press conference in Rae Bareli before starting his second day of the Rae Bareli Vijay Yatra. “We were wondering where is the IT department. This (raids on SP leaders) was awaited. Now IT has come, soon ED and other agencies will come in. I had always been saying that as the imminent defeat is nagging BJP, such things would begin. And they have begun. Anyone who takes on this government will be victimised, look at Azam Khan (SP MP who is in jail or land grabbing issue), look at farmers, what this BJP government do to the farmers.”“Now Income Department has come into the election fray. This is not CBI, IT elections. It’s peoples’ election. People have made up their mind to oust this government that has caused Killat, Dikkat, and Zillat (scarcity, adversity, and humiliation) to people”, he said.“Rajiv Rai is our leader, he is a spokesperson of the party. Why did the raid come shortly before the elections? Why doesn’t the IT department act when he must have had submitted his balance sheet and other documents?” Akhilesh also attacked the Congress over the “government tactics of using ED, CBI, IT against rivals” and said, “The BJP is treading the path shown by the Congress. Congress started this culture.”Akhilesh said that “socialism is Ramraj” and attacked BJP over chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s criticism of socialism on Thursday. “The CM said that remove socialism. Bring Ramraj. He doesn’t understand that socialism is Ramraj.”According to people familiar with the matter, the IT department raided the house of one SP affiliate and businessmen Manoj Yadav in Punjabi Bagh locality of Mainpuri, Jainendra Yadav’s residence in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar, and the party spokesperson and businessman Rajiv Rai’s residence in Mau.Rajiv Rai in Mau, talking to newspersons, said, “This is out of political vendetta. These are IT people and they are raiding all my spots. My Bengaluru house too has been raided. All this is being done out of political vendetta, but we are Samajwadi (socialists) and won’t be intimidated”.He also said, “I’ve no criminal background or black money. I help people and government did not like it. If you do anything, they will make a video, register an FIR, you will fight a case necessarily. There is no use, let the procedure be over”.
18-12-2021||India||‘We’re very tolerant of criticism': KTR says Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra are welcome to perform in Hyderabad||With shows of stand-up comedians Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra cancelled in Bengaluru, Telangana minister KT Rama Rao has described Hyderabad as a city where they, as well as others, can come and perform, saying that the state government is ‘very tolerant’ of all the criticism that it is subjected to.Also Read | After Munawar Faruqui, stand-up comic Kunal Kamra says all shows in Bengaluru cancelledHyderabad, the minister said, is a ‘truly cosmopolitan city.’ We believe in Democracy,We don't cancel shows like other Governments ....@kunalkamra88 , @thevirdas ,You are most welcome to do your show in Hyderabad - Hon'ble Minister @KTRTRS pic.twitter.com/OPiq4kTgBj“In our city, stand-up comedians get an open invite. We don't cancel shows of Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra just because not we're not aligned with them politically. Therefore, we're a truly cosmopolitan city, which is welcoming of all cultures, welcoming of criticism. You can come here, criticise government. In fact, we receive a lot of brickbats from our opposition everyday, but we're very tolerant,” the Telangana urban development and IT minister said at a function.Also Read | Denying Munawar Faruqui his rightsHyderabad welcomes everyone who wants to come here and make the city their home, he further said, adding that with more opportunities and investment, Telangana's capital is ‘truly growing and becoming a global city.’KT Rama Rao, also known by his initials KTR, had a message for Bengaluru as well. “You claim to be a cosmopolitan city, and then you end up taking comedy very seriously. I don't understand all that,” he remarked.Faruqui and Kamra have often been at the receiving end of right-wing groups, who accuse them of insulting Hindu deities in their skits. Last month, the Bengaluru City Police denied permission for Faruqui's show, citing possible ‘law and order problems,’ and also described him as a ‘controversial figure.’Also Read | ‘This is the end’: Comedian Munawar Faruqui after Bengaluru Police cancel showDays later, Kamra, too, announced cancellation of his shows in Karnataka's capital, scheduled across the following 20 days.In January this year, Faruqui and four other comedians were arrested in Madhya Pradesh's Indore. He was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-very-tolerant-of-criticism-ktr-says-munawar-faqruqui-kunal-kamra-can-perform-in-hyderabad-101639821102564.html
18-12-2021||India||‘How can he join BJP?’: Congress calls out Amarinder Singh’s ‘opportunism’||The Congress on Saturday accused former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh of “opportunism” a day after he confirmed his new party, the Punjab Lok Congress, will contest the state assembly elections in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Congress gave him everything, how can he join BJP? This is opportunism,” news agency ANI quoted party’s general secretary KC Venugopal as saying.Regarding the assembly elections, he said that the Congress is confident of winning the polls scheduled to be held next year. “Congress will form the government in Punjab. Everybody has the right to speak in a democracy but you will know what happens after results,” he said.Also read | Punjab polls 2022: BJP, Amarinder announce allianceVenugopal’s remarks came after Singh confirmed his pre-poll alliance with the BJP for the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat confirmed on Friday the pact between the two parties was sealed after seven rounds of talks.“The alliance will definitely, 101% win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats,” Amarinder Singh also told reporters on Friday.While the two parties shared no details on seat sharing, ANI reported on Saturday citing people familiar with the matter that the BJP is likely to be the leading partner and may contest on 70 or 80 seats. The state assembly has 117 seats.The remarks also came after Singh criticised Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu after a drone was spotted near the border with Pakistan. On Friday, the Border Security Force (BSF) intercepted a Chinese-made drone from Pakistan near the international border at Punjab’s Ferozpur.“Instead of doing Bhangra all day CM Punjab should advice his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode. Also tell your party president (if he listens to you) to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab,” Singh tweeted, quoting a news report about the drone.Singh resigned from the state’s top post in September after a year-long feud with Sidhu and announced his political party in October. He officially quit the Congress in November and launched his own political outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-he-join-bjp-congress-calls-out-amarinder-singh-s-opportunism-101639823065052.html
18-12-2021||India||Rohini court blast case solved, claim police; prime suspect held||The Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have solved the Rohini courtroom IED blast case, after arresting a man in connection with the case. The suspect was identified with the help of the footage of the CCTV cameras installed at the court complex, officials said. The case was being probed by the special cell team.A senior special cell officer, who did not want to be named, confirmed the arrest but refused to divulge more details on the case by saying that a press briefing is being organised for the same. “We will share details about the suspect and his motive behind the blast during the press briefing,” the officer added.On December 9, a low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED) blast took place at Rohini courtroom number 102, injuring a Delhi Police head constable, who was posted in the courtroom as a niab court. The police initially thought it was an act of terror and began their probe from that angle. They did not rule out the involvement of any individual or a criminal gang behind it.The investigation carried out by the special cell revealed that ammonium nitrate was the explosive substance used in the blast. The IED was assembled in a steel tiffin box and a 12-volt two-wheeler battery was used. The police suspected that the IED was triggered using a remote control.
18-12-2021||India||Reservation quota, security measures. Here’s what Indian Railways is doing for women passengers||The Indian Railways has taken several steps to provide better facilities to women passengers on trains, including giving them seat reservations, Union minister of railways Ashwini Vaishnaw has said.The railways minister added the steps also include safety and security measures for women passengers during their journey.Reservation quota for womenAshwini Vaishnaw said a reservation quota of six berths in sleeper class in long-distance mail and express trains and a reservation quota of six berths in 3AC class of Garib Rath, Rajdhani, Duronto and fully air-conditioned express trains have been earmarked for women passengers. This is irrespective of their age and whether they are travelling alone or in a group of women passengers, he added.Also read | Rlys upgrades Mumbai-Delhi August Kranti Rajdhani Express train with Tejas rakesA combined reservation quota of six to seven lower berths per coach in sleeper class, four to five lower berths per coach each in air-conditioned 3 tier (3AC) and three to four lower berths per coach in Air Conditioned 2 tier (2AC) classes (depending on the number of coaches of that class in the train) has been earmarked for senior citizens, women passengers of 45 years of age and above and pregnant women.Safety, security measuresVaishnaw said their focus is to provide security to women passengers, especially those travelling alone, and to instil a sense of security in them. Teams of women officers and staff have been formed who are well trained and briefed about the objective.The railways minister said the Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of the Government Railway Police (GRP) and the district police to provide better protection and security of passengers.Also read | You can now order 'Sattvik certified' vegetarian food on this trainThe Indian Railways has also taken several other steps in coordination with GRP for the safety and security of passengers, including women, on trains and at stations, the minister said.He said a pan-India initiative "Meri Saheli" was launched by RPF last year in October in order to provide enhanced safety and security to women passengers from the originating station to the destination station.RPF on trainsTrains are escorted by RPF as well as GRP of different states, every day on vulnerable and identified routes and sections, according to the ministerLadies Special trains being operated in metropolitan cities are escorted by women RPF personnel. Train escorting parties on other trains, where escorts are provided, have been briefed to keep an extra vigil on the women passengers travelling alone, ladies coaches en-route and at halting stations.Also read | Like airlines, Indian Railways to now introduce hostesses onboard these trainsDrives are also conducted against the entry of men into the compartments reserved for women and CCTV cameras have been installed in 4,934 coaches and 838 railway stations to enhance the security of passengers.CCTV, social mediaIndian Railways helpline number 139 is operational (24x7) for security-related assistance to passengers in distress. The national transporter is also in touch with passengers, including women, to enhance the security of passengers and to address their security concerns through various social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook.Frequent announcements are made through the public address system to educate passengers to take precautions against theft, snatching, drugging etc.Also read | Private players can operate Bharat Gaurav trains on tourism circuitVaishnaw also said an emergency talkback system and closed-circuit television surveillance cameras have been provided in ladies compartments and coaches of all newly manufactured Electrical Multiple Unit (EMU) and air-conditioned rakes of Kolkata Metro.State Level Security Committee of Railways (SLSCR) have also been constituted for all states and Union territories under respective director generals of police and commissioners of states and Union territories for regular monitoring and review of security arrangements of the Indian Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reservation-security-measures-railways-minister-lists-facilities-for-women-101639820797035.html
18-12-2021||India||TN highway blocked amid flash protest by women over food poisoning||A large number of women workers of a company near here, which assembles and manufactures smartphone spares, resorted to a flash protest, blocking the busy Chennai-Bengaluru highway that led to a traffic snarl on Saturday. The protest, which also spilled over to two other locations, affecting traffic on the Chennai-Tirupati route as well for some time, was called off after the intervention of authorities.  Police said employees reported vomiting and diarrhoea after they consumed food provided at the hostel canteen and 132 of them had to be treated at hospitals and except for four people, who continue to be treated, all others have been discharged.An FIR has been filed in connection with the food poisoning and a probe is on, an official said. The Vellavedu hostel could accommodate a 'large number' of people, authorities said adding inspections were held following the incident. It could not be immediately ascertained if the facility was being run complying with all norms stipulated for accommodating workers and ensuring food safety. As 'misinformation' and 'suspicions' spread among employees including rumours that at least two of the affected workers were dead, they resorted to protest, police added. The workers blocked the Chennai-Bengaluru highway off Sunguvarchatiram and authorities including police officials arrived at the spot while the number of protesters swelled. Kancheepuram district collector M Aarthi and police superintendent M Sudhakar held talks with agitators and assured them that workers are safe following which the protest was called off. Standing amid protesting workers, Aarthi made video calls to women employees suspected to be seriously affected and requested the protesters to directly speak to their colleagues. The collector reassured the protesters that all are safe and healthy. The district collector told reporters that a panel would be formed for better monitoring and inspections of facilities used by workers. The company is yet to comment on the matter and it could not be immediately ascertained if the protest had any impact on the firm's routine activities. In view of the protest, many vehicles including cargo trucks were stranded on the highway in Kancheepuram district for at least 11 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-highway-blocked-amid-flash-protest-by-women-over-food-poisoning-101639817353119.html
18-12-2021||India||These states in northwest India to remain in grip of cold wave till December 21||The head of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said that cold to severe cold wave conditions will continue to prevail over some parts of northwest India. IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told news agency ANI that the night temperatures in Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh and northern Madhya Pradesh were below normal and such conditions will continue to prevail till December 21.“Thereafter the minimum temperatures are expected to slightly rise further & hence abetting the cold wave conditions,” ANI quoted IMD head as saying.Mohapatra noted that the day temperature over northwest India is “markedly below normal”, highlighting the added “adverse impact of below normal day temperature to prevailing cold wave conditions” in the region. He said the day temperature is expected to continue in the below normal category up to December 21.Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C as cold wave conditions grip parts of IndiaThe fall in temperature in central and northwest India is due to snowfall in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, a senior IMD official said on Friday. Senior IMD meteorologist PK Saha told news agency PTI that a gradual decline in minimum temperatures by 3 degrees Celsius to 5 degrees Celsius can be expected over most parts of central India in the next four days.“Mercury is going to dip from tomorrow onward in MP. Snowfall in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir is bringing cool winds to MP. Shallow to moderate fog is likely to engulf isolated places in 19 MP districts, including Bhopal, Gwalior and Ujjain, on Saturday morning," PTI quoted Saha as saying."The minimum temperature is likely to go below 10 degrees Celsius in large parts of the district in the next few days. Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to fall in MP," he added.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-in-northwest-india-to-remain-in-grip-of-cold-wave-till-december-21-101639819226547.html
18-12-2021||India||In Shahjahanpur, PM Modi lists 5 boons of new expressways and airports for people of UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday listed five ways in which the new expressways, airports and railway routes will benefit the people of Uttar Pradesh, as he laid the foundation stone of the six-lane Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur in the poll-bound state.Also Read | Ganga Expressway: From Meerut to Prayagraj, these cities in UP will benefit from the mega project. All you need to know“This network of expressways in UP, all these new airports and railway routes, together these will beneficial to the people in the following five ways,” PM Modi said, as he addressed the gathering. ये जो आज यूपी में एक्सप्रेसवे का जाल बिछ रहा है, जो नए एयरपोर्ट बनाए जा रहे हैं, नए रेलवे रूट बन रहे हैं, वो यूपी के लोगों के लिए अनेक वरदान एक साथ लेकर आ रहे हैं: PM @narendramodiThe first boon, Prime Minister Modi said, is that these will save a lot of time for commuters. He was referring to the fact that the Ganga Expressway, which will be the longest in Uttar Pradesh upon completion, will link cities such as Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.Also Read | UP to soon become most modern state with next-generation infra, says PM ModiThe second boon, according to him, is that these will make travelling a lot easier and convenient for the people. “The third boon is that this infrastructure represent utilisation of UP's resources. The fourth and fifth benefits are that these show the rise in abilities of the state and the all-round prosperity achieved by it, respectively.”Also Read | With Ganga E-way, BJP set to take UP polls fight to western UPSaturday's visit to lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway, which will be built at a cost of around ₹36,200 crore, is PM Modi's first of four to Uttar Pradesh in the coming 10 days. On December 21, he will be in Prayagraj to distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes.Also Read | E-way, farmers, women workers, Metro: PM Modi to visit UP 4 times this monthDecember 23 will take Prime Minister Modi to his Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi, where he will launch a slew of projects. Finally, he will be in Kanpur on December 28, to inaugurate the first phase of the city's Metro project, as well as attend the annual convocation ceremony of IIT, Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-shahjahanpur-pm-modi-lists-5-ways-in-which-expressways-and-airports-will-benefit-people-of-up-101639816969360.html
18-12-2021||India||‘I had to wait in queues with thousands to appear for auditions’: Saqib Wani||He might have made his acting debut as a child artiste in 1998 with Ghar ki Dehleez, but it took actor Saqib Wani almost 20 years to emerge as a promising actor. His breakthrough came with the spy thriller Bard of Blood starring Emraan Hashmi.Despite heavy odds stacked against him, Wani always had his eyes set on acting and Bollywood. Sharing his struggles, the Srinagar lad says, “As I belong to Kashmir, it is extremely hard to foray into the industry with no platform. The lack of support from my father made it even more difficult. It was only because of my late mother that I succeeded in this field.”Before his big break, the 29-year-old had to face hundreds of rejections as he knew nothing about how the industry worked. He elaborates, “We have no platform here (in Kashmir) and nobody can show you the way into Bollywood. I used to go to Delhi and Mumbai only to wait in queues along with thousand others to appear in auditions.”To hone his craft and to learn acting, Wani went to Delhi after completing his MBA. “I went to Delhi in 2017-18 to join theatre and learn acting skills. I was fortunate to attend workshops with legends such as actors Naseeruddin Shah, Irrfan and Vijay Raaz,” he says.Ask him about his hopes for aspiring actors from the Valley and he says, “I want to tell them to learn acting techniques first,” adding, “Our cultural academy is in a slumber (in Kashmir). The launch of film policy is good but it will help when we also have primary casting from here, not just use the land for scouting locations.”“As I belong to Kashmir, it is extremely hard to foray into the industry with no platform. If it wasn’t for my mum’s support, I wouldn’t even be here,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-had-to-wait-in-queues-with-thousands-to-appear-for-auditions-saqib-wani-101639817047995.html
18-12-2021||India||‘...You have my apology’: Smriti Irani’s heartfelt tribute to soldiers||Union minister Smriti Irani on Friday paid a heartfelt tribute to soldiers and their families while acknowledging that the sacrifices made by them are rarely acknowledged. She was speaking at a literature festival organised by the Army Wives Welfare Association.“Today as a civilian, I am here to say sorry that we do not look at you till such time when a challenge comes upon the country. You not only have my apology but my gratitude on behalf of every Indian,” the women and child development minister said. She made those comments while paying homage to the late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and 11 others who were killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor on December 8. The minister said soldiers and their families are remembered only when the country faces a challenge or when some tragedy strikes. “We see you only when you step up to take the posthumous honour... We salute you and shower you with petals when a man in uniform comes back home in a box... We, as civilians, presume it’s a given that you’ve chosen to serve the armed forces... For that, you have my apology,” she said. “While we stood to pay homage to Madhulika ji…when I saw her on the pyre with Gen Rawat…as a civilian, I thought we don’t spare all of you a thought…When I say all of you, it’s the wives and the children too, till such time a tragedy strikes. You are unacknowledged by us. And for that, you have my apology,” she said. India’s first CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and 11 others were killed on December 8 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Coonor in Tamil Nadu in an air tragedy that shocked the three services and came as a huge setback to the country’s biggest military reforms since Independence.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, died on Wednesday.
18-12-2021||India||Goa Forward Party announces pre-poll alliance with Congress||Ahead of the upcoming Goa assembly elections next year, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) has announced its pre-poll alliance with Congress. The two parties held a joint press conference in Goa on Saturday, where the alliance was confirmed.Vijay Sardesai, the president of the Goa Forward Party, said, “We had said in the past that on the eve of Goa's 60th Liberation Day, we will give you an alliance that will re-liberate Goa from these elected autocracies.”Goa Liberation Day is celebrated on December 19 every year to mark the success of 'Operation Vijay' undertaken by the Indian Armed Forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule.“Together for Goa,” tweeted the Goa Forward Party from its official handle on Twitter, with a photograph of its leaders joining hands with those of Congress.TOGETHER FOR GOA @INCGoa @Goaforwardparty@RahulGandhi @VijaiSardesai @girishgoa @dineshgrao @PChidambaram_IN @INCIndia  #CHALYAFUDDEM pic.twitter.com/KdqSs22NYVNotably, the Goa Forward Party had earlier been a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and had contested the last state polls together in 2017. However, it left the NDA in 2019, following disagreements with the saffron camp.“The strong anti-BJP sentiment of the people of Goa is now a formidable force,” wrote Sardesai in a tweet on Saturday, shortly after the pre-poll alliance announcement was made. “Liberating Goa is not just our aim, it is every Goemkar’s aim. We will work hard together to end the most corrupt, immoral, and unethical government Goa has ever seen.”Last week, Sardesai was invited by Goa Congress in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao for a meeting with the grand old party's state unit chief Girish Chodankar, which kickstarted the talks of a pre-poll alliance between the two parties.On November 30, Sardesai met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and said that he was “proud to be working for the second liberation of Goa with the great-grandson of the person who enabled the first”.“The curse of the communal and anti-Goan Pramod Sawant government will be blown away!” the Goa Forward party president had proclaimed in a tweet.Meanwhile, Congress released earlier this week the first list of eight candidates for the state assembly polls.The party has fielded Tony Rodrigues from the Taleigao assembly seat and Rajesh Verenkar from the Ponda constituency. Former Chief Minister Digambar Kamat and Sudhir Kanolkar will also contest from the Margao assembly seat and the Mapusa assembly seat, respectively.The 2022 Goa elections will be held in February to elect 40 members of the legislative assembly, where 21 seats are needed for a majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-forward-party-announces-pre-poll-alliance-with-congress-101639810798335.html
18-12-2021||India||'After all big leaders from Delhi, was waiting for I-T': Akhilesh after tax raid on SP leader Rajeev Rai||Samajwadi Party chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the income tax raid on the premises of his party leaders is not at all surprising to him and in the days to come, ED, CBI will also come. "Rumours will be spread; conspiracies will be hatched. But that will not stop Samajwadi Party's cycle for moving ahead. They now know that they are finished in the state. And that's why they have sent I-T. And Rajeev Rai has been working day and night for the development of the party. Why now? Had you known about this before, then you could have raided a month before. But only when the election comes, this central agency came to contest election here," Akhilesh said. भाजपा का हार का डर जितना बढ़ता जायेगा, विपक्षियों पर छापों का दौर भी उतना बढ़ता जाएगा फिर भी सपा का रथ व हर कार्यक्रम बदस्तूर चलता जाएगा। अब तो जनता पूरी तरह भाजपा के ख़िलाफ़ विपक्ष के साथ खड़ी है, अब क्या बाइस के लिए भाजपा सरकार उप्र की बाइस करोड़ जनता के यहाँ छापे डालेगी। pic.twitter.com/yerCG1A107"We have seen this before. Hasn't this happened with Azam Khan? With the farmers who were protesting against the farm laws? This is not a new tactic. Congress also did the same and the BJP has no new way," Akhilesh said.Akhilesh also took to Twitter and said raids will now increase as the BJP fears defeat. "Now as the people of Uttar Pradesh stand against BJP, will they raid 22 crore people of the state?" Akhilesh tweeted.Early on Saturday, an I-T team raided the house of Samajwadi Party leader Rajeev Rai. Manoj Yadav was another SP leader who came on I-T radar. Reacting to the raid, Rajeev Rai said to ANI that the government will make a case out of anything. "I have no criminal background or black money. I help people and the government did not like it. This is a result of that. If you do anything, then they will make a video, register an FIR and you will fight a case unnecessarily," the SP leader said.Rajeev Rai is the national spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party. His personal website describes him as the most important person in Team Akhilesh when the party won the election in 2012. He was the Lok Sabha candidate for Ghosi in 2014. Rajeev Rai is also the founder and chairman of AVK Group of Institutions, a chain of institutions in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-all-big-leaders-from-delhi-was-waiting-for-i-t-akhilesh-after-tax-raid-on-sp-leader-rajeev-rai-101639812512247.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C amid cold wave conditions and all the latest news||Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C as cold wave conditions grip parts of IndiaAs the mercury drops significantly across several parts of the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold wave conditions over the north and northwest part of India. Read moreWhen will India get remaining Rafale jets? IAF chief provides a timelineIndian Air Force (IAF) chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday thanked France for timely deliveries of the Dassault Rafale fighter jets to India and provided a timeline for dispatch of the rest of the twin-engine multirole fighter aircrafts. Read moreKarnataka-Maharashtra dispute: Unrest in Belagavi over viral video, 27 held27 people had been arrested for attacking the Sangolli Rayanna statue in the Belagavi district of Karnataka, informed the police. Read moreAshes: Joe Root surpasses Sachin Tendulkar, Sunil Gavaskar for massive feat in Test cricketEngland captain Joe Root continues his stellar year with the bat in Tests, as he went past India's legendary batters Sachin Tendulkar and Sunil Gavaskar for a massive feat on Saturday. Read moreSpider-Man No Way Home day 2 box office collection: Allu Arjun's Pushpa delivers severe blow, film collects ₹22 croreSpider-Man: No Way Home, starring Tom Holland as the titular superhero, brought back moviegoers to multiplexes in India like no other film as it released on Thursday to a thunderous welcome. Read moreTahira Kashyap's back-to-gym workout video will inspire you to never give up: Sonali Bendre and Bhumi Pednekar reactFilmmaker and author Tahira Kashyap Khurrana is getting back to her gym routine one step at a time, and her latest workout video will have you pumped up too. Watch hereWhy Nitin Gadkari rejected a Reliance tender as Maharashtra state ministerRecalling his stint as the PWD in Maharashtra, Nitin Gadkari said he rejected a tender submitted by Reliance. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ladakh-s-dras-shivers-at-19-1-c-amid-cold-wave-conditions-101639811265268.html
18-12-2021||India||Agni Prime test successful: All you need to know about new generation missile||India on Saturday successfully test-fired the Agni Prime missile from APJ Abdul Kalam island off the coast of Odisha. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the successful test.The missile test took place at 11.06 am, according to DRDO.The missile followed textbook trajectory and met all mission objectives with high level of accuracy, the DRDO said, adding that the test was being monitored by telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and downrange ships positioned along the eastern coast.“The missile test met all its mission objectives with a high level of accuracy,” a DRDO official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Here’s everything you need to know about the Agni Prime missile:• According to DRDO, it is a two-stage canisterised solid-propellant ballistic missile with dual redundant navigation and guidance system.• Agni P is the first of the new class of Agni missile to be launched by DRDO. It weighs 50 per cent less than Agni 3 and has new guidance and a new generation of propulsion.• Since Agni P is canisterised, it can be launched from rail and road and stored for a longer period and transported all across the country as per operational requirements.• This was the second flight test of the missile and has proven the reliable performance of all the advanced technologies integrated into the system, the DRDO said. The first test took place in June this year.• The missile has a range between 1000km to 2000km, and can be used to target enemy armadas in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agni-prime-test-successful-all-you-need-to-know-about-new-generation-missile-101639812225899.html
18-12-2021||India||Several Foxconn workers hospitalised after suspected food poisoning near Chennai: Reports||Several employees of a Foxconn India unit near Chennai fell ill and were hospitalised on Saturday after suspected food poisoning, Reuters reported quoting a source familiar with the matter.According to the report, the food poisoning occurred earlier this week at Foxconn's dormitories where the majority of the workforce stays.It was not immediately clear how many workers are seriously ill and whether the incident would disrupt production at the plant in Sriperumbudur, Reuters reported.According to another report, the incident triggered protests from the workers, who are mostly women as they on Saturday blocked the National Highway. The protest was triggered after there was a rumour that one of the women staff died of food poisoning. Reports said Foxconn denied the news as a rumour and confirmed that those who have been hospitalised are on their way to recovery.Foxconn is a Taiwanese multinational electronics contract manufacturer, which makes iPhones for Apple INC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-foxconn-workers-hospitalised-after-suspected-food-poisoning-near-chennai-reports-101639809820531.html
18-12-2021||India||Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C as cold wave conditions grip parts of India||As the mercury drops significantly across several parts of the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold wave conditions over the north and northwest part of India.Minimum temperatures are also expected to drop by two to three degrees Celsius in parts of east India and Maharashtra in the next three-four days, the IMD has said.Here are the top 10 coldest places in India at the moment:1. Dras (Ladakh): Dras saw an intensely cold night as the minimum temperature was at minus 19.1 degrees Celsius.2. Pahalgam (Jammu and Kashmir): The mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a minimum temperature of minus 8.3 degrees Celsius during the night.3. Keylong (Himachal Pradesh): The minimum temperature in Keylong was recorded at minus 8 degrees Celsius. Situated 71km north of Manali via the Atal Tunnel, Keylong is one of the coldest areas of Himachal Pradesh4. Srinagar (Jammu and Kashmir): The summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir recorded the season’s coldest night with minus 6 degrees Celsius.5. Ranichauri (Uttarakhand): In Uttarakhand, Ranichauri recorded the lowest temperature at minus 2.7 degrees Celsius. The night temperature in Mukteshwar stood at 0.2 degrees Celsius, Mussoorie (0.9 degrees Celsius), Pithoragarh (0.9 degree Celsius) and New Tehri (1.4 degrees Celsius).6. Churu (West Rajasthan): The minimum temperature in Rajasthan’s Churu was recorded at minus 1.1 degrees Celsius.7. Amritsar (Punjab): In Amritsar, the minimum temperature dropped to 0.7 degrees Celsius.8. Ganganagar (West Rajasthan): Ganganagar city in west Rajasthan recorded a minimum temperature of 1.1 degrees Celsius.9. Narnaul (Haryana): Haryana’s Narnaul city recorded a minimum temperature of 3 degrees Celsius last night.10. Aya Nagar (New Delhi): Aya Nagar was the coldest area in the national capital with a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakhs-dras-shivers-at-19-1-c-as-cold-wave-conditions-grip-parts-of-india-101639805250039.html
18-12-2021||India||India successfully test-fires new generation Agni Prime missile off Odisha coast||India on Saturday successfully test-fired the Agni Prime missile off the coast of Odisha in Balasore, government officials said.Agni-P is a new generation advanced variant of Agni class of missiles. It is a two-stage canisterised missile with range capability between 1,000 and 2,000 km. This was the second test of the Agni Prime missile. The test was conducted at 11am off the APJ Abdul Kalam island in balasore.An ANI report said a lot of new features have been added to the nuclear-capable strategic missile Agni Prime during this test. #WATCH | Today India successfully testfired the nuclear-capable strategic Agni Prime missile off the coast of Odisha from Balasore.(Source: DRDO) pic.twitter.com/wSgWKOKtQG“The missile test met all its mission objectives with a high level of accuracy,” an official was quoted as saying. The first test was successfully carried out on June 28 at the same place.  Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence and Research Development Organisation (DRDO) for the successful flight test and expressed his happiness over the system's performance. “Test carried out by DRDO at 11.06am. Telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and downrange ships positioned along eastern coast tracked and monitored missile trajectory and parameters. Missile followed textbook trajectory, meeting all mission objectives with high level of accuracy,” the DRDO said in a statement.The ballistic missile weighs 50 per cent less than Agni 3 and can be launched from rail and road and stored for a longer period and transported all across the country as per operational requirements.On December 7, the country successfully test-fired the air version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile that the ministry of defence described as a ‘major milestone’ in BrahMos development.The ministry had said the missile was successfully test-fired from Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Sukhoi 30 MKI supersonic fighter aircraft from the Integrated Test Range (ITR), based in Chandipur, off the coast of Odisha.Around the same time, the Vertically Launched Short Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) was successfully test-fired from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur.According to Defence Research and Development Organisation officials (DRDO), the air defence system can engage targets at around 15km. The VL-SRSAM, indigenously designed and developed by the DRDO for the Indian Navy, is meant for neutralising various aerial threats at close ranges, including sea-skimming targets, the organisation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-new-generation-agni-prime-missile-off-odisha-coast-101639809200382.html
18-12-2021||India||When will India get remaining Rafale jets? IAF chief provides a timeline||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday thanked France for timely deliveries of the Dassault Rafale fighter jets to India and provided a timeline for dispatch of the rest of the twin-engine multirole fighter aircrafts. Noting that 32 of the 36 promised Rafales have already been delivered, the Air Force Chief said that three of the pending four will be delivered by February next year while the delivery of the remaining one will be done only after all its trials conclude.“As far as discussions on Rafale is concerned, we are thankful to them [France] for the timely deliveries,” said the Chief of the Air Staff (COAS), while addressing reporters. “You know that the contract was for 36 aircrafts, 32 of which have already been delivered. Out of the remaining four, three will arrive on time in February.”Providing a timeline for the delivery of the final Rafale aircraft, the IAF chief said, “The last aircraft, which will have India-specific enhancements, will be delivered after all its trials conclude. We discussed with the defence minister future maintenance issues of Rafale and the setting up of a D-level maintenance facility in India.”Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari also commented on the ongoing India-China border stand-off, noting that although troops have backed off from certain areas in Ladakh, “complete disengagement has not taken place” yet.“The Air Force will continue to maintain deployment,” he said. “We are prepared to take on any challenge that we may face in the area.”Notably, French defence minister Florence Parly had said a day ago that France is ready to provide additional Rafale fighter jets to India if and when a request is put forward for the same. “We are ready to answer any additional needs or requests that could be made by India,” she said ahead of the all-important 3rd Annual Defence Dialogue with her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh. “We know that an aircraft carrier will soon be delivered. Aircraft are needed.”Parly also discussed regional security and co-operation in Indo-Pacific with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh.The ministers reviewed the existing military-to-military cooperation, which has increased in spite of pandemic challenges. The ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains were also discussed. They also acknowledged their convergences on a number of strategic and defence issues and expressed commitment to work together to enhance cooperation in bilateral, regional, and multilateral forums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-get-remaining-rafale-jets-iaf-chief-provides-a-timeline-101639800132926.html
18-12-2021||India||Cigarette packaging used to distribute prasad at Kartarpur gurdwara: Report||The devotees visiting Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur have accused the authorities there of using disposable paper plates made of cigarette packaging material to distribute prasad.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan, many devotes have expressed their displeasure on the move, accusing the Pakistan government of playing with religious sentiments of the Sikh community.Some photos doing to rounds on social media show the plates carrying a picture of a cigarette brand ‘Gold Street’, according to Livehindustan. The issue was raised by some devotees who reached the gurdwara recently.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (PSGPC) said that the incident was brought to their notice three days ago, according to Livehindustan report.“We never used such a packaging to distribute the prasad at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. We have carried out an enquiry into the incident and based on that, we can say that this is the doing of some anti-social elements who don’t want Kartarpur Corridor to start,” PSGPC chief Ameer Singh was quoted as saying by Livehindustan.Singh added that the regular prasad is packed and given to the devotees in plain carry bags.However, the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami said it is a shocking development, if true, Livehindustan reported.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa took exception to the reports, terming the incident as ‘sacrilege’.Sirsa urged Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to take serious note of the issue and immediately order registration of case and arrest those responsible for this.Earlier this month, India had summoned the charge d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi and conveyed its deep concern over Pakistani model Sauleha’s photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, describing it as a “desecration” of the sanctity of the holy place.Sauleha’s “bareheaded” photoshoot for a Pakistani clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib set the social media abuzz as many people accused her of hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. The model later deleted her photos from her Instagram page and posted an apology.Pakistan had told Indian officials that it was an “isolated incident” and “was swiftly addressed and clarified”. In a statement, the Pakistan foreign office had said that the country accords highest primacy to the rights of the minorities and sanctity of religious places and revered sites of every community is ensured in Pakistan.Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, located in Pakistan’s Narowal district, is the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cigarette-packaging-used-to-distribute-prasad-at-kartarpur-gurdwara-report-101639807883734.html
18-12-2021||India||Ganga Expressway: From Meerut to Prayagraj, these cities in UP will benefit from the mega project. All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday lay the foundation stone for the 594-kilometre long six-lane Ganga Expressway from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Built at a cost of more than ₹36,200 crore, it will become the longest expressway in the state, the Yogi Adityanath-led government stated.In a major boost towards the socio-economic development of the region, the Ganga Expressway is set to add to Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP’s) development narrative ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year.According to the statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office, the expressway is being built on PM Modi’s vision to provide fast paced connectivity across the country. Here’s all you need to know about Ganga Expressway:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-expressway-from-meerut-to-prayagraj-these-cities-in-up-will-benefit-from-the-mega-project-all-you-need-to-know-101639802393175.html
18-12-2021||India||‘BJP’s ideology is imported...’: Bhupesh Baghel||Bhupesh Baghel completes three years as Chhattisgarh’s chief minister on Saturday. On eve of it, he spoke to Hindustan Times’ Ritesh Mishra about the achievements of his government and the challenges ahead. He also commented on Congress leader Rahul’s Gandhi’s recent comment on Hindutawadi and mining approvals given by the state government. Here are the edited excerpts of the interview. Q: Which are your main achievements as Chhattisgarh’s chief minister? A: See, the entire country is witnessing farmers’ protests. They are protesting since they are not getting the appropriate value of their crops. However, in Chhattisgarh, be it the farmers or tribals, both are getting their products procured by the government, so both tribals and farmers are satisfied.Secondly, the economically weaker parents are now able to send their children to English medium schools under the ‘Swami Atmanand Government English School’ initiative. Q: Any other achievement or scheme, which you want to specifically mention?A: If I may add the third one, we are serving gaumata (cows) as well. Q: So, do you feel that by serving gaumata, you have gained political mileage in Chhattisgarh? A: Well, we have connected cattle and cows with earning. The cattle used to damage crops and stray cattle on the roads met with accidents. What could have been the solution to this? So, we made plans to deal with these issues we started several schemes from purchasing cow-dung to setting up cowsheds, making vermicompost, generating electricity out of cow dung and providing employment through cow welfare. This is Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of ‘Gram Swarojgar’… We are creating self-reliant villages in the state which is an exemplary achievement in itself. Q: Do you feel these schemes and initiatives related to cows will give you any political benefit?A: You can just see in Uttar Pradesh, the stray cattle are destroying crops and the farmers have to guard their crops throughout the night. The farmers of Chhattisgarh who used to reap one crop annually are now taking two crops in a year due to cow shelter and this is the change now. I meet farmers regularly and they use to tell me that now they are using vermicompost in cultivation. The yield is good and the soil is getting aerated with the use of vermicompost which is good for the fertility of the soil. Q: Many eminent activists and environmentalists wrote a letter to you and urged you to declare Hasdeo Aranya region as a No-Go area for mining. Some activists alleged that your government’s mining policies are quite similar to that of BJP’s. Secondly, your government ignored the biodiversity report of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE) and allegedly gave consent for stage II clearance for Parsa Coal block in Hasdeo Aranya Area, even though you could have denied the consent. So, is your mining policy nothing but BJP’s mining policy in disguise? A: See, firstly, whatever these few activists are saying, it is all based on inputs from the local activists. Secondly, some of the local activists and journalists have become biased on this issue. The zone where Rahul Gandhi addressed people has been declared as an elephant reserve. There is actually no concept of a No-Go area (which Jairam Ramesh started when he was the environment minister in 2010). Show me which legal statute talks about it? There’s no term as No-Go for mining. Let me tell you that all 39 coal blocks which come under the Lemru Elephant Corridor were not allotted by our government. How can they even compare our policies with the BJP’s? And importantly, my government has faced a huge loss due to the ban on mining. The corporates engaged in mining have faced maximum losses during Bhupesh Baghel’s regime. Firstly, the Bailadila project was cancelled by our government and secondly, the mines which we were allotted in Hasdeo Aranya were brought under Lemru Elephant Corridor by us, thirdly the mines which they (corporates) wanted were cancelled by us. I can give you the entire list. They (activists) should clarify their own status and tell us about their standing. Q: So, you are saying these accusations are all baseless and concocted? A: Indeed! These are all frivolous allegations just to bewilder everyone. Moreover, no permissions and clearances were given by my government. Let them show the proof that my government has given consent for Phase II clearance of the Parsa coal block. Q: Your tussle with the Centre over paddy procurement, which is an old dispute, is creating a revenue loss for the government. Recently, your minister in the state assembly said the government has lost ₹500 crore. How you are coping up with financial loss? A: We have repeatedly written to the Union government to permit us to make ethanol out of the surplus paddy. When they can give permissions to sugarcane crops why can’t they give permission for paddy? Be it a loss of the state government or the central government, it is ultimately the country’s loss. Either they take our paddy or allow us to produce ethanol out of it but the Union government is doing nothing. Q: Recently, Rahul Gandhi made a statement making a distinction between Hindu and Hindutavadi. Do you think it was the right time because the assembly elections are around the corner in five states? A: What was wrong in saying that? See, it is quite clear that the ideology which the BJP follows has been imported from the European ideology and influenced by it. Especially the khaki pants, cap, band. Are these Indian uniforms or Indian musical instruments either? We in Congress follow Indian culture and tradition. These (BJP) are the people who are influenced by western culture. Their ideology is of violence and hatred for all those who don’t agree. The true Hindu system, which has survived for thousands of years - in spite of witnessing so many invaders- is such a system that can absorb all these attacks. Congress follows that system.Q: In May, Silger protest started after a firing took place in which three people were killed in Sukma… Recently, you also had a dialogue with them but the protest is still going on. Do you think that your government has failed to address Silger protest? A: This is the very first time when dialogue has taken place after any such incident. None of the governments before this have had any conversation with the people protesting in Bastar. We have sent the Member of Parliament, legislators and also the members of their own community to have a dialogue with them. Is there any example of another government to have called and talked with the journalists or activists regarding these protests? Q: Then why is the protest still going on? A: If I point a gun to your head and tell you to protest, at the very moment, you will sit and protest despite being so educated, isn’t it? So why won’t they sit in protest? Those helpless people have been made to sit to protest at gunpoint. But it is the very first time that the population over there is with us. The camps are established on their demand only.
18-12-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally falls for 2nd consecutive day; new deaths at 289||India continued a downward trend in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases after 7,45 new infectiojns were recorded in a span of 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update. This is the second a second consecutive day that the daily tally has recorded a fall.After today's number, the nationwide caseload reached 34,733,194, according to health ministry's update at 8 am.On Friday, India recorded 7,447 cases, while on Thursday, the 24-hour case count stood at 7,974.Also Read| As Omicron spreads across India, govt lists steps to keep yourself safeNew recoveries from Covid-19 rose by 8,706 in the last 24 hours while 289 more patients died due to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 34,171,471 and 477,158 respectively, the health ministry's update also showed.The active cases have come down to 84,565 and constitute 0.25% of the caseload. They have been the lowest since March last year. The overall recovery rate from Covid-19, meanwhile, remains unchanged at 98.38%.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday that 1,245,402 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total number of samples tested has climbed to 662,897,388.The health ministry informed on Friday that the Omicron count in the country has crossed the 100-mark and stands at 111 after the highest single-day rise of 24 cases was recorded.Of the total, Maharashtra and Delhi top the list with 40 and 22 cases of Omicron.The ministry has advised people to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep New Year celebrations at low intensity.Also Read| Can Delta and Omicron combine to make a super strain? It's possible, say experts"As Omicron variant is spreading very fast across Europe and most parts of the world so need to avoid nonessential travel, avoid mass gatherings and it is time to observe low-intensity festivities and ushering in new year celebrations has to be at low intensity," ICMR's director-general Dr Balram Bhargava said on Friday during a press conference of the health ministry.Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, who was present during Friday's briefing, said that the spread of Omicron will outpace Delta variant where community transmission occurs.He added that vaccines alone will not get any country rid of the Omicron crisis and that masks, physical distancing, ventilation, and hand hygiene should be followed along with vaccination."In most countries, those being hospitalized and dying are those who have not been vaccinated. So, the priority must be to vaccinate the unvaccinated, even in countries with the most access to vaccines," Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-falls-for-2nd-consecutive-day-new-deaths-at-289-101639801239926.html
18-12-2021||India||Tax raid at Akhilesh aide Rajeev Rai's place ahead of polls; 'Have no black money,' says SP leader||The income tax department came knocking on the door of Samajwadi Party leader Rajeev Rai, who is also a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav, as a team conducted searches at his premises on Saturday.  According to department sources, several raids were being conducted at various places in Uttar Pradesh. Apart from Rajiv Rai in Mau, the premises of RCL Group promoter Manoj Yadav in Mainpuri were also raided.Reacting to the raid, Rajeev Rai said to ANI that the government will make a case out of anything. "I have no criminal background or black money. I help people and the government did not like it. This is a result of that. If you do anything, then they will make a video, register an FIR and you will fight a case unnecessarily," the SP leader said.BJP’s “double-engine” colliding: AkhileshAnother aide of Akhilesh, Manoj Yadav, has also come on tax radar, reports said. The simultaneous searches began at around 7am.The raids come at a time when the state is all set for the election and Samajwadi chief Akhilesh Yadav has been taking on the BJP over several of its projects.Who is Rajeev Rai?Rajeev Rai is the national spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party. His personal website describes him as the most important person in Team Akhilesh when the party won the election in 2012. He was the Lok Sabha candidate for Ghosi in 2014. Rajeev Rai is also the founder and chairman of AVK Group of Institutions, a chain of institutions in Bengaluru.Rajeev Rai has also been conferred a doctorate degree by the University of Ballsbridge in the field of education, his website said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tax-raid-at-akhilesh-aide-s-place-ahead-of-polls-have-no-black-money-sp-leader-101639803822991.html
18-12-2021||India||Sukesh Chandrashekhar paid huge amount of money to get introduced to Jacqueline Fernandez: ED||Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar who is accused of a ₹200 crore money laundering case is believed to have paid a huge amount of money to Pinky Irani, an aide of Sukesh, only to get introduced to Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez. Pinky Irani has recently been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate and on Friday, ED officials confronted Pinky Irani and Sukesh Chandrashekhar in Tihar jail, news agency ANI reported. They were asked the same set of questions separately and together and their statements were recorded, the agency reported.ED officials said Irani introduced Sukesh Chandrashekhar to Jacqueline Fernandez and got a huge amount of money for the work. Shelling out crores to get his work done is not new in the case as ED officials earlier found that Sukesh was paying prison staff of Rohini jail crores of rupees in a month to allow him to run his extortion racket. Inside Rohini jail, he was given an entire barrack. While he was free to use his two mobile phones, all the CCTV cameras were covered.Conman who used to end calls saying 'Jai Hind'. 10 things to know about Sukesh ChandrashekharED has found that when Chandrashekhar was in jail when the wife of Ex-Ranbaxy promoter was duped to the tune of ₹200 crore. Aditi Sigh used to visit her husband Shivinder Mohan Singh, arrested in 2019 in a fund misappropriation case. Sukesh met Aditi in jail. Then he called her from a virtual number using a spoofing app and posed as a central government official. He promised bail of her husband in exchange for that money. ED officials are now looking into the trails of the money and whether it has already been invested abroad.The connection of Jacqueline and Sukesh Chandrashekhar has already come on the radar of the investigators as the actor received several expensive gifts from the conman. Jacqueline told ED officers that Sukesh Chandrashekhar posed as the owner of Sun TV, connected to the Jayalalithaa family, and asked her to do movies for the southern film industries. Sukesh, as Jacqueline revealed, got in touch with her through her makeup artist who was called from the spoofing app impersonating a home ministry official. When Sukesh Chandrashekhar was out on bail for a brief period early this year, he apparently met Jacqueline and some photos of the two went viral. Nora Fatehi is another Bollywood personality who have got linked with Sukesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sukesh-chandrashekhar-paid-huge-amount-of-money-to-get-introduced-to-jaqueline-fernandez-ed-101639803466485.html
18-12-2021||India||Global Spam Report: KYC most common scam in India, Brazil most spammed country||India moved up in rankings from ninth to the fourth spot this year in the tally of top 20 countries affected by spam calls, according to a new report. This happened because of a significant increase in sales and telemarketing calls, as per the Global Spam Report released by Truecaller, a global platform for verifying contacts and blocking unwanted communication.The report presented an interesting insight, that the popular KYC (know your customer) scam remains one of the most common one in the country. As part of the scam, fraudsters pretend to be representatives of banks, wallets, or digital payment services, asking for user KYC documents as mandated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The average number of spam calls per user per month stood at 16.8, while total spam volumes received by Truecaller users alone are in excess of 3.8 billion calls in the month of October.At a global level, Truecaller identified 184.5 billion calls and 586 billion messages. Of those, 37.8 billion spam calls were identified and blocked, while 182 billion messages were identified and blocked.Brazil has retained its title of the most spammed country in the world (four years in a row) with 32.9 spam calls per user per month.Another interesting insight from the report is that over 202 million spam calls were made by just one spammer in India this year between January to October - which is over 6.64 lakh calls every day and 27,000 calls every hour of every day.“Truecaller actively maintains a list of top spammers in each region in order to automatically block them, but this one spammer is so far ahead of the rest that they will find it very hard to catch up,” the report said.In terms of incoming spam messages per user per month, Cameroon topped the list, followed by Somalia, Tanzania, Congo, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, and Benin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-spam-report-kyc-most-common-scam-in-india-brazil-most-spammed-country-101639803164581.html
18-12-2021||India||4 accidents of Mi-17V5 helicopters in 5 years including Gen Rawat's: Defence ministry||Minister of state of the defence minister informed Parliament on Friday that Russia-made Mi-17V5 helicopters of the Indian Air Force met with four accidents in the last five years, killing 21 people, including the recent crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor in General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 13 defence personnel died.As far as accidents of all military helicopters are concerned, 31 people were killed since March 2017 in 15 military helicopter accidents. The list of crashes provided by him began with the accident involving a Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force on March 15, 2017, in which no one was killed or injured, news agency PTI reported. Seven helicopters each from the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force were involved in accidents during the period while the number from the Navy was one, according to the data that the minister presented in the Lok Sabha.After CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's death, Army chief Gen MM Naravane takes over as chairman of Chiefs of Staff CommitteeTo a question on the crash of an ALH Rudra near Pathankot on August 3, the minister informed the House that there is no restriction on the helicopter flying over water. However, operations over a large expanse of water are restricted.The latest crash with not a single person surviving is being probed by a tri-service inquiry team, which will complete its investigation within two weeks, reports said. Among 14 passengers on board, 13, including General Bipin Rawat's wife Madhulika Rawat, died on the same day. IAF Group Captain Varun Singh battled for a week before he succumbed to his injuries on December 15. According to defence ministry data, there was no SOS from the copter. It took off at 11.48am from the Sulur airbase and was scheduled to reach the Welling airbase at 12.15pm. At around 12.07pm, Sulur airbase lost contact with the copter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-accidents-of-mi-17v5-helicopters-in-5-years-including-gen-rawat-s-defence-ministry-101639799784122.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today till Dec 20 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today, focus to be on AfghanistanIndia will host the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi from Saturday to discuss further strengthening of relations between member states with a focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation. Read moreAmit Shah begins 2-day Maharashtra visit today, multiple events lined upUnion home minister Amit Shah will on Saturday begin his two-day visit to Maharashtra, where he is set to inaugurate a new building of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) campus, and also attend several public events – such as the co-operative council conference. Read more‘If India sees UK-like Covid spike, there will be 14 lakh cases daily’: VK PaulAmid the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the world, in the wake of the emergence of the new variant Omicron, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul has expressed concern. Read moreAhead of key polls, Malaysian opposition struggles to garner supportVoters in Malaysia’s biggest state are set to reject the opposition alliance in elections on Saturday, increasing pressure on Anwar Ibrahim to step aside as de facto leader and forcing a rethink in strategy ahead of a national vote that may be called as soon as next year. Read moreWill Ravichandran Ashwin return to CSK? Spinner opens up on possible return to Chennai Super Kings for IPL 2022The mega-action for the 2022 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) has thrown numerous possibilities - new captains, new franchises, new combinations and return to old franchises. Read moreNora Fatehi is a modern Greek goddess in stunning thigh-slit gown for Kolkata event: Pics and videosDancer turned actor Nora Fatehi never fails to turn any occasion into her personal fashion event by donning head-turning looks. The star has a knack for experimenting with different styles and serving bold sartorial moments. Read morePriyanka Chopra says Matrix Resurrections co-star Jada Pinkett Smith held her hand as she cried: ‘It was terrifying’Priyanka Chopra recalled crying on the flight to Berlin on the way to shoot for The Matrix Resurrections. She said that she was terrified of getting back to work amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-to-host-central-asia-dialogue-from-today-till-dec-20-101639797282639.html
18-12-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede won't seek extension, NCB stint to end on December 31||Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede who found himself in a spot following the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the drugs-on-cruise case will not seek an extension of his term which will end on December 31, 2021. Wankhede was on a deputation to the NCB since September 2020 and in his stint, Wankhede took steps to bust the alleged Bollywood-drugs syndicate. Starting with actor Rhea Chakraborty, the NCB under Sameer Wankhede interrogated and arrested several Bollywood personalities regarding their involvement in drugs.The Aryn Khan case kicked up a storm as Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik brought extorting charges against Sameer Wankhede, apart from several other irregularities in the functioning of the central agency.Ample proof available of the dual identities of Sameer Wankhede: Nawab Malik to HCNawab Malik also brought a serious allegation of forgery against Sameer Wankhede claiming that he was a Muslim but took the advantage of OBC quota using a forged certificate. While the allegations against Wankhede are being probed, the issue between Wankhede and Nawab Malik has reached the court. Meanwhile, several high-profile cases, including that of Aryan Khan and that of Nawab Malik's son-in-law, were transferred from the NCB Mumbai to a special investigation team formed by the head office.Between August and December 2020, Wankhede arrested 96 and registered 28 cases. In 2021, Wankhede made 234 arrests, registered 117 cases, seized over 1,791 kg drugs worth around ₹1,000 crore and froze properties over ₹11 crore, the NCB has said.Before his NCB posting, Sameer Wankhede, a 2008-batch Indian Revenue Service officer, was posted with the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. In his previous roles too, he was known as a taskmaster. In 2011, when Wankhede was with the customs, he had stopped Shah Rukh Khan at the airport and fined him ₹1.5 lakh for carrying excess luggage.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-won-t-seek-extension-ncb-stint-to-end-on-december-31-101639797546364.html
18-12-2021||India||As Omicron spreads across India, govt lists steps to keep yourself safe||Amid a rising number of Omicron cases in India, the central government on Friday issued a slew of directions advising citizens on how to protect themselves and cut the spread of the highly infectious new variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus that is said to also be capable of undergoing frequent mutations. The Press Information Bureau (PIB), the nodal agency for media communications on behalf of the Government of India, shared the list of Omicron-related general advice at the behest of Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also Read | ‘If India sees UK-like Covid spike, there will be 14 lakh cases daily’: VK PaulOmicron: Directions issued by Centre to cut the spread of the infectious new variant –“We still have about 24 districts such where the weekly test positivity rate is over five per cent,” said the secretary of the department of health research under the Union ministry of health and family welfare. "These districts need to ensure local restrictive measures till the weekly test positivity rate comes down to below five per cent for at least two weeks.”It is time to avoid non-essential travel, mass gatherings and observe low-intensity festivities.Districts with more than 5% of test positivity rate need to ensure restrictive measures until it comes below 5% for at least two weeks - DG, @ICMRDELHI #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/AzLwuGuX0IThe health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal also emphasised the usage of face masks, following social distancing and hand hygiene, echoing the WHO's advisory that vaccines alone won’t be enough in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Also Read | Tracking Omicron spread in India: List of states with cases of new variantThe number of Omicron cases in the country has now surpassed 100 in the country and these infections have been reported from 11 states and Union territories so far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday.The health ministry also highlighted that the number of Omicron cases was rising globally and as of Friday, the United Kingdom reported 11,708 infections followed by Denmark with 9,009 and Norway with 1,792 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-omicron-spreads-across-india-govt-lists-steps-to-keep-yourself-safe-101639793314277.html
18-12-2021||India||Tracking Omicron spread in India: List of states with cases of new variant||The Omicron variant has been spreading fast in India. On Friday, the total number of cases infected with the new strain of coronavirus crossed the 100-mark in the country. Alarmingly, 26 of those cases were recorded yesterday.Friday was the fourth day in a row that the country’s Omicron tally saw a relatively significant increase. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 new Omicron infections detected across India, while on Thursday, there were 14 such cases.The Union health ministry has cautioned people to defer all non-essential travel amid the spread of the heavily mutated variant, which is believed to be resistant to existing vaccines.Here’s a look at the state-wide spread of the Omicron variant:Maharashtra: It has the highest number of Omicron cases – 40. Eight of these cases were recorded on Friday. Of the eight new Omicron cases, six were reported from Pune and one each from Mumbai and Kalyan Dombivli.All the patients were men belonging to the 29 to 45 age group.The highest number of Omicron cases in Maharashtra have come from Mumbai (14), followed by 10 in Pimpri Chinchwad, six in Pune rural, two in Pune Municipal Corporation, two each in Kalyan Dombivali and Osmanabad and one each in Latur, Buldhana, Nagpur and Vasai Virar.Delhi: The national capital now has the second highest number of Omicron cases in the country. Delhi’s tally of the new coronavirus variant reached 22 after 12 cases were recorded on Friday.Ten of the 22 patients have been discharged, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said.Doctors at the Lok Nayak Hospital, where a special facility has been set up for isolating and treating suspected Omicron cases, told news agency PTI that most of the patients are fully vaccinated and asymptomatic.Rajasthan: The fast-spreading Omicron has taken Rajasthan too in its grip. The state has so far recorded 17 cases of the new variant of coronavirus.Sixteen new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and one death due to the disease were reported in Rajasthan on Friday, according to an official statement.The new fatality and the cases raised the death toll to 8,960 and the infection count to 9,55,189 in the state, the futher stated.Telangana: At least eight cases of the new coronavirus variant Omicron have been reported in Telangana so far, according to state health department.Addressing a press conference on Friday, Director of public health Srinivasa Rao, said that nine cases were detected at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad out of which one went to West Bengal via Hyderabad.Rao further informed that all the Omicron positive patients are foreigners.Karnataka: The state has recorded eight cases of the Omicron variant so far. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Friday that the state government is cautious and is tracking contacts of all eight Omicron variant cases to ensure that there is no immediate spread of the disease from them.As the cases in Maharashtra have increased, the state is also monitoring the borders of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, the minister added.Kerala: The southern state on Friday logged two new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the overall tally to seven, said health minister Veena George.The new variant of the virus was detected in an elderly couple who arrived in Ernakulam from the UAE.The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive. Four more cases of the new variant were confirmed on December 15.Other states where Omicron has spread in India are Gujarat (7 cases), and Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Chandigarh (one case each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-omicron-spread-in-india-list-of-states-with-cases-of-new-variant-101639795312332.html
18-12-2021||India||‘If India sees UK-like Covid spike, there will be 14 lakh cases daily’: VK Paul||Amid the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the world, in the wake of the emergence of the new variant Omicron, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul has expressed concern. At a press conference on Friday, Dr Paul highlighted the worrying spread of the infections in Europe and compared it to the population of India.Also Read | Can booster shot stop Omicron spread? Here's what a study says"If we look at the scale of spread in the UK and if there is a similar outbreak in India, then given our population, there will be 14 lakh cases every day," Dr Paul said.He added that Omicron is believed to be behind the spread but this is still an “emerging and unexpected scenario” and the government is keeping an eye on all the developments.“It is being said that the Omicron strain causes mild infection,” Dr Paul added.The Niti Aayog member also said that genome sequencing of every sample is not possible."Genome sequencing of every sample is not possible. It is a surveillance and pandemic assessment and tracking tool, not a diagnostic tool as of now. We can assure sufficient systematic sampling is being undertaken," said Dr Paul.Also Read | Vaccinating all to get priority over booster dose, says govtOn Friday, Britain reported 3,201 cases of the new variant, the biggest daily increase since Omicron was detected in the country, taking the total such cases to 14,909, according to official figures.The data from UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) also said that the country recorded 93,045 coronavirus cases in the latest 24-hour period, breaking the daily record for the third consecutive day and bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 11,190,354.In India, as many as 113 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected so far in 11 states and union territories. Twenty six of these cases were reported on Friday.Maharashtra leads the tally with 40 cases, followed by Delhi with 22, Rajasthan with 17, Telangana and Karnataka with eight each, Gujarat and Kerala with seven each, and Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Chandigarh with one each.Joint Secretary of Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, who was addressed the press conference, said that Omicron variant has been found in 91 countries in the world.The Omicron variant was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year.On November 26, the WHO named the new variant as 'Omicron'. The global health body also classified the heavily mutated strain as a 'variant of concern'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-india-sees-uk-like-covid-spike-there-will-be-14-lakh-cases-daily-vk-paul-101639791880161.html
18-12-2021||India||India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today, focus to be on Afghanistan||India will host the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi from Saturday to discuss further strengthening of relations between member states with a focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation. The three-day event will go on till Monday (December 20).External affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar will host the dialogue that will be attended by foreign ministers of five countries - Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan - according to the foreign ministry.Jaishankar already visited Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan this year and met Turkmenistan's foreign minister in October."The holding of annual meetings of the India-Central Asia Dialogue is symbolic of the interest on the part of all member countries for greater engagement between them in a spirit of friendship, trust and mutual understanding," according to MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi."The foreign ministers of the Central Asian countries are expected to pay a joint courtesy call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said, adding that they will exchange views on regional and international issues of global interest.The Modi government has reached out to these five countries for the participation of their top leaders as chief guests for the upcoming Republic Day celebrations next year.The current situation in Afghanistan will be a major topic of discussion at the three-day India-Central Asia Dialogue.The recent developments in Afghanistan after the Taliban's takeover have reinforced the importance of Central Asian countries with Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan- that share borders with Afghanistan.Previously, the national security advisors (NSAs) of Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan took part in India-hosted regional dialogue on Afghanistan in November. The event also saw participation from the NSAs of Iran and Russia.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-central-asia-dialogue-from-today-focus-to-be-on-afghanistan-101639789735412.html
18-12-2021||India||Balasaheb Thackeray asked me why I had rejected Reliance's tender: Nitin Gadkari||At a meeting with investors on Friday, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said there is no need to worry about the economic viability of road projects. Recalling his stint as the PWD minister of the Shiv Sena-BJP government in Maharashtra in the early 1990s, he said he rejected a tender submitted by Reliance, which not only upset Dhirubhai Ambani but also raised questions inside Maharashtra power corridors. "Even my ministerial colleagues and the chief minister (Manohar Joshi) were also angry with me. Balasaheb Thackeray asked me why I rejected that bid," Gadkari said.Reliance quoted ₹3,600 crore for the expressway, MSRDC completed the project in less than half the amount, ₹1,600 crore, Gadkari said."I told them that I will raise money from the public and construct the expressway, the Worli-Bandra Sealink and 52 other flyovers in the city and all of them laughed at me," Gadkari said.However, chief minister Manohar Joshi gave Gadkari a go-ahead and then the Maharashtra State Roads Development Corporation was created. The first MSRDC managing director, RC Sinha, used to go to all platforms of investors seeking funds. "At that time we used to go to the investors and now investors are coming to us. I was 36 years at that time. We used to show projects on our laptops and ask people to invest," the minister said. And when MSRDC went to capital markets, it overachieved its target of ₹500 crore and garnered ₹1,160 crore. "The second time when it wanted to raise ₹650 crore, MSRDC ended up with ₹1,100 crore," the minister said."Even Ratan Tata told me that I am smarter than them as he never expected so much money could be raised from the market for infra projects," Gadkari said.Talking about how he got the inspiration for the Build Operate Transfer policy from an electric good shop, he said he went to buy a TV and wanted to buy it on installments. "When the shopkeeper came to know that I was a minister, he told me that he will deliver me a new TV model. But I didn't get the TV set as promised because he would have realised that being a minister I may not pay up," the minister said. Then I thought if TV can be bought in installments, then why not tunnels and bridges," Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balasaheb-thackeray-asked-me-why-i-had-rejected-reliance-s-tender-nitin-gadkari-101639791282184.html
18-12-2021||NA||Breaking highlights: Confirmed Omicron cases in UK around 25,000 as of Dec 17, up by more than 10,000 from Dec 16||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Temperature in AP to fall by 2 to 4 degrees for next 5 days: IMD officialTemperature in Andhra Pradesh is likely to fall by two to four degree celsius below the normal temperature for the next five days, reports ANI quoting the India Meteorological Department. “Low-level NE winds are prevailing over Andhra Pradesh. Mainly dry weather will prevail and the temperatures are likely to fall by two to four degrees centigrade, below the normal temperature values, for the next 5 days,” said VSM Raju, of the IMD, Amravati.EAM S Jaishankar hosts foreign ministers of central Asian nations“Hosted the Central Asian Foreign Ministers to a welcome dinner before our Dialogue tomorrow. The cultural show was just one more reminder of our closeness,” S Jaishankar tweeted.Nagpur forest team captures 2 monkeys that killed many puppies, to be released in nearby forestThe Nagpur forest department captured two monkeys involved in the killing of many puppies earlier. They have been captured in Beed earlier today. Both the monkeys are being shifted to Nagpur to be released in a nearby forest, reports ANI citing Sachin Kand, Beed Forest Officer. UK's confirmed Omicron tally jumps by 10,000 cases in 24 hours; now at 24,968Cases in the United Kingdom of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus jumped sharply to almost 25,000 while the total number of reported deaths among people with it so far rose to seven, according to British health authorities. Click here to read moreOmicron cases continue to rise in Maharashtra, 8 new cases take tally to 48With eight more people infected with the Omicron Covid-19 variant in Maharashtra, the state's tally reached 48. Of the new cases, four are from Mumbai, three from Satara and one from Pune.Among those tested positive in Mumbai, one is a city resident, while the other three are residents of Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Jalgaon in Maharashtra respectively. ‘Omicron not as severe as Delta’, says AIIMS doctor, rules out ‘anything like second wave’Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, said that the Omicron variant's transmissibility is quite high as compared to Delta but also said it was not as severe as Delta, reports ANI.“I don't see anything like 2nd wave but there might be a huge number of cases due to high transmissibility,” he said. Sacrilege attempt inside Golden Temple's sanctum sanctorum, accused killedA person has been killed after a sacrilege attempt inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening during the Rehras Sahib recitation. The person attempted to approach the Guru Granth Sahib and pick the ‘Kirpan’ placed in front of the holy Sikh scripture. The incident is the second of its kind in four days.Karnataka reports 6 fresh cases of Omicron, returnee from UK among new patientsTwo cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron)Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron)A traveller from UK has also tested positive for #Omicron@BSBommai#OmicronindiaKarnataka has reported two new clusters of Covid-19 in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada. As many as 14 cases have been detected in the first cluster of which four tested positive for the Omicron variant while 19 cases in the second cluster including one Omicron cases.Apart from these, a traveller from UK also tested positive for the Omicron variant. Tajikistan foreign minister meets Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, talks on Covid-19, other key areasThe two leaders also exchanged views on crucial areas of mutual cooperation such as COVID-19 mitigation, education, tourism, capicity building of Members of Parliament and officials. pic.twitter.com/VWjZPPKwf6Tajikistan foreign minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin met with Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. “During the call on, the two leaders recalled strong civilizational ties between the two countries,” the Lok Sabha secretariat said. “The two leaders also exchanged views on crucial areas of mutual cooperation such as COVID-19 mitigation, education, tourism, capicity building of Members of Parliament and officials,” it further said. Paper consumption in railways ministry reduced to 10,272 reams in 2021: DARPGThe paper consumption in the Union ministry of railways reduced to 10,272 reams in 2021 as against 22,685 reams in 2018, reports ANI citing the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievance (DARPG) . “The expenditure in cartridges is expected to reduce by ₹50 lakhs by March 2022 as compared to ₹1.3 crores in 2019-20,” the DARPG also said. Mumbai civic body warns of strict action against Covid norms offendersThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation urged people to avoid crowding and follow the Covid guidelines in the city. It also warned of strict action against offenders, reports ANI."People allowed up to 50% capacity in closed spaces; in open spaces, people allowed up to 25% capacity of space. Prior permission required for a gathering of more than 1000 people," the BMC said.Watch | Rahul Gandhi's tongue-in-cheek remark against PM Modi's dip in Ganga#WATCH | For the first time I saw just one person taking bath in Ganga, removed Yogi Ji, sidelined Rajnath Singh....Remember when Narendra ji was young he fought with a crocodile, I thought he didn't know swimming...struggling with his hands...:Congress' Rahul Gandhi in Amethi pic.twitter.com/Cmw4te4RX5Rahul Gandhi mocked Narendra Modi's recent visit to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, when he took a dip in the Ganges river, reports ANI. “For the first time I saw just one person taking bath in Ganga, removed Yogi Ji, sidelined Rajnath Singh....Remember when Narendra ji was young he fought with a crocodile, I thought he didn't know swimming...struggling with his hands,” Gandhi said. Odisha sees 169 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death; active caseload at 1,922Odisha logged 169 new Covid-19 cases as the state's tally rose to 1,052,641. The death toll reached 8,442 with one more fatality. Active caseload stood at 1,922, reports PTI citing a state health bulletin.10 killed, scores injured in an explosion in Karachi building, reports ANI citing Pakistani mediaTen people were killed and several others were injured in an explosion at a building in Karachi's Shershah Paracha Chowk area, this afternoon, reports ANI citing Pakistan Media.‘PM Modi brought farm laws, said no farmers died during protests’: Rahul Gandhi in AmethiRahul Gandhi said that PM Modi implemented the three farm laws and told farmers would benefit from them but apologised after a year when farmers stood together against the laws, reports ANI. “We questioned about the compensation for farmers who died in the protest, he (Modi) said no farmers died in the protest,” he said.PM busy travelling abroad, farmers earning only ₹27 per day: Priyanka GandhiThis is the kind of govt where the PM is too busy travelling abroad, in one day helps his industrialist friends earn crores of rupees. Today under the same govt our farmers are earning only ₹27 per day. - Smt. @priyankagandhi #BJPBhagaoMehangaiHatao pic.twitter.com/mJY0OxHOLb“This is the kind of govt where the PM is too busy travelling abroad, in one day helps his industrialist friends earn crores of rupees. Today under the same govt our farmers are earning only ₹27 per day,” alleged Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi.PM targeted small businesses with demonetisation, GST: Rahul Gandhi Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi targeted the medium and small scale businesses with demonetisation and GST. He said this during a rally in Amethi, Uttar Pradesh. “Why is inflation on the rise ?” Gandhi asked. “PM can not reply. I will give you the answer. MSME provided jobs and PM targeted them with demonetisation and GST,” he said. Modi lists 5 boons Ganga Expressway will bring to Uttar PradeshNarendra Modi listed what he called the “five boons” that the Ganga Expressway will bring for Uttar Pradesh:1. Saving time for people 2. Increase in convenience 3. Proper usage of Uttar Pradesh's resources 4. Increase in the power of UP5. All-round prosperity in UPPM Modi lays foundation stone of Ganga Expressway in UP's ShahjahanpurPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the foundation stone of the Ganga expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur.Typhoon Rai update: Death toll climbs to 19The death toll due to Typhoon Rai in the Philippines has climbed to 19. BSF shoots down drone along Pakistan border in PunjabThe Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday shot down a drone along the Pakistan border in Punjab, news agency PTI reported. India successfully test-fires Agni Prime missileA lot of new features have been added to the nuclear-capable strategic missile Agni Prime during this test. The missile test met all its mission objectives with a high level of accuracy: Government officialsIndia on Saturday successfully testfired the Agni Prime missile off the coast of Odisha in Balasore. Read more'Nothing is done for common man, the poor': Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni as he launches new political partyFarmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Saturday that politics in India has become polluted and there is a need to change it. “Policymakers promoting capitalism, policies are being framed to favour capitalists. Nothing is done for common man, the poor. So, we're launching our new party, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party,” Charuni was quoted as sayinChandigarh reschedules winter vacation in govt schools amid Covid-19District Education Office, Chandigarh reschedules winter vacations in govt & govt-aided schools in the UT as a precautionary measure, in wake of #COVID19. As per the revised schedule, schools will have winter vacations from 20th Dec to 7th Jan. Schools will reopen on 10th Jan. pic.twitter.com/K5hvVPwGLLChandigarh on Saturday rescheduled winter vacation in government and government aided schools as a precautionary measure in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “As per the revised schedule, schools will have winter vacations from 20th Dec to 7th Jan. Schools will reopen on 10th Jan,” an official order raid. Have no criminal background, says SP leader Rajeev Rai after I-T raids his house in UPThis is IT dept. I've no criminal background or black money. I help people & Govt didn't like it. This is a result of that. If you do anything, they'll make a video, register an FIR, you'll fight a case unnecessarily. There is no use let procedure complete: Rajeev Rai, SP leader pic.twitter.com/Bn4hcs1ozmSamajwadi Party (SP) leader Rajeev Rai said on Saturday that he has no criminal background or black money after the income tax department raided hIndia records 7,145 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hrsIndia continued a downward trend in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 7,145 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. Read moreFarmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni to launch political party in ChandigarhFarmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni to launch a new political party today in Chandigarh. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/VyojfWo79TBBMP clarifies on mandatory quarantine for international arrivals amid Omicron threatThe Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has clarified that no decision has been taken regarding the compulsory quarantine for international arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countries, even if they test negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read morePhilippines typhoon death toll climbs to 18The total number of deaths due to typhoon Rai have climbed to 18 and over 300,000 people have fled their homes and beachfront resorts. According to news agency AFP, more than 18,000 personnel of the police, military, coast guard and fire department will join the search and rescue efforts in the worst-affected regions in the Philippines.France urges citizens to take vaccine ahead of holiday festivitiesThe French government has requested citizens to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of holiday festivities amid a surge in infections. . “The fifth wave is here and it is here in full force,” Prime Minister Jean Castex told a news conference on Friday. Castex added that the Omicron variant is expected to dominate infections from January.  India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today, focus to be on AfghanistanIndia will host the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi from Saturday to discuss further strengthening of relations between member states with a focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation. Read moreDelhi schools to reopen for Class 6 and above from today; air quality remains in very ‘poor category’Schools in the national capital will reopen for Class 6 and above from Saturday, a day after approval was given by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the national capital region and adjoining areas. Read moreEx-US hostages have left Haiti, are doing well: Mission agencyThe the former hostages from a United States-based missionary group kidnapped in Haiti in October have been flown out of the country after a two-month ordeal, the leader of their Ohio-based missions organisation said on Friday. “Everyone including the 10-month-old baby, the 3-year-old boy and the 6-year-old boy seem to be doing reasonably well,”David Troyer, general director of Christian Aid Ministries, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-18-2021-101639788440859.html
18-12-2021||India||Amit Shah begins 2-day Maharashtra visit today, multiple events lined up||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Saturday begin his two-day visit to Maharashtra, where he is set to inaugurate a new building of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) campus, and also attend several public events – such as the co-operative council conference.The home minister will have a packed schedule on his visit to the state during these two days, and a schedule shared by the ANI news agency provided a glimpse at his itinerary.Also Read | Govt decisions during pandemic to have long-lasting positive impact: Amit Shah at FICCI meetAccording to a top government official, cited by the agency, Amit Shah will on the first day of his visit to Maharashtra, that is Saturday, worship at the famed Shirdi temple at 11:15am. This will be followed by the home minister participating in Padmashree Dr Vitthalrao Vikhe Patil Literary Award distribution.Next, Shah has two back-to-back conferences lined up at Maharashtra's Loni region in the noon – the Cooperation Council Conference and the Sahakar Parishad Conference.In the evening, the Union home minister will reach state capital Mumbai, where he is set to attend the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) National Award Distribution Ceremony at around 6pm.On December 19, Amit Shah will be travelling to Pune, beginning his day at 10am with a visit to the Shrimant Dagdusheth Ganpati Temple in the city.Also Read | India to become fastest expanding economy in 2021-22, says Amit ShahLater on, he will inaugurate the aforementioned new building of the CFSL campus in Pune at 11am and then attend ‘Bada Khana’ – a practice in the Indian Army and paramilitary organisations to prepare lunch or dinner on important days – with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel at 1pm.He will then travel to the Pune campus of the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management (VAMNICOM) – a grant-in-aid institution under the Union ministry of cooperation – to attend the convocation ceremony there at 2pm, according to the schedule shared by the news agency.After spending nearly one hour at the event, the home minister will then attend another where the foundations of the statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Babasaheb Ambedkar will be laid at the Pune Municipal Corporation around 3.45pm.Finally, the minister will later on Sunday attend a conference of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Pune city workers at 4.40pm at the Ganesh Kala Sports Centre there. He will also pay homage to Babasaheb Purandare at his home at around 6.45pm, as per the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-begins-2-day-maharashtra-visit-today-multiple-events-lined-up-101639785771235.html
18-12-2021||India||Covovax gets WHO’s nod for emergency use||The World Health Organization approved the coronavirus vaccine developed by Novavax on Friday, paving the way for several countries, including India, to soon have access to large volumes of doses produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).SII has the license to produce over two billion doses of the vaccine, which experts have seen as key to addressing a wide vaccine inequity in poorer parts of the world. WHO approval – technically an emergency use listing -- also fulfils an important condition that will allow for dose to be approved in India, where it will be sold as Covovax.“Even with new variants emerging, vaccines remain one of the most effective tools to protect people against serious illness and death from Sars-Cov-2,” said Mariângela Simão, WHO assistant-director general for Access to Medicines and Health Products. “This listing aims to increase access particularly in lower-income countries, 41 of which have still not been able to vaccinate 10% of their populations, while 98 countries have not reached 40%.”Covovax is part of the WHO-led Covax facility. SII began stockpiling doses in the summer and a Union health ministry assessment in June said the government expects 200 million doses of the vaccine to be available by December. “The EUL by the World Health Organization is a great encouragement towards making Covid-19 vaccines more accessible. Our partnership with Novavax has been successful in providing global public health leadership and ensuring that all countries have broad access to a viable vaccine,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII.The vaccine is a protein subunit vaccine that delivers a full spike of the Sars-Cov-2 to train the immunity. It is the only other vaccine apart from the mRNA platform doses to demonstrate an efficacy of over 90% against symptomatic disease (against the original Sars-Cov-2 virus), but its production and development was delayed due to several factors, including raw material shortages.“We believe this vaccine will help overcome barriers to vaccine access in many regions of the world by leveraging the traditional refrigeration used in existing vaccine supply channels, while also offering an option based on a familiar and well-understood technology,” said Stanley C Erck, president and CEO of Novavax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covovax-gets-who-s-nod-for-emergency-use-101639773755598.html
18-12-2021||India||Woman held in J-K for insulting CDS Rawat in post, granted bail||The Executive Magistrate of Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district on Friday granted bail to the former director of a school, Sabbah Haji, after she was arrested for calling Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) late General Bipin Rawat a “war criminal” in a social media post, web portal Bar and Bench reported.“Bail was granted to her on condition that she will remain present at women’s police station Doda from 10am to 2pm for three days, December 14 to 17, and shall appear before the Executive Magistrate Doda on December 17,” the portal quoted an official as saying on condition of anonymity said.India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and 11 others were killed on December 8 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Cooonor in Tamil Nadu in an air tragedy that shocked the three services and came as a huge setback to the country’s biggest military reforms since Independence.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, died on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-in-j-k-for-insulting-cds-rawat-in-post-granted-bail-101639768864923.html
18-12-2021||India||SC rejects journalist’s plea against jail term||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to interfere with a one-month jail term for an editor of a Kannada weekly over defamatory articles against a lawyer, commenting that he was in fact let off leniently.“Let him suffer!” retorted Chief Justice of India NV Ramana when the counsel for DS Vishwanatha Shetty requested the bench to stay the order of the Karnataka high court to prevent the journalist from going behind bars for his articles.Advocate Sanjay M Nuli, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that the high court had not correctly appreciated the facts of the case and that the articles could be corroborated. The plea also said that the imprisonment order would infringe upon the freedom of the press and the right to know, besides having a chilling effect on free speech.But the bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, remarked: “This kind of language you use and claim you are a journalist? This is typical yellow journalism.”While dismissing the petition, the bench added: “What kind of a language is this? We have to protect lawyers too. And what have you been given... only one month. One month is very less. He deserves more than that.”Shetty was proprietor, publisher, editor and printer of Tunga Varthe, a Kannada weekly newspaper with publication in and around Koppa, Sringeri, and NR Pura Taluk. He was sentenced to one year in jail in 2013 under penal provision of defamation for publishing in 2008 a series of articles against advocate TN Rathnaraj and calling him a goon and an MLA’s spy for having prepared sale deeds pertaining to pieces of land granted to SCs/STs without the government’s permission.In March this year, Karnataka high court reduced Shetty’s jail term from one year to a month but confirmed his conviction under IPC Section 501 (criminal defamation). The high court further noted that Shetty was convicted of a similar offence in the past as well. Shetty, however, went back to the high court to show that the finding about his previous conviction was a mistake since he was in fact acquitted in the other case. But the high court did not entertain his plea for a review of its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-journalist-s-plea-against-jail-term-101639768188889.html
18-12-2021||India||Karnataka assembly: Congress demands minister’s removal over land grab case||The Congress on Friday continued its protests in the ongoing winter session of the Karnataka legislature in Belagavi, demanding removal of a cabinet minister accused in a land grab case.Leader of the opposition and former chief minister Siddaramaiah led the charge against the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, which was further cornered over more charges of corruption by senior leaders and ministers of the party.Minister for urban development Byrathi Basavaraj is alleged to have usurped land, which the Congress said was worth over ₹350 crore.“If @BJP4Karnataka & @BSBommai believes in parliamentary system, honesty & transparent system of governance, they have to get the resignation of Byrathi Basavaraj,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.The demand for Byrathi Basavaraj’s removal comes at a time when the BJP government in the state has found itself in the middle of one crisis after another including allegations of corruption involving senior members of the ruling party as well as officials.The chrges include the Bitcoin scandal, in which senior BJP leaders and government officials are alleged to have laundered ill-gotten money through cryptocurrencies.“I urge @BJP4Karnataka govt to allow the discussion in the assembly session about alleged land scam by Byrathi Basavaraj, and also to ask him to resign till the case is decided in the court,” Siddaramaiah said.A Bengaluru court has allowed the filing of criminal cases against Byrathi Basavarj, BJP MLC R Shankar and three others after a case relating to land grab, which the opposition claimed was valued at over ₹350 crore.“The court has clearly stated that the minister and the MLC are accused in the case and asked that criminal cases be filed,” A Narayanaswamy, Congress MLC, said on Wednesday in the upper house of the legislature, HT reported.At least 14 legislators were suspended by the chairperson for protesting over not being allowed to discuss the charges of corruption.The Congress legislators said the chief metropolitan magistrate court in Bengaluru on November 25 ordered for filing of criminal cases against the minister and the MLC in the land grab case.“There is no possibility that this issue can be discussed here since they (Congress) have said that there is an FIR and the matter is in the courts. Matters that are being heard in court cannot be discussed here,” JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for law and parliamentary affairs, said on the floor of the assembly, denying the opposition a chance to discuss the issue.The BJP also hit back at the Congress for shielding its ministers when in power, accusing the opposition party of showing double standards in demanding the resignation of a cabinet ministerThe Congress said that the issue has been discussed in the house earlier as well.The alleged land grab happened in 2003. “A court has taken cognizance and an FIR has been registered. But just because of cognizance and registration of an FIR, the person does not become a criminal. There have been times when FIR and chargesheets have been filed and ministers have remained in their positions,” CM Bommai said.The BJP said the Congress does not have the morality to seek the BJP minister’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-congress-demands-minister-s-removal-over-land-grab-case-101639767901346.html
18-12-2021||India||Rising Omicron cases: Karnataka panel seeks curbs on new year revelries||Amid rising cases of Omicron variant in the state, the Karnataka government’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 has recommended against New Year Celebrations that would draw large crowds. The TAC, which held a meeting on Wednesday, has submitted a report in this regard with several other recommendations, officials said on Friday.Officials in the know of the developments said that TAC has advised the chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to impose the Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144 from December 22 to January 2, along with night curfew between 7 pm and 5 am from December 30 till January 2 in Bengaluru. It also made a case for not allowing revellers to gather on roads and in public places.Bengaluru has a tradition of closing down Brigade Road to allow revellers to gather for celebrations. The report, however, warned against such gatherings. “Gatherings/celebrations on major roads, malls, and other public places, especially at party hubs like Brigade Road, MG Road, Commercial Street, and surrounding areas, should be prohibited. However, regular activities/business can be allowed to continue in pubs, restaurants, clubs, and other similar establishments with strict Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour,” stated the report.The report further added that employees working at party hubs in the city should be fully vaccinated, and must have a negative RT-PCR test report no older than 72 hours. As for the customers, only those who are fully vaccinated should be allowed to enter any establishment.TAC has also recommended that more than 200 people should not be allowed to gather from December 22 to January 2, including in places of worship.Speaking to reporters on Friday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta indicated that there was a possibility of imposing restrictions around New Year. “There is a necessity to think in that direction. We can send a recommendation to the government in that regard. We have not sent it yet, but we are thinking about sending recommendations.”However, he said that the final decision will be taken by the state government. “The TAC will provide the recommendations to the Karnataka government at the CM level, and the decision will be taken there,” Gaurav Gupta said.Restrictions come in the wake of Karnataka reporting five new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the toll to eight so far, state health minister K Sudhakar said.Of the five cases, three were foreign returnees – a 19-year-old from the UK, a 52-year-old from Nigeria, and a 33-year-old from South Africa. The other two cases passengers – a 36-year-old and a 70- year-old – were returning from New Delhi, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-omicron-cases-karnataka-panel-seeks-curbs-on-new-year-revelries-101639767841352.html
18-12-2021||India||TRS to hold agitation against Centre’s anti-farmer policies||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi on Friday decided to hold a statewide agitation on December 20 to protest the anti-farmer policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre.TRS president and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who addressed a meeting of the party’s state executive committee meeting at Telangana Bhavan, called upon the party cadre to go all out against the BJP as well as the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for discriminating against Telangana in paddy procurement.He asked the party leaders and cadre at all levels to stage demonstrations, hold dharnas, take out rallies and burn effigies of the NDA government and the BJP leaders in the state.Briefing the media persons after the meeting, state agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said the chief minister had asked the party cadre to go to the people and explain the adverse impact of the Centre’s refusal to purchase paddy from Telangana.“At the same time, KCR has decided that we should continue to mount pressure on the Centre on the paddy purchase. A delegation of six cabinet ministers and 17 MPs would be leaving for New Delhi on Saturday to take up the paddy procurement issue with the Centre,” he said.He said the MPs had already sought appointment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Food and Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal to explain the prevailing situation in Telangana and request the Centre to clarify its stand on remaining paddy stocks for this season.He said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to purchase 40 lakh tonnes of rice i.e. approximately 60 lakh tonnes of paddy. “But paddy production in the state would be nearly 13 million tonnes as it is being cultivated in around 62 lakh acres during the Kharif season,” the minister said.He said the state government had already procured more than 50 lakh tonnes and complete procurement of 60 lakh tonnes paddy in a couple of days. Since the Centre had assured to purchase the maximum quantity of raw rice from the state, the TRS would seek a clarity from the Centre in this regard, Reddy said.The TRS executive committee meeting also discussed various other issues such as implementation of Dalit Bandhu and Rythu Bandhu schemes. KCR asked the party cadres to motivate the farmers to take up alternative crops.
18-12-2021||India||K-rail project: Tharoor takes differing view, Kerala Congress seeks action||Senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor, known for his independent position on key issues, ruffled Congress state unit leaders again after he took a different position on the state government’s ambitious high speed railway project “K Rail” and lauded Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Besides abstaining from signing a party MPs’ letter opposing the K Rail project, Tharoor lauded the developmental initiatives of the CM in a private function on Thursday angering leaders further. Former Congress state president Mullapally Ramachandran on Friday asked the high command to take action against the leader. “He is a party MP and he has to go by the collective decision. Discipline is applicable to all. Hope the party high command will rein in the leader who often flout the party position and discipline,” said Ramachandran.Even a small child will understand the impact of the high-speed rail corridor in an ecologically- sensitive state like Kerala, Ramachandran said. On Monday, 17 MPs from the state had written to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav urging him not to give clearance to the high-speed project but Tharoor abstained from it saying he needed more time to study the project. But he made it clear that not signing the letter does not mean that he supported the project. While attending the inaugural ceremony of Lulu Mall in the state capital on Thursday, Tharoor lauded the developmental initiatives of the CM hurting party leaders again. But the leader made it clear that he never shied away from congratulating a person who did a good job and there was no need to read between lines. Another senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who took on the MP in the past, supported him. “What he said is that he needs more time to study about the project. He never supported it. Being a global citizen, we have to give him more time,” he said. But state president K Sudhakaran said he will talk to the leader in detail about his differing view. Later, Tharoor tweeted in details about his meeting with the CM. “Enjoyed discussing Kerala’s development with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. On some issues it is necessary to put political differences aside and get on with growth. The young people of our state deserve opportunities that the current economic situation does not offer them,” he tweeted. This is not the first time Tharoor is locking horns with Congress state leaders. Last year, when the central government decided to lease out Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani group he supported saying it was much-needed for the development of his constituency. He is among the 23 signatories in the letter that called for the full-time and effective president of the party and early organisational elections. The party has 15 MPs from the state including Rahul Gandhi who represents Wayanad in Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krail-project-tharoor-takes-differing-view-kerala-congress-seeks-action-101639767781295.html
18-12-2021||India||Two more cases, Omicron tally in Kerala rises to 7||Kerala reported two more cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Friday, taking the tally of such cases to seven, the state health ministry said.The two Omicron-infected are a couple who returned from the United Arab Emirates a week back, the ministry said, adding that all those who came in direct contact with them were quarantined.With more Omicron cases being detected, all districts have been asked to ready isolation wards and stock enough oxygen supply. Samples from localities where Covid-19 clusters were found will be sent for genetic analysis, health department officials said.The total number of Omicron-infected rose to 101 In the country; Maharashtra reported maximum cases of 32, followed by Delhi at 22.Struggling with heavy Covid-19 caseload, Kerala was on high alert after the new variant was detected in the country last month. For more than six months the state has been reporting maximum Covid-19 virus cases in the country and is on the second spot in death rate after Maharashtra.Meanwhile, Kerala reported 3471 new Covid-19 cases on Friday after 54,715 samples were tested. It also recorded 22 deaths taking total fatalities to 44,189.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-cases-omicron-tally-in-kerala-rises-to-7-101639767724263.html
18-12-2021||India||NGT stalls ₹3.3k-cr Rayalaseema lift scheme on Krishna||The National Green Tribunal on Friday directed the Andhra Pradesh government to stop all the ongoing works of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) being built on the backwaters of the Krishna river, saying the project does not have environmental clearance from the Centre.A bench of the tribunal comprising Justice Ramakrishna and Dr K Satyagopal, which reserved its judgement in October, delivered it on Friday.The scheme, conceived by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in August 2020, aims to provide assured water to 1.9 million acres in four districts of Rayalaseema – Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Chittoor.The lift scheme, costing ₹3,278 crore, will draw three tmc (thousand million cubic feet) of water per day from Srisailam reservoir near Sangameshwaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC) that will feed irrigation canals in the four districts.In its judgement, the tribunal said it was constituting a three-member committee of experts from the ministry of environment and forests, Geological Survey of India (GSI) and the Central Water Commission (CWC).“This committee will go into the issue of whether the ongoing works taken up by the Andhra Pradesh government for the purpose of preparing a detailed project report were strictly in compliance with the guidelines issued by the CWC and GSI and whether any excess work was carried out causing damage to the environment,” the tribunal said.The NGT bench said the committee could take appropriate steps against the state government if there are any violations of environmental laws in undertaking the works.The tribunal ordered that till the committee submits its report and the MOEF disposes of the application for environmental clearance, the state government should not proceed with any work on ground in the name of preparation of detailed project report for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme.In August this year, following a direction from the NGT, a team of officials from the Krishna River Management Board conducted a field study at the project site and reported to the tribunal that there were violations of environmental norms in the project works.The Andhra Pradesh government submitted an affidavit to the tribunal, saying that the works taken up at the site were not in violation of the norms, but to only prepare a detailed project report. It said no works were taken up for RLIS at the project site after they were stopped in the first week of July, following a stay order from the NGT.
18-12-2021||India||Kerala Muslim bodies oppose Centre’s move to raise marriage age of women||Many Muslim organisations in Kerala have criticised the union government’s move to raise the minimum legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, but the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) welcomed the decision. The union cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women and the government plans to bring a bill in this regard in the ongoing winter session of parliament. The proposed bill may contain amendments to faith-based personal laws dealing with marriage and inheritance.Muslim League leader E T Mohammad Basheer on Friday introduced an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha, saying the decision was against the Muslim personal law and that it was another step towards introducing a uniform civil code in the country. “We will oppose this. The government is trying to implement the Sangh Parivar’s favourite agenda of uniform civil code. The Muslim personal law board clearly defines marriage, divorce and right to property. These issues relate to our faith,” Basheer said, adding he will talk to other political parties to form a consensus on the issue. The Congress is yet to make its stance clear on the issue. The women’s wing of the League opposed the decision, saying the delaying the age of marriage will give way to “live-in relationships and illegitimate relations”. The Samastha Kerala Jamait-ul-Ulema, a body of Sunni scholars, and many other religious bodies also opposed the move. “The necessity for increasing the age from 18 to 21 is not known. No medical study indicates any psychological or physiological problems if girls are married off at 18. The stipulation that girls should wait till 21 to marry is an affront to individual freedom and religious belief,” said T K Ashraf, leader of the Wisdom Islamic Organisation, a Salafi group. Muslim bodies got support from the CPI(M)’s women wing, All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA). “We oppose the decision strongly. This will do more harm to women than helping them. Instead of bridging gender gap and empowering women, the government is coming out with a new legislation laced with communal outlook,” AIDWA said in a statement. But the apex body of Christians, KCBC, lauded the decision to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women. “We feel education remains a key factor and by 21 women will get an opportunity to complete their graduation. This paves way for a mature relationship and healthy family. Therefore, we view the decision positively,” said KCBC family commission secretary Father Paul Simenthy. BJP spokesman B Gopalakrishnan said: “It is a move aimed at protecting overall health of women and empowering them to handle situation with maturity. It is sad that so-called progressive forces like women wing of left parties are also opposing it. Same forces once opposed triple talaaq also and changes are quite visible in the community now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-muslim-bodies-oppose-centre-s-move-to-raise-marriage-age-of-women-101639767721221.html
18-12-2021||India||Telangana reports 2 more Omicron cases||Two more cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus surfaced in Telangana on Friday, taking the total number of the cases of new variant to eight.State director of health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters on Friday that two of the fresh cases, one person came from Czech Republic and another woman from the United Kingdom. “We could trace the international traveller from Czech Republic in Hyderabad and the one from the UK at Subedari area in Hanamkonda district,” Rao said.On Thursday, four positive cases of Omicron variant were reported including three from Kenya and one is of Indian origin from Dubai. “So far, 6,764 international passengers from high risk countries were tested since December 1. Similarly, random sampling testing of passengers coming from other than “at countries,” was also done.In all, nine passengers, who were tested at the Hyderabad International Airport, turned out to be positive for Omicron variant. Of them, there were from Kenya, two from Dubai and one each from Abu Dhabi, Sudan, Czech Republic and London. Out of them, three are Indians, three are of Somalia nationality and two are Kenyans.Out of eight cases traced in Telangana, two – one from the UK and another from Czech Republic were fully vaccinated and other six were not vaccinated at all.“Based on their local residential address, seven cases were found to be from Hyderabad and one from Hanmakonda district. One case, that of a 7-year-old boy who belongs to Kolkata, was referred to West Bengal, as he did not enter Telangana and took the connecting flight to Kolkata soon after his arrival on December 12,” the director of health said.He clarified that going by the tracing and testing of the contacts, it was revealed that there was no community spreading of Omicron variant as of now.Rao said there was no need to panic about the new variant, as 95 per cent of the persons who contracted this virus that spread in 190 countries, did not report any major symptoms. Except one patient in the UK, there were no deaths in any of these countries.“We are fully prepared to tackle the third wave of the Coronavirus, even if there are 10 different varieties. The best way to prevent the spread of the virus is to get vaccinated. We request the people to get tested if they have any symptoms and be vaccinated twice, apart from following the Covid-19 precautions,” the director of health added.
18-12-2021||India||Opposition extends support to protesting Amaravati farmers||Barring the ruling YSR Congress party, all the opposition parties in Andhra Pradesh on Friday pledged their support to the two-year long agitation of farmers of Amaravati for retention of the state capital in their region and vowed to fight against the three capitals for the state. Leaders of Telugu Desam Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress, Jana Sena and Communist Party of India besides representatives of various organisations like Andhra Intellectuals Forum, addressed a massive rally at Tirupati, on the conclusion of the 45-day padayatra by hundreds of farmers from Amaravati. Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary P Madhu, however, stayed away from the meeting on the ground that he cannot share the dais with the BJP leaders, but said his party would extend support to the demand for Amaravati as the only state capital of Andhra Pradesh. Interestingly, rebel YSR Congress party parliamentarian K Raghurama Raju, who has revolted against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, attended the rally and assured that he would lobby with the Centre to see that Amaravati would remain the capital of the state. Giving the “Save Amaravati” call from the dais, TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu sought to know why Jagan Mohan Reddy was so adamant on creating three capitals for the state, when the entire opposition, including the national parties, were demanding that Amaravati should be continued as one and only capital of the state. He alleged that the YSRCP government had ditched thousands of farmers who had given away their lands for the construction of Amaravati. He wondered whether the chief minister was jealous of the huge potential of Amaravati. Naidu recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the capital city at Amaravati and extended a financial assistance of ₹2,500 crore. “He also exempted the farmers of the capital city from paying capital gains tax. It was acknowledged as the people’s capital,” he said. Naidu complimented hundreds of farmers including men and women, who walked down from Amaravati to Tirupati to highlight their demand. He said they would get the divine blessings of Lord Venkateshwara. “The ultimate victory would be that of the farmers. Their agitation for the last two years would not go waste, as they are fighting for the future of five crore Telugu people,” he said. Former state BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana, Jana Sena leader Hariprasad, CPI leaders K Narayana and P Ramakrishna and others pledged their support to the agitating farmers of Amaravati. 
18-12-2021||India||Elephant calf dies after being knocked down by train in Assam||An elephant calf was killed after being hit by a train at Bhelaguri, Nakachari under Mariani Range in Assam’s Jorhat district in the early hours on Friday.According to forest officials, the incident took place around 3.30 am when a male calf around 6 to 7 months old was knocked down by a train while it was trying to cross the tracks. It died on the spot.The accident occurred around 3 km from the Gibbon Wildlife Sanctuary. On preliminary investigation by forest personnel, it was found that the calf was hit by the New Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express.The post-mortem of the carcass was conducted and other formalities are being carried out, a forest department statement indicated.Five elephants have died this year so far after being mowed down by trains.
18-12-2021||India||India to become fastest growing economy: Shah||India is emerging strong from the Covid-19 pandemic and is likely to become the fastest growing economy in the world, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday.Speaking at the 94th Annual General Meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Shah said the government has taken various steps to counter the effects of Covid-19 by improving supply, and that the economy was reaching pre-Covid levels.“July to September GDP number has been at 8.4% and I think in the year 2021-22, India is likely to become the fastest growing economies in the world. I will not be surprised if we touch double digit growth,” a statement from FICCI quoted the minister as saying.Referring to several high frequency economic indicators exceeding pre-pandemic levels, the minister said the economy has come out strong. “Both the manufacturing and service sector index have reached the pre-Covid levels. With the announcements of various packages and relief, our inflation is in the range of 4-6% as set by the government,” he said.Highlighting the potential of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) segment, the minister said unemployment in the country cannot be addressed till the time this segment is encouraged and supported. The minister also stressed on the need to spend more on research and development.Highlighting the NDA administration’s achievements, Shah said: “There has not been a single instance of corruption in the last seven years. We have provided a corruption-free government. We have taken many decisions and one or two may be wrong. But no one, not even critics, can say that our intention (niyat) is bad,” news agency PTI quoted Shah as saying.The home minister also said that there have been massive changes in the economy and 60 crore people, who were deprived of the country’s development process since independence, were made participants, the statement said.“There were 60 crore people, who did not have a bank account, they did not have electricity connection, gas connection or health facilities. The Modi government has given all of these to them and it has helped increase their faith in India’s democratic process,” Shah said, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-become-fastest-growing-economy-shah-101639766941320.html
18-12-2021||India||SC stays Madhya Pradesh civic body polls to OBC seats||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the election process on seats reserved for other backward classes (OBC) in the municipal polls in Madhya Pradesh, the second state after Maharashtra where the court has suspended OBC quotas in local body polls for want of data.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said it passed an order on December 15 directing the state election commission in Maharashtra to renotify OBC catgeory seats in the local body polls as general due to a lack of empirical data.“The same principle and analogy ought to apply to Madhya Pradesh as well…We direct the Madhya Pradesh state election commission to stay the election process in respect of OBCs seats only, in all the local bodies and to renotify those seats for general category,” the bench said.Notified on December 4, the elections were scheduled for January and February.In the Maharashtra case, the state government had bypassed an earlier decision of the top court requiring it to constitute a backward classes commission, collect empirical data on extent and backwardness of OBCs and reserve seats. Without doing this exercise, the Maharashtra SEC notified OBC seats in panchayat samitis and zilla parishads.“The fact remains that the elections to all the local bodies in Madhya Pradesh have been notified provisioning for reservation for OBC category. To that extent, the election programme needs to be stayed forthwith as it is in conflict with the decision of the Constitution Bench of this court in K. Krishna Murthy & Ors. versus Union of India and reiterated by three-judge bench in Vikas Kishanrao Gawali vs. State of Maharashtra (decided on December 15),” the bench noted.However, the bench clarified that election for general category seats shall proceed along with other elections already notified but results of all the seats (including renotified general seats) will be declared together on the same day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-madhya-pradesh-civic-body-polls-to-obc-seats-101639766761216.html
18-12-2021||India||PM Modi says Varanasi’s development can be a road map for entire country at All India Mayors’ Conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the All India Mayors’ Conference in Varanasi on Friday and said that the city’s development could be a roadmap for the entire country.The development of the city, also known as Kashi, has been carried out in a traditional manner, which has set an example of how local skills and products can become the identity of a city, he said.“I am looking at the All India Mayors’ Conference programme being held in Kashi with many possibilities. On the one hand, it is the world’s oldest city Banaras and on the other hand (there is) the outline of the modern cities of modern India. During my recent visit to Kashi, I said Kashi’s development can become a roadmap for the entire country. Most of the cities in our country are traditional cities, which have developed traditionally,” he said.“In this era of modernisation, the antiquity of these cities is equally important. That is why we need to modernize the cities while preserving our rich heritage and traditions as we are doing in Kashi. Keeping in mind the future needs, we will have to make a modern city. We will have to nurture heritage. Virasat bhi chahiye, vikas bhi chahiye (both heritage and development are needed),” he said.As many as 120 mayors from different states attended the conference at Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre in Varanasi. The theme of the meet was ‘New Urban India’.The prime minister also laid stress on a sensitive approach towards rivers and lakes and urged mayors to organise river festivals annually on river banks to make people aware of their historical and cultural importance.“The water crisis is a global phenomenon, and attention is needed to be paid to rivers flowing by towns,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-all-india-mayors-conference-says-varanasi-s-development-can-be-a-road-map-for-entire-country-101639766584813.html
18-12-2021||India||‘Pink Police’: Goa’s new offering for women, children and tourists||The Goa government has launched a special Pink Police Force especially to take care of tourists, women and children. Speaking at the launch, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the ‘elite’ specially trained force consisting of women would be available round-the-clock to assist mainly in the prevention of crime as well as to help women, children and tourists in need. “They will be given expert training; counselling and they will also be given round-the- clock duty. Their aim will be crime prevention. They will work towards not crime detection but crime prevention,” Sawant said at the launch. “Goa is the first state in the country to launch such a force,” the Goa CM said at the inauguration. He said that initially the force will be stationed at 11 police stations across the state while being gradually expanded to include all police stations across the state. The BJP-led government came in for criticism for a string of violent crimes against tourists as well as women with the government being accused of neglecting the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pink-police-goa-s-new-offering-for-women-children-and-tourists-101639766521198.html
18-12-2021||India||Varavara Rao is stable, should be back in jail, NIA tells Bombay HC||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the Bombay high court on Friday that poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence case who is out on medical bail, was stable and must surrender before jail authorities.The development came on a day an international investigative consortium reported that a forensic analysis of activist Rona Wilson’s phone found he was targeted by the Pegasus snooping software. Wilson is one of the 16 activists facing terrorism and conspiracy charges in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village on January 1, 2018.In the high court, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil said 83-year-old Rao was medically examined earlier this month and the doctors were of the opinion that he did not need continuous medical attention or hospitalisation. “His health condition is stable now and the time granted via medical bail to him by this court is already over. So, he (Rao) should surrender now. All other issues (raised by Rao’s lawyers) can be examined after that,” Patil told the high court.Rao is one of two people accused in the case to be out on bail. Earlier this month, the Bombay high court granted default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj. A third accused, Stan Swamy, died in July.Before being granted medical bail for six months in February this year, Rao was lodged in Taloja prison. He was due to surrender on September 5, but the time of his surrender was extended several times by the high court. His counsel Anand Grover said the high court must not accept the NIA’s conclusion without insisting on original medical reports. “Ask the hospital to submit original medical reports on Monday. If we find there is something that needs to be addressed, we will hear the parties,” the high court told the NIA.Meanwhile, a forensic analysis of Wilson’s phone by Amnesty International found it was infected with Pegasus between July 2017 and March 2018, reported the international consortium. Wilson’s name was earlier on a list of potential targets of the spyware.Etienne Maynier, a technologist at Amnesty International’s Security Lab, said Wilson’s phone was compromised by Pegasus in July 2017, and again in February and March 2018, according to the reports. The analysis found Wilson’s phone was targeted with 15 messages containing Pegasus attack links. Clicking on any one of these could also have compromised the phone, it added. In June, Wilson moved the Bombay high court seeking the quashing of criminal proceedings against him after an American digital forensics company concluded that fabricated evidence was planted in the electronic devices seized from his residence in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-rao-is-stable-should-be-back-in-jail-nia-tells-bombay-hc-101639766460904.html
18-12-2021||India||‘Can’t deny non-Hindus right to do business near temples’: SC||People cannot be denied their right to carry out commercial activity on temple premises just because they are not Hindus, the Supreme Court observed on Friday, directing the Andhra Pradesh government to grant licence and lease for shops to non-Hindus as well at Srisailam’s Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Varla Devasthanam in the state’s Kurnool district.The court, in its brief order, clarified that any other order passed by the Andhra Pradesh high court against grant of licence or lease to non-Hindus shall cease to operate against the state government and the Devasthanam management.“We direct that none of the tenants or shop owners shall be excluded from participating in the auction or in the grant of leases, including in the shopping complex, solely on the ground of their religion,” ordered a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna.The bench, during the hearing, also expressed displeasure at the state government’s order which maintained that “no person professing other than Hinduism as his religion is entitled to obtain lease or licence either to tender-cum-public auction of the shops, malls, etc coming under the jurisdiction of AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institution and Endowments Act, 1987.”“It is one thing to say that you cannot have a liquor shop or anything like this in a temple premises but to say that non-Hindus cannot conduct any commercial activity is too far-fetched. How can you say that a non-Hindu cannot even sell flowers or toys there? If the need arise, we will set aside such judgments,” the bench told senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who appeared for the YS Jaganmohan Reddy-led government.Vaidyanathan, on his part, said the temple at Srisailam is governed by statutory enactment, empowering the government to frame rules for employment in the temple as well as for regulating other ancillary activities there. “If that is the case, your rules will be in violation of Part III of the Constitution (the chapter on fundamental rights). No, we cannot allow this. We will say you will make allotments to all irrespective of their religion,” retorted the bench.The court was considering a bunch of pleas against the high court’s September 2019 judgment affirming the state government order on prohibiting non-Hindus against obtaining lease and licence for shops, malls and shopping complexes belonging to Hindu religious institutions.The petitioners, all Muslims, said that the 2015 government order violated their right to life as they ran shops at these properties leased to them in accordance with norms. “The administration of properties belonging to a religious group are not matters of religion covered under Article 26 (B) of the Constitution of India and that permitting public auction without illegal and arbitrary restrictions does not take away constitutional rights of administration in the hands of a religious denomination,” they contended.According to the petition, many petitioners before the court order were running their shops in the Srisailam’s temple property as tenants since 1980 but were now being discriminated against solely on the basis of their religion.In August 2019, the state government passed orders that only Hindus would be appointed in jobs in Hindu temples. Until then, such policy existed only in the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam. The 2019 order issued by the state government said that only persons from Hindu religion are allowed to work in Hindu temples and their departments. If there are any people from other religion working in Hindu temples, as per the order, such persons would be transferred to other departments.
18-12-2021||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay foundation stone of Ganga E-way in UP today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur on Saturday, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.The expressway, connecting Meerut to Prayagraj, will pass through 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh and connect the western and eastern regions of the state, officials said.Terming it the longest expressway in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the Ganga Expressway will give “thrust to the economic activities” and “remove economic imbalance” in the state. “It will be a step towards converting UP into an expressway state. The Purvanchal expressway has been dedicated to the people by the PM, traffic on the Bundelkhand expressway will be opened soon and the work on the Gorakhpur link expressway and Ballia link expressway is continuing on a war footing,” Adityanath said.The six-lane Ganga Expressway will also have a 3.5-km airstrip for assisting emergency take-off and landing of Air Force planes. The 594-km expressway will be built at a cost of over ₹36,200 crore, officials said.Starting near the Bijauli village in Meerut, the expressway will extend till the Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj while passing through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.An industrial corridor is also proposed to be built along the expressway, officials said.Ahead of the elections to 403-member state assembly, PM Modi has launched a string of projects in eastern Uttar Pradesh, including Kushinagar international airport, Purvanchal Expressway and Saryu Nahar National Project. He also inaugurated a fertiliser factory and AIIMS at Gorakhpur, nine medical colleges at Siddharthnagar and the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ganga-expressway-in-uttar-pradesh-today-101639766404996.html
18-12-2021||India||What we know about Omicron variant so far||Is Omicron more, less, or as severe as the other variants?Two new outbreak analyses in UK said on Friday that early data provides no evidence of Omicron being milder. Both analyses take into account preliminary hospital data and infection patterns in thousands of people and one of them, by researchers from Imperial College London, found that the odds of being hospitalised with Omicron and Delta may be similar.“The study finds no evidence of Omicron having lower severity than Delta, judged by either the proportion of people testing positive who report symptoms, or by the proportion of cases seeking hospital care after infection,” said a statement by the Imperial College’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis.The statement added, however, “hospitalisation data remains very limited at this time”. The second UK report was by the UK government’s Health Security Agency (UKHSA), which said, “there is no signal that supports a difference in the intrinsic virulence of the Omicron virus compared to Delta”.But a briefing by health officials in South Africa offered some contradictory signals, suggesting the disease manifested less severely in the country, although they too added caveats of the data being preliminary.South Africa’s deputy health minister Sibongiseni Dhlomo unveiled slides showing fatality ratio in all age groups infected with Omicron at present was a third of the numbers seen during the previous two waves in the country, which were caused by the Beta and the Delta variant. Experts, however, said the SA officials’ calculating fatality ratio at 25 days may be premature.But where experts from all around the world have agreed is that Omicron is significantly more transmissible and resistant to immunity.The Imperial College’s report builds on that, using larger sets of infection data from UK than a similar report released by government experts one week ago.On transmissibility, it found that Omicron currently has a reproduction number (denoted as R) of 3, while Delta had 1. This implies one Omicron infection leads to three more, and those pass on to three more each – leading to 27 cases in just two rounds of onward transmission, while Delta would cause only three.On immune resistance, the Imperial College assessment found protection from Covid-19 offered by a past infection plummeted to 19%, compared to 85% with other variants. Similarly, vaccine efficacy, dropped to 0-20% after a two-dose course of the AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccines.What does this mean for India?Niti Aayog’s VK Paul used a simple but effective extrapolation of per capita infection rates seen elsewhere to illustrate how significant a threat Omicron could be for India.“If we see the number of cases in UK yesterday, it would translate to 1.4 million cases a day in India… If we see the number of cases, it is equivalent to 1.3 million cases in India’s population,” he said at the health briefing on Friday.The implications of such a large spread, even for a country where at least two-thirds of the population is estimated to have had a past infection and where at least 87% have taken one dose of the vaccine, can be further whittled down to specific outcomes.Hospitals face a significant threatFor this factor alone, there are several reasons. First, being there is still an estimated population of over 110 million adults without any Covid-19 vaccine dose.Severe cases among this population added to the likely (albeit significantly lower) hospitalisation among breakthrough or repeat infection cases, especially among the elderly and those with compromised immunity, could still be a significant number in a country of 1.3 billion people.But the bigger threat may be from staff shortages of the nature being predicted in the UK. England’s chief medical officer Chris Whitty said there could be significant gaps in hospital staff duty because of the “very sharp peak” of Omicron that is expected over the next month.Health care workers in India, unlike a large proportion in the UK, are yet to receive booster doses.Testing likely to be strainedDepending on how government mandates testing in its policy tweaks – for example, will all close contacts of Omicron cases need to be tested compulsorily as they are now – a large outbreak could stretch India’s testing infrastructure to beyond its capacity.UK, which has registered record number of new cases in the past two days, is carrying out 18 tests per thousand people, according to Our World in Data. The corresponding number for India at present is 0.86 and, at its peak during the second wave, it was 2.26 per thousand people.Effect on children and elderly unknownIndia is yet to open vaccination of children or allow boosters to any part of the population, including the elderly who began to be covered early last year.Children are likely to remain significantly less at risk due to their inherent immunity advantage, experts have said recently, but a highly transmissible virus will breach deeper into the population, posing a greater threat to any child with compromised immunity.Experts have also called for boosters to be allowed to the elderly, who would likely have seen some drop in antibody levels as are typical of all vaccines after a period of 6-8 months. More data on how much more severe Omicron is inherently and details of severe disease even in vaccine breakthrough cases will hold the key to understanding the sort of threat that it poses for both these populations.
18-12-2021||India||Govt advises caution as Omicron tally tops 100||As India’s tally of infections of the Omicron variant soared past the 100-mark on Friday, the Union health ministry urged caution in light of the rapid global spread of the heavily mutated variant, and said the time has come for people to avoid all non-essential travel and keep New Year celebrations at “low intensity”. In its routine Covid briefing, the ministry also seemed to suggest that no decision on booster doses of Covid vaccines has been taken yet.Friday saw the highest single-day rise in Omicron infections in India with 26 new cases of the heavily mutated variant reported by states across India — 12 in Delhi, eight in Maharashtra, and two each in Telangana, Gujarat and Kerala — pushing the national Omicron tally to 113.Friday was the fourth day in a row that the country’s Omicron tally saw a relatively significant increase. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 new Omicron infections detected across India, while on Thursday, there were 14 such cases.“We know that the Omicron variant is spreading very fast across Europe and most parts of the world. In light of this, we need to do three very important things — it is time to avoid non-essential travel, it is time to avoid mass gatherings, and the time has come to observe low intensity festivities as we usher in the New Year,” said Dr Balram Bharagava, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief.In total, Maharashtra has now reported 40 Omicron infections, Delhi has reported 22 such cases, Rajasthan has seen 17, Karnataka and Telangana have both reported eight each, followed by Kerala and Gujarat with seven each, and a single infection each reported in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Another two Omicron cases were reported by loval officials in Ghaziabad on Friday, however, the UP government was yet to confirm these cases till late Friday night.To be sure, a considerable proportion of these cases have already recovered from the infection, while nearly all the infected people in the country so far have exhibited only mild symptoms, or none at all. In Maharashtra, for instance, 25 Omicron cases have been discharged, while the recovery count is 10 in Delhi.Government officials also expressed alarm over the worsening Covid-19 situation abroad and stressed that India needs to ensure such conditions do not arise here. The situation in many parts of the world, in particular in Africa and in Europe, has taken a turn for the worse due to the Omicron variant, and these regions are seeing a “cyclone-like rise in infections”, they said.“A new phase of the pandemic has started in Europe; and this is something that we have always been on the lookout for. The government has taken comprehensive and far-reaching measures to prevent the ingress of Omicron into the country... But despite that we need to be very careful that these conditions do not reach India,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, adding that the country needs to prepare to face an adverse situation nonetheless.They said that the Omicron variant has now been found in 91 countries in the world. Citing the World Health Organisation (WHO), they said that the heavily mutated variant is spreading faster than the Delta variant.“WHO has said that Omicron is spreading faster than the Delta variant in South Africa where Delta circulation was low. It’s likely Omicron will outpace Delta variant where community transmission occurs, WHO has said,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.On the current Covid-19 situation in the country, the officials said there are 24 districts of “serious concern” with a high weekly positivity rate — 19 have weekly positivity between 5% and 10% and five districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10%.“These 24 districts need to enforce local restrictive measures to bring their weekly test positivity rate below 5% for at least two weeks,” said Dr Bharagava.The national positivity rate, however, remains under control — it has been under 3% for 17 weeks in a row; under 2% in past 12 weeks and below 1% in past four weeks, they said.In light of the rising number of domestic cases of Omicron, officials added that they are keeping a track of variants in circulation within the country, but that it is not possible to run genome sequencing of every sample. “[Genome sequencing] is a surveillance and pandemic assessment and tracking tool, not a diagnostic tool as of now. We can assure sufficient systematic sampling is being undertaken,” said Paul, without putting a number to it. It wasn’t immediately known what proportion of samples of the seven-day average of 7,342 cases is currently being sequenced.Experts say that the Omicron numbers may be low at the moment in India, but the picture could change because of the high transmission rate of this heavily mutated variant.“India should be worried, as even a milder disease variant (which is still not clear since data in early stages are not sufficient to address confounding) can be a problem when numbers are large,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccine experts, and senior faculty, Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).Dr Navin Kumar, head of clinical microbiology department, Manipal Hospitals, said,”The viruses are known to mutate, and so is the case with Sars-CoV-2. We may not be seeing a higher hospitalisation rate with Omicron, still it would be too early to label it as a variant causing mild disease. What we are seeing currently is very early indications, with numbers being small, which may change in future. We also have unvaccinated children; Therefore, we need to be vigilant, especially when it comes to dealing with people. Wearing a mask is extremely important, and one must also avoid mass gatherings in poorly ventilated settings.”Experts also say that vaccination is important to keep the disease severity low, and it is time for introducing booster dose for the vulnerable population. “For subsets (immunocompromised), elderly, comorbidities – it makes sense to protect them as much as possible as early as possible. For the rest, timing and type of vaccine need data to back use,” added Kang.India’s first batch of Omicron cases was reported from Bengaluru on December 2 when two people – a 66-year-old and a 46-year-old male — tested positive for the variant. Since then, 10 other regions have reported cases of the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-advises-caution-as-omicron-tally-tops-100-101639766284601.html
18-12-2021||India||Pramod Sawant orders probe after BJP MLA claims bribes paid for Goa PWD jobs||PANAJI: The Goa government has launched a vigilance inquiry into allegations that bribes were paid for jobs in the public works department (PWD), Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. The chief minister’s announcement came after a lawmaker of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) levelled bribery allegations against public works minister Deepal Pauskar.Sawant said he was setting up a three-member committee of officials to probe the allegation.“Principal secretary Puneet Kumar, special secretary (vigilance) Ankita Anand and director vigilance will inquire into the issue. Until they submit the report, the process of recruitment in the PWD department has been kept on hold,” Sawant told reporters.Pauskar has denied the allegations, insisting that he has no role in the recruitment process that was being handled independently by his department.BJP MLA and former minister Atanasio Monserrate has accused his party colleague and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar of demanding and accepting ₹25-30 lakh per post in the department of public works, recruitment for which is currently underway.Monserrate claimed he has “proof that Pauskar was selling the posts to the highest bidder” and called on the chief minister to scrap the current recruitment process.“I’m making a direct allegation that the minister of PWD and the PCE has taken money from people to get their names selected. I have proof that people have paid the minister around ₹25-30 lakhs for each post and the minister sold the post to the highest bidder,” Monserrate said.“I have got people who will testify that the minister has taken money. I demand the chief minister withdraw this list and have a fresh exam as far as the PWD ministry is concerned,” Monserrate alleged.“The student who has got the highest marks (in the screening test) is actually the highest bidder for the post. He has sold 90% of the jobs. 300 jobs multiply by ₹30-35 lakhs. It is a more than ₹70 crore scam. It is high time the CM takes action. The youth of Goa are watching the chief minister. If he is really interested in the youth he will take action,” Monserrate said.Pauskar claimed that Monserrate is upset that the names he ‘recommended’ were not selected, which led to his outburst.“He had come to meet me to recommend some names. But I told him that the process is being done independently and not on the basis of recommendations and I cannot interfere in it,” Pauskar said.“I have no role in the recruitment and it is being done by professors of the Goa Engineering College who are assessing the papers,” he added.Monserrate said a college professor was also involved. He claimed to have details of the flat where the minister and a professor who assessed the papers met to decide marks scored by the candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pramod-sawant-orders-probe-after-bjp-mla-claims-bribes-paid-for-goa-pwd-jobs-101639766283992.html
18-12-2021||India||SC restrains Pegasus probe by Bengal panel||The Supreme Court on Friday restrained a West Bengal government-appointed two-member Commission of Inquiry, headed by retired top court judge, justice Madan B Lokur, from investigating the alleged use of the Israeli Pegasus spyware to snoop on Indian citizens.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, directed a “stay on all further proceedings by the commission” on a complaint by petitioner NGO, Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust, that the justice Lokur panel was proceeding despite an assurance by the state government that it would not.The bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, further issued a formal notice to the panel, through its secretary, and sought a response in four weeks.The court recorded in its order a submission by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the West Bengal government, that the state asked justice Lokur commission to withhold its inquiry, but he could not say anything further because he was not representing the commission in the present proceedings.The bench was hearing a plea by the NGO, which contended that the justice Lokur commission was proceeding with its inquiry in breach of state’s promise to suspend its work during the pendency of the issue before the top court. Senior counsel Harish Salve and advocate Saurabh Mishra represented the NGO.When the hearing commenced on Friday, the CJI asked Singhvi: “What’s this, Mr Singhvi? You gave an undertaking that you won’t proceed.”Singhvi responded that the state’s commission did not do anything until the Supreme Court’s October order whereby a three-member expert committee, to be supervised by a retired judge of the court, RV Raveendran, was set up to investigate whether the Centre or any state government acquired and used Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens, and to ascertain details of the people targeted. “I (state government) conveyed to them the restraint desired by this court. But I don’t control the commission. I can’t give instructions to them. They didn’t do anything till this court passed this order and then they started proceeding,” Singhvi said.To this, the bench said that in view of these submissions, the justice Lokur commission needs to be added as a party in the NGO’s PIL, which has demanded disbanding of the panel. The court then passed its interim order of restraint and also issued a notice.On August 18, the bench agreed to examine the NGO’s petition, which also asked for an immediate stay on proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission to avoid any parallel inquiry in view of the apex court already hearing a clutch of petitions on the Pegasus controversy and examining the need to constitute an independent committee for an investigation.Responding to this petition, the West Bengal government justified setting up a commission of its own, contending that the central government has remained “non-committal and evasive” on this issue. The commission will “put into place effective countermeasures against any rogue foreign spyware”, said the state, adding that justice Lokur commission could coexist with the proceedings before the top court.It maintained that given the potential ramifications of the media reports on the fundamental right to privacy, “the state government could not sit as a silent spectator particularly when the Union government was not only non-committal and evasive on the subject but had also at the very threshold dismissed the allegations under the rubric of sensationalism.”However, when the NGO’s matter was taken up with the batch of other petitions filed by politicians, journalists and activists on August 25, the bench questioned the West Bengal government over two parallel proceedings, prompting Singhvi to submit that he would convey the court’s disapproval to justice Lokur commission.By an order on October 27, the bench set up an expert committee, engaging the services of some well-known experts in the field of computer science, cybersecurity and digital forensics, under the supervision of its retired judge Raveendran.The committee was asked to ascertain whether the Centre or any state government acquired Pegasus and used it on the phones or other devices of the citizens of the country to access stored data and other information. Eight weeks were given to the expert panel to submit its first report.The top court held that the Union government cannot get “a free pass every time” by raising the spectre of “national security” when the issues concern the “potential chilling effect” on right to privacy and freedom of speech. It referred to the lack of a “specific denial” by the government and also its reluctance to file a “detailed affidavit”.It further asserted that “in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning the phone into a pocket spy.
18-12-2021||India||MPs’ suspension: Opposition holds ‘jan sansad’, Rajya Sabha logjam continues||Opposition parties protesting against the suspension of 12 lawmakers hosted a jan sansad or people’s parliament near the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the complex on Friday, soon after the Upper House was adjourned for the day.Chairs were put on both sides of the statue, and Communist Party of India (Marxist) floor leader Elamaram Kareem presided over the jan sansad. Congressmen Ripun Bora and Akhilesh Pratap Singh were deputed as the leader of the House and parliamentary affairs minister respectively, while a chair with a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was used to take pot shots at his absence from the Upper House.“He has not come to the (Upper) House even once this session,” said Trinamool Congress member Dola Sen, one of the 12 MPs suspended for unruly scenes in the previous session.Apart from the suspended MPs -- which included Phulo Devi Netam (Congress), Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena) Chhaya Verma (Congress), among others -- their party colleagues Jaya Bachchan (Samajwadi Party), Mausam Noor (Trinamool Congress), Vishwambar Prasad Nishad (Samajwadi Party) and Nadimul Haque (Trinamool Congress) also joined the protest proceedings.Opposition members have been adamant that the chairperson should revisit the decision to suspend the MPs. They have also refused to apologise for disruptions in the monsoon session, a precondition set by the government for revoking the suspension.“We have been telling them to apologise to the House. They climbed on tables, jostled with marshals and disrespected the Chair and the House,” minister of parliamentary affairs, Pralhad Joshi, said earlier in response to the Opposition’s refusal to apologise.Earlier, in the day, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House till Monday after urging both sides to end the impasse over the suspension.“…Today, I had a talk with the Leader of the House and also some senior members of Opposition. I would like to appeal to each one of you to please arrive at some consensus to see to it that the House functions normally. In order to facilitate discussion among yourselves,” Naidu said.According to people aware of the details, Naidu dialled and also met senior Congress leaders in the presence of Leader of the House Piyush Goyal in the morning in a bid to break the logjam over the suspensions. With both refusing to relent, the meeting bore no results, the people said.
18-12-2021||India||Disciplinary action against people with mental disabilities a facet of discrimination: Supreme Court||Disciplinary action against people with mental disabilities is a facet of indirect discrimination, held the Supreme Court on Friday as it set aside inquiry proceedings against an assistant commandant of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) over charges of misconduct. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath said that a person with a disability is entitled to protection under the Right to Persons with Disability (RPwD) Act as long as the disability is one of the factors for the discriminatory act. It added that the mental disability is not required to be the exclusive reason behind the misconduct and that it could very well be one of many reasons.“The mental disability impairs the ability of persons to comply with workplace standards in comparison to their able-bodied counterparts. Such persons suffer a disproportionate disadvantage due to the impairment and are more likely to be subjected to disciplinary proceedings. Thus, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against persons with mental disabilities is a facet of indirect discrimination,” said the court. Where people with mental disabilities find themselves falling foul of the standards of workplace conduct on account of their disability, the court said, disciplinary proceedings may take the form of discrimination because a person with a mental disability may have an impaired ability to comply with workplace standards. “Often the process of the disciplinary proceedings is the punishment...While the stigma and discrimination against persons with mental health disorders are rampant in society, as the highest constitutional court of the country, it falls upon us to ensure that societal discrimination does not translate into legal discrimination,” underlined the bench.It further emphasised that is extremely important to not stigmatise or discriminate against people having mental health issues or any other form of disability because such discrimination would only further entrench the feeling of being ‘disabled’.The court made these observations while allowing an appeal by the assistant commandant, who faced disciplinary proceedings after he used unparliamentary language, appeared in television channels and other print media without the prior approval of the department, tried to intentionally cause an accident, and assaulted a deputy commandant in 2010. While he was placed under suspension in October 2010, a notice was issued to him in August 2015 following an enquiry. CRPF defended its action arguing that he was involved in various acts of misconduct during 2010 and 2011, for which three different departmental inquiries were initiated against him. It also rebutted the officer’s submission that he developed mental health issues in 2008, after he was continuously posted in areas where anti-insurgency operations were being conducted from 2003 to 2010. CRPF said that exposure to insurgency does not result in the development of mental health issues. Innumerable officers are posted in such areas and are performing their duties.But the bench proceeded to set aside the inquiry proceedings, noting that while all CRPF personnel may be subject to disciplinary proceedings on charges of misconduct, the petitioner is more vulnerable to engage in behaviour that can be classified as misconduct because of his mental disability. “He is at a disproportionate disadvantage of being subjected to such proceedings in comparison to his able-bodied counterparts...he is only required to prove that disability was one of the factors that led to the institution of disciplinary proceedings against him on the charge of misconduct,” said the bench.It held that the officer is also entitled to the protection under the RPwD Act against termination or demotion owing to his disability. The court said that if he is found unsuitable for his current employment duty, he should be reassigned to an alternate post while protecting his pay, emoluments and conditions of service. The authorities will be at liberty to ensure that the assignment to an alternate post does not involve the use of or control over firearms or equipment which may pose a danger to him or others in or around the workplace, added the court.
18-12-2021||India||PM Modi meets UP MPs over breakfast, will visit poll-bound state||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s election campaign in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh has moved up a gear with a clutch of rallies and programmes to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the next 10 days.The PM, who is the party’s biggest crowd-puller and face of all its election campaigns, is scheduled to travel to Uttar Pradesh four times between December 18 and December 28 said party functionaries aware of the details.In UP, the BJP, which won 325 of the 403 seats in the assembly in 2017, is pulling out all the stops to not just retain power but also maintain a significant lead over its opponents.“So far the PM has visited the state for inaugurating infrastructure projects in Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Greater Noida and Balrampur. He was also present for the unveiling of the Kashi Vishwanath dham in his constituency, which is a big-ticket development project. He is now expected to lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway connecting the western and eastern regions of the state on December 18,” said one party functionary, asking not to be named.On December 21, the PM will be in Prayagraj where he will distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes, including the members of self-help groups (SHGs). A second visit in less than two weeks has been planned for Varanasi, where on December 23 he will inaugurate several projects, including a safe- city CCTV one and lay the foundation stone of a dairy plant. “On December 28, he will inaugurate the first leg of the Kanpur Metro Project and attend the annual convocation of IIT Kanpur,” added the functionary quoted above.The emphasis is to showcase development, this person said.“The campaign is pivoted around the damdaar (powerful) combination of PM Modi and CM (Aditynath) Yogi. The work done by the state government and the centre can be seen on the ground. The beneficiaries of the social schemes across castes.”On Friday, the PM met around 40 BJP lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh for a breakfast meeting. The discussions were largely apolitical people aware of the details said.During the interaction, PM Modi urged the lawmakers to interact with senior leaders both in the party and in society, and to learn from their experiences. He also highlighted the need to focus on sports events and wellness activities, and told the MPs to conduct sporting competitions across the state to encourage young people, especially women. According to second party functionary, the PM underscored the need to focus on the “sports economy”.The lawmakers were also asked to chalk out innovate ways to celebrate the “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahatosav” initiative, a year-long celebration of India’s 75th year of independence.“Not all the MPs from the state were present. It was a meeting that was attended by about 40 MPs, mostly from the Lok Sabha,” said the second party functionary. Several MPs from poll-bound UP are engaged in campaign-related activities and have not been attending the ongoing winter session of Parliament.The minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Misra ‘Teni’, didn’t attend the meeting. Teni is in the centre of a controversy surrounding allegations of his son’s involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence against protesting farmers. The Opposition has been calling for his dismissal from government. The incident itself wasn’t discussed at the meeting, the functionaries said.
18-12-2021||India||Samajwadi Party, allies will contest all 403 Uttar Pradesh assembly seats, including Amethi and Rae Bareli: Akhilesh Yadav||Lucknow: The Samajwadi Party (SP) and its allies will contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, including Rae Bareli and Amethi, thereby not leaving any seats for the Congress in its two pocket boroughs, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said on Friday. The state assembly polls are due in February-March next year. All the alliances that the SP has announced so far were firmed up after working out the seat-sharing formula with the partners, Yadav told reporters at the start of the seventh phase of his Vijay Yatra (political rath yatra for 2022 polls) in Rae Bareli. “The SP, with its allies, will contest all the 403 assembly seats in the state, including Rae Bareli and Amethi. (We) will contest the elections at full throttle and form the next government in the state,” Yadav said. Rae Bareli is the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress president Sonia Gandhi while Rahul Gandhi had been winning the Amethi Lok Sabha seat since 2004 till Bharatiya Janata Party’s Smriti Irani wrested it from him in 2019. “Out of respect and courtesy, the SP and Congress had been leaving seats for each other (for each other’s top family members) in Lok Sabha elections. But these are the Vidhan Sabha polls, and SP had always contested assembly elections with full force. The SP had registered big wins in the assembly polls in these constituencies also,” Yadav said. UP Congress spokesperson Zeeshan Haider said his party was also not leaving any seats in SP pocket boroughs —Etawah, Mainpuri. “Who cares? It’s their party, whatever they decide. We are also contesting all 403 seats and we too are not leaving any seats in Etawah, Mainpuri,” Haider added.When asked about the alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) and seat-sharing, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said: “Each alliance was announced only after deciding seat-sharing with the allies. Our endeavour was to bring regional parties together, and his (Shivpal’s) party too is a regional party. The alliance will get seats in their respective regions of influence.” The SP had allied with the Congress for the 2017 state assembly polls and with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, but this time, it steered clear of any big parties. Instead, the SP has tied up with several small and regional parties such as Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Janwadi Party (Socialist), Apna Dal (Krishna Patel) in eastern Uttar Pradesh, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in western UP and Mahan Dal in the Rohilkhand region of the state. Yadav also attacked the BJP government, saying people faced “dikkat, killat, zillat (adversity, scarcity, humiliation)” under its rule. He alleged the Yogi Adityanath government has taken Uttar Pradesh to top position in the country in “custodial deaths, hunger index and farmer suicides”. Addressing the people from atop the campaign bus, Yadav said, “Those who claim to make Uttar Pradesh number one in the country have actually taken it to the top position in custodial deaths, hunger index, farmer suicides, in selling public enterprises and banks and in burying cows alive. Can anyone imagine that cows can be buried alive?” Alleging there is no “ease of doing business” in Uttar Pradesh, the former CM said there is “ease of doing crime” instead. “In which area is UP in the number one position? In UP, there is no ease of doing business but ease of doing crime. Look at the condition of roads. If you smash a coconut on a newly-built road for inauguration, the coconut won’t break, the road would,” he said. “This government has totally failed. People will not rest till they throw out the double-engine government in UP,” Yadav added. He also hinted at unemployment allowance being made part of the party’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls. “People should wait for the SP manifesto, which might also talk about unemployment allowance and employment opportunities,” said Yadav. He added that if returned to power in Uttar Pradesh, his government would give honorarium to former panchayat representatives.BJP leader Abhishek Pandey ‘Rupak’ rejected SP chief’s “dikkat, killat, zillat” allegations, saying, “Akhilesh ji knows the 2022 UP campaign is over and that is why he is talking nonsense. There is little point in responding to a politician who talks of country divider Jinnah in the same breath as one who kept country united Sardar Patel, who first makes a shocking remark against PM and then clarifies, who doesn’t think it proper to admonish his party MP for making a shockingly irresponsible statement on increasing age of women.” “This leader talks of Covid vaccine as BJP’s vaccine. I would advise him to take the same vaccine now. As for dikkat, killat, zillat charge, that happened during the days when Yadav’s government was in power,” he added. 
18-12-2021||India||Ministers who need to present papers must not skip session, says Naidu||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday expressed displeasure on ministers being absent from the House even though papers are listed against their names. Naidu said ministers who are supposed to lay the papers on the table of the House should attend parliamentary proceedings. In case they are not able to join the session, they must seek permission from the chair, he added. “The ministers who are supposed to lay papers on the table of the House having given notice to the Chair should not be absent from the House. In extreme circumstances -- there would be some occasions -- if there is any problem, they must approach the Chair in advance and seek permission,” the Rajya Sabha chairman said. Asking leader of the House Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to take note of the matter, Naidu said: “Some of them are doing it, while others think it is casual. It cannot be casual, it cannot be usual. I’ll not allow such things in the future. The leader of the House and the parliamentary affairs minister are here. I hope they take notice. I’m not objecting to others laying (the papers) on their behalf with prior notice and permission. This has to be kept in mind.” Minister of state for railways Raosaheb Dadarao Danve, minister of state for consumer affairs Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti and minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Shobha Karandlaje were among those who skipped Friday’s proceedings. Minister of state for parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan tabled the papers on behalf of the three ministers in the Upper House of the Parliament. When contacted, Karandlaje’s office said she is in Uttar Pradesh and they had informed the Rajya Sabha about it. Jyoti and Danve couldn’t be contacted for a comment. After Naidu’s statement, CPI(M) lawmaker John Brittas said “they (ministers) have no respect for the Parliament”, to which Naidu replied, “This applies to all the people who do not respect the Parliament and the Chair.” “Two ministers had taken prior permission and informed the Chairman at the last minute. The Chairman just said that ministers should take prior permission,” a minister said on condition of anonymity.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had told party MPs to remain present during proceedings in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-ministers-who-need-to-present-papers-must-not-skip-session-says-naidu-101639765922203.html
18-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to hold 6km foot march in Amethi today||Congress workers have stepped up preparations for senior leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Amethi, where he will undertake a padayatra (foot march) that will also launch the party’s campaign for 2022 assembly elections in the state.Rahul will visit the constituency after a gap of nearly two years. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who recently met party’s office-bearers and briefly visited certain areas in Amethi, will also take part in the rally, party leaders said.“Rahul Gandhi will lead a nearly 6-km long ‘padayatra from Ramlila ground to Harimau in Amethi on Saturday. The padayatra will focus on voting out the BJP in 2022 polls to bring down rising inflation. We are ready for the padayatra in Amethi for nearly two years. We are happy and enthusiastic about his visit with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to this family of Amethi,” said Amethi district Congress committee president Pradeep Singhal.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has criticised Rahul’s visit, saying the padayatra will not have any impact. Rahul, who represented Amethi in the Lok Sabha since 2004, lost the seat to Union minister Smriti Irani in the 2019 elections.“Rahul Gandhi’s ‘padyatra’ is only a visit to Amethi. This is not serious politically. Rahul Gandhi is now Wayanad MP. If he loved Amethi he would not have left the constituency. Rahul Gandhi has lost people’s faith by leaving the constituency. Union minister Smriti Irani is doing well for the people and working for development of Amethi. So Rahul Gandhi’s visit will not have any impact,” Uma Shankar Pandey, senior BJP leader from Amethi.“Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Amethi is certainly politically significant for the Congress. He had lost some ground in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but still has a strong connection with the people of Amethi and Rae Bareli. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has brought the Congress back into focus, and people of the region have realized that the BJP did not keep its promises. So the visit should help the Congress in further strengthening its base in the area,” said Professor UB Singh, principal, Baiswara PG College, Lalganj, Rae Bareli.
18-12-2021||India||India image enhanced by lines of credit, says Jaishankar||India is very prudent about new free trade agreements (FTAs) because such pacts signed over the past 25 years affected domestic supply chains and had not provided adequate benefits to Indian businesses, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Economic diplomacy is a major part of the activities of Indian missions abroad, and 300 lines of credit with a total value of more than $30 billion extended to about 70 countries have enhanced India’s image and opened up new opportunities for domestic businesses, he said during a conversation at the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). “When it comes to new FTAs, we are very prudent...we need a lot of analysis of the person with whom you are getting into a relationship. It’s not like everybody is the same,” Jaishankar said, adding that he works closely with commerce minister Piyush Goyal and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on such issues. India’s priorities for FTAs reflect strategic convergences and domestic business comforts. “I would hope very much that in a few years from now, we will end up with a better set of FTAs,” he said. Jaishankar said India has had “a very tough experience” with FTAs over the past 25 years because it was largely dealing with “non-market actors”. He added, “As a result, we have seen in many cases our domestic supply chains very badly affected. In some sectors, they’ve completely hollowed out.” Some economies with which India finalised FTAs were very protective of their supply chains and MSMEs, and even competitive Indian products were not selling because of non-tariff barriers. “We’ve got to get real about this...I have some discomfort with the old mantras of globalisation,” he said. “If after 25 years of mounting evidence, if you’re not listening then we are in trouble,” he said. The government listens to the problems of domestic businesses and this led to the push for reviewing FTAs with many partners. Indian embassies have placed trade and business at the forefront, and regularly take up policy and regulatory issues with host governments and speak up for India’s economic interests abroad, Jaishankar said. The 300-odd lines of credit worth more than $30 billion were extended for some 600 projects in 70 countries, and they helped promote projects and Indian products. At the same time, India has provided 80 grants worth around $5 billion to some 12 countries. These are great platforms for Indian companies to promote their products and abilities and such partnerships create jobs and enhance the strength of the country, he said. India also couldn’t have ramped up the production of Covid-19 vaccines without economic diplomacy, which helped open supply chains for ingredients from the US, Jaishankar said. However, he pointed out that the post-pandemic world would be difficult and tougher, and India will need to “look at supply chains in a very different way”. Talking about the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said it had been clear since the second term of US president Barack Obama that American forces would be withdrawn from the war-torn country. “At one level, it’s not a surprise but I would say a lot of the concerns came from how those negotiations (with the Taliban) took place in Doha and how it then unfolded on the ground,” he said. “As a proximate neighbour we are very concerned. After all there is some history there,” he said, adding the world community has reached a basic consensus on helping on humanitarian issues while calling for a more inclusive government and counter-terrorism measures. Jaishankar said the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control was “largely because they are not following agreements” and acting like a party that has “violated a contract”. 
18-12-2021||India||UP polls: Amit Shah asks Nishad community to help BJP win 300-plus seats||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday urged the Nishad community to help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) win 300-plus seats in the elections to 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly, while promising to fulfil all their “long-pending demands” if re-elected.Shah also hit out at the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), claiming their governments in Uttar Pradesh functioned only for a few castes while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked for the poor and all backward classes.“Did they work for the Nishad community or for any other caste under the OBCs? It was only Modiji, who worked for the poor,” the senior BJP leader said at the “Sarkar Banao, Adhikar Pao” rally, which the party held with its alliance partner, the Nishad Party at the Rambai Ambedkar grounds in Lucknow.Shah also spoke about the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya and the recently inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Dham.The Nishads, currently listed among the Other Backward Castes (OBCs), have been demanding inclusion in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. They account for around 4% of the state’s population and are believed to have some say in deciding the outcomes in around 50 constituencies. The BJP had an alliance with the Nishad Party in the 2019 Lok Sabha election.“Once we form the government again, the BJP will honour all long-pending demands,” Shah told the politically influential riverine community, calling them “Ram bhakt” Nishads.SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary hit back. “The BJP only cheated different communities. It backtracked on caste census. We are forming the next government and within three months of returning to power, the SP government will get caste census done...,” he added.
18-12-2021||India||Protests over MPs’ suspension: Opposition sees little hope of resolution||The winter session of Parliament has seen many disruptions arising from the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members for their alleged behaviour on the last day of the monsoon session. According to people familiar with the matter, with the government continuing to insist on an apology from them, opposition ranks not able to agree on the language of a statement describing the incidents of the last session, and negotiations between the parties and the Rajya Sabha chair going nowhere, there’s little chance left for resolution.There are four days left in the winter session of Parliament.On the afternoon of November 29, the first day of the session, the Rajya Sabha passed a resolution to suspend 12 Opposition MPs for their “unprecedented acts of misconduct, contemptuous, unruly, and violent behaviour and intentional attacks on security personnel”. The decision triggered protests and disruption became a regular feature of the Upper House barring two days, December 9 and 10, following the death of CDS Bipin Rawat and 11 other officers of Indian armed forces.While the impasse continued, and senior Opposition leaders such as Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, DMK’s Thiruchi Siva and RJD’s Manoj Jha made repeated appeals for the revocation of the suspension in the House, back-room negotiations began in the Opposition ranks and with the government.One initial response considered by the opposition parties was a boycott. “The initial plan of boycott found no support from DMK and CPI(M). Even Trinamool Congress emissaries told us that they won’t support boycott. Congress president Sonia Gandhi was appraised of the situation and she concluded that boycott would give the BJP a free hand,” said a senior Congress leader who asked not to be named.Then came an effort to find a solution. Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh met CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on December 7 at the latter’s headquarters. The two leaders discussed a draft that included the term “unfortunate and regrettable incidents”.The draft was discussed with CPI’s Binoy Viswam and DMK’s Thiruchi Siva. It was planned that if approved, a senior leader would make a speech on behalf of all parties. But while all leaders maintained that they did not have a problem with the word “unfortunate” the term “regrettable incidents” left many uncomfortable. The result? The plan was junked “Jairam came with a piece of paper. But we found it unacceptable,” said Yechury.Seven days later, on December 14, Congress president Sonia Gandhi called a meeting with Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, DMK leader TR Balu, Yechury, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Kharge, and Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal were also present at the meeting.At the meeting it was decided that both Pawar and Kharge should meet Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and urge him to call an all-party meeting. During the discussion, Yechury chipped in and added that Naidu should also be reminded how his predecessor Hamid Ansari used to call all party leaders to resolve logjams. According to a second Opposition leader, Pawar called Naidu the following morning. Naidu told Pawar that he was most welcome but that he could not assure him of reaching a resolution, said a senior Rajya Sabha official who asked not to be named.Hours later, instead of Pawar, a group of four senior leaders led by Kharge met Naidu . As the Opposition leaders appealed to Naidu to take inspiration from his predecessors, the chairman reminded them that there had been “no indication yet of any regret from the suspended MPs”.The meeting ended abruptly.On Friday morning, Naidu called a senior Congress leader and asked him to try to find a solution to the impasse.Hours later, Kharge, Jairam and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi met at Naidu’s chamber but the minister again insisted on “some sort of an apology” from the 12 MPs, according to two parliamentary functionaries. As the meeting ended without any solution, Ramesh , according to a functionary , told Naidu: “You can hold an all-party meeting at your grand daughter’s wedding reception on Monday where all party leaders would be present.” Everyone laughed.
18-12-2021||India||Delhi HC orders reinstatement of Air India pilots||The Delhi high court on Friday ordered the reinstatement and payment of back wages to 32 pilots of Air India, and payment of back wages to another six, noting that the State cannot cast off its social responsibility when finding jobs in the private sector is a difficult proportion during the pandemic.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh held that the “State and its instrumentalities are expected to look at myriad aspects and not just profits”, as it dismissed Air India’s appeal against the single judge’s order directing the reinstatement of several permanent and contractual pilots, whose services were terminated last year on account of commercial slowdown in wake of the lockdown.“The State and its instrumentalities are obliged to act as a model employer, and, therefore, cannot be seen to deprive the pilots of, the right to serve the organisation [Air India Limited], at a point in time when finding jobs in the private sector is a difficult proposition…,” the court said.The bench also ruled that six pilots, who had accepted other offers during the pendency of the appeals, would be entitled to back wages between the date when their resignations were accepted and the date when they found alternate employment, and would not be reinstated.
18-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Dec 19, 1961 - Astronauts back after record space flight||APHuston- Blackened by the fire of re-entry, the Gemini-7 space ship parachuted in the Atlantic Ocean today (December 18), bringing astronauts Frank Borman and James Lovell home safely from man's greatest adventure in space.Weary and heavily bearded after an historic space journey that, took them 206 times around the earth, the astronauts brought the space craft to a splashdown at 7-35 p.m. GST) 11 to 17 miles from the prime recovery vessel, the aircraft carrier, Wasp.The meteoric dive back to earth ended the most significant space voyage ever flown by man.Borman and Lovell have travelled far longer than any other spaceman,-330 hours, 35 minutes, -and had given the United States a lead over Russia in many other phases of the race between the nations to be first on the moon.The exhausted spacemen asked for a helicopter pickup, electing not to wait for the arrival of the Wasp. They climbed through the hatches into the rafts and gave the pilots of the rescue planes overhead thumbs-up signals, telling them everything was all right.Honest dirtA horse-collar was lowered from a helicopter and each astronaut was hauled up and flown to the Wasp, where excited sailors lined the rails waiting for a glimpse of them. They were deposited on the deck of the carrier at 8.07 p.m. (IST), 32 minutes after splashdown.A bit wobbly, but sporting huge grins Borman and Lovell walked to the strains of "Anchors Vaweigh" and to the wild cheers of the Wasp's men, to the sick bay for their first check-up."Wait until we sleep," Borman said as he was led to the sick bay. But the plea fell on deaf ears of the doctor waiting to check on the effects of their long stay in the environment of space.Their second choice was for hot showers."We're awful dirty," Borman said, "but it's good, honest dirt.Mr Ben James, NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) Public Affairs Officer, said the doctors felt the astronauts came through mentally alert and in excellent physical shape.Sixty miles high over Texas, during the hottest part of the fiery re-entry, the spaceship was enveloped by an electrified curtain and entered a four-minute backout period.When they came through it, Borman reported he was flying a true course towards the recovery task force of five ships and 21 aircraft.A navy plane sighted the spacecraft bobbing under its giant parachute, tracked it down to the water, and got first word that the flight had been climaxed with a landing at precisely the planned moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-dec-19-1961-astronauts-back-after-record-space-flight-101639765320635.html
18-12-2021||India||Several states failed to utilise funds for air pollution control: Data||Several states failed to utilise the funds provided by the Centre under the national clean air programme (NCAP) to control air pollution in their respective states, according to data released by environment ministry during the first meeting of the NCAP’s National Apex Committee on Friday.A total of ₹375.44 crore was provided under NCAP to 114 cities from 2018-19 to 2020-21, and ₹290 crores was allocated to 82 cities for 2021-22. The Centre will be providing a further ₹700 crores for the 2021-26 period.But utilisation of the ₹375.44 crores given in the past two years has been low by most states, according to the data, with 22 states under NCAP collectively utilising only 33.53% of the amount.Bihar and Chandigarh utilised 77% and 82% respectively of the fund, but Punjab and Uttar Pradesh utilised only 17%, Chhattisgarh 21%, Andhra Pradesh 10%, Assam 4%, Himachal Pradesh 2%, and Jammu & Kashmir 1%. The utilisation by Uttarakhand and West Bengal was 53% and 58% respectively.“These states have about three months to utilise the funds until the next financial year starts. We have decided that allocation of funds will be performance and city specific from now on. Funds from states that fail to utilise the funds allocated to them will be provided to cities that are doing well in air pollution control,” said a senior environment ministry official after the meeting.NCAP does not have a legal mandate but aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 levels in over 100 cities by 2024. The ministry in a statement said that the number of cities showing improvement in air quality increased from 86 in 2019 to 96 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-states-failed-to-utilise-funds-for-air-pollution-control-data-101639765262628.html
18-12-2021||India||Covid ex gratia compensation: Supreme Court gives states a week to clear claims||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a one-week deadline for states and Union territories to clear the backlog of claims for ex gratia compensation for Covid deaths.The court, while monitoring the implementation of its orders passed on June 30 and October 4 directing that ₹50,000 be paid as compensation for Covid deaths, noticed that some states were slack in implementing its directions. In the cases of Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, the information was not available since no notice was issued to them asking for it, and the court remedied that on Friday. A bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said, “We issue notice to the chief secretaries of Karnataka, NCT of Delhi, and Chhattisgarh, directing them to file status reports on deaths registered, applications/claims received and claims sanctioned or paid.”Going through a chart prepared by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, the court found that in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu, a huge gap existed between the total deaths, the claims received, and the actual payments released. From some states, including Rajasthan, no information was given on the total claims received.This chart also indicated that in Delhi, out of 26,128 claims, payment was already disbursed in 21,179 cases. The corresponding figures for Karnataka were 7,277 claims settled against 38,220 deaths, and for Chhattisgarh 11,329 claims settled out of 17,567 applications received.In Maharashtra, out of 141,025 Covid deaths – the highest reported by any state -- only about 8,000 claims were processed out of the 109,000 applications received.“Despite strong observations made earlier, only in 8,000 cases, payments have been made,” the bench said about Maharashtra. Directing the state to process the remaining claims within a week, the bench observed, “We don’t understand the problem that always we have to fire at you. Tell your officers, this can’t become a daily affair.”Kerala, with an official tally of 40,855 Covid deaths, managed to release payments to only 548 people out of the 10,778 applications received so far. The state was directed to process the remaining claims within a week, and give wide publicity through newspaper advertisements issued in local and vernacular newspapers on same model as issued by Gujarat government.Gujarat reported total Covid deaths of 10,094. It has till date received 40,467 claims for compensation, almost four times the reported figure of deaths. Of these claims, payment has been made against 26,836 claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ex-gratia-compensation-supreme-court-gives-states-a-week-to-clear-claims-101639765260784.html
18-12-2021||India||Govt: Vaccinating all to get priority over booster dose||The Union government said on Friday that vaccinating the adult population with both doses of the Covid vaccine will be its first priority --- ahead of booster doses.India has thus far (till Friday night), completely vaccinated 57.6% of its adult population of 940 million and partly vaccinated an additional 30.1%. These are levels at which vaccine hesitancy kick in, and given that, as well as growing scientific evidence that booster doses of vaccines may be required to prevent infections by the highly transmissible micron strain of the SARS-CoV2 virus.Responding to a query on why India has not started booster shots like many countries have, VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said: “These measures are driven by science, local epidemiology and by resources. This time around vaccine resources are in good condition. What we are doing concurrently is engaging with our scientific community to look at these issues on an ongoing basis. Have faith. Have faith that when there is no resource constraint, epidemiology and scientific discourse will decide this. And we have very competent teams that are examining this.”His reference to resources is about the availability of vaccine doses; the start of India’s vaccine drive was patchy on account of supply constraints, but for months now, the country has powered ahead, administering, on average, more shots a day than any country barring China.However, the scientific discourse now is definitely veering towards vaccines. Last week, a study in the UK found that two shots of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine offers virtually no protection against an Omicron infection, while a third dose increases the protection to 71%.This is significant because the Indian version of this vaccine, Covishield, has been the mainstay of India’s vaccine programme.Some experts believe India should have started booster doses by now, at least for vulnerable populations and healthcare workers. “Research in Israel, Canada and US has shown immunity is 20% to 50% after six months of vaccination. So, there is no question that boosters are important. The elderly, those with comorbidities and frontline workers should be prioritised,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care.Paul pressed ahead in the same vein and insisted that boosters can be considered “after we have provided primary vaccination coverage to the maximum population”.But while this a laudable goal on paper, experts say that close to 88% coverage (at least one dose), India has likely hit the ceiling. And that with countries such as the UK , US, Denmark, and Norway seeing surges caused mostly by Omicron, it is time India started administering booster doses.During the briefing, Joint Secretary of Health Ministry, Lav Agarwal said India has 86, 415 total active cases; 7329 daily new cases on average; and a case positivity rate of 0.65%. Two states have very high number of active cases—Maharashtra with 10,372 cases and Kerala with 34,386 cases. Around 31 states and UTs have less than 5000 active cases. The daily numbers, the lowest in 18 months, have been achieved on the back of a successful vaccine campaign that has, till Friday night, seen the administration of a total of 1.36 billion doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinating-all-to-get-priority-over-booster-dose-says-centre-101639765201740.html
18-12-2021||India||Row over Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar’s rape remark escalates||he political row over former Karnataka assembly speaker KR Ramesh Kumar’s comment on rape on the floor of the state assembly escalated on Friday even as the Congress MLA apologised for his “off the cuff” remark.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that Congress leaders have a history of making such insulting comments about women, several Congress leaders also criticised Kumar for his statement.As proceedings in the Karnataka assembly resumed for the day, Kumar apologised for saying “when rape is inevitable, enjoy and lie down”. “If the statements I made in the House, if any sections of the society, including women especially, if they are hurt, I have no embarrassment to express my regret,” the Congress leader said.Kumar had also apologised late on Thursday, hours after his remark created a furore.Accepting the MLA’s apology, Karnataka speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri appealed to the members, especially women MLAs, not to drag the matter further. Kageri also prevented Karnataka minister for Muzarai, Haj & Wakf, Shashikala Jolle, from speaking on the issue.“Don’t escalate this. He has expressed regret,” the Speaker said, adding, “It has ended here. So please, nobody (should) try to escalate it anywhere...”Meanwhile, several BJP leaders targeted the Congress party over Kumar’s remark. Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani demanded that the political party concerned should first bring the person to justice.“If you truly believe in the cause of women, first stand here and denounce that legislator who said that if you are raped, as a woman in the country you should enjoy it.,” the minister said during Question Hour in the Lok Sabha during the ongoing session of Parliament.The Congress MLA also came under criticism from his own party leaders.“I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R.Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop,” party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted tweeted.Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said “men in politics need to do better”. “The incident is a sign that all of us men in politics need to do better to shed our inherent regressive attitudes towards women,” he said.National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma also hit out at Kumar, saying: “It’s really disgusting. If they sit in assemblies and speak like this how they must be behaving with women in their lives?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-karnataka-congress-mla-ramesh-kumar-s-rape-remark-escalates-101639765081708.html
18-12-2021||India||Ready to meet any requirement for Rafale jets, says French defence minister||France stands ready to meet any requirement for more Rafale combat jets from India even as it works to bolster the Make in India initiative by integrating Indian manufacturers into global supply chains, French defence minister Florence Parly said on Friday.Parly noted China’s behaviour in the region is becoming “more and more aggressive”, and France seeks to find a “delicate balance” between addressing such behaviour and cooperating with China on issues such as climate change and trade.She made the remarks during a virtual conversation organised by Ananta Centre on India-France cooperation to defend a rules-based Indo-Pacific, before her meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh. Defence industrial cooperation, including future collaborations and co-production, also figured in the discussions between the two ministers.“I am very happy that the Indian Air Force (IAF) is satisfied with its Rafales, and we are very proud that despite Covid the 36 aircraft will be delivered on time according to the contract. It’s a real achievement,” Parly said, responding to whether France would provide more Rafale combat aircraft to India.She described the use of Rafale jets by the air forces of both countries as a “real asset and strength” for bilateral cooperation, and said: “I am sure that there is room for new developments. We are ready to answer any additional needs [or] request that could be made by India.”Parly, who is on an official visit to India to enhance strategic and defence ties, further noted that more aircraft will be needed for India’s new aircraft carrier. “We are open and ready to provide any other Rafales if this is India’s decision,” she said.India and France inked a ₹59,000-crore deal for 36 Rafale jets in 2016. All the aircraft are being manufactured in France to Indian specifications. Parly attended the event marking the induction of the first batch of Rafales into IAF in July 2020. France has so far delivered 33 of the jets.India’s indigenously built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant is expected to become fully operational in 2022.Parly also outlined France’s commitment to backing the Make in India initiative, especially for defence hardware. “France, more than any other country, understands the necessity of the Indian content and we are fully committed to the Make in India initiative as well as to the further integration of Indian manufacturers into our global supply chains,” she said.Make in India, she said, has been a “reality for French industry” for several years, particularly for defence equipment such as submarines.Parly responded to another question on the potential impact on India-France relations of the AUKUS alliance between Australia, the UK and the US by asserting that France “is an Indo-Pacific country” since it has 1.6 million citizens in the region.“So, we are an Indian-Indo-Pacific country and we want to develop a very close multilateral relationship with the neighbouring countries. Of course, India is at the centre of this strategy...,” Parly said.The situation in Afghanistan, India’s concerns about cross-border terrorism from Pakistan, the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control, joint exercises, maritime security and new projects figured in the third annual defence dialogue between Parly and Singh, officials familiar with the discussions said. There was a focus on aerospace cooperation, and the Indian side noted French companies can collaborate with India firms or produce in the country under the Make in India initiative. Both sides shared their concerns on the situation in Afghanistan, the officials said.The two ministers reviewed military-to-military cooperation and discussed ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains, the defence ministry said. “Defence industrial cooperation was discussed with focus on future collaborations and co-production between the two countries,” it added.
18-12-2021||India||Capt Amarinder Singh seals alliance with BJP ahead of 2022 Punjab polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress announced a pre-poll tie-up on Friday, saying that talks on seat-sharing were on.Amarinder called on the BJP’s Punjab incharge, Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat, at his Delhi residence after an earlier meeting in Punjab.The former Punjab chief minister addressed the media along with Shekhawat to announce the alliance ahead of assembly elections due in a few months.“After seven rounds of talks, today I confirm that the BJP and Amarinder will contest the assembly elections in Punjab together. Topics like seat shares will be discussed later,” Shekhawat told the media.Shekhawat said the details of seat-sharing will be announced at an “appropriate time”.“The alliance will definitely, 101 per cent win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats,” Amarinder said.This is the second meeting between the Punjab BJP’s election incharge and Amarinder for discussions related to the alliance in Punjab. Earlier, Shekhawat had visited Amarinder’s farm house near Chandigarh.The party is also holding talks simulatenously with Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and a meeting is expected in the coming days.According to senior BJP leaders privy to the discussions about the alliance, the party will be the bigger partner in the seat-sharing arrangement and could contest at least 60 seats.“The party is adamant on contesting seats dominated by Hindus and the Scheduled Caste population. The party wants to keep more focus on the Majha and Doaba regions,” a senior party functionary said.The functionary said both Amarinder and the BJP are likely to give final shape to the alliance by the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-amarinder-seals-alliance-with-bjp-ahead-of-2022-punjab-assembly-polls-101639764060504.html
18-12-2021||India||No room for fake encounters in a civilised society: NHRC chairperson in Assam||There should be no room for fake encounters or extrajudicial killings by police and security forces, Justice Arun Mishra, the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), said on Friday.“There is no room for fake encounters in a civilised society... They are barbaric. There is no room for instant justice in this country and law has to take its own course. A person who is guilty has to be tried in court and punished in accordance with law,” he said, while talking to reporters here.Justice Mishra made the remarks when asked about fake encounters allegedly carried out by police in Assam during the past few months.Since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government took charge in Assam in May this year, the state has witnessed 28 deaths of jail inmates in police action while allegedly trying to flee custody.Following several instances of alleged fake encounters in the state, a Delhi-based lawyer had lodged a complaint with the NHRC in July, after which the commission issued a notice to the Assam government. The case is still pending.Also Read: Assam resident shot twice by NSCN-IM near Manipur border, hospitalised: PoliceIf an encounter flagged in the complaint is found to be fake, the NHRC can recommend payment of compensation, direct registration of a criminal case against those involved, and recommend disciplinary action against those found guilty.“We can’t allege that all encounters are fake. One has to be specific about particular cases. There may be certain cases where the encounters are genuine and some where some excesses have been committed. If we find that certain allegation is correct, we are directing compensation to be paid,” Justice Mishra, a former Supreme Court judge, said.On the killings of 14 villagers in Nagaland earlier this month during an army operation that went wrong, Mishra said that in the absence of a human rights body in the state, “one can always approach the NHRC”. He added the NHRC has already taken suo motu cognisance of the case based on news reports.“We have called for the report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government as well as inputs from the home ministry to clarify their stand on the incident. We would not like to comment on the merits of the case now as it is subjudice,” he said.The Nagaland killings on December 4-5 sparked a fresh demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, also known as the AFSPA, which grants special powers to armed forces to maintain law and order in “disturbed areas”.“We can’t discuss the constitutionality of any Act. But for Acts such as the AFSPA, the government has to review whether it should be applied, and in which district, at what particular time. If the situation in a particular district improves, it (AFSPA) should be reviewed,” Justice Mishra said.“We can’t generalise that there is gross violation of human rights due to the AFSPA. If any particular case comes, we will look into each such case, whether it is a custodial death or an encounter death,” he added.Justice Mishra and other members of the NHRC camped in Guwahati for two days, hearing 40 cases from Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Manipur. Following the hearing of the cases, the commission has recommended ₹20.5 lakh as relief for various human rights violations.The NHRC has been hearing complaints through camps across the country due to disruptions in the normal process for nearly 19 months because of Covid-19 pandemic-related restrictions.
18-12-2021||India||Group Captain Varun Singh cremated with full state, military honours||The last rites of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was the pilot of the chopper that crashed in Tamil Nadu on December 8, were performed with full state and military honours in Bhopal on Friday.The Group Captain, who was battling for life since December 8 and was on life support, succumbed to his injuries in a hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday afternoon, a week after the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor, in which India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 armed forces personnel were killed.The mortal remains of the Group Captain wrapped in a tricolour were brought to Bairagarh crematorium from the Military Hospital in a decorated Army truck. A ceremonial guard of honour was given by defence forces personnel, after which the senior services officers paid their tributes by laying floral wreaths on the coffin of the Group Captain.Singh’s younger brother, Tanuj Singh, a lieutenant commander in the Indian Navy, and his son, Radduman Singh, performed the last rites amid the slogans of ‘Group Captain Varun Singh amar rahe’ raised by the people.Singh’s wife Geetanajali Singh, daughter Aradhya Singh, his father Colonel KP Singh (retd), mother Uma besides, other close relatives were also present to bid a teary-eyed farewell to him.Singh’s mother, Uma Singh said, “I am proud of my son, my daughter-in-law is a brave woman.”Group Captain Singh was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra, the country’s third highest peacetime gallantry award, in August this year for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed a technical snag during the sortie.The 39-year-old officer is survived by an 11-year-old son, an eight-year-old daughter and his wife. Singh’s family originally hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, but his parents had settled in Bhopal.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, leaders from both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress also paid their tributes to the Group Captain.Chouhan on Thursday had said that in order to keep the Group Captain’s memories alive, an institution or a building will be named after him by the state government in consultation with his family.“An ex gratia of ₹1 crore will be provided to his family. Besides, a government job will be provided to a family member,” Chouhan had said.Group Captain Singh graduated from the National Defence Academy (NDA) in 2003. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004 and mainly flew Jaguars and Tejas during his flying career.He was posted to Defence Services Staff College as an instructor when he passed away||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/late-group-captain-varun-singh-cremated-in-bhopal-with-state-military-honours-101639735794956.html
18-12-2021||Today's||How the BJP went beyond its upper-caste bastion||In June 2020, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi pointed out to his party workers that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was represented by 113 Other Backward Class (OBC), 43 Scheduled Tribe (ST) and 53 Scheduled Caste (SC) Members of Parliament (MPs) in the Lok Sabha (LS). In other words, 37.2% of the BJP’s Lok Sabha MPs were OBC, 14.1% ST and 17.4% SC. This meant that 68.9% (209) of its 303 Lok Sabha MPs elected in 2019 were non-upper-caste, and from castes that were traditionally considered lower down in the caste hierarchy. This is strikingly on par with the widely accepted national share of the population of these castes: 69.2%. If you leave seats reserved by law for SCs and STs alone, non-upper castes still accounted for almost 60% of BJP MPs from general constituencies. Within this, as many as 50% (113) were OBC.
18-12-2021||Today's||Nagaland killings: An apology will raise the Army’s stature||Should the Army apologise for killing 13 innocent fellow citizens in Nagaland? It’s a simple and blunt question, but it’s also a pertinent one. No matter what the background or the extenuating circumstances, this was a terrible mistake. That’s undeniable. Doesn’t that alone call for an apology?
18-12-2021||Today's||To protect democracy, remove inequality||Earlier this month, the American President, Joe Biden, invited 110 world leaders to participate in a virtual summit to discuss democracy. The meeting was part of his attempt to stem the rise of authoritarianism and demonstrate that democracy does deliver. In his speech, Biden warned about the impact on democracy of “autocrats [who] justify their repressive policies as a more effective way to address today’s challenges.” Those autocrats draw much of their support from their countries’ inequality. The poor resent the gap between them and the prosperous.
18-12-2021||Today's||Empowering women: A long road ahead||The National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 data reveal positive trends in women’s educational attainments, reproductive health, sex ratio, financial inclusion, and access to mobile connectivity. But have these gains led to fundamental changes in women’s lives, social relationships, or choices?
