27-12-2021||Other||‘Freed land’ on which CM performed ‘bhumi pujan’ is not ours, claims Atiq’s wife||PRAYAGRAJ: A day after UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath performed ‘bhumi pujan’ on a piece land that the district administration claimed had been freed from the illegal possession of former MP and mafiosi-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad in Lukerganj area here, Atiq’s wife Shaista Parveen on Monday claimed that the land did not belong to her husband and was registered in the name of their associates Achhe and Rafat . Addressing media persons, Shaista said that the local MLA and BJP leaders misled the chief minister to believe that freed land belonged to Atiq Ahmad and used the issue for political stunt. “The land is disputed and the case is pending with the court. The local BJP leaders have misled the chief minister and made him perform bhumi pujan on a disputed piece of land,” she claimed. However, Shaista admitted that the property was earlier used by her husband for keeping banner posters and lodging party workers during elections. “If local MLA really wants to construct houses for poor then Atiq Ahmad will give his ancestral land for this purpose. Another property near my husband’s office was demolished by administration where dozens of poor families used to live free of cost. Houses will be constructed for the poor after Atiq Ahmad is released from jail. The local MLA (read UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh) has done nothing for development in his constituency and now he is doing political stunts for gaining popularity,” she claimed. “Now, we will transfer the land in our name from its owners and will even approach Supreme Court for getting its possession,” Shaista said. Meanwhile, BJP Prayagraj City unit president Ganesh Kesarwani dismissed the claims of Shaista and said that district administration and the police, besides the people were well aware of the ownership of the land in question. “These claims are just eyewash aimed at deriving political gains,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/freed-land-on-which-cm-performed-bhumi-pujan-is-not-ours-claims-atiq-s-wife-101640629732863.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Honeytrap gang busted woman kingpin held||Lucknow: A team from PGI police station on Sunday busted a gang involved in honey trapping people and also arrested its kingpin, a woman, identified as Saroj alias Komal, a resident of Bangla Bazar Ashiana. According to the police, the woman with her gang members duped over ₹30 lakh from a dozen men in the district. The digital evidence is being extracted from the mobile phones recovered from the arrested woman to track other members of the gang. “The gang has a couple of women members who lure men by sending them tempting messages either over phone or on popular social media platforms. Once a victim starts conversing with them, they take his bank details fraudulently or call them to meet at a secluded place where they rob the victim. In some cases, the women take objectionable pictures with the victim and use these to extort money from them,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raghvendra Kumar. He said that the honey trap gang was active in the state capital for the last two years. Lucknow police had nabbed over a dozen people including women, this year for extorting lakhs of rupees from several people using the modes operandi, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-honeytrap-gang-busted-woman-kingpin-held-101640629312232.html
27-12-2021||Other||Gurugram admin to monitor New Year events as Covid cases rise||The district health department on Monday issued an advisory for New Year celebrations, stating “recent trend of positive cases of Covid-19 in Gurugram is quite alarming”. According to the advisory, any celebration will not be allowed in containment zones across the district.Last week, nine containment zones were declared by the district administration. These areas are mostly residential complexes — one each — in Sector 49 (four cases), Sushant Lok 1 (four cases), Sector 84 (four cases), Sector 58 (four cases), Sector 50 (three cases), DLF Phase 4 (three cases), Sector 91 (three cases), Sector 83 (three cases) and Sector 54 (three cases).Persons above the age of 60 with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are strictly advised to stay at home, while CCTV cameras will be used to monitor compliance of Covid-19 protocols in crowded places, according to the advisory.“The recent trend of positive cases in district Gurugram is quite alarming...In view of upcoming New Year, celebrations in containment zones will not be allowed. Keeping in view the recent positivity trend of tested samples, we are expecting more number of cases in the coming days and specially the coming 15 days are quite alarming for us,” states the health department’s advisory. According to records of the health department, Gurugram reported 206 cases in October, 284 in November and over 450 cases so far in December. On Monday, the district reported 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 along with 13 new recoveries. With this, the tally of active cases increased to 317 in the district, of which five are hospitalised and 312 are in home isolation, the officials said. On Monday, the health department collected 5,037 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,275,738, shows the data. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “There will be a ban on any festival event in containment zones. In any type of fair or exhibition, it is necessary that organisers deploy volunteers who will ensure following of social distancing norm and wearing of masks, along with thermal scanning. In congested areas, social distancing and wearing of face masks will be ensured through CCTV cameras.” As per the health department, 17,619 people received Covid-19 jabs on Monday, of which 5,228 took their first dose and 12,391 received the second dose. With this, over 4.19 million doses have been administered so far in the district. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “As cases are increasing in the district, daily testing has been increased from 4,000 to 5,000. We have also asked our health workers to ensure maximum possible contact tracing of all positive cases. Both high-risk and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients will be tested for Covid-19 as part of surveillance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-admin-to-monitor-new-year-events-as-covid-cases-rise-101640629072775.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali DC urges kin of Covid victims to avail ex-gratia grant||Families of Mohali residents who lost their lives to Covid in should apply for ex-gratia grant of Rs. 50,000 at the SDM office concerned, deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said on Monday. The DC said that the affected families can submit their representations at the office of the sub-divisional magistrate concerned at the earliest, as per the prescribed proforma, to get the financial assistance. She said that so far, about 400 applications have been received, out of which about 200 have received the financial assistance. She said that the form of representation and the list of attached documents is available at these offices. Kalia said that any objection or difficulty regarding the receipt of ex-gratia grant can be taken up with the district- level grievance redressal committee. As per the directions issued by the National Disaster Management Authority, government of India, on the directions of Supreme Court of India, an ex-gratia grant of Rs. 50,000 is being given to the family members of those who have lost their lives to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-dc-urges-kin-of-covid-victims-to-avail-ex-gratia-grant-101640628832003.html
27-12-2021||Pune||13 vaxed engineering students from MIT test positive for Covid-19||PUNE Thirteen mechanical engineering students from the MIT World Peace university in Kothrud, all of whom were fully vaccinated, have tested positive for Covid-19, college authorities confirmed on Monday. No decision on the university closing down has been taken yet, and students will be informed accordingly .The college administration confirmed that none of the students tested positive for the Omicron variant.All students who tested positive were involved in preparation of the Supra Sae national engineering design competition. A total of 25 students had occupied one corner of the campus where preparations were going on for the event.“When we observed one person with symptoms of cough and cold, we decided to test of all 25 students and 13 tested positive. All the students who been tested positive are in good health and are under going treatment in a private hospital,” said a spokesperson from MIT.As per state guidelines, students who have completed both doses of the vaccine and are allowed on campuses, 14 days after the second dose.“All students who tested positive had completed the vaccination. The vaccination certificates of all the students who have tested positive are with the university’s administration,” said Prashant Dave, registrar, MIT World Peace University.“Since morning, messages of the college being closed for two weeks have been circulating. Online classes will remain functional,” said a student of mechanical engineering requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/13-vaxed-engineering-students-from-mit-test-positive-for-covid19-101640628653817.html
27-12-2021||Pune||31 more students at Navodaya Vidyalaya test positive; Covid tally at 82||PUNE A day after 51 cases of the Covid infection were reported from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Ahmednagar district, 31 more students from the institution tested positive for the virus on Monday. With this, the number of Covid cases at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya has gone up to 82, which include 79 students and three teachers. According to Dr Prakash Lalge, health officer, Parner taluka, a majority of the students who tested positive are asymptomatic, while others have mild symptoms. “We have received reports of some students in the past few hours and 31 of them are positive for Covid. There are around 30-40 reports awaited. Most students are asymptomatic and others with mild symptoms are being monitored constantly,” said Lalge. The administration has already sent samples of all those tested positive for genome sequencing to ascertain if the virus they have contracted is new Covid variant known as Omicron. Earlier last week, 19 students from the residential school in Parner tehsil tested positive for the infection. Following the spread of infection, administration has declared the school premises as containment zone and has sealed the area prohibiting entry of students and staff. The school has 400 students across Classes 5 to 12. Those tested positive are students of Classes 5 to 12. On Sunday, district collector Bhosale visited the school and deputed a medical team to monitor the health of students. “As a precautionary measure, we have deployed a medical team comprising a doctor and two nurses to monitor other students in the campus (in case they develop any symptoms). Since we have declared school premises as containment zone, no outsiders are allowed there,” Bhosale said after his visit. According to the district collector, some parents wanted to take their wards home and they have been told a decision on this would be taken after students complete the quarantine period. The school, part of the Navodaya Vidyalaya network which comes under the Union education ministry, is located at Takali Dhokeshwar village in Ahmednagar district. According to officials, the first case was detected positive after a student reported mild symptoms of cough and cold. As the administration sent samples of the others, all of them tested positive for Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31-more-students-at-navodaya-vidyalaya-test-positive-covid-tally-at-82-101640628351275.html
27-12-2021||Pune||200 vaccination centres ready for 15-18-year age group, says PMC||PUNE As teenagers in the 15-18-year age group have been given the go ahead to receive the Covid vaccine from January 3 onwards, local authorities have started to assess the necessary requirements. Officials from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said that there are 200 vaccination centres in the city and depending upon the guidelines, if there is a need, then vaccinations can be arranged in schools and colleges. According to the public health department, there are 0.533 million beneficiaries in Pune district, including urban and rural, between the age group of 15-18. Besides this, 0.198 million health workers will be beneficiaries of a ‘precautionary dose’ in the district. “Once the detailed guidelines come from the state and centre we will get more clarity. In Pune we have 200 vaccination centres. If need be we can arrange vaccinations in schools and colleges as well, but it all depends upon the guidelines. The procedure of vaccinating healthcare workers for precautionary doses is set and it will begin from January 10,” said Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer, PMC. As per information given by Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director (health) Pune region, “This projection is based on the 2011 census. Adolescents in this age group are not too young not to be able to go to vaccination centres. There are 0.198 million health workers eligible for the precautionary dose and 1.327 million beneficiaries above 60 years of age.” Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, has been granted approval for restricted use in an emergency situation for the age group between 12 and 18 years. Covaxin is the second vaccine after Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D that was approved for use in children aged 12 years and above. “The collective figure of the eligible beneficiaries in the new vaccination policy in the district is around 1.5 million which can be easily covered in a month. The Omicron scare may prompt people to get vaccinated. Also, parents were more anxious for children’s vaccination. So I am sure a good response will be received for this drive,” said Dr Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/200-vaccination-centres-ready-for-15-18-year-age-group-says-pmc-101640628235853.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Sena opens second front in war with Rane family||MUMBAI Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai said on Monday that Sindhudurg police is investigating the role of Nitesh Rane, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator and son of union minister Narayan Rane, in connection with an alleged attack on Shiv Sena functionary Santosh Parab. Desai, also a Shiv Sena legislator from Patan in Satara, said Rane is incommunicado since Sunday night, and must come forward if he is not involved in the alleged attack on Parab. The BJP legislator, meanwhile, said that the ruling coalition is “framing” him in the case. The latest incident could become a new chapter in the Rane-Shiv Sena tussle, after the Union minister’s arrest in August this year. Narayan Rane termed it as “vengeance,” and said his family is exploring legal options. On December 18, Parab, a Sena functionary from Kankavli in Sindhudurg was allegedly assaulted in the backdrop of a district bank’s election scheduled for December 30. Parab is a close associate of Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank chairperson Satish Sawant, who was defeated by Nitesh Rane in the 2019 assembly polls for the Kankavali seat. Desai said that though two people are arrested in the case, Parab has named Nitesh Rane as the person behind the attack. Desai added that the attackers have also named Rane, which is a “serious matter.” Rane appeared once before the Sindhudurg police in connection with the investigation. He was summoned twice later, but he has not appeared before the local police. “If he (Rane) is not involved then he must go to the police and say so. If he is not contactable, it raises suspicion. Senior police officials are investigating this matter,” Desai said. He added, “While some accused have been arrested, the victim, Santosh Parab, told the police that the attack’s mastermind was Nitesh Rane. As per police procedure, if a victim suspects somebody, the police will investigate. Nitesh Rane was called once, but officers were not satisfied. The local police will act as per what comes out of the investigation, including arresting him, if required.” Narayan Rane, Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, told reporters in Nagpur that the claim that his son is incommunicado is false. He said the ruling coalition in the state government is “acting with vengeance” against his son. “The ruling coalition is acting out of fear of defeat in the district bank election. This is nothing but an act of vengeance... He (Nitesh) has not gone underground; there is no need to do so. He is an MLA and is in Sindhudurg district.” He said his family is exploring legal options. Nitesh, meanwhile, posted a video on his Twitter handle, stating that he is being framed in the case. He said, “The atmosphere among the voters is of enthusiasm and trust in us. Looking at this, the Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders are trying to frame me in the Santosh Parab attack case. The way the police are investigating, it would seem attempts are being made to frame me. I wish to tell the people of this state that I am being targetted in the backdrop of the district bank election.” In Sindhudurg, Vaibhav Naik, Shiv Sena legislator from Kudal, along with local party functionaries met the Sindhudurg superintendent of police demanding action against whoever is involved in the case. “The accused have been arrested, but those behind them must also be nabbed. The police shouldn’t come under the pressure from any Union minister. We demand that the persons involved in the attack must be booked so that the voting [for the district bank election] takes place peacefully,” Naik said. Desai said, “It is a serious matter that attackers named a legislator at a time when the legislative session is underway. Strict action will be taken against whoever is involved in this matter; whoever has any direct or indirect role in this attack. No matter who the person is, everybody is equal before the law,” he said. On Monday, Shiv Sena stepped up its attack on Nitesh Rane in the legislative assembly over his alleged mocking of environment minister and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray last week. Sena MLAs Suhas Kande, Bhaskar Jadhav and Sunil Prabhu demanded that Rane be suspended over his alleged “inappropriate behaviour towards the state environment minister,” and demanded an apology from him. Later, Prabhu also raised the Santosh Parab assault issue in the assembly. Without naming Rane, he asked for those responsible for the attack to be arrested. 
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two held for stealing car to take joyride||Two men in their 20s have been arrested for stealing a car from a club outside Industrial Area in Phase 1, Chandigarh, and taking it for a joyride.The accused have been identified as Piyush Verma, 21, of Mundi Kharar in Mohali and Harmandeep Singh, 25, of Jujhar Singh Nagar in Bathinda.The owner of the car, Ritik Garg of Kaithal, Haryana, stated in his complaint that the vehicle was stolen from in front of Playboy Club in Phase 1, Industrial Area, on the night intervening December 25 and 26.Piyush and Harmandeep are regular club goers, who told the police that they saw Garg’s car had its ignition on and drove off with it, while their friend followed them in the car in which they had gone to the club. The accused parked the stolen vehicle in Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and drove back to Chandigarh in another car.They said that apart from taking a joyride, they also wanted to teach the owner lesson for his “negligence”, as he had left the car parked with its ignition on for more than 30 minutes.Police said that Harmandeep owns a Mercedes car and is waiting for visa to Ukraine. A regular club goer, he is addicted to drugs who has even taken treatment for his addiction, they added. Piyush ‘s mother runs a private clinic in Kharar.A case under Sections 379 and 411 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Industrial Area police station. The accused were produced before a court on Monday and remanded to three days in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-held-for-stealing-car-to-take-joyride-101640628111329.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Governor refuses nod for Speaker’s election||MUMBAI: The ongoing battle between the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari intensified on Monday after the latter withheld his assent for the legislative assembly speaker’s election scheduled for Tuesday. To prevent cross-voting from its ranks, the MVA government had, last week, amended the rules for the Speaker’s election by allowing open voting instead of a secret ballot. MVA leaders felt this could eliminate chances of sabotage as legislators that vote against the party whip stand to face disciplinary action and even get disqualified. Flouting the ‘whip’ issued by the party can lead to the party approaching the Speaker for the disqualification of the member from the house under the Maharashtra legislative assembly rules, which in turn have their basis in the Representation of People Act, 1951, and the tenth schedule of the Constitution (also called as the anti-defection law). On Sunday, ministers Balasaheb Thorat (Congress), Chhagan Bhujbal (Nationalist Congress Party) and Eknath Shinde (Shiv Sena) met Koshyari and requested him to approve the state cabinet’s recommendation for the election and confirm the date. However, the Governor refused to sign his approval on Monday, stating he will first examine the legality of the amendment. The leading opposition party, BJP, had objected to these amendments. A senior minister, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the governor had replied stating that the decision to amend the system of voting was “unconstitutional” but that he would examine it legally. “This is contradictory. How can he call it unconstitutional and also say he will get the provision examined legally,” the minister said. The government had written back to Koshyari stating that the decision was legally sound and pointedly asked the governor whether he wanted them to hold the elections or not. “The legislature has its own authority and no one can encroach on them,” the minister said. “This is an unprecedented stand-off,” a senior Congress legislator said. “Whether the government wants to hold the elections depends on whether Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is willing to brazen it out, though our decision to go ahead with the polls may be challenged in court.” The MVA had planned to announce the election schedule on Monday with actual voting on Tuesday, the last day of the ongoing winter session. However, on Monday morning, Koshyari replied he will examine the constitutional validity of the amendment. The state government in turn, sought legal opinion, and wrote back to Raj Bhavan stating that these changes were legally valid. The MVA said it is determined to conduct the election on Tuesday. Former Speaker and current state Congress chief Nana Patole said, “The question is, is the governor pushing the BJP agenda.” He said he felt that the speaker would be elected through voice vote on Tuesday. He added that the changes in the type of voting reflected those in Parliament and other legislatures. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut too derided Koshyari, and added that he was yet to decide on the state government’s recommendation on the nomination of 12 legislators to the legislative council. Former minister and senior BJP legislator Chandrakant Patil said the governor had certain privileges. “Now, you (the government) have changed the rules and have asked him to confirm the dates. But he has given the dates twice under the Constitution, but you did not conduct the elections. Actually, not conducting elections on the date given by the governor is an insult to the both the governor as well as the Constitution. President’s Rule can be imposed on this ground,” he charged. Constitutional expert Ulhas Bapat said the decisions taken by the state cabinet and the chief minister were binding on the governor. “…it is clear that as per Article 163 of the Constitution, the governor cannot go against the decision of the chief minister and state cabinet,” he said. “The governor is supposed to take the decision as soon as possible.” The election has been necessitated following Patole’s resignation from the post and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, Congress legislators Amin Patel, Sangram Thopte and Suresh Warpudkar are said to be the frontrunners. There are chances that a Congress minister may be asked to quit and be fielded for this position, with Patole replacing him in the cabinet. Until late Monday evening, there was no official comment from Raj Bhavan, and the ongoing winter session ends Tuesday. If the election is not held on Tuesday, the ruling coalition will have to wait till the next session of the legislature which is expected to be held in March next year or convene a special session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/governor-refuses-nod-for-speaker-s-election-101640628052604.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Pune’s CBSE schools to start offline classes post winter break||PUNE Schools under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) may reopen for primary, as well as higher classes, post the winter vacations. Schools will be focusing on vaccination for children between the age group of 15 to 18 years while they continue hybrid mode of teaching. After the incident at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Ahmednagar district where 19 students tested positive for Covid-19, there are parents who are skeptical about reopening offline schools for students. Ahead of the increasing cases of Omicron, many parents have expressed that offline schools should not start. As of Monday, at least 42 patients have tested positive in Pune district for Omicron and 141 in Maharashtra. However, CBSE schools from the city want to reopen after winter break is over. The schools will be reopening from January 3. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal, SNBP School, Rahatani, said that parents and students are excited about reopening of school after winter break. “Yes there is a scare of the Omicron variant, but parents have repeatedly expressed that they want to send their ward to offline classes. We are taking all types of precautions to ensure that students are in a safer environment here at schools. Transport for many parents is an issue. But we are arranging that as well on the request of the parent,” said Venkatraman. She added that for primary classes as well, parents are willing to send the student to school. “The classroom capacity is anyways at 50 per cent. And so the online and offline mode of education will continue for every child. As the government has declared vaccination for 15 to 18-year age group, we will focus on that drive as well when it starts. Students precautions are of our topmost priority,” said Venkatraman. Arti Sharma, principal, Army Public school, Khadki, said that the offline classes for 8 to 12 will continue. “For the primary sections we are getting requests from parents to start offline school. But we are waiting for the final government decision about reopening in the wake of the Omicron variant. Meanwhile, we will continue the hybrid mode of education for the students,” said Sharma. She further added that vaccination of students will be given a preference. “As soon as the vaccination for children begins, we will take full effort to ensure that each student who falls in the age group is vaccinated for their safety and the safety of others. Our staff, teaching and non-teaching staff is already vaccinated and the school follows covid appropriate behaviour to ensure safety of students,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-cbse-schools-to-start-offline-classes-post-winter-break-101640627993785.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: 2 men stabbed by members of rival group||Two men were stabbed by members of a rival group at Yavnika Park in Sector 5 during a birthday party on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Jatin, Sandeep, Roshan, Akhilesh, Pintu, Nikhil, Arun, Mantaj, Golu, Amit, Prem and Akash.An FIR has been lodged based on the statement of the victims, Rohit and Vikas. They stated that the accused first assaulted and stabbed Rohit multiple times with a knife. When Vikas tried to intervened, they also stabbed him in the hip.A case has been registered under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-2-men-stabbed-by-members-of-rival-group-101640627931231.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Parents reluctant to send children to school amidst rising Covid cases in Pune||PUNE In the light of the fresh threat of the Omicron variant and Covid cases in Pune and other parts of Maharashtra, parents do not want to send their wards to school yet. Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad has already clarified that the local administration will take a call to shut down schools if Covid cases continue to increase. Preeti Joshi, a resident of Kothrud and mother of a Class 2 student voiced her concern saying it may be difficult for students at her daughter’s age to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.“My daughter is in the second standard and she is too young to understand and follow the Covid protocols in school,” Joshi said. Another parent said though online learning may not be effective, the developing situation may warrant students to avoid going to school. “Online mode of learning is not adequate for school children, but with the increase in Covid cases, we certainly cannot let them go to school again, can we?” said Anuradha Kulkarni, another parent whose son studies in Bal Shikshan Mandir, Kothrud.On Sunday, Covid cases in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, a residential school in Ahmednagar, jumped from 19 to 51. The local administration in Pune had earlier delayed re-opening of schools for classes 1 to 7 till December 15. However, the schools in Pune have been open for Classes 8 to 12 since October 4. Some parents, however, are skeptical of the effectiveness of the online mode of learning. “Student’s mental and physical health deteriorates due to online classes. Physical classes and the school’s atmosphere help the children learn,” said Krutika Hosur, who has a son studying at a school in Kothrud. Some parents said with vaccination of those under age of 18-years, students can attend schools. Although children below the age of 18 are yet to be vaccinated, the Prime Minister has announced those between the age group of 15 to 18 will be eligible for vaccination from January 3, next year. However, the threat of the virus will continue to linger for the younger children. “My eight-year-old daughter is not vaccinated and there is no news on their vaccination either so it’s better if the schools remain closed for now,” said Joshi. In Maharashtra most schools that have reopened and are running in a hybrid model with three days of offline classes and two days of online classes in a week. Some parents have shown their support to this move but flouting of Covid norms amidst the Christmas and the upcoming New Year celebration may shut the schools yet again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-reluctant-to-send-children-to-school-amidst-rising-covid-cases-in-pune-101640627873789.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Brahmins are with BJP: Ravi Kishan||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan has claimed that the entire Brahman community is with the party as Yogi Adityanath-led UP government has worked equally for all sections of the society. “Work has not been done by looking at anyone’s caste or face. In such a situation, there is no question of Brahmins being angry with the BJP,” said Kishan, who is also an actor.Ravi Kishan, his wife and daughter worshipped at the Kashi Vishwanath temple here. Interacting with the media persons outside the temple, he said, “I have offered prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath wishing that the BJP forms the government in UP once more in 2022.”Taking a jibe at the Samajwadi Party, he said SP people felt that every decision of the BJP was wrong whereas public knew who was right and who was wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/brahmins-are-with-bjp-ravi-kishan-101640627871116.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Minister ordered probe into manipulation of maps||Mumbai Maharashtra revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Monday ordered a probe by the settlement commissioner of the department in the manipulation of maps of land and settlement along the coastline of Mumbai. Thorat, while responding to a calling attention motion moved by the leader of opposition in the legislative council Pravin Darekar, said that 110 instances have been found in Madh area in Malad. Darekar said that 830 maps have been fudged with by the revenue department in Erangal and Madh in Malad. While demanding a probe under an additional chief secretary-level officer, Darekar said that the BMC ward officers of the area should also be probed for providing utilities, including electricity, water, etc.Thorat, while replying, accepted manipulations in the maps. He said that the entire area is under no development zone (NDZ) and coastal regulation zone (CRZ) where changes cannot be made after 1991. While minor repairs could be done with permission from local authorities.“These are technical matters; so, we will order a probe under Settlement Commissioner. The police do not have technical staff. The probe by Settlement Commissioner would be completed in one month, and whoever is responsible there will be punished,” the minister said.He further added, “Of the 884 maps, there was manipulation in 102 maps, where new constructions were regularised. We have filed a case at the Kherwadi police station. In Goregaon, there have been seven such instances; a police complaint has been filed in this case as well. In another instance, construction on government land was shown. A complaint has been filed in this as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minister-ordered-probe-into-manipulation-of-maps-101640627751541.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Sharad Pawar asks for Chandrakant Patil’s comments on President’s Rule to be ignored||PUNE Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, on Monday, said people of the state do not take note of statements made by BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil and that the MVA government has a clear mandate. Earlier in the day, Patil, an MLA, in Mumbai on the sidelines of winter session of Maharashtra legislative assembly, said that the way Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has “insulted” governor B S Koshyari over the issue of the Assembly Speaker’s election, it could invite imposition of President’ rule in the state. Pawar, reacting to Patil’s comments, said people of the state do not take note of such statements. Patil alleged the Shiv Sena-led MVA government has changed the rules for election of the new Speaker. The election of the Speaker, a post lying vacant since February this year, appears to have become the latest bone of contention between Raj Bhavan and the three-party coalition government. “The MVA government first changed the rules to elect the new Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Then it said it had sent two letters to the governor seeking his approval for election of the new Speaker. Even saying it, is an insult to the governor and the Constitution as well. It could lead to imposition of the President’s rule in the state,” said Patil. “Everybody is asking the crucial question of the election schedule for local governing bodies in the state. Exam papers are getting leaked, MSRTC employees’ strike is on (for two months now), there is no clear communication on reopening of schools. One can do a PhD over the chaotic functioning of this government,” he added.However, the NCP, a key ally in the MVA government, sought to make light of Patil’s comments. Speaking in Satara, Pawar said the Uddhav Thackeray-led government has a “clear cut” majority in the Assembly. “Today, the MVA government has a clear cut majority in the Assembly under (Chief Minister) Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership. Because of this, Thackeray and his cabinet colleagues have been successful in giving a stable government in the state.” Taking a swipe at Patil, the NCP leader said that because a stable government is in place since the last two years, some people are sulking and making such statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sharad-pawar-asks-for-chandrakant-patil-s-comments-on-president-s-rule-to-be-ignored-101640627691822.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Maharashtra Waqf Board to constitute special committee to revise rents||PUNE The Maharashtra Waqf Board will constitute a special committee to look into ways and means in increasing revenue generation from Waqf properties across the state. Maharashtra Waqf board chairman Wajahat Mirza said: “We have taken an important decision to form a committee to increase revenue generation from Waqf properties. It will look into prospects of increasing revenue through a fresh survey and evaluation of properties which are currently fetching rents as low as ₹200 per month. The Urban Development (UD) department officials, including revenue officials at the district collectorate levels, will be roped in to ensure that the process is made smooth for the Waqf board.” Mirza further added a policy will be formulated once the committee is instituted so that the amount generated can be used for the betterment of backward sections of the Muslim community.Waqf properties are generally leased out by the respective trusts at nominal rates. To change the said practice, the Central government brought in the Waqf properties’ lease rules in 2014 and later amended them in February 2020. However, the rules were never implemented in Maharashtra. The rule stipulates that the reserve price per square feet for lease of an immovable Waqf property shall — (a) for hospitals, educational institutions and social sectors, be not less than 1% per annum; (b) for commercial activities, be not less than 2.5% per annum; of the market value of the property. Earlier, Nawab Malik, minister of Minority Affairs and Waqf had said that rules had not been implemented in the state in the past six years, but the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will implement it vigorously. According to the Waqf Act, the incumbent trust will have to submit their annual audit report to the state waqf board through which the board can monitor that the money collected is being used for the intended purpose.MP Imtiaz Jaleel, a Waqf board member said, “The main purpose of Waqf endowment is to alleviate the poor financial condition of the marginalised Muslim. The properties which are getting low rent will be surveyed and the new rent will be levied as per the actual market rates as per the Waqf laws. Also, the process of reclaiming lands has also started and very strong police action is being taken against the land criminal.” According to Islam, Waqf is the property given in the name of God for religious and charitable purposes. Maharashtra accounts for 0.250 million acres of Waqf land spread around 23,566 registered properties, with the maximum Waqf land parcels in Aurangabad region — 57,802 acres, followed by 9,310 acres in Pune, 9,260 acres in Nagpur, 8,350 acres in Nashik, 5,941 acres in the Konkan and 2,755 acres in Amravati. According to Waqf activists and lawyers, the Pune properties are well over ₹20,000 crore as per the current real estate market rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-waqf-board-to-constitute-special-committee-to-revise-rents-101640627518298.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP believes in keeping its promises: UP CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the state government was working on a comprehensive plan to set up food processing industries in Pratapgarh district as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) believed in fulfilling its promises. He said the newly set up medical college in Pratapgarh was one such example. Yogi said rival parties in the fray against the BJP had not been not able to rise above “Vanshvad” (dynastic politics) and Parivarvad (familialism). “Ek party hai behen-bhai ki, ek hai chacha-bhatije ki aur ek hai bua-bhatije ki. Jab chacha-bhatija apne mey hi ladh rahen hain to janta ki kaun sochega.” (when uncle and nephew are fighting amongst themselves, who will care for the masses),” he said. The CM also asked the opposition parties as to why no one ever thought of development of Pratapgarh. The voters of the district should ask as to why Congress, which ruled for several years or the Samajwadi Party which had their government in state four times and were even supporting central government or even the Bahujan Samaj Party as to who had stopped them from ensuring development in Pratapgarh, he said.“BJP believes in worshipping ‘full moon’ and as such BJP does not believe in incomplete works. We do not take 20 years to complete any project like the previous regimes. BJP undertakes a project and completes the same in record time,” said the CM. Comparing the earlier government with the BJP, Yogi said, “The earlier government believed in politics of vote for which they did not hesitate to fire on ‘Hindus’ in Ayodhya whereas BJP believes in honouring the Ram Bhakt and for them a grand temple is being constructed”. He also said since 2017 the state had not witnessed any riots as those indulged in breaching peace of the state knew if they indulged in any such act, they will have to pay the compensation for generations together. Yogi said today the overall impression of the state and the people living here had changed across the country. “Earlier, because of the negative impression of the state, people from UP were not given rented accommodations in other cities but now things have changed and this is because of the ‘double engine’ government which is taking UP to new heights of development,” said the CM. During his visit, the CM launched 378 development projects worth ₹553.81 crore for Pratapgarh district.Speaking on the occasion, Union heavy industries minister Mahendra Nath Pandey also expressed hope of change in Rampur Khas assembly constituency of the district. He said Yogi Adityanath broke the myth that CMs visiting Noida lost their chair by visiting Noida as he was the CM even today. “In the same way, he is breaking a record by coming to Rampur Khas as in the past 32 years, no CM ever came here. In such a situation, ‘Kamal’ (lotus) will bloom in Rampur Khas in 2022,” Pandey added. Congress leader Pramod Tiwari’s daughter Aradhana Misra is the sitting MLA from the seat.He said people who played game of ‘tweets’ for two to three months were not seen standing anywhere during the pandemic. CM Yogi acted like a “frontline worker” during the corona crisis. With better law and order, he waved the flag in the country and by controlling the criminals, he maintained the continuity of development, Pandey said.Kaushambi MP Vinod Sonkar said the ongoing “Jan Vishwas Yatra”, which started from Ghazipur on December 19, reached Pratapgarh via Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur and Prayagraj. “Wherever the yatra is passing from, farmers, labourers and the common man are standing and giving blessings to the party,” said SonkarUP cabinet ministers Rajendra Pratap Singh “Moti Singh” and Mahendra Singh, UP ministers of State Suresh Pasi and Dharamvir Prajapati besides MPs Vinod Kumar Sonkar (Kaushambi) and Sangam Lal Gupta (Pratapgarh) along with MLAs Rajkumar Pal (Pratapgarh Sadar) and Abhay Kumar “Dheeraj Ojha” ((Raniganj) were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-believes-in-keeping-its-promises-up-cm-yogi-101640627391800.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Divider on ‘deadly’ Katraj-Navale bridge stretch removed to widen service road||PUNE As the ‘deadly stretch’ between the new Katraj tunnel and Navale Bridge road continues to worry commuters now some positive news is forthcoming in terms of infrastructural changes on the bypass. This year, a series of accidents happened on this 1.5 km stretch, after which the Pune traffic police department and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) did a joint survey and suggested various changes. One major change now is the removal of long road divider between the highway and service road, due to which vehicles now get a wide road to enter in, towards Ambegaon Budruk near Swaminarayan temple. While repair works of the service road near the Navale bridge chowk has also been completed. “After a series of accidents happened on this stretch, we had done a detailed survey of this specific road on the bypass highway along with the NHAI officials. We suggested various infrastructural changes and things to be done for the safety of commuters. Accordingly, a one-km long divider between the highway and service road has been removed and the entrace to the Ambegaon Budruk service road is widened. Earlier, vehicles speeding used to suddenly take a left turn for Ambegaon Budruk near Swaminarayan temple, and this would disturb vehicles coming from behind. So now as the service road entrance is widened it will not disturb the flow of other vehicles,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic). The stretch between the Katraj new tunnel and Navale Bridge chowk has seen 56 fatal accidents since 2014, half of which were due to human error, the police department claims. On October 22, 2021, a tanker crashed into an SUV, and two persons died. A senior NHAI official, speaking anonymously said, “We are working on the infrastructural changes and development on this stretch and it is an ongoing process. Our motive is to reduce the number of accidents on this stretch, but at the same time people should also need to to follow traffic rules strictly while going through the highway.” As per the information given by the Pune police department, the four black spots identified are - Dari Pul bridge turn, Swami Narayan Temple chowk, Narhe selfie point and and Navale Bridge chowk itself. Recently, in the last couple of months seven accidents at different points on this stretch have happened, in which three people lost their lives and several other got injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/divider-on-deadly-katraj-navale-bridge-stretch-removed-to-widen-service-road-101640627152910.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur court remands businessman Piyush Jain in 14 days’ judicial custody||The Kanpur court of the metropolitan magistrate (corporation) on Monday remanded businessman Piyush Jain in 14 days’ judicial custody after rejecting the Central GST’s plea for his remand. Central GST informed the court that it wanted to produce Piyush in CGST court in Ahmedabad.Central GST team arrested Piyush Jain on charges of tax evasion on Sunday under Section 69 of the CGST Act and acted as per provisions under 132 (1a).Piyush Jain’s lawyer Subodh Malviya said he has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.But the lawyer has filed an application with CGST, informing them that the Jains are ready to pay the penalty that accrues to around ₹52 crore. During the hearing, Malviya informed the court that Piyush Jain should be released on this ground. On the other hand, the public prosecutor told the court that searches on Jain’s premises in Kannauj were going on and the teams have recovered gold from there.After his arrest on Sunday, Piyush Jain was taken to the CGST office for questioning in Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur. Later at night, he was taken to the Kakadeo police station where he spent the night lying on the floor in the ‘helpline’ section of the premises. He was produced in the Kanpur court on Monday and remanded in 14 days judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-court-remands-businessman-piyush-jain-in-14-days-judicial-custody-101640627091325.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 151 more Covid cases, 12 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 151 new Covid positive cases and 12 deaths due to the infection in 24 hours. Of these, five deaths were reported from Pune rural, three from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and four from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). PMC has so far reported 525,424 Covid cases and 9,250 deaths till Monday. PCMC has reported 270,975 cases and 3,523 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 369,449 total cases and 7,029 deaths. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,165,848 Covid cases. Of this, 1,143,691 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20m152 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 2,005 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 776 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,503,733 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.66%. Across Maharashtra, 1,426 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Monday and 21 Covid deaths were reported on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated of 68,449,133 laboratory samples, 6,659,314 have been tested positive till Monday. That is 9.71% of patients till Monday. Currently, 91,464 people are in home quarantine and 880 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-151-more-covid-cases-12-deaths-101640626971056.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||ECI’s three-day UP visit to review poll preparations from Dec 28||The three-day visit of the full bench of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to Uttar Pradesh will start on Tuesday (December 28). Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra, election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, along with other senior officers of ECI, will review the preparations for the assembly elections in meetings with state government officers on December 28, 29 and 30.Principal secretary (protocol), ECI, Rahul Sharma said on December 28, the commission will hold meeting with the representatives of national and recognised political parties. Later, there will be a meeting with Chief electoral officer (Uttar Pradesh) Ajay Kumar Shukla, state police and central paramilitary forces nodal officers. There will be a separate meeting with the officers of various enforcement agencies on Tuesday. On December 29, the ECI will hold a meeting with divisional commissioners, district electoral officers, commissioners of police, inspectors general of police (zone) and superintendents of police of all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. On December 30, the poll panel will hold a meeting with the chief secretary and the director general of police of the state. Later, the ECI officers will hold a press conference, Sharma said. The ECI officers visiting Uttar Pradesh include chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra; election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey; election commission secretary general Umesh Sinha; senior deputy election commissioner Chandra Bhusan Kumar; deputy election commissioners Nitesh Vyas and T Sreekanth; director general Sheyphali B Sharan; directors Pankaj Srivastava and Santosh Ajmera; joint director Anuj Chandak; secretary Ajoy Kumar and under secretary Prafull Awasthi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ecis-three-day-up-visit-to-review-poll-preparations-from-dec-28-101640626731087.html
27-12-2021||Pune||No water supply to Kothrud area on Thursday||PUNE There will be no water supply to some parts of the city on Thursday (December 30), read a statement from the Pune Municipal Corporation’s water department.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned the water pipeline shifting work at the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) campus. The main 800-mm diameter water supply pipeline to Kothrud was posing a hindrance to the construction of the FTII building. A new pipeline has already been laid for this purpose.The water supply will be shut because the work of joining this new water pipeline to the main water supply will be done on Thursday. Therefore, water supply in the Kothrud area will be shut down on Thursday (December 30).The water supply to Dahanukar Colony, Rambagh Colony, Sutardara, Kishkindhanagar, Jai Bhavani Nagar, and Kothrud Gaothan will be cut off on Thursday.Aniruddha Pawaskar, chief engineer, water supply department, Pune Municipal Corporation, said water supply on Friday (December 31) will be delayed and with low pressure in Kothrud area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-kothrud-area-on-thursday-101640626551364.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Film fraternity urges Centre not to merge film bodies with National Film Development Corporation||PUNE Nearly 1,539 persons including actors, filmmakers and other members of the Indian film industry have sent a letter to the information and broadcasting ministry against the government’s decision to merge all the branches of the Films Division, Directorate of Film Festivals, National Film Archive of India (NFAI) and Children’s Film Society of India with the National Film Development Corporation (NFDC).The merger is slated to take place by January 2022In the letter, dated December 19, the signatories asked the government to put on hold the restructuring of the public institutions till the pending matters related to transparency and consultations are addressed. The prominent signatories included Adoor Gopalkrishna, Naseeruddin Shah, Ratna Pathak Shah, Nishtha Jain, Maithili Rao, Shilpi Gulati, Nandita Das, Pankaj Rishi Kumar and many more. Ravindra Bhakar, CEO of Central Board of Flim Certification(CBFC) who has taken the charge of NFDC says, “The move is expected to further smoothen the ongoing process of merger of Films Division and CFSI with NFDC, which is undergoing major reforms in its structure and functioning.”The letter demand that public funded institutions like FD, NFAI and CFSI must not be merged with a corporation like NFDC, consultations with various filmmakers and stakeholders should be undertaken in a transparent manner, the government must declare the FD, NFSI, CFSI and archives as the national heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/film-fraternity-urges-centre-not-to-merge-film-bodies-with-national-film-development-corporation-101640626371442.html
27-12-2021||Other||Patiala dairy shifting project stuck in mayor, state government tussle||Patiala The much-hyped dairy shifting project, a major need first conceived in 2003 in Patiala, has become victim to the power politics and tussle between mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu and the state government. The presence of dairies within the city limits has been leading to frequent choking of sewers and resultant water-logging in the Royal City. In the first phase, of 257 dairies, 141 were to be shifted.In October, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had directed Patiala administration to halt the shifting, till all necessary facilities were made available at the new site. The Patiala municipal corporation has already spent nearly ₹15 crore for the development of site at Ablowal village, on the outskirts of Patiala city.Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, who recently joined Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok congress, said the government has intentionally stalled the project only to settle scores with him. “I have also written to chief secretary Anirudh Tiwari on the reasons behind halting the project. The project is hanging fire for 17 years; it progressed only after Captain Amarinder came to power,” he claimed.Sharma added the corporation had spent ₹15 crore on the project and it could not be wasted like this, with the government unwilling to communicate on the project. “Eighty-four dairy owners had applied for plots at project site, of which 61 owners had been provided allotment letters before it was halted by Punjab CM,” he said.After meeting dairy owners, Channi had issued verbal orders to former deputy commissioner Kumar Amit, asking him not to shift any dairy owner forcibly till all facilities, including proper road network, water supply connections, sewage treatment plant and other requirements are in place.The Patiala municipal corporation (MC) had set September 30 as the deadline to shift 141 dairy farmers operating within the city to a 21-acre site at Ablowal village on the outskirts. Presently, the site is without a biogas plant, sewage treatment plant and veterinary hospital, as proposed under the ₹13.5-crore project. The dairy owners also complain that they were offered only 150-square-yard plot, which would be not adequate to run their units.MC commissioner Vaneet Kumar said the corporation will start operations at project site only after receiving nod from the government. “The administration is holding meetings with dairy owners at its level. We are only awaiting the government’s green signal.”
27-12-2021||Pune||State level bullock-cart race on January 1 at Landewadi||PUNE As the Supreme Court allowed the resumption of the traditional bullock-cart race in Maharashtra, a state level race has been organised at Landewadi in Pune district on January 1.The race is organised by former MP Shivaji Rao Adhalrao at his native village, Landewadi.The winner will get ₹1 lakh, runner up will get ₹75,000. All participating bullock-cart owners will also receive some prize money.Local political parties have welcomed this decision as these races are popular in Western Maharashtra and mainly in rural parts. As local village festivals (Jatra) begin in January, many villages plan on hosting the bullock-cart race and have applied for the necessary permissions with the Pune district collector.The Supreme Court on December 16 allowed the resumption of the traditional bullock-cart race based on the amendments to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act implemented by the state, in lines with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-level-bullock-cart-race-on-january-1-at-landewadi-101640626192176.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||PM to inaugurate metro stretch, attend IIT convocation in Kanpur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the completed section of Kanpur metro rail and Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline project in Kanpur on Tuesday. Prior to this, he will attend the 54th convocation ceremony of IIT-Kanpur, said a Press Information Bureau (PIB) press release.Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline will be operated by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL). The 356-km pipeline originates from Bina Refinery in Madhya Pradesh and terminates at Panki Depot in Kanpur. Established at the cost of ₹1,524 crore, it will cater to the demand of petroleum products from northern states and has a capacity of 3.5 million metric tonne per annum. The pipeline is equipped with the state-of-the-art supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA system, ensuring supply of petrol and diesel to Kanpur, Lucknow, Aonla, Shahjahanpur, Baitalpur and Gonda. The completed nine-km long section of Kanpur metro rail project is from IIT-Kanpur to Moti Jheel. Modi will also inspect the project and undertake a metro ride from the IIT metro station to Geeta Nagar. The entire length of the project in Kanpur is 32 km and is being built at a cost of over ₹11,000 crore.
27-12-2021||Pune||Staff, fund crunch cast shadow on Pune Cantonment Board functioning||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) is facing severe staff shortage which has affected its daily functioning. According to the administration, as many as 650 posts are lying vacant. The PCB is also facing a shortage of over ₹600 crore GST funds which are pending to be released by the centre for the past four years. With no recruitment for new posts and old sanctioned posts, the situation does not seem to be improving in the new year too, claimed the administration.According to the administration, 650 posts are vacant in different departments of the cantonment board due to a freeze on recruitment. The vacancies exist in the garden, revenue, engineering department and all the departments of the board where there is a requirement of a large number of clerks, peons, teachers, safai karmachari, engineers, health inspectors and other support staff.PCB CEO Amit Kumar said “ We are facing challenges due to a freeze on recruitment and currently we are working with contractual staff to meet the needs of the citizens. We are constantly following it up with the government so that citizens get the best of civic amenities.”The Pune Cantonment is also struggling to maintain its 40 odd gardens as it has no money to spend on its maintenance. Earlier, it had 50 employees for the garden department which has now been reduced to four staffers only. CEO Amit Kumar had also stated that the financial crunch had affected the garden maintenance work of the administration.Development Projects estimated to be worth ₹200 crore have been hit due to non receipt of Goods and Service Tax (GST) funds from the state government for four years . Neither the state government nor the central government has taken up the cause of the PCB GST issue following which the financial position of the board is dwindling with each passing day. The cantonment board faced a situation in 2019 when its coffers had reserve funds to pay salary for only three months.The development projects including construction of the commercial complex at Dhobi ghat, construction of staff quarters, construction of multi-level parking facility, remodelling and Sewerage Improvement Project, replacement of water supply lines, developing parking lots and beautification of gardens and other major infrastructure works including construction of roads and drainage infrastructure have been stopped due to lack of funds.Then PCB president , Major Gen Navneet Kumar, GOC, Pune said that the PCB was going through the toughest financial crisis due to non-availaibility of the GST fund share. “If the situation persists, then it might lead to a crisis in governance due to a very tight financial position which is getting worse every day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/staff-fund-crunch-cast-shadow-on-pune-cantonment-board-functioning-101640626011059.html
27-12-2021||Other||{Ludhiana bomb blast} Khanna hotel raided; accused, woman cop met there 2 days before explosion||Ludhiana Investigation into the bomb blast at the Ludhiana court complex on December 23 got a major lead on Monday. Teams of the Ludhiana police and the National investigation Agency (NIA) raided a hotel in Khanna, Hotel Down Town, to find that the main accused Gagandeep Singh and his lover, a woman head constable, had spent four hours there on December 21. The woman is already in detention and is being questioned; she has not been formally arrested. The duo had even submitted their Aadhaar cards at the hotel. The CCTV footage of the hotel, currently in the possession of the police and the NIA team, shows that Gagandeep was carrying a bag, but there is no clarity yet on whether this could be the explosive or any of its parts. The entire probe is now focused on finding that how did Gagandeep commute from his house to the Ludhiana court complex. “The wife has maintained that he had a strained relationship with Gagandeep, due to his affair. We expect his lover to know the plan, as they had spent so much time together just two days before the blast. The woman cop is being questioned,” said an official privy to the investigation.Accused procured SIM on fake documents Police say Gagandeep had even procured a mobile SIM (subscription identification module) for his brother on fake documents. The phone has been confiscated and it is being probed if it was being used to make internet calls. Police suspect that the phone was case property, and was stolen from the storeroom of the police station, where he had worked as a ‘Munshi’. Unclaimed bag creates panicPanic gripped the area around national highway-44 Khanna town, after an unclaimed black bag was detected, moments before the arrival of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to launch projects. Police used a metal detector which showed the bag carried no explosive, following which it was opened to find clothes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bomb-blast-khanna-hotel-raided-accused-woman-cop-met-there-2-days-before-explosion-101640625891494.html
27-12-2021||Pune||Three booked for hacking 19-year-old to death in Karvenagar||PUNE Three unidentified people have been booked for hacking to death a 19-year-old in Karvenagar area of Pune.The deceased man has been identified as Ail Rajednra Jadhav, a resident of Vadarvasti in Karvenagar area of Pune.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the man’s sister identified as Varsha Chougule, 28, also a resident of Karvenagar.The deceased man was at Shakti chowk in Karvenagar to drop his cousin sister to Karvenagar Tathawade garden and was returning home when the assailants arrived on a motorbike and attacked Jadhav with a sickle from behind before fleeing, said officials.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Alankar police station. Senior police inspector Sangeeta Patil is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-booked-for-hacking-19-year-old-to-death-in-karvenagar-101640625535720.html
27-12-2021||Pune||TET 2018 exam manipulation: ex- MSCE commissioner, VP of firm sent to additional police custody||PUNE The former commissioner of Maharashtra State Council Of Examination (MSCE), Sukhdev Hari Dere, 61 and the former project manager of GA Software company, Ashwini Kumar, 41 were sent into additional police custody by a local court in Pune on Monday. The two were arrested in a case registered based on allegation that the two had participated in manipulation of results of Teacher eligibility test (TET) held in 2018 and advertised in 2017.The court of Judge SK Dugaonkar remanded the two to police custody till December 30 with Public Prosecutor VC Murlikar and defence lawyers Harshad Nimbalkar and Pranay Lanjile for Kumar and Dere respectively.“We have recovered ₹2,90,000 in cash from Dere and recovered gold and silver worth ₹1,01,85,000 from Kumar. However, we have yet to recover the list of 550-600 aspirants of TET 2018 who had failed to make it to the list but were passed in exchange of money,” said police inspector Ajay Waghmare who is investigating the TET 2018 case.“The second accused (Kumar) was the vice president of GA Software company in Bengaluru. He resigned on November 14, 2019. He was taken back to his house in Bengaluru and everything from his house, including his locker, has been seized. The police say that his custody is required to arrest other accused. However, all the other accused in this case are yet to be arrested because they are under arrest in other cases. My (Kumar) custody is not required for that,” said Advocate Nimbalkar for Kumar.“The police have conducted two raids in Sangamner and recovered this cash from Dere. The money was there in order to pay for a post-dated cheque that he (Dere) had issued to someone for personal reasons. He has taken some money from someone to collect it for this transaction dates for December 25. But he was arrested before that,” said Advocate Lanjile for Dere. Kumar and Dere were arrested on December 20 and remanded to police custody on December 21. The two were booked, along with five others, for manipulating the OMR sheets and result or list of selected candidates for the TET exam held in 2018. For each candidate, the men are alleged to have taken ₹50,000- ₹60,000. The two have been arrested in a case registered under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act and Sections 7 and 8 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act at Cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tet-2018-exam-manipulation-ex-msce-commissioner-vp-of-firm-sent-to-additional-police-custody-101640625352932.html
27-12-2021||Pune||12-year-old dies in road accident near Mangala talkies, Shivajinagar||PUNE A 12-year-old girl was killed in a late-night road accident in Shivajinagar area of Pune on Sunday. The child was killed in a collision between a two-wheeler, where she was riding pillion with her paternal uncle and a truck, said officials on Monday.The deceased girl has been identified as Gayatri Rimje, a Class 6 student, residing in Kasba peth. She was riding pillion with her paternal uncle, identified as Shrikant Rimje, also a resident of Kasba peth, who was injured in the accident.“Gayatri and Shrikant were on one vehicle and were riding at a short distance ahead of their other family members were on different vehicles behind them. They were returning from a wedding ceremony and decided to eat ice cream before heading home. Shrikant took a right turn near Mangala talkies and at the same time a truck took the left turn, which leaded to the collision,” said police sub-inspector Arjun Naikawadi of Shivajinagar police station who is investigating the case.The family members escaped unhurt, said officials.The truck driver was identified as Abbas Ali Sayyed, 35, a resident of Bidar in Karnataka. Sayyed was arrested but later released on bail by a local court. He was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12yearold-dies-in-road-accident-near-mangala-talkies-shivajinagar-101640624930461.html
27-12-2021||Other||Will transform Amritsar into tourism, IT hub: Sukhbir||Amritsar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday promised to transform the holy into an Information Technology (IT) and business convention hub, if voted to power in the upcoming assembly polls. Sukhbir, who had an interaction with trade and industry representatives, here at a function that the party’s Amritsar North candidate Anil Joshi had organised, said, “The previous SAD-led government had made Amritsar a tourist hub by developing the Heritage Walk, besides creating other tourist spots such as Apna Pind and the Partition Museum. Over the past five years, the holy city fell victim to the intra-party power games of the Congress. As a result, no major development project was taken up.” Outlining his plans, Sukhbir claimed, “We want to bring in requisite infrastructure to make a Convention Centre on the lines of Frankfurt.” He also announced that the SAD-BSP alliance was committed to investing ₹1,500 crore to give the entire walled city a heritage look. “This will increase commerce and tourism exponentially,” he added.On resolving issues that the industry faced, he said, “We had created the Invest Punjab department and gave it powers of 35 departments to ensure time-bound clearances within 30 days. The Congress disbanded that. The SAD-BSP alliance was committing to making government functioning paperless. We will also ensure power is made available at ₹5 per unit.”He alleged that Capt Amarinder Singh had wasted five years. “Another pretender to the throne, Navjot Sidhu, will waste another five years as he is not only corrupt and arrogant but also negative in his approach towards all public works,” he alleged, claiming that Sidhu had also masterminded the conspiracy to book Majithia. Sukhbir also addressed a large congregation of the Masih community, besides youth and panchayat rallies in favour of Anil Joshi. On AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal, he claimed that the Delhi CM was just trying to befool people on the same lines as Capt Amarinder. Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana on Monday asked the state government to clarify on the compulsion that led it to appoint S Chattopadhyaya as the DGP. “Due to the DGP’s lack of experience, Punjab is facing law and order problems. The chief minister, home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and the state congress unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu are answerable,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-transform-amritsar-into-tourism-it-hub-sukhbir-101640624872723.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||111 contract Covid in J&K, 31 test positive in HP||Jammu and Kashmir reported 111 fresh Covid infections and one death due to the virus on Monday, an official health bulletin said. Himachal Pradesh, meanwhile, logged 31 new cases, while registering 33 recoveries. Of the total cases in J&K, 79 were reported in Kashmir valley, along with a fatality, while the Jammu division saw 32 infections. The union territory reported the highest 38 cases in Srinagar followed by 21 cases in Jammu and 19 in Baramulla. As many as 17 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 464 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 234 and 171 such cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 127 with active cases reaching 1,333. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 99,241 vaccine doses were administered in the UT. The total number of people who have recovered reached 3,34,976, prompting the recovery rate of J&K to mount to 98.28%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,40,833 and the death toll stands at 4,524.Officials said that 46,897 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,156 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 882 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/111-contract-covid-in-j-k-31-test-positive-in-hp-101640624871114.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Upper reaches of Kashmir receive light snow, rain lashes plains||As a fresh western disturbance becomes active over Kashmir, light snowfall was experienced in upper reaches and several tourist resorts of J&K, while the plains received rains. MeT office has predicted no major snowfall till the end of this month as the weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean, which bring most of the precipitation in Kashmir, have subsided. Tourist resorts of Pahalgam and Gulmarg received four to six inches of snow. The administration pressed snow-clearing machines into service at Gulmarg and Pahalgam. There is a possibility of snowfall on the New Year eve in Gulmarg and Pahalgam, which, officials say, could attract more tourists towards the Valley. MeT office in a statement said that light snow and rain occurred at many places in both UTs. “Today, weather will remain generally cloudy in both UTs with chances of light snow at some places (mainly over higher reaches). There’s no forecast of any major snowfall till ending December,” the statement read. The MeT office further said that from Tuesday, appreciable rise in day temperature and fall in night temperature could be expected. There will be warmer days and colder nights till the approach of next western disturbance, it said. On Sunday, Srinagar had observed light showers during the day and night as the clouds covered the sky, bringing down the day temperatures.Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir with temperature plunging to minus 6 degrees Celsius, while Srinagar observed 2.2 degrees Celsius.Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest 40-day winter period started on December 2. Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with Chillai Kalan which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures, followed by 20 more days from February 1 which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upper-reaches-of-kashmir-receive-light-snow-rain-lashes-plains-101640624750664.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omar, Mehbooba fume over UT admn opening J&K to real estate investors||Mainstream political leaders have raised strong concern over putting the land of J&K on “sale” in the name of real estate investment summit. At the real estate summit held in Jammu, which was organised by the Union ministry for housing and urban affairs and J&K administration on Monday, LG Manoj Sinha said that similar summit will be held in Srinagar in May next year. However, the allocation of land to non-local investors has triggered resentment among mainstream politicians, who have been demanding to safeguard the rights of locals post-revocation of Article 370. “Once again the true intentions of the government are brought to the fore. While offering to secure the land, jobs, domicile laws & identity of the people of Ladakh, J&K is being put up for sale. People of Jammu should beware, “investors” will buy up land in Jammu long before Kashmir,” tweeted NC vice-president Omar Abdullah. Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti termed the summit “sale of the resources of J&K”. “J&Ks special status was illegally revoked to dehumanise, dispossess & disempower the only muslim majority state in India.GOIs brazen loot & sale of our resources shows that the sole motive is to annihilate our identity & change the demography (sic),” said Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet. The Apni Party, which is considered close to the BJP, also called this summit an “endeavour for undermining the domicile law”.Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Monday in a statement said that efforts that aim at a holistic development and job creation in Jammu and Kashmir are welcome but not at the cost of domicile laws that safeguard land and employment rights of its permanent residents.He said, “Our party will always welcome any efforts that will foster progress and prosperity in Jammu and Kashmir. But at the same time, we are pledged to resist any plans that will do away with the exclusive rights of the people on their land and jobs.”He said the way term ‘permanent resident of the state’ has been omitted from the J&K Development Act, was totally unacceptable to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omar-mehbooba-fume-over-ut-admn-opening-j-k-to-real-estate-investors-101640624452188.html
27-12-2021||Other||Punjabis will not let outsider Kejriwal win, claims Channi||Rohno Kalan (Ludhiana) On a day the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerging as the leading party by winning 14 of 35 wards in Chandigarh municipal corporation polls, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi warned its party chief Arvind Kejriwal against building castles in the air of winning the state. “Proud Punjabis will never let an outsider like Kejriwal rule them. Punjabis are capable for leading their own state and do need not an outsider like him,” Channi told a gathering in Rohno Kalan village near Khanna. He inaugurated a sports park, a panchayat ghar and a park. He added that while his government was implementing the common man’s agenda, Kejriwal was promising the moon to people in Punjab, rather than working for the betterment of the ‘Aam Aadmi’ of Delhi. Kejriwal is best at rolling out bundles of lies, he alleged, adding that before the 2017 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections, the AAP supremo had given a “guarantee” that he would throw Bikram Singh Majithia behind bars for his involvement with the drug mafia.“When the AAP failed to form the government in Punjab, the same Kejriwal offered unconditional apology to Majithia in court, and that too on AAP letterhead,” he said, adding that raids were on to arrest Majithia.He alleged that the Uncle-nephew relationship between former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Bikram Singh Majithia was now an open secret now, as the former has been issuing statements in favour of the Akali leader.On the pro-people initiatives of his government, he claimed that power bill arrears of ₹1,500 crore had been waived, power rates for domestic consumers have been reduced by ₹3 per unit, bills to the tune of ₹1,200 crore had been waived in rural areas, water charges brought down to ₹50 and rates for sand had been significantly reduced.“To check illegal sand mining, the state government will give a reward of ₹25,000 to those who provide proof of violation of norms,” the CM said. Cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli said due to pro-people policies of the CM, a large number of industries are being set up in the state. He added that his grandfather and former CM Beant Singh sacrificed his life for peace and communal harmony of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabis-will-not-let-outsider-kejriwal-win-claims-channi-101640624390873.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||UP polls: BSP leader targets BJP, asks people not to fear bulldozers||Ahead of the UP polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Monday called upon people not to be affected by what he called the threat of bulldozers and encounters being given by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. In the UP polls, people will remove the BJP government from power in the state, he said at a public meeting in Gonda.The BSP will form government after the 2022 assembly elections on the basis of its social engineering formula as the party had done in the 2007 assembly elections, he said. The BSP government had worked for the development of the state and welfare of the people without discrimination, he added.He accused the BJP of pursuing anti-people policies. The BSP leader referred to increase in prices of essential commodities, the alleged harassment of farmers, leak of question papers of tests conducted for recruitment for government posts and purported exploitation of traders. Meanwhile, Loktantrik Yuva Shakti Party president Vibham Shukla said the party will demand abolition of reservation in government jobs and contest the coming assembly election on the plank of free education, free treatment, cheap electricity, empowerment of women and improvement of the farmers’ condition. The party will organise a public meeting in Agra on December 28, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppolls-bsp-leader-targets-bjp-asks-people-not-to-fear-bulldozers-101640623850523.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K govt inks 39 MoUs with real estate investors||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday opened the union territory to the country’s real estate investors by signing 39 MoUs worth ₹18,300 crore for the development of housing and commercial projects.Terming the signing of the MoUs at J&K Real Estate Summit here “historic’’, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said it is a major step towards transformation of the UT.Addressing a press conference at the summit, he said the government has already implemented the realty law RERA and adopted Model Tenancy Act in the UT.He emphasised that the government will consider reducing stamp duty on registration of properties and set up a single-window system for faster approval of projects.The summit was organised by the J&K government, Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs and realtors’ body NAREDCO.Sinha said these MoUs will help generate direct and indirect employment opportunities in J&K. He also announced that a similar real estate summit will be held in Srinagar on May 21-22 next year.Asked about opposition parties’ allegations that land parcels of the local people will be taken away in the name of development, Sinha said this is an “effort to create fear and incite people”. There will be no demographic change, he added.Don’t feel any such need: LG Sinha on review of AFSPA in J&KManoj Sinha said there is no need to set up a panel to review the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) in the union territory.Sinha was asked if Jammu and Kashmir feels the need to set up a panel to review or repeal the AFSPA as is beng done in Nagaland.“Do not be concerned about it. I am looking into it. I do not feel any such need (to set up panel to review it),” Sinha told a press conference here.The Centre on Sunday constituted a high-level committee, headed by a secretary-rank officer, to examine the possibility of lifting the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in Nagaland, apparently to soothe the rising tension in the northeastern state following the killing of 14 civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-govt-inks-39-mous-with-real-estate-investors-101640623790596.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Two Jaish militants arrested in Pulwama||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday said they have arrested two Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants from south Kashmir’s Pulwama district۔The police said that security forces also recovered incriminating materials from the possession of the arrested militants. A police spokesperson said that acting on specific inputs, the police, along with 44RR and 182BN CRPF, apprehended two persons linked with JeM.“They (arrested persons) have been identified as Adil Ali, son of Acchan, and Asif Gulzar son of Hajidarpora. Incriminating materials of the proscribed terror outfit JeM were recovered from their possession,” the spokesperson said, adding that preliminary investigations revealed that the arrested duo were in touch with JeM commanders and involved in providing logistics, shelter as well as transportation of arms, ammunition and explosive materials to the terrorists to strengthen terror networks operating across Budgam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-two-jaish-militants-arrested-in-pulwama-101640623670428.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP government in HP a total failure: Congress||The Congress on Monday submitted a memorandum to Himachal governor Rajendra Arlekar, condemning chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s four-year regime. The Congress described the BJP rule in Himachal as a complete failure. Led by party’s state chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, a Congress delegation slammed the HP government over the skyrocketing prices of essential committees. It said that the government did not pay heed to the tourism, education and transport sectors. The Congress leaders said that unemployment in the state was on the rise. They also castigated the government for ignoring the interest of agrarian community. “The Congress government had brought ₹1,134 crore horticulture mission project for Himachal to give impetus to fruit growing, but the present regime did not implement it in the state,” Rathore said. “A lot of money is being wasted on government functions. Despite losing in by-polls, Jai Ram was announcing new development projects without budgetary provisions,” he added. The Congress also alleged irregularities in the purchase of medical equipment during the pandemic. The Congress leaders said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not make any announcement for Himachal in his rally. Rathore said it was expected that the PM would announce an economic package for the debt-ridden state, but he did nothing other than praising food. “Investment of ₹27,000 crore is a daydream of the state government as nothing has been finalised on the ground,” he said, adding that projects which were mentioned by the PM in his speech, be it AIIMS or Atal Tunnel, were the contribution of the Congress. He said Modi has taught the BJP and state government how to take credit and claim the projects initiated and built by others. HP government has pushed the state into a debt trap: CPIMThe Communist Party of India – Marxist (CPIM) on Monday also staged a protest in Shimla, terming the four-year rule of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government a complete failure.Addressing the protesters, former Shimla mayor and CPIM’s state secretariat member Sanjay Chauhan said that the BJP has failed to fulfil the promises it made to the people ahead of the 2017 assembly polls.“The government had promised to curb inflation and create more employment opportunities. It had also promised the farmers to provide a fair price for their produce while labourers were assured increased wages,” said Chauhan.However, none of the promises has been fulfilled so far, he claimed.Another CPIM leader Kuldeep Singh Tanwar alleged that ever since the BJP government has come to power in the state, inflation and unemployment have only escalated while the farm sector plunged into crisis.The HP government has pushed the state into a “debt trap” of more than ₹62,000 crore while its “anti-people policies” have led to a rise in the cost of living, water, electricity, public transport, education, and health in these four years, he added. He said the government has reduced spending under the public distribution system due to which it has become difficult for the common man to make both ends meet. The CPIM leaders also said that the attacks on women, Dalits and other socially weaker sections have increased in the state during the BJP rule. They said the CPIM will continue the movement against the “anti-worker, anti-farmer and anti-people policies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-government-in-hp-a-total-failure-congress-101640623430589.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Neighbours in Kannauj recall Piyush Jain’s conspicuous austerity||Piyush Jain, the Kanpur-based perfume businessman on whose premises ₹177 crore cash was found, surprised his neighbours in Kannauj with his habit of projecting himself as a low-key man.For instance, Piyush Jain would move around the sleepy Kannauj town on his rickety Bajaj Super scooter, which is parked inside his sprawling house, said his neighbour in the Chipatta locality in Kannauj.“I never saw him moving in cars in Kannauj like other perfume businessmen do,” the neighbour said.Or, he would show up at weddings in bathroom slippers made of rubber or wearing shabby clothes, sometimes in pyjamas.“He isn’t social at all, hardly makes relations or converses in the neighbourhood. When he was in Kannauj, he and others in the family used to keep to themselves,” said another neighbour. Chipatta, the locality where the family of Piyush Jain has been living for generations, saw their wealth status changing in the last 15 years, as the neighbours and locals put it. The family used to have a two-room house in which Piyush and his two siblings were raised.His grandfather was into perfumery and father Mahesh Chandra Jain was a chemist, who prepared the perfume compound and passed the formulas on to his two sons Piyush Jain and Ambrish Jain, who launched their company Odochem Chemicals sometime in 2010.With fortune favouring them, Piyush Jain and his brothers bought two houses and merged them into one. His father and some of the staff members live in the house.It has been built in a way that people from the adjoining house cannot see what is inside. At present, the family has four houses, including the one spread over 700 square yards in Kannauj, apart from the one in Kanpur’s Anandpuri locality. Over the last few days, the entire action of Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has centered on these Kannauj houses where 34 people have been working non-stop for the past 84 hours.All the walls, which have more width than the normal ones, were being scanned for cavities through an X-ray machine brought from Lucknow. In addition, a basement and 300 keys have been found with a currency counting machine, which was used regularly, said an official on condition of anonymity.When Piyush Jain was asked about his wealth and the huge cash found at his house, he chose not to answer the question while being taken out of the Kakadeo police station in Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/neighbours-in-kannauj-recall-piyush-jain-s-conspicuous-austerity-101640623070603.html
27-12-2021||Patna||BEPC to give cleanliness award to govt schools on Bihar Diwas||On the lines of the central government, the state education department has also decided to give the cleanliness award ‘Bihar Swachh Vidyalaya Puraskar 2021’ at the local level to encourage cleanliness and hygiene practices among various government schools across the state. On Monday, Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) constituted a selection committee at block and district levels for physical verification of schools, which will inspect self-nominated schools from December 28 to December 31. As per BEPC, a total of 10 best schools at block level will be selected from January 1 to January 15 based on evaluation of the selection committee and the same procedure will be followed to select the best 10 schools at district level from January 16 to February 5.Shrikant Shastree, director at BEPC, said, “The nominated schools will be assessed on various parameters, including education, health, nutrition, child protection and school safety. A checklist is provided to the selection committee for holistic assessment of schools.”“Award distribution ceremony for block and district level schools winner will be held on March 5. Besides, finalist schools at the state level will be given cash prize and citation on March 22, celebrated as Bihar Diwas”, he added.The school will be evaluated for 100 marks comprising availability of safe drinking water for 20 marks, separate toilets for boys and girls 20 marks, hand wash 10 marks, cleanliness and maintenance 20 marks and improvement in hygienic behaviour 10 marks.“More than 80,000 schools in the state have registered for participating in the cleanliness competition. Schools scoring between 91 to 100 marks will get a 5 rating, 76 to 90 marks will get a 4 rating and 61 to 75 will get a 3 rating. Participating schools at block level must have three or above rating and schools at district level must have four or above rating for entering in the final round”, said an official of BEPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bepc-to-give-cleanliness-award-to-govt-schools-on-bihar-diwas-101640622770565.html
27-12-2021||Other||Muzaffarpur boiler blast: Factory owner, wife among 5 booked||Police have registered a case against five named and some unidentified people in connection with the boiler blast at a factory near Muzaffarpur on Sunday that left seven dead and 11 injured. Kundan Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Bela police station, said the owner of processed food and confectionery factory, Vikash Modi, his wife Shweta Modi, manager Uday Singh and supervisors Rahul and Digvijay have been made the named in the first information report (FIR) based on the statement of Prashant Kumar Shrivastava, regional in-charge of industrial area, Muzaffarpur. “The case has been lodged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including for culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” said the SHO. Muzaffarpur’s senior superintendent of police(SSP) Jayant Kant said no arrest had been made so far. Meanwhile, doctors at Shrikrishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) said condition of the seven injured admitted to the hospital was out of danger.Recuperating at SKMCH, the injured workers attributed poor maintenance and ignorance of safety measures as the cause of the accident. One of them, not willing to be identified, said they had complained to management several times about the malfunctioning of the boiler, to no avail. According to victim Satyam Kumar, around 20 people were working in the factory when the incident occurred. “I was working near the boiler when a loud explosion took place. Hot water and debris fell on my body. Locals saved me,” said Satyam. Labour resources minister Jivesh Mishra, who met the injured workers at SKMCH, said the accident was caused due to operational fault. “Prima facie, it appears so. Things would be clear after the investigation.” He said the factory where the blast occurred was given clearance certificate in May after the investigation by authorities.Muzaffarpur’s district magistrate Pranav Kumar said financial compensation to families of three out of five deceased have been given already.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffarpur-boiler-blast-factory-owner-wife-among-5-booked-101640622710480.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Active cases breach 10k-mark, CM calls for ramped-up vax drive||Mumbai Maharashtra on Monday recorded 1,426 Covid cases and 21 fatalities, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking the local authorities to ramp up the vaccination drive to control the outbreak.The surge in cases can be gauged from the fact that the number of active cases has now breached the 10,000-mark from 9,813 on Sunday. Significantly, three weeks ago on December 6, the state had 6,200 active cases. Thackeray in a cabinet meeting expressed concern over the surge of cases and wanted concrete steps to speed up the vaccination drive. “The guardian ministers of the various districts should step in to boost the vaccination drive,” said Thackeray.Maharashtra on Monday reported 26 new Omicron cases, taking the total tally to 167. Of the 26 new cases, 11 are from Mumbai, five from Raigad, four from Thane, two from Nanded and one each from Pune rural, Nagpur, Palghar and Bhivandi-Nizampur. All the patients have a history of international travel, except two, who are high-risk contacts of a person with international travel history. These 26 cases have 14 males and 12 females and four are below 18 years and two are senior citizens above 60 years.Till now, 13,16,17,887 vaccine doses have been administered in Maharashtra. A total of 5,19,33,039 citizens have been fully vaccinated ie 56 per cent of the targeted population of 91,50 million. According to the health department, the second dose of around 10.20-10.30 million people in the state is due and efforts are being made to complete their vaccination.According to a report issued by the state government, Mumbai now has the most number of Omicron cases in the state with 84 followed by Pune at 24 and Pimpri-Chinchwad with 19. Thane has recorded seven cases while Satara, Panvel and Osmanabad have five cases each, Nagpur district has three while there are two each in Kalyan-Dombivli, Aurangabad and Nanded. This is one case each in Buldhana, Latur, Akola, Bhivandi-Nizampur, Navi Mumbai, Palghar, Mira-Bhayander, Ahmednagar and Vasai-Virar.To date, 72 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.Mumbai tally of new cases was 788, with three deaths.The positivity rate on Monday stayed at 1.51 %. There are currently 10,441 active cases, of which Mumbai tops with 4,765 cases followed by Pune with 2,005 and Thane with 1,397 cases.The death toll has now reached 1,41,454 with Pune leading with 19,802 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,373 and Thane with 11,593.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said that the cases are bound to exponentially increase in the coming days. “We need to vaccinate as well as follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. We need to avoid large gatherings,” said Dr Gilada.
27-12-2021||Delhi||Resident doctors take to streets in Delhi over NEET-PG counselling delay, services hit||A large number of protesting resident doctors took to the streets in the national capital on Monday over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling. As a symbolic protest, many of them even "returned their lab coats" earlier in the day.As the agitation continued to intensify, patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals -- and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals, a PTI report said.The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) has been spearheading the protest for the last several days.Delhi | Protesting resident doctors of various hospitals march near Safdarjung Hospital, over delay in NEET-PG counselling pic.twitter.com/SnPyrbIYoCThe association’s president Manish said resident doctors of a large number of hospitals "returned their apron (lab coat) in a symbolic gesture of rejection of services"."We also tried to march from the campus of the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to the Supreme Court, but soon after, security personnel stopped us," he said.Manish also alleged that several doctors were "detained" and taken to police state, before being released a little later. He further said police used force during the agitation and some of the doctors were injured.Taking to Twitter, FORDA shared images of police personnel and protesters grappling with each other, with a police bus seen in the background.However, police denied any allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said 12 protestors were detained and released later.They said for over six to eight hours, the protestors blocked the ITO road. Repeated requests to clear the area fell on deaf ears. Later, both the carriageways of the ITO Marg were also blocked by the protestors, according to the police."We spoke to the association members and tried to sort out the issue, but they continued to block the roads," a police official said.According to police, while the protestors were being removed from the roads, they tried to tear the uniform of the police personnel. They even broke the glasses of a police vehicle and misbehaved with the forces.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/resident-doctors-take-to-streets-in-delhi-over-neet-pg-counselling-services-hit-101640619146183.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||2021 #TheYearThatWas: A sweet revenge, and how Delhiites made up for lost time||Stay home, stay safe... mask up... lockdown... Memories of March 2020 — when Delhi came to a standstill — were still fresh in the minds of people when the second wave crept up on them, earlier this year. However, as the number of cases plummetted in the latter half of the year, Delhiites decided enough was enough. For many, 2021 was all about physical shopping sprees, eating out, partying and spending their days outdoor, revelling in the city, with a vengeance, to overcome fear. Revenge Shopping“Online shopping me maza kahan hain, jab aap bahaar jaake khareed sakte ho,” says Surbhi Verma, a homemaker from Malviya Nagar. While she shopped from e-commerce websites for her newborn son during the lockdown, she shares she felt relieved to shop physically from the markets and malls once the curbs were relaxed. “We were completely indoors during the lockdown months as my son was very young and we didn’t want to take a chance. But once the cases reduced, we started stepping out and it was fun, especially during the festivities. The whole process of getting ready to step out, bargaining with sellers, talking to other people and exploring the market was an experience I had missed. However, now with the new variant, we have stopped taking our son out. It’s difficult to resist the urge to go out with the year end waali feeling but we’ve to be careful!” says Verma. Revenge Eating Out! While ordering in food is a practice no one would ever want to give up, Delhiites realised the value of getting together with friends and family to eat at restaurants during the lockdown. The result? Booked out eateries for most of the latter half of 2021! “The footfall was phenomenal. We had people calling to make reservations for dates that were weeks away. Many of them wanted to make bookings in advance to avoid rush and follow safety protocols. People are learning to live in the new normal,” says Varun Puri, who owns multiple restaurants in the city.Kriti Singhal, who owns a youth forum in Pitampura, shares, “The second wave resulted in a lot of fear but we wanted mental peace after a while. We realised that we needed to break this fear cycle. We just need to be cautious.”Revenge travelling in the city!While the malls and markets in the city saw an increase in footfall, Delhiites also made the most of heritage walks and explored iconic places in the city. “We were having to turn people back”, says Ramit Mitra from Delhi By Foot, and continues, “We are not going beyond 18-20 people per group but often people request us to take them along in a particular group. Our groups were completely booked.”Sunny Kumar Maurya, an IT professional from Mehrauli shares, “I really like going out to monuments and other iconic places in the city. I really missed those in the lockdown. I was going to these spots regularly with my family and friends. But, now I’m planning to visit alone to take no risks and stay safe.”Revenge partying!Delhi has been partying. And how! “Suddenly after the lockdown was lifted, people just went crazy planning get-togethers and socialising. Almost all my clients were calling us up, saying that for two years they couldn’t celebrate their children’s birthdays, and now that things were better, they wanted to do something. Parties started with 20 odd people and soon the guest lists, even for small parties, crossed 50. All ages became milestone celebrations for people and they wanted big parties — be it for anniversaries, birthdays. At one point, we were doing more parties than we have ever... subah bhi function and shaam ko bhi! It was crazy,” shares Swati Chirpal, a party planner, recalling how Delhiites were trying to get a feel of their long-lost normalcy, before the news of the Omicron variant started to spread.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2021-theyearthatwas-a-sweet-revenge-and-how-delhiites-made-up-for-lost-time-101640619427690.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Sero surveillance begins in UP, samples to be sent to KGMU||LUCKNOW Sero-surveillance to monitor the level of antibodies against Covid infection among the masses began in the state on Monday and the samples collected will be sent to the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) for analysis. “Hundred samples in Lucknow will be collected with the consent of the people identified for sero-surveillance. We hope to collect all of these by Tuesday,” said a senior health official in Lucknow. Earlier, sero-surveillance was conducted in the state in September and October 2020. Under the fresh round, random sampling will be done among adult men, women and children in five districts while in 20 other districts sampling will be done as per timeline. A total 640 samples each will be collected from Ballia, Shahjahanpur, Kushinagar, Ghaziabad and Sambhal. In these districts, samples will be taken in the ratio of 3 adult men to 3 adult women and 3 children. Sampling will be random. In 20 other districts, 100 samples will be taken in different categories. The first category is of health workers who had tested positive for Covid between May 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020. Another category will be of 264 samples from among health workers who did not test positive till vaccination started on January 16, 2021. The next category is of people above 60 years of age who tested positive in RT-PCR report between July 1, 2020 and February 28, 2021. A total of 332 samples will be taken collectively from all districts. The next category is of common people aged between 18 and 59 years who tested positive between May 2020 and August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sero-surveillance-begins-in-up-samples-to-be-sent-to-kgmu-101640618629935.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid spike not due to festivals, but Omicron; peak likely by mid-February: Expert||As Delhi continued to witness a steady rise in Coronavirus cases, experts said on Monday infections will keep on growing in number in the next couple of months due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. According to some of the experts, a peak in the viral disease is likely to come by mid-February.A PTI report quoting epidemiologist Giridhar R Babu said the number of cases were rising not because of the ongoing festive season when people gather in large numbers, but the Omicron strain of the virus that has been categorised by the World Health Organisation as a ‘variant of concern’.“The cases will see a rapid ascent and a rapid descent and the peak is likely to come between mid-January and mid-February,” he said, adding those who have not been vaccinated and have not been infected with the virus are more susceptible to the infection.Another expert said the number of coronavirus cases and the positivity rate will increase, but it will not translate into mortality. "What we can say is that 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the present cases could be related to Omicron, while the rest could be due to other variants. The transmission occurs because of proximity. In winter, people are indoors and meet each other in a close-knit environment, and even the number of influenza cases rises during this period," Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of the community medicine department at the Safdarjung hospital, was quoted as saying.Also read | Delhi night curfew: What's allowed and what's notThe doctor further said the government should formulate guidelines for the proper management of Covid-19 and urged people to not ambush hospitals if they suffer from a mild infection."All kinds of disasters are the result of a system failure. The government should formulate guidelines on proper management. Those who are suffering from issues like a severe headache or fever should go to hospitals, while the rest should manage at home and should not even go for testing. After testing positive, the person will panic trying to grab hospital beds and medicines," he said.Delhi reported 331 fresh cases of coronavirus disease and one death in the last 24 hours, according to the latest state health department's bulletin. The active Covid cases currently stood at 1,289, of which 692 are in home isolation.Delhi has so far reported 142 cases of Omicron, according to Union health ministry data. As a precautionary measure, the Delhi government has imposed a night curfew in the city from 11pm to 5am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-spike-not-due-to-festivals-but-omicron-peak-likely-by-mid-february-expert-101640617647787.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 26 new Omicron cases, 11 detected in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Monday reported 26 new cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease pushing the statewide tally to 167. As many as 1,426 Covid-19 infections were recorded in the last 24 hours that took the cumulative case count to 66,59,314.Of the new 26 cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant, 11 were detected in Mumbai, five in Raigad, four in Thane, two in Nanded and one each in Pune rural, Nagpur, Palghar and Bhivandi-Nizampur.The state health department said all the patients have a history of international travel, except two persons, both of whom were high-risk contacts of a person who came from abroad. Till date 72 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, the department said.The department said 21 patients lost their lives to the viral disease during the day, pushing the death toll in the state to 1,41,454. So far, 65,03,733 were cured from the virus of whom 776 recovered in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 788 new cases of Covid-19 and three related deaths. The state capital’s total caseload currently stoof at 7,71,698 and death toll at 16,373.Commissioner of the city civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC),  Iqbal Chahal had called a meeting earlier in the day with health and ward officers on the rising number of Omicron cases in the country's finan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-26-new-omicron-cases-11-detected-in-mumbai-101640616171070.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Religious trust under scanner in Ayodhya land purchase case||LUCKNOW A religious body based in Ayodhya is under the scanner for allegedly buying large parcels of land from Dalit owners in violation of norms, officials said on Monday, as part of the government probe into allegations of financial irregularities in land purchase deals in the temple town. Officials requesting anonymity said they were focussing on the Maharishi Ramayan Vidyapeeth Trust, which bought land in Manjha Barhata and Shahnawazpur villages from its Dalit owners. A state government official said the trust allegedly purchased the land from a Dalit person in the name of its own Dalit employee, who was identified as Ronghai, and later showed that the land had been donated to the body. Such a transaction violated norms which state that land owned by a scheduled caste person can only be sold to another Dalit person. A non-Dalit is not allowed to purchase land from a Dalit. In rare cases, permission of the district magistrate concerned is mandatory for such transactions. A case is also pending against the trust in the revenue court (administrative), Ayodhya. “Land deals of the trust are being investigated. The probe team scanned all documents related with the land deals of the trust,” the official said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-land-deal-maharishi-ramayan-vidyapeeth-trust-officials-under-scanner-101640615029482.html
27-12-2021||Dehradun||Among Uttarakhand’s 3 new Omicron cases, a couple who returned from Delhi||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand on Monday confirmed three new cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease as the government ordered a night curfew across the state starting at 11pm beginning Monday. Uttarakhand earlier had only one confirmed Omicron case.“Among the three cases, one is from Haridwar while two others are from Dehradun. The one in Haridwar is a man who had come to Uttarakhand from Yemen about a week ago. The two others are an elderly couple, aged 74 and 65 years, who came in contact with their relatives who had come from Dubai in Delhi,” Uttarakhand director general of heath Dr Tripti Bahuguna said in a statement“All the infected persons have been placed under quarantine and are given required treatment as per the Covid-19 protocol. They are in stable condition,” Bahuguna added.The confirmation of the three Omicron cases comes hours after Uttarakhand chief secretary SS Sandhu ordered a 11pm-5am night curfew across the state.According to the order, people associated with the delivery of essential services including health services, internet, DTH, petrol pumps and industrial activities will be allowed to move during the curfew period. Transportation facilities from airport and railway stations will also be allowed with the passengers having valid travel documents. Movement of goods carriers will also be allowed during the night curfew period. However, the movement of private vehicles will only be allowed in emergency situations. Media personnel can also move during the night curfew with valid IDs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/among-uttarakhand-s-3-new-omicron-cases-a-couple-who-returned-from-delhi-101640614549276.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cong govt's poll plank, says SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia in HC anticipatory bail plea||Bikram Singh Majithia, senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader who was booked in a drugs case, on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking anticipatory bail.The application filed by Majithia's lawyers – Damanbir Singh Sobti and Arshdeep Singh Cheema – said the case meant to " target the applicant/petitioner is one of the major election planks of the current government" led by the Congress in Punjab.Majithia said the Congress government had “left no stone unturned to misuse its powers and position for wreaking vengeance upon its political opponents".“To target the applicant/petitioner is one of the major election planks of the current government. To fulfil its election stunt, the Congress government of the State of Punjab has been day and night browbeating officers to register false cases against the senior leadership of the Shiromani Akali Dal including the applicant/petitioner,” according to the petition.On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea days after the 46-year-old SAD leader was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act based on a 2018 report of a probe into a racket in the poll-bound state.Majithia is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him.The SAD had called the registration of the FIR against Majithia a "political vendetta". The 49-page FIR was registered by the state crime branch at its Mohali police station.In the run-up to the polls, witch-hunting of political opponents has gone to its peak, Majithia’s bail application said.He said three directors general of police and as many directors of the bureau of investigation were changed and police officers coerced to falsely implicate him in the case.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-moves-hc-for-anticipatory-bail-in-drugs-case-101640613742231.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Decision on physical classes in schools, colleges next week: Aaditya Thackeray||Mumbai The state government is keeping a close watch on rising Covid and Omicron cases and will soon take a call on physical classes in schools and colleges, said state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday morning, on the sidelines of the annual convocation ceremony of the University of Mumbai that was held at the Fort campus. “We all have to follow rules, Covid protocol without fail. At present, schools and colleges are shut for Christmas holidays, but we are assessing the situation at hand. Depending on how things pan out, we shall take a call sometime next week,” said Thackeray, state minister of environment and tourism, who was one of the guests of honour for the event. “The decision of shutting down schools is not easy because children are missing out on a major part of their development, especially younger children who haven’t ever stepped into a school. That apart, we are definitely thinking about their health and safety and a decision keeping this in mind will be taken,” he said, adding that vaccination for those above 15 years of age will begin soon and that too should help tackle the growing cases. The annual convocation ceremony was held physically after a one-year break this year. While state education minister Uday Samant could not be present for the event due to the ongoing assembly session. Governor and chancellor of all state universities Bhagat Singh Koshiyari was presiding over the event and the chief guest this year was Sunil Kumar Singh, director of the National Institute of Oceanography, Goa. Nineteen students were awarded gold medals for exemplary performance in different fields this year, whereas, another 240 MPhil and PhDs were awarded to students. Due to Covid protocols, only gold medallists were invited for the event, and the certificates of nearly two lakh graduating students were sent to respective colleges for students to collect individually this year. “Starting this year, we will now allow colleges to hold their graduation ceremonies in this prestigious convocation hall, so everyone can experience the grandeur,” said MU vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar. 
27-12-2021||Patna||‘Can’t live without liquor, don’t come’: Nitish Kumar’s message to tourists||SASARAM: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said tourists who could not live without liquor should not come to the state, where total prohibition on liquor was imposed in April 2016.Kumar was addressing a gathering at Sasaram in Rohtas district as part of his ongoing statewide Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan (social reforms campaign), which also includes awareness against dowry and child marriage.Sasaram was selected for the venue of the public meeting as it was adjacent to Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand from where the smugglers were bringing liquor into Bihar, Kumar said.Referring to people who opposed liquor ban citing adverse effect on tourism and economy, the chief minister said his government would not compromise on health, peace and prosperity of people of the state, especially the women and children. “I ask such persons to not to come to Bihar if they cannot live without liquor,” Kumar said.Among those who have advocated that the government create a mechanism to allow tourists to buy liquor in the state is former Bihar chief minister and HAM-S president Jitan Ram Manjhi, who earlier this month, asked Nitish Kumar to rethink the implementation of prohibition. Manjhi, who underscored that mostly the poor were being arrested under the law that bars production, sale, transportation or consumption of liquor, said some people should be given permission to drink alcohol even during prohibition.At the event on Monday, the chief minister appeared to turn emotional as he heard the experience of a disabled woman from Rohtas district’s Nauhatta block, Sarojni Devi - she said her husband is also disabled - speak of how the family once sold liquor but left it after coming in touch with a women self-help group, Jeevika. In time,they opened a grocery shop and earn ₹20,000 every month, enabling their children, two daughters and a son, go to school.Ministers Sunil Kumar, Ashok Kumar Chaudhary, Mangal Pandey, chief secretary Tripurari Saran and state police chief SK Singhal also addressed the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cant-live-without-liquor-don-t-come-nitish-kumar-s-message-to-tourists-101640612869142.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Night curfew: Big NY bashes turn into gala dinners!||The imposing of night curfew by the state government has forced hotels, restaurants, lounges and party organisers to either cancel their events or make them a gala dinner affair.Since December 25, the night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am has come into effect. The message sent by the Excise Department reads that no special events should be organised. However, bars will remain operational.“We were calling a DJ from Mumbai to ring in the New Year, but now we will have a simple bash with a cover charge to restrict the number of guests. To abide with the night curfew protocol and the excise department instruction, we need to wind up at around 10:30 pm as our staff needs to reach home before the curfew begins,” says Gaurav Singh of Boombox.The big bash, earlier, planned at the garden area, by The Centrum has been called off, and they now plan to organise a simple dinner.At Ramada Hotel, on the city outskirt, a planned gala event has been shelved. “Instead, we will have a gala dinner at both restaurants. The outstation performers plan too has been called-off,” says hotel’s official Amitesh Singh.Clubs, too, have shelved plans for NY-eve events. “We were expecting strict measures, so we did not book outstation celebrity performers. Now, we will have a simple routine affair with the bar closing at 10 pm and club 30 minutes after,” says Ashok Kumar Agarwal, secretary of Oudh Gymkhana Club. The Golf Club is also is not holding an event for the day.Club Momentz also did not float any public event. “We prefer our disc and lounge area to be taken by a private party. With night curfew, there is no point in holding anything,” says Jugal Sachdeva.A recently opened food chain The Great Kebab Factory had booked performers to welcome 2022, but now has converted it to a gala dinner event. “We will have an elaborate six-course gala dinner along with a live performance by a city-based band. No other activity will be held as per the government protocols,” says Amit Mishra, restaurants general manager.Singer-actor Suyyash Rai will be the star attraction at Sky Glass Brewing Co, but they have curtailed their initial plan to hosting 200 couples to 100 couples and will be ending their bash at 10:30 pm, tells Neeraj Kataria.However, an event with Azadi The Band has been planned at MJ Fun City on the city outskirts. On the booking portal, they promise patrons ‘a gala night.’Now, with so many restrictions there is no point going for these gala dinners when you can’t ring in the New Year without drinks and dance, says Vishwas Yadav, a party regular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/night-curfew-big-ny-bashes-turn-into-gala-dinners-101640612209382.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Sahibzada Day will inspire us to fight against tyranny: Yogi||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath observed Sahibzada Day at his official residence on Monday and remembered the martyrdom of four sons (sahibzadas) of Guru Gobind Singh Maharaj – the 10th guru of the Sikhs.He said Maharaja Ranjit Singh (the first ruler of the Sikh empire in the early half of 19th century) brought two tonnes of gold and transformed the Kashi Vishwanath Temple into “Golden Kashi Vishwanath Temple”. “Aurangzeb destroyed the temple, but Maharaja Ranjit Singh made the temple golden. The new India must decide whether Aurangzeb deserves being respected or the great Maharaja Ranjit Singhji. The Sikhs are a great inspiration for the new India,” said the CM.“Who does not know that Aurangzeb wanted the Sahibzade of Guru Gobind Singh to renounce their faith and abandon the teachings of their guru. But they chose getting buried alive to protect the country,” said the CM. He said it was the divine tradition of Sikh gurus that never allowed anti-Sanatan Dharma intentions of foreign terrorists to succeed. “From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Gobind Singh, Sikhism is a wonderful amalgamation of power with devotion. This divine tradition had come to save India. Sahibzada Day will always inspire us to fight against tyranny and unrighteousness,” said Adityanath, adding that the existence of those who came with the intention of converting India to Islam had been erased. “Sikh tradition should be adopted in every Hindu household, and should not be limited to Gurudwaras,” he added.Wearing a saffron turban, the CM followed the rituals to commemorate the day. Accompanied by other ministers and officials, he also performed a ‘parikrama’ carrying the Granth Sahib.On the occasion, the CM cited many historical events – from Babur to Aurangzeb’s reign. “Terrorists tried to convert the whole country to Islam and enslave India when Babur attacked India, but his intention was not allowed to be fulfilled by the Sikh gurus,” he said.He further said that the Sikh community was known for its dedication towards the nation. “It is well known who drove the Kashmiri Hindus and Pandits away from the Valley. But Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji Maharaj was the one who protected the Kashmiri Pandits in the country,” stated Adityanath. In the presence of several dignitaries of the Sikh society, the CM also talked about efforts for the restoration of historically important gurudwaras in the state and the establishment of a museum focused on the tradition of Sikh gurus.Notably, UP is the first state to observe Sahibzada Diwas since 2020 when chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that the sacrifice of the Sikh gurus should be part of the school curriculum Anupam Srivastava9044409900||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sahibzada-day-will-inspire-us-to-fight-against-tyranny-yogi-101640610768786.html
27-12-2021||Kolkata||Takeaways from KMC polls: A rising TMC, a sliding BJP, a Left with green shoots||KOLKATA: Days after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) set an all-time record by winning 134 of the 144 seats in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls, leaving the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in a poor second with just three, followed by the Congress and the Left that could secure only two each, the vast difference between votes the winners and the rest bagged have added several twists to a chapter from recent history.
27-12-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Be prepared for possible 3rd wave; ramp up health infra, vax||PUNE Around a year ago when India started its Covid-19 vaccination programme, not many had anticipated such a harsh second wave. As the cases started surging massively with fatalities reaching a new peak in the middle of April-May, the demand for shots too went up substantially as people turned up in large numbers outside vaccination centres. This led to the vaccine constraint as the supply was fewer than demand.This time, the country is better prepared on the vaccination front with production scaled up by two manufacturers – Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech from Hyderabad - and a majority of Indians have already taken the shots. On Saturday (December 25), Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced vaccination for children and a booster (precautionary) dose for frontline workers as well as senior citizens with co-morbidities, beginning next month.In the light of cases of Omicron variant and increasing patients of Covid-19 each day, there is a looming threat of another wave. The experts too have pointed at this and Maharashtra government has once again imposed another round of restrictions.It is also time for the state government to ensure Maharashtra has adequate stock of medicines when demand is currently low and production on the higher side. During the second wave, medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab were high in demand for patients hospitalised and on oxygen support. The situation for medicines when the second wave was at its peak was so bad the relatives had to wait in long queues and yet there was no guarantee they get the stock they were looking for. Eventually, the Centre took supply in its control with state government too began providing Remdesivir and Tocilizumab only through hospitals.The state was also scrambling for oxygen as demand shot up. The government promised oxygen plants within months to meet the requirement. As the wave receded, things went back to normal with urgency replaced with laxity. As reported by Hindustan Times in its Pune edition during the first week of December, of the 65 oxygen plants which the administration had planned in Pune district to start given the Covid-19 pandemic, 37 are operational while 28 are still in the making.Since March 2020, the district has set up over 37 oxygen plants which have a production capacity of about 21,550 litres per minute and 20 oxygen tanks that can store more than 300 kilolitres of oxygen. Covid-19 being a respiratory ailment primarily the supply of oxygen needs to be continuous among patients.Given that transmissibility of Omicron is very high and Pune and Mumbai have faced harsh waves in the past, the state government needs to prepare itself on medicines and oxygen front besides re-organising beds. At the same time, hoarders are likely to see an opportunity in earning extra money by stalking crucial medicines now and selling it at an additional cost when there’s demand. The government needs to watch on people indulging in the hoarding of medicines which was common and police had to take action against them.On one hand, Maharashtra has till December 25 administered over 16.4 million (1.64 crores) doses, which is a sharp rise compared to the past two months, all we know is that the vaccine will only be an additional shield from protecting ourselves from the deadly virus.While the rise in inoculation is mostly due to local administration at various districts making vaccine doses mandatory for accessing various services and people shedding hesitancy in the light of fresh threat emerging from the new variant Omicron, the government also need to ramp up its facilities when the wave still appears slightly distant if not months away.This year, Pune district has seen over 12,350 fatalities due to Covid-19, much higher than in 2020 when the number was 7,767. At the same time, 791,296 persons were infected with the virus this year as against 372,655 infections in 2020.We cannot let people die in absence of either medicines or oxygen. The same goes with vaccines too.Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal fought pandemic, kept pace with progress: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday praised Himachal Pradesh for its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic while ensuring that pace of development remains unaffected. Also read: Chandigarh MC elections: Hung House as AAP wins 14 seats, BJP 12He was addressing a public meeting to mark the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government’s four years in office after inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of four hydro-electric projects. “Today, the Himachal Pradesh government has completed four years. During its tenure, the government fought against Covid-19 and simultaneously made sure that development works don’t stop,” Modi said. Striking an emotional chord, he said he has an emotional relation with Himachal as the land and its mountains have played a key role in giving a direction to his life. Modi said the presence of such a large number of people despite the bone-chilling cold reflects that Himachal has excelled in every sphere in the last four years. Earlier, he inaugurated the 111MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Electric Project (HEP) constructed with an outlay of ₹2081.60 and laid the foundation stones of the Renukaji Dam Project ( ₹6,946 crore), 210MW Luhri Stage-I ( ₹1,811 crore) and 66MW Dhaulasidh Power Project ( ₹688 crores). He also presided over the second groundbreaking ceremony of projects worth ₹28,197 crore. Ease of living govt’s priorityAsserting that ease of living was the priority of his government, Modi said electricity has to play a key role in achieving this objective. “Our ease of living model is helping in environment conservation and the new hydropower projects, of which inauguration or foundation stones were laid today, is one step forward towards a climate-friendly new India,” said Modi. “The whole world is praising India for how our country is accelerating development, while saving the environment by making full use of every resource of renewable energy,” the PM said. He said India has achieved 40% installed electricity from non-fossil resources which was set for 2030 and reflects the rapid pace India was working in this direction. Modi said the government is alert about the damage caused to the mountains due to plastic. “Along with the nationwide campaign against single-use plastic, our government is also working on plastic waste management,” he said, urging tourists to help keep Himachal clean and plastic-free. Two models of developmentIn a dig at the opposition, Modi said there were two models of governance in the country. “One is ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas and sabka prayas’ and the other is ‘Khud ka swarth, parivaar ka swarth and parivar ka vikas’. Working on the first model, the Himachal government not only implemented welfare schemes but also expanded Centre-sponsored schemes, he said. The Prime Minister said that working on this model, Himachal Pradesh had outperformed other states in vaccination against Covid of its adult population. He said the other model is about only self-interests and vote-bank and “This could be checked from vaccination data of the states where they are running a government.” He said the proponents of the second model made Himachal wait for decades. That is why, Atal Tunnel was delayed and completed by us. Similarly, Renuka Dam was also delayed for three decades, he said. Industrial development potentialModi said Himachal has vast potential for industrial development and the government is focusing on food processing, farming, pharma sector and tourism sectors. “The government is promoting the food sector, while lakhs of Himachal farmers have already adopted chemical-free natural farming,” he said, urging farmers from other states to emulate their Himachal brethren. He said if India is today called the Pharmacy of the World, Himachal was force behind it. Stating that tourism and pilgrimage are inter-connected, Modi said Himachal has potential in this sector which will be given a fillip by the double engine government in the state and Centre as the speed of development projects and the implementation of different schemes have got a momentum. Modi said that his government has announced Covid-19 vaccination for 15 to 18-year-olds from January 3, 2022, and “precaution dose” for healthcare workers and senior citizens with comorbidities from January 10. “I am confident that Himachal Pradesh will lead in achieving vaccination coverage,” he added. Touch of traditionIn the chilly December air, Modi wore a traditional Himachali cap with multi-coloured embroidery, along with a matching shawl, which added colour to the Prime Minister’s white-and-grey outfit, with its orange, pink and green embroidery, crafted in beautiful, ethnic designs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-fought-pandemic-kept-pace-with-progress-pm-101640604769210.html
27-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Three booked for stabbing, robbing farmer||Three people were booked on Saturday for allegedly stabbing a 30-year-old farmer with a knife and robbing him of his cellphone and ₹8,000, in Bhondsi the previous day, said police on Sunday.The victim -- Janak Raj, a resident of Sahajwan village in Bhondsi -- stopped at a grocery store on his way home around 8pm on Friday after completing work on his fields, when the three suspects on a motorbike stopped in front of him and took him at gunpoint.“I was shocked... When I turned around, the gun fell down from one of the suspects’ hands, following which another suspect stabbed me with the knife,” he said, adding that they snatched his cellphone and ₹8,000 and escaped.No one came for Raj’s rescue when he raised an alarm, said the police, adding that the victim was taken to a nearby hospital where he was given first-aid. A case was registered against the three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 392 (robbery),394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention); and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Bhondsi police station on Saturday.“The suspects have been identified with the help of CCTV footage on Saturday, and a search is underway to nab the suspects,” Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said. The suspects are from Alwar in Rajasthan and are history sheeters. They have been jailed several times earlier, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-three-booked-for-stabbing-robbing-farmer-101640604767784.html
27-12-2021||Other||Gurugram civic body to build library in Sector 39||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will start constructing a library in Jharsa village near Sector 39 in February next year, said officials on Sunday. The civic body has floated a tender in this regard, bids of which will be opened on January 6, they said, adding that the library will be operational by end of 2022. The total cost of the project is estimated to be around ₹92 lakh, the officials said.There are five public libraries in the city, four of which are under the MCG at DLF Phases 1, 2, 3, and Chakkarpur village. The district administration also has a library in the Civil Lines area.“We are aiming to construct a new library in Jharsa village. We are hoping to allocate the tender to a contractor by mid-January and start construction from the following month. The library is being constructed in Jharsa village so that residents living in southern parts of the city such as along Golf Course Extension Road, Vikas Marg, and Netaji Subhash Marg can avail the facility,” said Sunder Sheoran, executive engineer of MCG who is overseeing the project.Sheoran said that for establishing the library, a new building will be constructed. All the other four libraries of the MCG operate out of community centres.SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG, and in-charge of MCG’s libraries, said that the civic body currently has over 9,000 books in the four libraries, primarily in English and Hindi.Authors said that the MCG also needs to ensure residents in the vicinity are aware of the existence of a library.“Otherwise, the entire exercise will be futile. Once awareness is achieved, MCG can explore making all their functional libraries a centre for exchanging ideas and holding discussions so that it attracts more residents and has a constant footfall,” said Ravinder Singh, a city-based author.In May 2018, of the 2,000 books, nearly 1,300 books were stolen by thieves at the MCG’s Chakkarpur library. Following this, the MCG increased security at this library and its initiative towards public libraries also gained momentum with the civic body opening three more such facilities at DLF Phases 1 to 3 in June 2018.
27-12-2021||Patna||Assistant sales commissioner killed in road mishap in Patna||Asim Kumar (37), an assistant commissioner of the sales tax department in Bihar, was killed while one Vishwas Arya (36) received serious injuries after a speeding luxury car collided with two bikes on Atal Path near Mahesh Nagar area under Patliputra police station of the state capital late Sunday evening, officials said. The speeding vehicle was coming from Digha. Asim was on his scooter when the mishap took place.Arya, who was driving the bike, was behind the scooter. A speeding car suddenly came from behind, lost its balance and dashed the bike and later Asim’s scooter. The car was seized but all four persons managed to escape, police said. The car dashed the railings and flipped thrice. Police said that both Asim, a resident of Gola Road, and Arya, a resident of Ramjichak area in Patna, were taken to the hospital for treatment. “Asim was declared dead while Arya is getting treatment at a private nursing home,” he added.The family said that Asim went to his office on Sunday for some urgent work. “He usually went to his office by car, unfortunately, he went on his scooter that day,” they said.Station house officer of the traffic police station, Shahid, denied the arrest of minors or other persons. “The case was transferred to the traffic police for further action,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/assistant-sales-commissioner-killed-in-road-mishap-in-patna-101640602728611.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt promises ‘exemplary action’ over remarks against Gandhi||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said the state government would seek information about Kaliputra Kalicharan Maharaj’s alleged comments praising Nathuram Godse for killing Mahatma Gandhi. He added exemplary action will be initiated if any wrongdoing was found.A case has been filed against Maharaj in Chhattisgarh, where the comments were made at a religious event on Sunday.Pawar’s assurance came after minister Nawab Malik raised the issue in the state assembly and sought action against Maharaj, who is from Akola in Maharashtra. Legislators across party lines backed the demand.Malik called Kalicharan a fake godman and said he abused Gandhi and his ideology and praised his assassin. “A case of sedition must be lodged and he must be arrested. We will thus send a message to the country and the world that any attempt to abuse Mahatma Gandhi will not be tolerated by the over 100 crore people of India,” said Malik. He added there have been attempts to “whitewash Godse” and a temple was built in his memory.Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Sudhir Mungantiwar condemned the use of derogatory language against Gandhi and pointed out Malik as a minister should take action. He questioned why has not Maharaj been arrested.Nana Patole of the Congress called Maharaj “anti-national,” and demanded that he be booked for sedition.In a tweet, Congress leader called Maharaj’s utterances “an unforgivable sin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-promises-exemplary-action-over-remarks-against-gandhi-101640600868009.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi night curfew: What's allowed and what's not||The Delhi government has announced night curfew amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus, which has led to a spike in Covid-19 infection in the city. The curfew will begin from tonight and be in place from 11pm to 5am.Delhi 290 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the second consecutive day when the daily tally stayed above the 200-mark. A test positivity rate of 0.55% was also recorded, the highest since June 4.While a graded response action plan (Grap) released earlier said a night curfew would come into effect if the positivity rate remained above 0.5% for two straight days, officials said the measure was accelerated because of an “emergency situation”.The Omicron variant has seen Covid-19 cases rise in many countries, as well as in India. So far, 578 people have been infected from the heavily mutated strain. In Delhi, the number of Omicron-infected people has crossed 140.Here is the list of curbs, and exemptions, in the night curfew which will be implemented in Delhi from tonight:What is banned during the night curfew?All markets, restaurants, bars and shops dealing with non-essential goods will be shut from 11pm to 5am.According to the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the restrictions will remain in place till “further orders”, which means they are set to impact celebrations on New Year’s Eve and January 1, with officials saying that no relaxations will be allowed in the final week of the year.Hotels, bars and restaurants that are permitted to function at 50 per cent capacity will have to wind up before 11pm so that employees are able to reach home before 11pm.List of exemptionsPatients and pregnant women, people out to buy essential items, and those travelling to or from railway stations, bus stops and airports will be exempted from the night curfew.Those exempted from the curfew also include government officials involved in emergency services, judges and judicial officers, medical personnel, and media persons, according to the DDMA order.People going for Covid-19 vaccination will be exempted on production of a valid identity card and a proof of appointment. Students and candidates appearing in recruitment examinations will be allowed too on production of valid identity and admit cards.Those going to or returning from railway stations, bus stops and airports will be exempted on production of valid tickets.There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement for the exempted categories.District magistrates, their counterpart deputy commissioners of police and all authorities concerned will ensure strict compliance of the order. In case any person is found violating the DDMA instructions, they will be proceeded against as per relevant Disaster Management Act and IPC provisions, the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-night-curfew-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-101640600537154.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra police probing BJP legislator’s role in attack on Sena functionary: Minister||Maharashtra minister Shambhuraj Desai on Monday said police were investigating Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Nitesh Rane’s role in an attack on Sena functionary Santosh Parab on December 18. He added Rane, who has been incommunicado since Sunday, must come forward if he was not involved.Desai said two people have so far been arrested in the case and that Parab has also named Rane as the mastermind behind the assault. Desai added the attackers have also named Rane and called it a “serious matter”. Rane earlier appeared before police in connection with the investigation into the attack. He has ignored two subsequent police summons. “If he is not contactable, it raises suspicion.”Vaibhav Naik, a ruling Shiv Sena legislator, met the Sindhudurg police superintendent demanding action against those involved in the case. “The accused have been arrested, but those behind them must also be nabbed. The police should not come under the pressure of any Union minister,” said Naik, referring to Nitesh Rane’s father, Narayan Rane.Nitesh Rane was unavailable for comments.Narayan Rane was arrested and later released on bail in August over his remarks about slapping Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.
27-12-2021||Delhi||6 more fatalities due to dengue push death toll in Delhi to 23, highest since 2016||Delhi reported six more deaths due to dengue on Monday, which pushed the overall toll to 23 in the national capital, the health department said.Till December 18, the official dengue death toll, maintained by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, had stood at 17.The number of dengue fatalities this year is the highest in the national capital since 2016, when the officially reported death count was 10. The number of deaths due to dengue in years preceding 2020, was two in 2019; four in 2018; 10 in both 2017 and 2016.This week, 130 fresh cases of the vector-borne disease have been reported in Delhi, which pushed the tally to above 9,500, the health department further said.A total 1,269 dengue cases have been recorded this month in Delhi till December 25.Reacting to the rising number of dengue cases, the Delhi high court on Friday directed the local bodies, including the three municipal corporations, to constitute task forces to monitor and control mosquito infestation in the city.In the previous years, the total dengue cases reported were 4,431 (2016), 4,726 (2017), 2,798 (2018), 2,036 (2019) and 1,072 (2020), according to municipal records.The bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh came down heavily on the authorities, adding that someone must take responsibility for the increase in cases.In 2015, the city had witnessed a massive outbreak of dengue with the number of cases crossing 10,600 in a single month (October), making it the worst outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the national capital since 1996.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6-more-deaths-due-to-dengue-push-toll-to-23-highest-since-2016-101640598605593.html
27-12-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur boiler blast incident due to misoperation, says Bihar Minister||Bihar Minister Jivesh Mishra has termed the Muzaffarpur boiler blast in a noodle factory that took place on Sunday morning and claimed the lives of at least seven labourers and left seven injured, an "incident due to misoperation".Speaking to ANI on Sunday, Mishra said, "The factory was established in 2020 after it met all the required parameters for establishing a factory. The certification of the boiler that blasted was done in May 2021 by the department. Prima facie, it seems that the incident took place due to misoperation. A probe has been ordered. We can't say anything substantive until it's done. The state government has announced ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to the families of the deceased."The minister further informed that he has directed the officials to provide compensation to the labourers' families based on the Compensation Act of the labour resource department."Based on the Compensation Act of the labour resource department, I have directed the officials to provide the compensation of the labourers' families after holding a meeting with the factory director. The government will provide treatment to all the injured labourers," he said.Seven people were killed and seven others were injured in a boiler blast in a noodle factory in Bihar's Muzaffarpur on Sunday.State Revenue and Land Reforms Minister Ram Surat Rai said, "The incident is extremely unfortunate. A total of seven people have died while the other seven are injured. A high-level inquiry will be done into the incident. In my opinion, the factory rules were violated as it was operating on Sunday even though factories are closed on that day. The reason behind this will be found out in the inquiry and strict action will be taken against the ones found guilty," said Rai while talking to the media.As per locals, the explosion was so strong that it was heard 5 km away from the blast site.As per officials, the blast took place at 10 am. The adjacent factories were also damaged in the explosion. The police said that the identities of the labourers who died in the accident are yet to be ascertained as the body parts of the deceased were blown away in the blast.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved an ex-gratia of ₹two lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the accident at a factory in Muzaffarpur.The injured would be given ₹50,000 each, the Prime Minister's Office said.Meanwhile, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced an ex gratia amount of ₹4 lakhs each to the families of the deceased in the boiler blast incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-boiler-blast-incident-due-to-misoperation-says-bihar-minister-101640595928132.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh a trailer, Punjab's the movie: AAP's Raghav Chadha on debut feat||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Raghav Chadha on Monday thanked the people of Chandigarh for giving the party a major lead in the municipal election for which counting is underway.Addressing the media in Delhi, the AAP MLA, who has been appointed as the party's co-incharge of Punjab said the success in Chandigarh Municipal Corporation election is only a trailer, the movie would be the Punjab Assembly polls set to held early next year.“I thank the people of Chandigarh on behalf of AAP and (party convener) Arvind Kejriwal for giving so much love and trust to a small and honest party like ours, who contested elections here for the first time ever. Chandigarh is just a trailer, Punjab is the movie” Chadha was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In its Chandigarh debut, AAP has been declared winner in 14 of the 35 wards that went to election on Friday.I thank the people of Chandigarh on behalf of AAP & Arvind Kejriwal to have given such love & trust to a small & honest party like ours, who contested elections here for the first time ever. Chandigarh is just a trailer, Punjab is the movie: AAP leader Raghav Chadha in Delhi pic.twitter.com/5mDoN5JSJHIn a setback to the ruling BJP, sitting mayor and party candidate Ravi Kant Sharma was defeated by AAP's Damanpreet Singh, according to results declared so far.Besides Sharma, another former mayor Davesh Moudgil lost to AAP candidate Jasbir Singh by 939 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-a-trailer-punjab-s-the-movie-aap-s-raghav-chadha-on-debut-feat-101640595947744.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Hung House as AAP wins 14 seats, BJP 12||In its poll debut, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has won 14 of the 35 municipal corporation (MC) seats, the BJP 12 and the Congress eight seats, while the Shiromani Akali Dal bagged one seat in Chandigarh on Monday. No party got a clear majority of 19 seats. The results of all 35 seats have been declared. Also read: Chandigarh a trailer, Punjab’s the movie: AAP’s Raghav Chadha on debut featAmong the major setbacks, three former mayors of the BJP, Ravi Kant Sharma, Rajesh Kalia and Davesh Moudgil, lost the elections. The BJP’s four sitting councillors also lost the election, including Shakti Devshali, Sunita Dhawan, Heera Negi and Bharat Kumar. The AAP’s election campaign committee head, Chander Mukhi Sharma, also lost the elections. Congress chief spokesperson and sitting councillor HS Lucky also lost the election. The AAP won ward numbers 1, 4, 15,16, 17, 18,19, 21, 22,23, 25, 26, 29 and 31, the BJP ward numbers 2, 3, 6,7, 8, 9,11, 12, 14, 32, 33 and 35 and the Congress 5, 10, 13, 20, 24, 27, 28 and 34. Ward number 30 was won by the SAD. As many as 203 candidates are in the fray with the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress and debutant AAP putting up candidates on all 35 seats. In the outgoing MC House, of the total 26 seats, the BJP had 20 councillors, Congress five and the Shiromani Akali Dal one. Counting started at 9am for the votes polled on December 24 in which 60.78% of the total 6.33 lakh voters took part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-wins-five-seats-in-maiden-attempt-101640584844921.html
27-12-2021||Other||Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ category||Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Monday morning as overcast weather, light rain, or drizzle were expected. The minimum temperature was likely to be 10 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 22 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the maximum temperature was 21.4 degrees Celsius and the minimum 9.8 degrees Celsius.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 395. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 459.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Sunday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said for the next two days, winds are likely to be low reducing the ventilation of pollutants. “AQI is expected to be in ‘Severe’ for the next two days. On 28th (Tuesday) onwards, a slight improvement in air quality is likely due to relatively high wind speeds and on 29th (Wednesday) significant improvement is expected due to high easterly winds at height of 700-800 m as well as at 10 m that results in strong ventilation of pollutants,” it said. “Mixing layer height continues to be low (less than 1.0 km). The net effect is that AQI remains to be within ‘Severe’ till 28th and on 29th it is likely to improve to ‘Very poor’.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-101640577644269.html
27-12-2021||Other||Kashi Indian International Film Festival to begin in Varanasi today||The first three-day Kashi Indian International Film Festival will begin in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi from Monday.“Not only will there be glimpses of Hindustani classical music and dance, but also events on famous philosophers, poets, writers, and musicians,” the government said in a statement.The festival is being organised in collaboration with the state government.Actor Manoj Joshi, singer Kailash Kher, and comedian Raju Srivastava will perform on the first day of the event. Hema Malini, Anupam Kher, Rajpal Yadav, Satish Kaushik are among other Bollywood personalities who will participate in the event.A panel discussion on Varanasi, local music, the importance of Uttar Pradesh as a centre for film production, and the potential for regional cinema will be held on the second day of the event. Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur will be present at the festival on the second day.State tourism, culture, and charitable affairs minister Neelkanth Tiwari will inaugurate the festival..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashi-indian-international-film-festival-to-begin-in-varanasi-today-101640576804755.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||Ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's judicial custody to end today||The judicial custody of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the ₹100-crore extortion case, is set to end on Monday, December 27.Anil Deshmukh’s custody was extended earlier this month, hours after suspended police officer Sachin Waze told the state-appointed inquiry commission the former home minister had neither made any monetary demands nor was any money collected from Mumbai's bar owners or people related to them.Deshmukh was arrested by the ED on November 2 in connection with the ₹100-crore extortion allegation and the related money laundering case, after the agency interrogated the former minister for 13 hours.The allegations were first raised by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who claimed that Deshmukh had asked the then assistant inspector Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels and bars in the city.For now, the former Maharashtra home minister remains lodged at the Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai.Meanwhile, a Delhi court last week directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe the role of Anil Deshmukh in the alleged leak of the agency's preliminary enquiry (PE) purportedly giving a clean chit to him.The claimed PE findings, which were leaked, showed the deputy superintendent of police probing the matter had purportedly opined that no cognisable offence was made out against Deshmukh.It was later converted into a first information report (FIR) based on a contrasting opinion of the deputy SP. The opinion mentioned in the FIR said that cognisable offence was made out against Deshmukh.The CBI started a probe into the leak in which it emerged that findings of the PE were influenced. The inquiry was initiated on the orders of the Bombay high court, which issued the direction while hearing a public interest litigation on allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exmaharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-s-judicial-custody-to-end-today-101640567515136.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky in Delhi, light rain predicted over parts of Haryana, UP||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday predicted a generally cloudy sky with the possibility of very light rain and drizzle and shallow to moderate fog in Delhi.The IMD also predicted light to moderate intensity rain over parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh."Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Hodal (Haryana) Nandgaon, Iglas, Sikandra Rao, Raya, Hathras, Jalesar (Uttar Pradesh) during next 2 hours," the national weather forecasting agency tweeted at 5am.On Sunday evening, several parts of the national capital witnessed light showers, with the maximum temperature settling at 21.4 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.With this, the air quality index (AQI) of the city was recorded in the severe category on Sunday evening. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the city had an AQI of 460 at around 7pm.In adjoining Faridabad, the AQI was reported to be at 455 while in Ghaziabad it was 430, Greater Noida 428, Gurgaon 378 and Noida 438.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cloudy-sky-in-delhi-light-rain-predicted-over-parts-of-haryana-up-101640568652440.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||UP Bizman held over tax evasion, ₹177 crore seized||The Central GST department on Sunday arrested Kanpur-based perfume businessman Piyush Jain on charges of tax evasion, days after raids conducted on his premises yielded the recovery of ₹177 crore, officials familiar with the matter said.Officials of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) raided Jain’s house in Anandpuri on Friday, and have recovered a total amount of ₹177 crore in cash after 60 hours of raids on his four houses and a factory in Kannauj. Three teams consisting of 34 people are involved in the search operations, which could continue on Monday, the official added.Jain was taken into custody by the GST Intelligence unit from his residence in Kanpur early on Saturday, and arrested under Section 69 of the Central GST Act, which empowers the GST commissioners to arrest a person if he has “reasons to believe” that the person has claimed fraudulent input tax credit (ITC), said an official.According to the officials, 57 large tin boxes were purchased to keep the cash and a container truck was hired for its transportation amid tight security.GST officials said the money was linked to the dispatch of goods through fake invoices and without generating e-way bills by the transporter who generated multiple invoices in the name of non-existent firms.All the invoices were below ₹50,000 for one truckload to avoid generation of bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-bizman-held-over-tax-evasion-177-crore-seized-101640557544445.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Birthday mubarak, Ghalib!||Today is Mirza Ghalib’s 224th birth anniversary. The Agra-born poet lived in Old Delhi’s Ballimaran; his sasural was in modern-day Haryana (Loharu). While lying long buried in our city, Ghalib still gamely agreed to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore citizens’ distinct experiences. Oh well, actually, these responses of Ghalib are as imagined by scholar Aqil Ahmad, the longtime head of Ghalib Academy (but the verses below are cent percent of the poet). The photo is of his only public statue in Delhi (find its GPS yourself!).The principal aspect of your personality?Aashiq mizaj — I’m too romantic.Ishq ne Ghalib nikamma kar diya,Varna ham bhi aadmi the kaam ke.(Ghalib, love has turned me into a good-for-nothing idler,Else I too was a man of substance.)Your main fault.King-sized ego.Your greatest misfortune.Losing seven children.Naam ka mere hai jo dukh, ki kisi ko na mila,Kaam mein mere hai, jo fitna ke barpa na hua.(The grief assigned to me is a grief not undergone by anyone else,The commotion in my life is such, the likes of which has never been raised before.)Your favourite occupation?Eating mangoes.Your ardent wish?Yeh na thi hamari qismat, ki wisal-e yaar hota, Agar aur jite raih te, yehi intezar hota.(To meet you in this lifetime, was never in my fate,If granted more years, I would still have spent those in this wait.)Your idea of happiness?Attending dosto ki mehfil (being with friends). Playing shatranj. Gambling.If not yourself, who would you be?A soldier, my khandani pesha (hereditary occupation).Where would you like to live?If I had seen Benares in my youthful years, I would have settled there than in Delhi. I even wrote a Farsi masnavi about that great city—Chirag-e-Dair (Lamp of the Temple).Your favourite colour?I always wear white kurta.Your favourite poets?Momin. Bedil is an inspiration to my Farsi poetry. And above all, Mir Taqi Mir.Rekhte ke tumhi ustad nahi ho Ghalib,Kehte hain agle zamane mein koi Mir bhi tha.(You’re not the only master of Rekhta, Ghalib,There was a certain Mir, too, in olden days, they say.)Your favourite food, drink?Besani roti, shami kebab, maash ki dal, yakhni. English wine.Ghalib chhuti sharab, par ab bhi, kabhi kabhi,Peeta hoo roz-e abr o shab-e mahtab mein.(Ghalib, I’ve given up wine, but even now, sometimes,I drink in moonlit nights, and when the weather is cloudy.)What do you hate the most?Dokhebaji (treachery).Hain kawakab kuch, nazar aate hain kuch,Dete hain dokha, ye baazigar khula.(The stars look like something else, and happen to be something else,These tricksters deceive us so blatantly.)Your motto in life?Ranj se khugar hua insa, to mit jaata hai ranj,Mushkile mujh par pari itni, ki aasan ho gayin.(When a person gets used to grief, the grief goes away,Too many hardships fell on me, that they ultimately became easy to bear.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-birthday-mubarak-ghalib-101640554909046.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana secures top spot in citizen-centric governance ranking||Haryana has secured the top spot in citizen-centric governance sector ranking for 2021. An official spokesperson said the state has topped the group-A category by securing a collective score of 0.914 in citizen-centric governance and its indicators. The indicator focused on outcomes like the Right to Service Act, grievance redress mechanism and the progress made by the state governments in providing services online. The spokesperson said that Union home minister Amit Shah released the Good Governance Index-2021 on the occasion of Good Governance Day at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. The index has been prepared by the department of administrative reforms and public grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-secures-top-spot-in-citizen-centric-governance-ranking-101640555080441.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||BKU’s Gurnam Charuni mum on formation of Sanyukt Samaj Morcha||A day after the formation of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political front floated by 22 constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) that spearheaded the agitation against the three farm laws, senior farmer leader from Haryana Gurnam Singh Charuni is yet to pick a side.Nearly a fortnight back, on December 18, Charuni had formed his own party, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party and announced to contest on all 117 seats in Punjab. On Sunday, he was in Yamunanagar to address public meetings for the first time after the agitation on the Delhi borders was lifted. During an event at Karkoli village of Pratap Nagar area, he told the gathering as how his party will work in favour of the “oppressed classes” but remained silent on the formation of SSM.“Our party will have members from all genders and ages. We are clear that we will end capitalism and provide equal resources to citizens to lead a comfortable life,” the farmer leader told the reporters. Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of Charuni-led BKU faction, said the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party will explore options in Punjab as the election process unfolds in future. On any alliance with SSM or any other party, Bains said, “We have no enmity with any farm group or SSM. But one thing is sure that we won’t go along with any traditional party that has already ruined the country.”In Ambala, home minister Anil Vij took a dig at the formation of SSM, saying that every citizen had the right to contest polls but “there are political ambitions of the farm leaders who kept the agitation going for too long”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bkus-gurnam-charuni-mum-on-formation-of-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-101640554841188.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 113 trains cancelled as farmers lay siege to tracks||Farmers seeking loan waiver continued to block railway tracks for the seventh consecutive day, leading to cancellation of 113 trains from the Ferozepur division on Sunday.  Protesting under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC), farmers have been occupying sections of railway tracks in Amritsar; Jalandhar, Tanda, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur for a week, which has led to the cancellation of at least 100 trains everyday.  Apart from the cancellations, 35 trains were short terminated and 32 were short originated. One of the disappointed passengers, Kavita Arora of Delhi, said, “I was visiting Ludhiana to meet an ailing relative. I had booked my return ticket for December 27, but was told the my train had been cancelled on Saturday evening, leaving me in a lurch.” Shiv Salwan of Nehru Nagar, Model Town, had to book a cab to reach Ludhiana from Amritsar due to the non availability of trains. “I landed at the Amritsar airport from Guwahati. Since there were no trains from Amritsar to Ludhiana, I had to book a cab, which cost a pretty penny. The regular protests are burning a hole through the common man’s pockets,” said Salwan.Though the Northern Railways’ has repeatedly requested passengers to check the status of the trains before heading to the station, passengers continued to pour into the station, only to return disappointed. Meanwhile, security at the railway station was beefed up after the Ludhiana Court Complex blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-113-trains-cancelled-as-farmers-lay-siege-to-tracks-101640554421026.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Class 9 student dies by suicide in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar||A 15-year-old Class 9 student died after allegedly jumping off the sixth floor of a residential apartment near Pandav Nagar in east Delhi on Saturday night.Police said the boy’s parents had gone to the Mayur Vihar market for shopping when he took the extreme step. The boy’s father is a senior government officer.“The boy was alone at home. He was found lying injured outside the building by some neighbours, who rushed him to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The spot was inspected by the crime team as well as forensic experts. So far, no foul play is suspected. Further enquiry is on,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap.Police said they were in contact with the boy’s family members to know the possible reasons behind his alleged extreme step. “We will ask the family members if he was upset over anything or was undergoing treatment,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Help is just a call away Snehi: 011-65978181Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/class-9-student-dies-by-suicide-in-east-delhi-s-pandav-nagar-101640553979909.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man charred to death after car catches fire in Sonepat||A 32-year-old man was charred to death near Sonepat’s Kamaspur village when his car caught fire after being hit by an unidentified vehicle, police said on Sunday.The deceased was identified as Rakesh Kumar of Mehandipur village in the district who ran a dairy. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter, both aged 10.In his complaint to the police, Raj Kumar, the victim’s brother, said Rakesh had gone to attend a marriage function on Saturday night but did not return home. “His burnt body was spotted by the residents of Kumaspur village,” he added. Rai police station incharge Devender Kumar said they have sent the victim’s body for post-mortem examination and they will conduct a DNA test.“It seems that the victim’s car was hit by a vehicle, following which it caught fire and he was charred. We have started an investigation into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-charred-to-death-after-car-catches-fire-in-sonepat-101640554183864.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Five more students test positive for Covid in Ambala school||Days after seven students of a government school in Ambala tested positive for Covid-19, five more students of a public school were found infected on Sunday. An elderly from Chourmastpur region was among five other residents also reported positive on the day, officials said.Dr Sunil Hari, district epidemiologist, said the school students are between the age of 15 and 17 and are asymptomatic with no travel history. “We are conducting regular community surveillance, especially on those below the age of 18. There are 700 students in the school and sampling is underway,” Dr Hari added. Earlier this week, seven students tested positive in two batches and the school was closed till December 31. Officials said that to break the chain, the said public school will have to be closed too.With 10 fresh cases for the day, the active cases in Ambala rose to 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-more-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-ambala-school-101640554182448.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 4 days on, missing 19-yr-old found dead, 2 held||A 19-year-old man, who had been missing for four days, was found murdered in a vacant plot in Basti Jodhewal on Sunday.The victim, Tushar Kumar, was a resident of Kailash Nagar in Basti Jodhewal. Investigating officer, Vijay Kumar, said Tushar Kumar had been reported missing on December 23, and a case under Section 346 ( wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against unidentified persons. While investigating the victim’s alleged kidnapping we questioned two suspects, Robin Singh and Kulvinder Singh, who confessed to killing Tushar Kumar. It is learnt that the victim was in a relationship with a girl, whom one of the accused liked, and that the murder was committed in a fit of rage. After killing the victim, the accused berried the body near the Sutlej River Bed in Kakowal Kaneja Village.The victim’s body will be sent to the civil hospital where a postmortem will be performed on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-4-days-on-missing-19-yr-old-found-dead-2-held-101640554181229.html
27-12-2021||Other||Ludhiana Court Complex blast: 11 mobiles recovered from Central Jail||A probe into the Ludhiana Court Complex bomb blast has revealed that the primary accused was in contact with two jail inmates, after which a surprise checking was carried out in Central Jail on Sunday. Eleven mobile phones were found in the jail, raising concerns over the security arrangements in the prison. Ten inmates were booked on the complaint of Kashmiri Lal, assistant superintendent, Central Jail. Lal said seven of the 11 phones were without a Sim Card, while four had a Sim Card. One of the phones was found in the washroom, and it was not immediately clear, whom it belonged to. Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, the investigating officer, said the mobile phones were being sent to a forensic lab for tracing the details. A production warrant will be sought to question the accused. A case was registered under the Prisons Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-11-mobiles-recovered-from-central-jail-101640554001114.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala visits his constituency Uchana Kalan after 13 months||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who along with other leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP alliance had been facing farmers’ protests over the Centre’s three agriculture laws, on Sunday visited his constituency Uchana Kalan in Jind district after a gap of 13 months.Taking a potshot at the 22 of the 32 Punjab-based farmer outfits’ decision to contest the upcoming assembly polls in the neighbouring state under the banner of ‘Sanyukt Samaj Morcha’, Dushyant said it was now proved that these farmer leaders were doing politics in the name of farmers’ rights.“Our government has taken strict action against those officers who were found on the wrong side of the law and investigation has been started against them. The panchayat elections in the state will be conducted after the Haryana and Punjab high court’s decision on providing 50% reservation to women in the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and we are hoping that the verdict will come in the government’s favour,” he said while taking part in some events in the segment.Dushyant last visited Uchana Kalan on November 20, 2020. Sirsa BJP MP Sunita Duggal too reached Narwana town of Jind district on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-visits-his-constituency-uchana-kalan-after-13-months-101640553941004.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Nearly 22,000 Covid-19 jabs administered in Delhi jails so far||Nearly 22,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered to inmates of three jails in the Capital so far, the Delhi prisons department said on Sunday.According to officials of the department, 21,970 doses have been administered to inmates in these three complexes till December 25. Of these, 15,152 are the first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine and 6,818 the second shot.As on Saturday, 10,707 Tihar jail inmates were given the first dose of Covid vaccine and 4,352 were given the second dose. In Rohini jail, 1,381 inmates got the first dose and 412 the second dose, according to official data.In Mandoli jail, 3,064 inmates got their first and 2,054 the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-22-000-covid-19-jabs-administered-in-delhi-jails-so-far-101640553635298.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has 3-member panel for protection of runaway couples, high court told||The Chandigarh administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that a committee comprising deputy commissioner, superintendent of police and director, social welfare, has been set up to review the threat perception and consider the boarding and lodging charges for longer stay of runaway couples.The Chandigarh administration also said that four rooms, with attached washrooms, have been earmarked for providing protection to the couples. Food and lodgingFor the initial 10 days, accommodation is provided free of cost at the protection home in Sector 19, and subsequently, they have to pay ₹100 a day. In the first 10 days, all three meals of the day are also provided free of cost at a designated mess, thereafter, the couples are charged ₹125/- per person. They are also provided a common kitchen for preparation of tea and coffee, the UT has told the court. The information was submitted during the resumed hearing of a plea in which the court is monitoring facilities for runaway couples in the two states of Punjab and Haryana, and Union Territory of Chandigarh.Protection and counsellingThe court was also informed that Chandigarh police will be providing one constable at the protection home for security of the couples. As of legal consultation, state legal services authority, Chandigarh, has empaneled five advocates for providing legal counselling. “Other facilities, such as social counseling, will also be provided to couples, if required by the social welfare department. Chandigarh police has also made a standard operating procedure to deal with threat perception to couples,” UT’s additional public prosecutor JS Toor told the court.Other measures include establishing anti-human trafficking unit in Sector-17 to deal with such cases. For emergency response, 112, has been dedicated and there are 24x7 helpline numbers 0172-2924847 and 9855702356. Link ‘Special Cell for Protection of Run Away Couples’ is operational on the website of Chandigarh police, where couples can raise their grievances without exposing their physical presence in the police station, Toor told the court.It was also apprised that for assessment of threat perception, a PCR vehicle along with duty officer and official of special cell will reach the spot, immediately. Steps will be taken for safety of couples and if needed will be sent to Protection Home, Sector 19, Chandigarh, the court was told adding that in case of minor girl, she will be sent to Aashiana, Sector 15, Chandigarh. Any FIR/complaint received/registered relating to honour killing, caste or religious related violence, an effective investigation would be concluded within a period of 60 to 90 days, Toor assured the court. Adopt SOPs for solemnising marriage, HC tells admnThe court taking note of the measures taken by the administration said that while dealing with such cases it has come to notice that most of these couples are exploited by some religious institutions for solemnising their marriages. Neither any document is asked for, nor is any record maintained but hefty amounts are charged. It would be appropriate if both Chandigarh and administration of tricity towns can ensure that the religious places adopt a standard procedure for getting the marriage solemnised. Proper record of the marriages solemnised is maintained and certificate is issued to the married couple, the court said adding that it was hopeful that legal services authorities will extend their full cooperation in advertising the forum available to couple for redressal of their grievance and the Legal Aid Clinics.Shared responsibility of tricity administrations: HCTo an issue of limited accommodation in safe home in Sector 19 at the disposal of Chandigarh administration, the court said that couples from both states approach the courts in Chandigarh for protection, hence, cooperation is required from the administrations of Panchkula and Mohali to share the accommodation of safe homes set up in both these towns, to accommodate the couples of their respective states who land in Chandigarh. The counsels of both the administrations also assured that there would be no issue in extending cooperation for sharing the accommodation in the protection homes.
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||36-year-old Panipat man booked for marrying minor girl||A 36-year-old man was booked for allegedly marrying a 15-year-old girl in a locality in Panipat district.The marriage took place in May but police took action after an investigation by the women protection officer-cum-child marriage prohibition officer Rajni Gupta who found that that the girl was only 15 at the time of her marriage.Gupta said that she had received a complaint about the marriage of a minor girl but her parents had earlier provided some identity cards claiming that she was 19.“The girl’s family also tried to mislead the police by providing her fake identity cards and claimed that she was born on January 16, 2002. But as per her school records, she was born on February 7, 2006,” Gupta added. An FIR was registered under Section 9, 10 and 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, against the 36-year-old groom, identified as Narender Singh of Panipat’s Naultha village.The police said that the girl was handed over to her family. About sections pertaining sexual exploitation, the police said that action will be taken as per the statement of the girl and her family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/36yearold-panipat-man-booked-for-marrying-minor-girl-101640553642086.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Seven test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Seven fresh Covid cases were reported from the district on Sunday. However, there is no case of the Omicron variant detected from the district yet. The health department has sent the samples of the five patients for the genome sequencing test. Two foreign travellers were among those infected. One had arrived from the United State (US) and the other from the United Arab Emirate (UAE). According to reports shared by the district administration, the number of active patients in the district has increased to 44 of which 43 are home isolated and one is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The total number of positive cases reported so far in the district is 87,757 of which 85,597 have recovered. There are 2,116 deaths so far in the district due to Covid. With the Union health ministry warning against the new highly transmissible variant, the Punjab health department had issued an advisory asking frequent international travellers and NRIs visiting Punjab to go through mandatory Covid tests. If tested positive, passengers will have to go through a genome sequencing test to ensure that they have not been infected by the new strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana-101640553640907.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Two drug peddlers held with 20kg poppy husk||The Sidhwan Bet police arrested two drug peddlers and recovered 20 kg poppy husk from their possession. The police have also seized their two-wheeler. Following a tip-off, the accused Mangal Singh of Madepur village, and Ranjit Singh of Goswal village were arrested near a bridge over the Buddha Nullah in Safipura village. Sub-inspector Chamkaur Singh said the accused were passing from the area on a two-wheeler that was without a number plate. On checking, 20 kg poppy husk kept in a bag was recovered from their possession. A case under Sections 15, 25 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against them at the Sidhwan Bet police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-drug-peddlers-held-with-20kg-poppy-husk-101640553524240.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farm leaders dragged stir for long for political ambitions: Haryana minister Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has said the farmer leaders continued the agitation against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture laws for a year to fulfill their political ambitions.“I have said this on several occasions that their political interests were behind dragging the farm agitation for a year as they wanted to contest the elections,” Vij said on the formation of a political party by members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM).“But they have the right to contest the elections. The formation of a political party will not have impact on the poll prospects of the BJP,” he added.He hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision to begin the vaccination programme for the kids from next month. “The PM cares about every Indian.”On vandalisation of the statue of Jesus Christ at Holy Redeemer Church in Ambala, he said three teams were n formed to investigate the case and nab the accused. Vij also took a dig at the Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and termed him a political actor. ‘Narcotics Control Bureau to check drug peddling’Earlier, Vij also inaugurated the building of the Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau at the Haryana Police Academy in Madhuban of Karnal. He said a data bank of drug addicts will be prepared and efforts will be made to bring them back to the mainstream. He said that SNCB will help to track the drug peddlers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-leaders-dragged-stir-for-long-for-political-ambitions-haryana-minister-anil-vij-101640553523042.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Guard caught trying to sneak tobacco into Central jail||A Punjab Ex-Servicemen Corporation (PESCO) employee was arrested while he was trying to sneak tobacco products into the Central Jail on the Tajpur Road.The accused, Surinder Singh, a resident of Mubarakpur, Machhiwara, was booked on the statements of the assistant superintendent of jail.ASI Surjit Singh of the Police Station Division No 7 said a case had been registered against Surinder Singh after receiving a complaint from the jail authorities. Jail officials said the accused is a PESCO guard in the jail. As Surinder was entering the jail on Sunday morning, security personnel searched him and tobacco products were found hidden in his shoes. A case has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-guard-caught-trying-to-sneak-tobacco-into-central-jail-101640553221048.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | RLDA invites bids for leasing vacant land parcel||Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has invited bids for leasing a vacant land parcel for the redevelopment of Railway Colony Number13, Civil Lines, near Fountain Chowk, that falls under the Northern Railway Zone.The reserve price for the site to be leased for 99 years is ₹108 crore, while the prescribed FAR available to the developer is 2.0 and 3.0 for residential and commercial, respectively. The meeting before bid was held on December 14 and was attended by many prominent developers of the country. The deadline for the bid submission is January 14.Strategically located siteThe concerned site is trapezoidal shaped piece of land with average depth of 90m and a frontage of 240m and 190m along Rani Jhansi Road and College Road, respectively. The proposed site is in close affinity to the major transportation centres of the city. Ludhiana Airport is located at 15.7 km from the subject site and Ludhiana Railway Junction is located at a distance of 2.9 km. The site is 150m from Fountain Chowk which is connected to 6 major routes, while inter-state bus terminus is around 2.4 km from the site. The adjacent area is a well-developed area having commercial as well as residential use. Its immediate surroundings include high end independent residential bungalows with mix-use retail development in North, South and East, and government bungalows in West.“Ludhiana is an industrial and commercial hub of Punjab, making it one of the significant places of the state. The redevelopment project by RLDA will enhance the beauty of the city while promising a quality life to the residents,” said Ved Parkash Dudeja, vice-chairperson, RLDA.Presently, there are 35 railway staff quarters along with few other utility structures existing at site. The norms for housing and admissible commercial with respect to ground coverage, basement parking, setbacks will be applicable, as per Master Plan and Comprehensive General Development Control Regulations - 2018, Punjab Municipal Building Bye-Laws, 2018, government of Punjab, amended from time to time .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-rlda-invites-bids-for-leasing-vacant-land-parcel-101640553040835.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | MLA Dawar inaugurates X-ray machine ahead of assembly elections||With assembly elections round the corner, MLA (Central) Surender Dawar inaugurated a new dental X-ray machine at the dispensary being run by Shiv Shakti Dharmarth Trust in ward number 52 on Sunday. The advanced machine has been installed at the cost of ₹2 lakh. Dawar had donated the amount to the trust to purchase the machine which would help provide relief to people suffering from dental problems.“Now residents of the nearby areas do not have to shell out huge amount of money and make rounds of X-ray centres farther away. They can avail the facility close to their homes,” Dawar said. Dawar said he have always helped any NGO in his constituency that reached out to him for a genuine need. Service of the people in the constituency is his goal, and if some organisations can help contribute to it, he always help them.Prior to that, Dawar also distributed ration among needy families at Shiv Shakti Mandir in Kidwai Nagar.Projects inaugurated by Gurkirat Singh Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh inaugurated two projects in village Alour in Khanna on Sunday. The first project was the inauguration of a Dharamshala in Bazigar Basti of village Alour. Cabinet minister Satnam Singh Soni, Chairman of Block Samiti Khanna appreciated Gurkirat Singh for looking into the welfare of the people in his constituency. Another project inaugurated was that of Anganwari centre in village Alour. “This Anganwari centre will be helpful in extending help to take care of children’s nutrition, health and hygiene,” said Gurkirat Singh. A large number of dignitaries, including Gurmukh Singh Chahal, village sarpanch Samund Singh, social activist Kuldip Singh Dhindsa, along with various panches were also present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mla-dawar-inaugurates-x-ray-machine-ahead-of-assembly-elections-101640552862315.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||MC election results: Chandigarh will have its new councillors today||The counting of votes for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections will be conducted on Monday at nine designated centres in the city and the final results are expected to be declared by 2pm. The counting of votes for the 35 wards that went to the polls on December 24, will start around 9am and the initial round of counting is expected to be over in an hour. For time-to-time updates, the state election commission has put screens outside all counting stations, and live updates will also be available on the commission’s mobile app “nigam chunav”, which can be downloaded from the Google Playstore.The commission has designated nine counting observers, one at each counting centre. They will monitor the counting process to ensure it is done in transparent manner.Election commission officer on special duty (OSD) K Bhandari, said, “For ensuring strict adherence to counting protocols, de-sealing and sealing of EVMs, the election commission has for the first appointed counting observers at all counting centers.”After counting the EVMs will be sealed and deposited at central treasury, Sector 17. These will be remain there for six months; if there is a petition against the result, these will remain sealed till the result of the petition. In the voting held on December 24, 60.78% of the total 6.33 lakh voters cast their votes.As many as 203 candidates are in fray with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, main opposition party Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) putting up candidates on all 35 seats.In the outgoing MC house, out of the total 26 seats, the BJP has 20 councillors, Congress five and the Shiromani Akali Dal has one.The BJP ran a campaign around development plank and its “achievements” during the last six years. The Congress, in addition to anti-incumbency, focused on the promises of making “Chandigarh No.1 again” and not imposing any new taxes. The “Delhi Model” was the centre of AAP’s campaign with its manifesto promising a load of freebies, including free parking, free water up to 20 kilolitre per month, free primary education and free health care.The waste management and city slipping sharply Swachh Survekshan rankings, inflation, anti-farm law agitation and corruption were some other issues, which dominated the election.For the BJP, the anti-incumbency factor and presence of more than a dozen rebel leaders are major challenges to overcome for it to retain power.Congress has consistently lost ground to BJP in the last 15 years in MC and national elections. Results on Monday will show the impact of it losing an important chunk of its local leaders to AAP right before the elections. For AAP, rebel candidates from Congress and BJP form majority of its candidates, so it remains to be seen whether they can win or just dent the winning prospects of main candidates.Elections results will determine the future of state presidents of all three parties – BJP’s Arun Sood, Congress’ Subhash Chawla and AAP’s Prem Garg.Some political experts, even believe, Chandigarh MC results, would also indicate the mood of people in neighbouring states, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh where elections are slated for next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-elections-chandigarh-will-have-its-new-councillors-today-101640552801433.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Principals with double charge forced to travel 100km thrice a week||In an untenable arrangement, the state education department has placed a double charge with 22 principals, of which 17 are responsible for schools in different districts, forcing them to undertake long journeys thrice a week. The principals whose second charge in Bathinda, Jalandhar and Moga have to undertake a journey of 140 km, 61 km and 68 km, respectively. Of principals with a double charge, 13 are women. Charanjit Kaur, Monica, Gurmit Kaur, Sarabjit Kaur, Paramjit Kaur, Ravinder Kaur and Meenu Gupta are in charge of Government Senior Secondary Schools in Ludhiana and Moga. Meanwhile, Kulvir Kaur is in-charge of schools in Ludhiana and Bathinda, while Davinder Pal Kaur and Jyoti Sharma have to travel to Jalandhar thrice a week.According to officials, most of the principals holding a double charge are those who sought transfers from the previous school education secretary but were not relieved from their previous charges in other districts and were rather given additional charge of another school.A principal, on condition of anonymity, said the government does not pay travelling allowance to reach schools, which are around 100km away, in different districts. “We have to pay the fare thrice a week from our own pockets.” “This arrangement is ridiculous. Entrusting a single principal to run two-three schools in different districts is tantamount to harassment. It seems that the government wants to punish the principals for seeking a transfer. The arrangement also affects teachers and students,” said an aggrieved principal, who did not wish to be named. “An additional charge of a previous schools can be a temporary arrangement for two-three months till the joining of a new principal, but it has gone on for over a year. We have been shuttling between two schools, which affects the development of both the schools,” said another principal.To sort out the issue, the Punjab school education department director general has sought the list of such school principals from all district education officers in the state.A principal privy to the matter said the principals with double charges will soon hold a protest in SAS Nagar. “We deserved to be promoted for our hard work, but we are being treated poorly. Many principals are spending more than they earn on commuting,” she said. District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra says the list of these principals has been sent to the school education secretary and necessary action will soon be taken.
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab computer teachers’ delegation meets CM Channi’s brother||A state-level delegation of the Computer Teachers’ Union, led by state president Gurwinder Singh, met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s brother, Dr Manohar Singh, at his residence in Kharar on Sunday regarding their long-pending demands.The delegation included a state committee from across Punjab and district presidents from all the districts. Manohar Singh assured the delegation that their demands were justified and a solution in this regard will be sought from the Punjab CM at the earliest.The government is not fulfilling our demands, even after repeated requests. Despite the recruitment of 375 teachers, they are not getting confirmation. The government is making false promises like former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, the computer teachers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-computer-teachers-delegation-meets-cm-channi-s-brother-101640552440761.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Auto driver pelts stones at cop after being reprimanded over parking||An assistant sub inspector (ASI) of police stationed outside the police lines in Sector 26 was allegedly assaulted by an auto driver and two others on Saturday night. No arrests have been made yet.As per the police, ASI Amrik Singh was posted outside gate number 1 of the Police Lines on Saturday night. Parking outside this gate is not allowed and the issue started when he asked the auto driver not to park there. An argument broke out and the auto driver, along with the two passengers -- a man and woman, pelted stones at him and even snatched his mobile phone before fleeing.Officials privy to the investigation said the complainant’s role in the case is also being investigated to ascertain whether he had instigated the auto driver. Officials also said the complainant hadn’t noted down the registration number of the auto. Cops are going through closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage around the area to identify the accused.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector 26 police station against the three unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-auto-driver-pelts-stones-at-cop-after-being-reprimanded-over-parking-101640552200952.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana blast aftermath: Mohali police continue inspections in public places||Amid heightened security concerns following the blast at the Ludhiana court complex, Mohali police held a meeting with the owners and operators of various eateries, pubs and bars on Sunday.Under the directions of senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal, police teams, with dog squad and anti-sabotage teams, carried out inspections in public places for the second consecutive day.The police directed hotel owners to take identity cards from guests staying there. Also, they have been directed to scan their luggage with modern equipment. “The local police must be informed immediately in case of any suspicion,” police added.Mohali police said that checking of public spaces will continue in future as well to ensure safety of residents. The vigil has been increased to ensure that no untoward incident in the district, SSP said. He added that all restaurants and eating joints have been asked to close by 11pm .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-blast-aftermath-mohali-police-continue-inspections-in-public-places-101640552141529.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police nab Punjab man for stealing two-wheelers||The Sector 36 police arrested a man from Ferozepur, Punjab, for stealing two-wheelers and recovered nine motorcycles and three scooters from him.The accused, identified as Chhinderpal, 26, was arrested on the basis of a tip-off from a checkpoint in Sector 42. A vehicle stolen from the Sector 42 lake parking was recovered from him on the spot.Police said that with Chhinderpal’s arrest, eight theft cases dating back to October 2020 have been solved, including four registered in Sector 36, two in Sector 49 and two of Phase 8, Mohali. They added that the accused would take the bikes for a joyride and then sell them. He was produced before a court and sent to police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-nab-punjab-man-for-stealing-twowheelers-101640551900875.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Jesus Christ statue vandalised at Holy Redeemer Catholic church||Two men allegedly desecrated and vandalised a 5.5-ft tall statue of Jesus Christ at the historical Holy Redeemer Catholic Church in Ambala Cantonment, during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The church, built in 1848 when the East India Company shifted its base from Karnal to Ambala, is one of the oldest in the region. Police said the men entered the church premises after jumping the gates and vandalised the statue, which is near the entrance. “The closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage at the spot shows the men entering the compound around 12:30am and by 1.40am, the statue was damaged,” said Naresh Kumar, in-charge of Ambala Cantt police station. Father Anthony of the church said that due to the night curfew, Christmas celebrations had ended early and the gate was locked at 10:30pm. “The miscreants damaged the decoration inside the church and also broke the glass case at the entrance to damage the holy statue of Jesus Christ (Sacred Heart Statue). This is the oldest church in Ambala and nothing of this sort has happened earlier,” he told the reporters. In his complaint, Father Patras Mundu said, “The issue is very sensitive for the Christian community and our religious sentiments are deeply hurt. In the CCTV camera footage, it is clear that this was done intentionally.”Ambala has a substantial population of Christians and at least four prominent churches that were built during the British rule still exist. On Sunday evening, Bishop Ignatius Loyola Ivan Mascarenhas of diocese of Simla-Chandigarh reached the church for a special prayer meeting, after which the remains of damaged statue were collected in the presence of a large number of community members.Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Pooja Dabla said several police teams have already inspected the crime scene to determine whether it is a miscreant activity or motivated to hurt religious sentiments.An FIR has been lodged under Sections 295 (injuring or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Reacting to the incident, Haryana home minister and local MLA Anil Vij told reporters in Karnal that a separate teams of CIA-1 staff, CIA-2 and Cantt SHO are probing the case and the suspects won’t be spared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-jesus-christ-statue-vandalised-at-holy-redeemer-catholic-church-101640551780948.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU scientists develop targeted nano-formulation to stop diabetes-induced Alzheimer’s disease||Researchers at Panjab University (PU) have developed a targeted nano-formulation to stop diabetes induced Alzheimer’s disease.Nano-formulations (NFs) are novel and advanced drug-delivery systems, which enhance the properties of conventional drugs and are specific to the targeted delivery site. The study was carried out by Professor Rajat Sandhir and Smriti Gupta, a PhD student, of PU’s biochemistry department.The researchers collaborated with Nitin Singhal of National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI), Mohali, and Subramaniam Ganesh from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, for the project.The findings of the research have been recently published in an international journal “ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces”. The observational studies on a large number of diabetic patients suggests greater susceptibility to develop Alzheimer’s disease (AD), that led to coining of a new term, type-3 diabetes (T3DM), which is a neuro-metabolic disorder.In this study, the scientists initiated the work to unravel the mechanisms that link diabetes with Alzheimer’s disease using culture systems and animal models. It identified that the compromised insulin signaling system contributes to the development of diabetes-induced Alzheimer’s disease.Sandhir said, “Based on the findings, we can identify GSK3 beta as a key component in an insulin signaling pathway that was found to be over-activated in the brain, which suggested it to be likely to reverse the pathological events in the brain.”They used Graphene Oxide (GO) as a vehicle to deliver small interfering RNA (siRNA) using nasal route of delivery to block GSK3 beta gene in the brain. GSK3 is a key molecule in the insulin signalling pathway. GO has attracted great interest in recent years as a delivery vehicle and has shown remarkable success in gene knockdown due to its unique physical, chemical, and biological properties.The researchers found that the siRNA approach was successful in preventing cognitive deficits and pathology induced by compromised insulin signalling. “It is expected that the results of pre-clinical studies may soon be translated so that the benefit can reach those suffering from diabetes-induced memory deficits,” added Sandhir.Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia that accounts for more than 80% of dementia cases worldwide in elderly people
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Voter ID-cards recovered from BJP worker are genuine: Chandigarh Police||Police confirmed on Sunday that the 150 voter-id cards recovered from a BJP worker in Sector 34, a day before the municipal corporation elections, are genuine.Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress had alleged that they were fake and an altercation had even broken out in Sector 34, during which former mayor Poonam Sharma and Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chief spokesperson Anish Garg were allegedly assaulted, a video of which has gone viral.Police had arrested a BJP worker, Sanjeet Kumar of Sector 33, from the spot. Kumar was distributing the i-d cards.Meanwhile, block-level officer Vasu, who was entrusted with the distribution of the cards, was also suspended. Kumar has been booked under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 170 (personating a public servant) and 171 (Wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/voter-id-cards-recovered-from-bjp-worker-are-genuine-chandigarh-police-101640551480860.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||18 more test Covid positive in Chandigarh tricity area||As many as 18 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in tricity on Sunday, a day after it reported a five-month high of 36 cases. The maximum, 10, cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by six from Panchkula and two from Mohali. However, no Covid-related fatality was reported on the day.In Mohali, both cases were reported from Dera Bassi. Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sectors 7, 32, 33, 42, 43 and 48. The infected people in Panchkula are residents of MDC-4 and Sector 20.The tricity active caseload was 209 on Sunday, with as many as 101 patients still infected in Chandigarh, 55 in Mohali and 53 in Panchkula.‘Health authorities to collect samples from BSF camp on Monday’On Saturday, 15 jawans of BSF Lakhanur campus had tested positive for Covid-19. However on Sunday, health authorities couldn’t collect the samples of other personnel from the camp as most of the healthcare staff from National Health Mission is on protest.“The camp has already been converted into a containment zone. The samples will be collected and tested on Monday,” said Dr Girish Dogra, district immunisation officer, Mohali, adding that some of the healthcare staff is on protest while some had their weekly off on Sunday.Meanwhile, Panchkula re-imposed several restrictions amid the steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to orders issued by the District Magistrate, there will be a complete ban on movement from 11 pm to 5 am in the district. They have also made it mandatory for only fully vaccinated people to enter offices of public dealing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18-more-test-covid-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101640551420850.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula records its first Omicron case, Chandigarh adds two more to its tally||Panchkula detected its first Omicron case on Sunday even as Chandigarh added two more cases of the new variant to its tally. Panchkula’s case is 23-year-old woman, who is a student in the US and had recently come to visit her family in Kalka. She has a sister, who is currently in the US. She had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18, while her genome sequencing reports were received on Sunday. In Chandigarh, the two new Omicron cases are family members of the 20-year-old Italian resident, who was UT’s first Omicron case. Chandigarh’s Omicron tally now stands at three, of which two patients have already recovered and only one is an active case. 5 family members of P’kula woman in quarantineAfter testing positive on December 18, the 23-year-old was found negative for Covid-19 during a re-test on December 25 (Saturday). Though her institutional quarantine period is now over, she will continue to be home isolation. Five of her family members have also been placed under home quarantine. They were tested for Covid-19 immediately after she was found infected. In the first test, they had all tested negative, but they may be tested again. Genome sequencing reports of 3 pendingAfter the Italian resident was found positive for Omicron variant, the samples of his five family contacts were also sent for genome sequencing to Delhi. “Of the five genome sequencing samples sent for testing to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, the UT health department received two reports on Sunday and both people were found to be positive for Omicron variant. One of them is an 80-year-old man, who is a patient of hypertension but is asymptomatic for Covid-19. He has been isolated in a government hospital. Since he was found positive for Covid-19 in the retest on December 24, he is still considered as the ‘active’ Omicron case. The man will be retested again on January 1, 2022,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh said.“The second infected patient, a 45-year-old man, was reported negative for Covid-19 on December 24, and hence, he has recovered from the virus and has been discharged,” added Dr Singh.The genome sequencing reports of remaining three family members are pending but they all tested negative for the virus on December 24 and have been discharged.The Italian resident had arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport on November 22 and tested negative for Covid-19. As per protocol, he was put under home quarantine in Manimajra and re-tested on December 1, when he completed the eight-day quarantine period. In the second test, he was found infected with the virus. Due to his travel history, his samples were sent for genome sequencing to check for the variant of concern. On December 12, it was confirmed he was infected with Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-records-its-first-omicron-case-chandigarh-adds-two-more-to-its-tally-101640551120811.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Body of newborn girl found buried||A newborn girl’s body was found buried in Mohali’s Mattaur village, police said on Sunday. Station house officer (SHO) of Mattaur police station Naveen Pal Singh Singh, said, “Some stray dogs dug out the newborn ‘s body from the ground. Due to the continuous barking of the dogs, residents living nearby gathered there and informed the police, who rushed on the spot and took the body to the civil hospital.”“After the post-mortem is conducted, we will be able to ascertain if the baby was buried alive or cremated post death. Also, police have initiated a search for her parents,” Singh added.A case under Section 318 (concealment of birth) Indian Penal Code was registered against an unidentified woman, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-body-of-newborn-girl-found-buried-101640551002785.html
27-12-2021||Other||Haryana govt has failed on all fronts, alleges ex-CM Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of the Opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, attacked the BJP-JJP (Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party) state government on Sunday, and said that the “impact of misgovernance is visible in all the sectors, including education and health, in the state as most of the institutions have a shortage of staff, and the government treasury is also empty”.Hooda also accused the state government of “failing to deliver on employment, infrastructure and curbing inflation”.Development works in Mewat would happen only when Congress returns to the power there, as the present dispensation is not interested in developing the region, the former chief minister said while addressing a programme, ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’, organised by local leaders in Nuh. Hooda said that the BJP-JJP government has failed to carry out new development works and carry forward approved schemes of the previous Congress government too. “Once Congress returns to power, all the demands of the people, like bringing a railway line to Mewat, building a university, and developing the Mewat canal will be fulfilled,” he said. Deepender Hooda, Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader, also alleged that the present state government derailed the process of development in the entire state, including Mewat. “Haryana was number one in per capita income and investment, respect for farmers and sportspersons, agricultural productivity, schemes for the benefit of the poor, and providing employment before 2014... Today, it ranks first in unemployment, crime, atrocities on farmers and corruption among others,” he said.When asked about allegations leveled by Congress leaders, Sudhir Singla, BJP MLA from Gurugram, said that the current state government won the 2019 elections because of the all-around development, without any discrimination. “The previous Congress government under Hooda only concentrated on a few districts, and this was the reason it lost the elections twice... The BJP government has carried out major development works across the state, especially in Gurugram, Rewari and Mewat,” said Singla, adding that Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and the Western Peripheral Expressway (WPE) or Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway will be transformed in the Mewat region. Haryana BJP president OP Dhankhar was not available for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-govt-has-failed-on-all-fronts-alleges-ex-cm-hooda-101640551000765.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Temperature dips by 6°C, AQI enters ‘poor’ category||Due to a Western Disturbance (WD) active over the region, the sky remained cloudy and there was trace rainfall in Chandigarh during the day, causing the maximum temperature to plummet from 22.7°C on Saturday to 16.6°C s on Sunday as per the India Meteorological Department. Maximum temperature on Sunday was 4.4°C below normal, just 0.1°C higher than it being officially declared a cold day by the IMD. IMD officials said, “Chances of rain will be highest on Tuesday, while the sky will remain cloudy on Monday. Maximum temperature is expected to stay on the lower side and there is chance of moderate to dense fog in the mornings.” The cloudy weather however kept minimum temperature on the higher side, which went up from 6.8°C on Saturday to 7.2°C on Sunday. After Tuesday, the WD will leave the region, but another WD will affect the region around January 1 and the sky is expected to remain cloudy over the weekend. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 18°C and 20°C, while minimum temperature will remain between 7°C and 8°C.Air Quality Index (AQI) also entered into the poor bracket at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) in Sector 22. AQI was recorded at 279 at 8pm, taking the average of the past 24 hours. Between 200 to 300 air quality is considered poor and causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The AQI rose owing to the fog and cold as per officials and its likely to fall down after rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-temperature-dips-by-6-c-aqi-enters-poor-category-101640550880686.html
27-12-2021||Other||Gurugram faces shortage of imported foreign liquor||Ahead of the New Year, the district is facing a shortage of imported foreign liquor (IFL) due to international supply chain issues, said traders and excise officials. Shashank Sangal, owner of Aralia Beverages Pvt LTD, said that the IFL stock is almost exhausted due to import constraints in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Due to the current situation, people are trying to stock up their bars. Besides, with New Year approaching, people are running around to buy IFL for their parties but they are unable to do so,” he said. Due to the second wave of coronavirus, import was badly affected and there was no supply of liquor from abroad, said excise officials. Sandeep Parsan, liquor importer who also runs several shops in the city, said that only a limited stock is available and there is no chance that they will receive the stock before March-end. “The situation will remain the same for the next three months and this might increase the prices of IFL,” he said. Most liquor shops across the city are facing this challenge. The shopkeepers are encouraging customers to buy India made foreign liquor (IMFL) and are offering discounts ahead of the celebrations. Surinder Kumar, manager of a liquor store on Golf Course Road, said that they are turning back their regular customers of foreign liquor. “We are offering schemes so that they buy IMFL, but those keen on fixed brands do not easily get ready to try new brands,” he said. VK Beniwal, deputy commissioner of excise and taxation, Gurugram (east), said that the same containers that come in as import shipments are shipped out for exports. “There is hardly any rotation these days, leading to the shortage of foreign liquor,” he said.
27-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: ANPR cameras, a tool for recovering stolen vehicles||Gurugram police have recovered at least 50 stolen vehicles in the last two months with the help of Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras installed at 24 spots across the city. At least seven vehicles are stolen from the city everyday, police say, adding that this is the main challenge they face on a daily basis. An HT team spent half a day at the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) in Sector 44, where cameras linked to traffic signals detect changes on the screen via light sensors. Police teams constantly coordinate with the traffic police at checkpoints and patrol vehicles to ensure no stolen vehicle passes by. The cameras are monitored by police teams, which work in three shifts of eight hours each, and are deployed at the ICCC set up by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority to monitor feeds on CCTV cameras and share real-time data with patrol teams as soon as they receive an alert. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said an alert is sounded to the nearby traffic post as well as the ICCC as soon as any suspected vehicle enters an area where an ANPR camera is installed, and the vehicle is intercepted at the next checkpoint by a police team. “If a vehicle escapes a checkpoint, teams manually track and follow the vehicle on suspected routes. More than 15 vehicles were recovered between September 25 and December 20 from suspects who were trying to flee to Nuh and Rajasthan. The cameras are connected to software which is further connected to Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), which updated itself with the latest stolen vehicle numbers from the city as well as the state,” he said. Rao said police teams are deployed at all entry and exit points of the city (where ANPR cameras have been installed) and when any vehicle theft is reported, an alert message is sent out to police teams. “The cameras alert the police about any such vehicle entering the city, enabling them to impound the vehicle at the location itself,” he said. According to traffic police, nearly 60 more ANPR cameras will be installed at all entry points next year. Maqsood Ahmed, the deputy commissioner of police (east), said that they have also set up a stolen vehicle desk (SVD) to track stolen vehicles as well as vehicles used to commit any crime. “We set up the desk three months ago,” he said. Right now the success rate is a mere 5% as the process has just been started, he added. Ahmed said ANPR cameras record the number plates of vehicles that cross a particular stretch which police riders patrol 24x7 in three shifts. The information is stored in a database at the SVD. Police said that as soon as they receive a complaint regarding vehicle theft, they enter the information in the database and set up the surveillance system. Rao said that the SVD first receives an alert and passes the information to the team deployed at the checkpoints and the patrolling police control room vehicles. “A five member-team, led by an assistant commissioner of police and comprising a station house officer and three constables, is deployed to keep track of the stolen vehicle’s movement and pass on relevant information,” he said, adding that the desk is connected to all the 40 police stations across the city. DCP Ahmed said that the teams are connected with each other on a WhatsApp group. “The surveillance and tracking system has successfully helped solve many cases, apart from recovering the stolen vehicles,” he said. Police said they have recovered motorcycles that belonged to persons involved in committing crimes such as snatching, robbery, hit and runs and as well as those who fled after committing murders. Rao said that they did face a few challenges while using the ANPR cameras, such as accuracy, which is only 85%. “We are regularly checking the night visibility issue and trying to upgrade the hardware,” he said. Police said they are rewarding teams that recover stolen vehicles and risk their lives chasing criminals.
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sub-zero temperature across Kashmir; Gulmarg shivers at -7.5°C, Leh freezes at -10.4°C||Snowfall started in parts of Jammu and Kashmir as another weather system hit the union territory on Sunday.Jammu and Kashmir’s meteorological (MeT) department said that western disturbance prompted an overcast sky and fresh precipitation in the union territory. The western disturbance is a weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean which brings most of the precipitation in Kashmir.“Snow started at Tral and Jawahar Tunnel (in south Kashmir),” said director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus in a social media post in the afternoon.In Srinagar, there were light showers during the day as the clouds covered the sky bringing down the day temperatures.Lotus predicted light snowfall (2-3 Inches) in plains and moderate snowfall (5-6 Inches) over higher reaches most likely from Sunday night till Monday night.“Some places of higher reaches may receive up to 1ft of snow,” he said.He said that light to moderate snowfall will be at many places of Kargil and scattered places of Leh district in Ladakh.“Moderate to heavy snow is most likely on Zojila-Minamarg axis,” he said.In Jammu, light to moderate rain was very likely from Sunday night and Monday with light to moderate snowfall over places like Doda-Kistawar, Jawahar Tunnel (Top) and Pirpanjal.The minimum temperatures in Kashmir fell below zero degrees during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday in all the weather stations of the Valley.The meteorological department said the mercury plunged to lowest in the ski resort of Gulmarg to settle at -7.5°C down from -6.5 °C on the night earlier.The summer capital Srinagar recorded -1.8 °C down from 1.7 °C on Saturday night. Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest over 40-day winter period started on December 21 with western disturbance hitting the region and bringing light snowfall in Gulmarg, Tangmarg, Gurez and Sonamarg mountainous areas on December 23 – 24. In the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir, the mercury plunged to -3.8 °C during the night. It was -2.8 °C in Konibal, -1.5°C in Kupwara, and -1.2°C in Qazigund.Jammu’s Banihal recorded a minimum night temperature of 1 °C. In the union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded the lowest of -15°C while it was -10.4°C in Leh during the night.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with harsh period of Chillai Kalan from December 21 which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures during the season followed by 20 more days from February 1 which are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/subzero-temperature-across-kashmir-gulmarg-shivers-at-7-5-c-leh-freezes-at-104c-101640550224121.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||ISJK militant linked to Jammu and Kashmir cop’s killing shot dead in Anantnag encounter||Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday said that an Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) militant, who was involved in the killing of a police officer recently, was killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Sunday.The slain militant was identified as Faheem Bhat of Kadipora, Anantnag.“He had recently joined terror outfit ISJK and was involved in the killing of assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at the Bijbehara police station,” said IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar.On Wednesday evening, unidentified militants had fired upon Ashraf near the police station, Bijbehara, who succumbed to his injuries.In the past three days, the security forces have killed six militants in south Kashmir, including four on Saturday in two separate gunfights.A police spokesman said they received information regarding the presence of a militant in Kalan village in the Sirgufwara area of Anantnag on Saturday evening following which a joint cordon and search operation was launched by the police and the 3RR of the army.The spokesman said as the presence of the militant got ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender.“However, he denied the surrender opportunities and instead fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, the trapped terrorist was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of the encounter which has been identified as Faheem Bhat,” the spokesman said.The police said that incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from his possession. The police have registered a case under relevant Sections of law. “People are requested to cooperate with the police till the area at the encounter site is completely sanitised and cleared of all the explosive materials, if any,” the spokesman said.“Pertinently, in the last 48 hours, joint teams of police and security forces neutralised six terrorists in four successful anti-terrorist operations without any collateral damage,’ the spokesman added.Four militants were killed in two separate encounters in Shopian and Pulwama districts of south Kashmir on Saturday.Two militants killed in Shopian were identified as LeT terrorists, Sajad Ahmad Chak and Raja Basit Yaqoob. In the second encounter in the Hardumir area of Pulwama, officials said two terrorists were killed on Saturday afternoon who were identified as Nadeem Bhat and Rasool, alias, Adil, both affiliated with the proscribed terror outfit, Ansar Gazwat uL Hind.On Friday, a Hizbul Mujahideen militant Shahzad Ahmad was killed in an encounter with forces in the Mominhall Arwani area of Bijbehara in Anantnag, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/isjk-militant-linked-to-jammu-and-kashmir-cop-s-killing-shot-dead-in-anantnag-encounter-101640550175016.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh snowfall in Himachal; long traffic jams greet Manali tourists||The winter chill tightened its grip on Himachal as the higher reaches experienced snowfall and rains in middle hills after a fresh western disturbance activated over north-west India on Sunday.There was moderate snowfall in the high hills of Kullu, Chamba, Shimla, Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur. State capital Shimla also received snowflakes much to the delight of tourists and hoteliers while the hill resorts of Kufri and Narkanda experienced light snowfall.The MeT department has forecast snow and rains till December 28.“There is a possibility of disruption in essential services like electricity, communication and blockage of roads. General public and tourists may take adequate safety measures,” said Shimla Met Centre director Surender Paul.Long traffic jam in ManaliThe famous tourist town of Manali, which saw a heavy tourist influx for Christmas after a gap of two years, was clogged by the long traffic jam.There was a traffic jam on the 15-km stretch from Manali up to Solangnala. Tourists wanted to see the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang. However, the local administration had closed the tunnel due to the snow forecast.Only four-wheel-drive vehicles have been allowed to pass through the tunnel. No tourist vehicle is allowed beyond Sissu on the north portal of the tunnel.Keylong coldestMeanwhile, Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature at -7.2 degrees Celsius.Kalpa, the small hill-town in Kinnaur was cold at -3.4 degrees C. Kufri shivered at -1 degrees C while Manali saw a low of -0.2 degrees C.Dalhousie recorded the night temperature at 2.4 degrees C while state capital Shimla saw a minimum of 3 degrees C.Palampur was cold at 6.6 degrees C and Dharamshala 7.2 degrees C. Una was the warmest with a maximum temperature recorded at 17 degrees C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-snowfall-in-himachal-long-traffic-jams-greet-manali-tourists-101640550171468.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two cops injured in grenade attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama||Two police personnel were injured when suspected militants hurled a grenade on security forces deployed at Pulwama on Sunday afternoon, the police said. The police said they received information about a terror crime incident near the Post Office area of Washbug, Pulwama, following which senior police officers reached the spot.A police spokesperson said militants had hurled a grenade upon joint deployment of the police and the CRPF near the Post Office area of Washbug, Pulwama, in which two police personnel got splinter injuries.“They were shifted to a nearby hospital for the treatment of their injuries, “ the spokesman said. The area has been cordoned and searches in the area are going on.The police have registered a case in this regard under relevant Sections of law.“Investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime, “ the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-cops-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama-101640550169919.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||PM Narendra Modi to lay stone of projects worth ₹11,000 crore in Himachal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh on Monday to lay the foundation stone of hydropower projects worth over ₹11,000 crore. According to the Prime Minister’s Office, the PM will lay the foundation stone of the Renukaji Dam project, lying pending for around three decades. Six states viz Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Delhi were brought together by the Centre for making the project possible,” reads the press release. “The 40 MW project will be built at a cost of around ₹7000 crore. It will prove to be immensely beneficial for Delhi, which will be able to receive around 500 million cubic metre water supply per year,” reads the official statement. The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of the Luhri Stage 1 Hydro Power Project. The 210 MW project will be built at a cost of over ₹1800 crore. It will lead to the generation of over 750 million units of electricity per year. The modern and dependable grid support will prove beneficial to the surrounding states of the region as well. The foundation stone of the Dhaulasidh Hydro Power Project will also be laid by PM Modi on Monday. “This will be the first hydropower project of Hamirpur district. The 66 MW project will be built at a cost of over ₹680 crore. It will lead to the generation of over 300 million units of electricity per year,” read the release. “The Prime Minister will inaugurate the Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Power Project. The 111 MW Project has been built at a cost of around ₹2080 crore. It will lead to generation of over 380 million units of electricity per year, and help the state earn revenue worth over ₹120 crore annually,” it added. Prime Minister will also preside over the second ground-breaking ceremony of the Himachal Pradesh Global Investors’ Meet. The Meet is expected to give a boost to investment in the region through the start of projects worth around ₹28,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-lay-stone-of-projects-worth-11-000-crore-in-himachal-101640550166393.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama mourns fellow Nobel peace laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu’s death||Dharamshala: Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama on Sunday mourned his close friend, anti-apartheid crusader and fellow Nobel peace laureate Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who passed away at 90. In a letter to Archbishop’s daughter MPho Andrea Tutu, the Dalai Lama wrote: “As you know, over the years, your father and I enjoyed an enduring friendship. I remember the many occasions we spent time together, including the week here at Dharamsala in 2015 when we were able to share our thoughts on how to increase peace and joy in the world. The friendship and the spiritual bond between us were something we cherished.” The 86-year-old spiritual leader wrote that Archbishop Desmond Tutu was entirely dedicated to serving his brothers and sisters for the greater common good. He was a true humanitarian and a committed advocate of human rights. His work for the Truth and Reconciliation Commission was an inspiration for others around the world. “With his passing away, we have lost a great man, who lived a truly meaningful life. He was devoted to the service of others, especially those who are least fortunate. I am convinced the best tribute we can pay him and keep his spirit alive is to do as he did and constantly look to see how we too can be of help to others,” he wrote. “Please accept my heartfelt condolences and convey the same to your mother and other members of your family. I pray for him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalai-lama-mourns-fellow-nobel-peace-laureate-archbishop-desmond-tutu-s-death-101640550163060.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Mandi reports first Omicron case||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday reported the first case of a patient infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The 45-year-old woman had returned from Canada on December 3.“The latest RT-PCR report of the patient confirmed she was infected with Omicron. The three RT-PCR of a close relative of the patient tested negative,” said Hemraj Bherwa, mission director, National Rural Health Mission. The patient had been isolated at her home in Mandi town. The woman, who was found infected with the Omicron variant, had arrived at the Mundra seaport from Canada on December 3. She had tested positive for Covid on December 12. Her samples were sent to Delhi on December 18 and she tested positive on Sunday for Omicron, said a health official. The patient’s mother, father and sister have tested negative. Himachal had sent nine samples to the NCDC, Delhi, for genome sequencing five days ago but the health authorities are still awaiting reports. “One more sample of a foreign returnee had been sent to Delhi on Sunday,” said the official. Tourists are rushing to Himachal in hordes for festivities. Hotels in Dalhousie, Kullu, Manali, Shimla, Chail and Dharamshala are full to capacity with an increase in the footfall from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. The tourist rush is raising concerns among locals, but the government so far has not imposed any restrictions. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who left for Mandi on Saturday to oversee arrangements for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally, had made it clear that his government would not impose any kind of restrictions till December 31.Himachal has been recording a steady decline in Covid infections since October. The state has logged only 1,342 fresh cases till December 25, compared to 3,089 cases in November. The state’s total tally has reached 2,28,537. The fatalities due to the virus have also dropped considerably. This month the state has reported only 25 deaths so far while 93 people had died of the contagion last month. The death toll has reached 3,856.The hill state was hit by the second wave of Covid in February-end till July during which more than 1.50 lakh infections and over 2,000 fatalities were reported in the state. A government spokesperson said on Sunday that 2,167 international passengers had arrived in the state as per the list shared by the Government of India from November 20 till now. He said of them, 1,747 were eligible for RT-PCR testing. The remaining 420 passengers were not eligible for testing as some of them were untraceable, a few have completed 14 days of home isolation and some are staying out of the state.The government spokesperson said out of 1,747 international passengers eligible for testing, 942 RT-PCR tests have been done. He added that the testing is done on the 8th day after arrival or when the symptoms appear, so accordingly 805 passengers are due for the testing.He said out of 942 RT-PCR tests done, 10 samples have been found positive.
27-12-2021||Other||Parts of Gurugram witness light rain, cloudy sky||The city witnessed light rain at isolated places on Sunday evening, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting similar rain activity for the next two days due to an active western disturbance. Areas such as South City 1, Sushant Lok, Palam Vihar, Sector 22 and Sector 23, and parts of Old Gurugram saw intermittent light rain starting from 6pm on Sunday. During the day, the city witnessed cloudy skies due to which the day temperature was below normal.According to the IMD, Gurugram on Sunday recorded the maximum temperature at 19.8°C, which was one degree below normal, while the minimum temperature was 11.7°C, five degrees above normal.“A western disturbance is seen as a cyclonic circulation over east Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan and an induced cyclonic circulation lies over south-west Rajasthan and neighbourhood region at lower tropospheric levels. A trough runs from the cyclonic circulation over south-west Rajasthan and neighbourhood to Vidarbha across east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh at lower tropospheric levels. Under the influence of above systems, light rainfall at isolated to scattered places is likely over Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh during December 26-28,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre in Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD. According to the weekly forecast of IMD, over the next five days, the maximum temperature is likely to be around 19-20°C, while the minimum temperature is likely to drop by four degrees and will be around 8°C. Meanwhile, air quality in the city continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday. According to the 4pm bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index of Gurugram on Sunday was 375 with PM 2.5 as the primary pollutant. On Saturday, the city had recorded an AQI reading of 349. According to the weather bulletin issued on Sunday by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over the national capital territory is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category on Monday, and will improve to ‘poor’ category on Tuesday. The air quality is likely to improve from Monday owing to light rain or drizzle, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parts-of-gurugram-witness-light-rain-cloudy-sky-101640549680807.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Can contest as independents if not registered with ECI: Sanyukt Samaj Morcha||Chandigarh : A day after it came into existence, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political front of 22 farmer unions, on Sunday decided to start the process for registration as a political party with Election Commission of India (ECI). “We have started preparing documents for the registration of the party,” said Prem Singh Bhangu of All India Kisan Federation, a part of 22 organisations. He accepted that registration of parties takes time and further allotment of symbol also involves a procedure, so the SSM doesn’t want to waste time. The 22 organisations that formed the SSM are part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 32 farm bodies that led agitation against now repealed farm laws. The SSM has decided to contest the upcoming Punjab polls on all 117 assembly constituencies ruling out an alliance or merger with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which was in talks with the farm leaders, particularly Babir Singh Rajewal, who has been declared as leader of the SSM. Bhangu said the SSM constituents will hold a meeting to decide a venue for opening of the party’s office. He said even if the SSM is not registered as a political party, the morcha candidates can contest as independents. BKU Dakounda to meet todayBKU (Dakounda), which has a hold in the Malwa belt, particularly Sangrur, Barnala, Mansa and Bathinda districts, is expected to come in support of the SSM but will not take part in the electoral process. Office-bearers of BKU (Dakounda) will hold a meeting in Barnala on Monday to take a final call, but it has clarified that it would not field its candidates in the upcoming polls. “We will not oppose the SSM because we have a strong association with all the farm bodies,” said organisation general secretary Jagmohan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/can-contest-as-independents-if-not-registered-with-eci-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-101640547341254.html
27-12-2021||Other||Kisan morcha has sold ‘kisan’ to Kejriwal: PYC president Dhillon||Chandigarh A day after 22 farmer unions formed a political outfit Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon on Sunday claimed that newly formed kisan morcha will contest the upcoming elections on the symbol of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Calling it politics of convenience, Dhillon tweeted that fighting on the AAP symbol and in an alliance with them was akin to selling the fruits of agitation to the highest bidder. “You did not want to share stage with politicians but now you will be working under a new boss @ArvindKejriwal. Kisan leaders have sold the kisan to Kejriwal. BJP was selling us to crony capitalists and so-called kisan leaders, now politicians, for political gains (sic),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kisan-morcha-has-sold-kisan-to-kejriwal-pyc-president-dhillon-101640547280508.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP announces 15 more candidates, Sandoa not on list||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday released a list of 15 more candidates for the upcoming polls in Punjab, denying ticket to sitting MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa from the Rupnagar assembly constituency. Sandoa, who had won the seat by a hefty margin of 23,707 votes in 2017, has been replaced with party spokesperson and RTI activist Dinesh Chadha, according to the fourth list of candidates released by AAP state chief Bhagwant Mann and state convener Jarnail Singh. Sandoa had defected to the ruling Congress days before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections only to return to the AAP fold in December last year. The defection seems to have weighed against him. With this list, the number of nominees named by the AAP so far has gone to 73. Ranjit Singh Rana has been fielded from Bholath, Dr Vijay Singla from Mansa and Hakam Singh Thekedar from Raikot. The party had won these seats in the 2017 polls, but its MLAs rebelled and jumped ship to the Congress. Inderjit Kaur Maan has been fielded from Nakodar, Gurdhian Singh Multani from Mukerian, Karamvir Singh Ghumman from Dasuya, Jasvir Singh Raja Gill from Urmar, Lakhbir Singh Rai from Fatehgarh Sahib and Tarunpreet Singh Sondh from Khanna. The other candidates are Devinder Singh Laddi Dhos from Dharamkot, Ashu Banger from Firozpur Rural, Amandeep Singh ‘Goldy’ Musafir from Balluana, Narinder Kaur Bharaj from Sangrur and Kuljit Singh Randhawa from Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-announces-15-more-candidates-sandoa-not-on-list-101640546920574.html
27-12-2021||Mumbai||New east-west link bridges threaten mangrove ecology||Mumbai: A series of proposed vehicular bridges in the north-west suburbs, meant to improve connectivity between Andheri, Madh, Borivali and Gorai region, will eat into a mangrove area just over the size of Azad Maidan, show publicly available documents. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) have sought the forest department’s nod as well as coastal regulation zone clearance from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for diverting four mangrove patches totalling 29.6 acres in size. By comparison, the Azad Maidan in south Mumbai measures 27 acres. Of the four mangrove patches, the one in Pahadi Goregaon village, Borivali Taluka measures 11.5 acres, and will be diverted for a BMC-built bridge over the Oshiwara River and Malad creek in three wards – K-West, P-South and P-North. “This missing link will connect the areas of Malad to Lokhandwala, Millat Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Infinity Mall, Laxmi industrial Estate, Behram Baug. This link is further connected to a proposed bridge on Ramchander Nullah (in Malad); hence can be connected to Malad-Marve road easily,” the BMC said in a submission to the forest department in October this year. The BMC is seeking forest clearance (FC) for the bridge, which is expected to service around 75,000 private vehicles per day. Another patch of mangroves, 12.9 acres in size, is proposed to be diverted by the MMRDA in Gorai village, to connect Gorai area with the mainland at Borivali. The MMRDA’s FC submission says: “There is no direct vehicular connectivity from Mumbai to Gorai creek. A lengthy detour of 28.8km is required if one has to reach here.” This road, the MMRDA explained, will particularly benefit visitors to the Global Vipassana Pagoda in Gorai, which attracts more than 3000 visitors on weekdays and up to 15000 visitors on weekends. “This network will successfully reduce traffic congestion on Link Road, SV Road, and western express highway (WEH), from Andheri, Oshiwara and Malad onwards. They will cut travel time between Oshiwara and Madh by approximately one hour during peak hours,” said an official from the office of the chief engineer (bridges), BMC, who did not wish to be named. The MMRDA said, “Seventy percent of visitors come from Borivali site using the Essel World jetty to reach Pagoda. Visitors have to wait in long queue for about 2 to 3 hours sometime to get in to ferry. Another route is from Bhayandar which is around 40 km distance and time consuming and expensive... To mitigate the above difficulties... MMRDA intends to carry out the detailed study of the construction of proposed Bridge across Borivali Creek and subsequent development of road network connectivity to Global Pagoda. The total length of the proposed bridge will be around 550m approximately and will consist of approximately 5km of approach roads and development of road connectivity to Global Pagoda.” The other two projects for which smaller mangrove parcels are sought to be diverted are about two acres each, and will be used to build “missing links” between Madh and Versova and from Lagoon Road to Infiniti Mall in Malad, in P-North ward. The projects are being undertaken by the BMC as part of a network of six elevated roads in the north-western suburbs, to ease pressure on SV Road, Link Road and the Western Express Highway. Currently, commuters travelling to Madh, Marve, or Malwani from Borivali or Andheri take either the Link Road or SV Road up to Evershine Nagar, and turn onto the Malad-Marve Road. Those travelling to Manori from Borivali have to go via Mira Road-Bhayander and Uttan. The proposed roads will connect the Oshiwara Link Road to the creek in Malad (for which the BMC has sought to divert 11 acres of mangroves), Inorbit mall in Malad to Malwani, Infinity Mall in Malad to Lagoon Road near the Malad-Marve highway and Dharavali road in Madh creek. The other two elevated roads are the links between Madh and Versova, and Marve and Manori, which was first proposed by the BMC over five years ago, but did not take off. Anand Pendharkar, a city-based ecologist and nature educator, expressed concern over the manner in which the mangrove forests continue to be fragmented for development projects. “This is ironic, because mangroves are essential against protecting our buildings, roads and other existing infrastructure. For Mumbai, they are going to be essential in minimising damage from sea level rise and cyclones. Landscape fragmentation will weaken their ability to hold off storm surges. Second, small development projects like these do not ever consider their impact on biodiversity. Even non-food species like mudskippers or fiddler crabs, which are not covered under the Indian Wildlife Act, have a role to play in the environment. The mangrove swamp is an ecosystem and not just trees by themselves.” Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, and petitioner in a Bombay High Court PIL seeking better protection of mangroves across the state, said the extent of forests sought to be diverted for these bridges is worrying. “On the one hand, you have the state government publicising its efforts at bringing mangroves under legal protection, but there are several projects like these for which they are constantly being diverted. The impact of these projects has not been thought through. Take Oshiwara river which already has two bridges across it. More bridges will perforate the swamp and interfere with the flow of tidal water. Compensatory afforestation elsewhere will not make up for local damage,” Stalin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-east-west-link-bridges-threaten-mangrove-ecology-101640546860812.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shaheedi Jor Mela: Channi announces memorial to Bhai Sangat Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib: Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sri Fatehgarh Sahib on the second day of the annual Shaheedi Sabha dedicated to the martyrdom of martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s two younger sons Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh and Mata Gujri.During an interaction with the media, the CM said a memorial to martyr Baba Sangat Singh would be established in Fatehgarh Sahib. The elder sons of Guru Sahib were martyred at Sri Chamkaur Sahib and younger ones at Fatehgarh Sahib, Channi said, explaining the reason for the connection between the two places.He said the state government has decided to link both these places as a mark of respect to the martyrs. The Hoshiarpur main road till Sri Chamkaur Sahib beyond the GT Road, Sirhind would be interconnected and the circuit has been named as Mata Gujri Ji Marg. Besides, a letter has been written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accord it the status of the national highway, said the CM.The CM was accompanied by Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, district congress president Subhash Sood among others.Channi visits Nakodar deraJALANDHAR: CM Channi also paid obeisance at Dera Baba Murad Shah and Darbar Almast Bapu Lal Badshah, Nakodar. Accompanied by MLA Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia, former minister Amarjeet Singh Samra, former chairman of Kartarpur Improvement Trust Rana Randhawa and others, the CM visited Dera Baba Murad Shah where he prayed for the welfare of all sections of the society,according to an official spokesperson. The trustees of Dera Baba Murad Shah presented a shawl to the CM. He also partook of the langar with devotees and announced grants of ₹11 lakh each for both religious places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shaheedi-jor-mela-channi-announces-memorial-to-bhai-sangat-singh-in-fatehgarh-sahib-101640546740526.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Congress reschedules Lucknow marathon for Tuesday, targets Yogi govt||UP Congress has rescheduled its Lucknow edition of ‘Ladki hoon, laad sakti hoon’ marathon to Tuesday, said the party in a press statement on Sunday.Originally, the marathon was scheduled for Sunday, but the party on Saturday had said that the Lucknow district administration had denied permission for the marathon.However, several women runners had reached the 1090 crossing on Sunday morning. They shouted slogans against the administration and the government.The party claimed that the government denied permission to the women’s marathon as they were scared of women and girls’ leaning towards the Congress.Supriya Srinet, the national spokesperson of Congress attacking the government said, “The marathon was denied permission citing prohibitory orders under CrPC 144. But then why did the chief minister Yogi Adityanath hold an event at the Ekana stadium. Was 144 not applicable at the stadium or was that venue free from Covid scare”, Srinet had asked.“Yogi Adityanath ji is so against the voice of women that his government did not give permission to the marathon. The girls won’t tolerate it and will fight for their rights and change,” Congress UP in charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said according to a party statement.Meanwhile, the marathon was successful and saw a heavy turnout of women in Jhansi on Sunday, according to UPCC statement. It said now the marathon would be held on December 28 (Tuesday) from Ekana stadium on Shaheed Path.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-reschedules-lucknow-marathon-for-tuesday-targets-yogi-govt-101640546500974.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP slams govt for making poor go to houses of MLAs for stickers||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday hit out at the Charanjit Singh Channi government for making poor beneficiaries go to the houses of the Congress legislators for barcode stickers for below the poverty line (BPL) cards so that they can get their ration. In a statement, AAP MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer slammed the state government for this blatant misuse of official power for the party. “Before coming to power in 2017, the Congress promised the moon to people, but after forming the government they brushed off each one of their promises. Instead of providing employment, free plots, etc, they cancelled lakhs of BPL cards of poor families,” he said. Accusing the state government of politicising the government schemes, Hayer said: “If a person does not support the Congress, will he be denied ration? It is like the Congress government has no regard for the poor people of the state.” He warned the Congress that people would not forget such misdeeds and hold them accountable in upcoming elections. Comparing the governance of Channi and Kejriwal, the AAP MLA said that the Delhi government was trying its best to make the lives of common people easy by providing services at their doorsteps, but the Channi government was taking advantage of welfare programmes to suit their political agendas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-slams-govt-for-making-poor-go-to-houses-of-mlas-for-stickers-101640546440445.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||BSF seizes 40kg heroin dropped by Pak drones in Ferozepur sector||AMRITSAR: The Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 40kg of heroin suspected to be airdropped by drones from across the border in two separate operations in the Ferozepur sector.According to a BSF spokesperson, the first incident was reported in Mianwala Uttar village near Khemkaran in Tarn Taran district on Sunday morning when BSF troopers heard the thumping sound of something hitting the ground near the barbed wire fence. He said when the area was searched, 22 packets of the contraband, suspected to be heroin (weighing 34kg) were recovered. The contraband was tied with two pieces of cloth and it is suspected that it was dropped by a drone from across the border, the spokesperson said. The second incident was reported at New Muhammudi Wala village in Ferozepur district. Again, a thumping sound was heard in the area on Sunday morning. The alert troop launched a search operation and six packets of heroin (weighing 6kg) were recovered, said the spokesperson. BSF officials suspect this contraband was also dropped by a drone from across the border.A senior BSF official said taking advantage of the dense fog, anti-national elements across the border have increased their activities, but they will not allow any attempt to be succeeded. On Saturday, the BSF had seized 10kg of heroin in the Ferozepur sector. The BSF has seized 485 kg of heroin this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-seizes-40kg-heroin-dropped-by-pak-drones-in-ferozepur-sector-101640546203112.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Three-day Kashi Film Festival begins today||A three-day Kashi Film Festival will begin in Varanasi on December 27. UP tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari and secretary information and broadcasting Apoorva Chandra will inaugurate the Mahotsava at Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre here on Monday, as per an official statement. On the first day, comedian Raju Srivastava, singer Kailash Kher’s live show will be held at Dr Sampoornanand Sports Stadium, Sigra from 6pm onwards. Meanwhile, actor Manoj Joshi will perform live at the Rudraksh Convention Center.Besides, Bollywood and TV actors Anupam Kher, Rajpal Yadav, Vinod Bachchan and Satish Kaushik, lyricist Manoj Muntashir, producer Rahul Mitra, Bhojpuri actors Shruti Rao, Anjana Singh and Kanchan Awasthi, Indian film and television directors association president Ashok Pandit, and general secretary, Federation of Western India Cine Employees Ashok Dubey will participate in the event on the first day.Furthermore, the Bollywood movie Toilet-Ek Prem Katha will be screened from 5pm on December 27, Bhojpuri film “Humke Disha Mil Gaya” will be screened on December 28 and another Bollywood movie “Manikarnika” will be screened on December 29 at the Rudraksh Convention Center.Union minister of information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur will be the chief guest in the Mahotsav on December 28, the second day. On December 28, BJP MP and actress Hema Malini will give a cultural performance. A panel discussion will also be organised from 10:30am to 12noon on the topic “Varanasi – Journey from a Cultural, Mythological and Historical Heritage to a Modern City”. The topic of discussion of the second panel will be ‘Music and Songs - Virasat of Banaras’ from 12:30pm to 2pm. Another panel discussion on the topic “Uttar Pradesh as an important centre for film production and the potential of regional cinema” will be held on December 29. Singer Ravi Tripathi and actor Ravi Kishan will perform in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/threeday-kashi-film-festival-begins-today-101640546201209.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 50 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Chandigarh : Punjab on Sunday reported 50 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,04,236, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality in the state, the death toll reached 16,638, it said. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.38%. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 378. Among the fresh cases, Pathankot witnessed 15, Ludhiana seven, and six each in Hoshiarpur and Patiala, the bulletin said. With recovery of 17 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 587,220, it said. At least 13,023, Covid tests were done on Sunday and 11,648 people were vaccinated, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-50-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101640546080419.html
27-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh bodies demand release of ‘political prisoners’||AMRITSAR: Sikh bodies on Sunday took out a march in Amritsar for the release of what they call “political prisoners”, who have been “languishing” in various jails since mid-90’s.These prisoners are Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, who was convicted by a TADA court in a 1993 Delhi bomb blast case that left nine people dead and 31 injured, Jagtar Singh Hawara, who was convicted as a conspirator in the assassination of former chief minister, Beant Singh, Jagtar Singh Tara, Balwant Singh Rajoana, Gurmeet Singh, Lakhwinder Singh and Shamsher Singh, Gurdeep Singh and Paramjit Singh (all convicted in assassination of Beant Singh). While Rajoana is on death row, the others have been sentenced to life imprisonment. Dal Khalsa leader Kanwar Pal Singh said the Indian laws regarding release of indeterminate sentence prisoners are open to interpretation and prevarication of the executive. The continued detention of nine prisoners not only violates the principle of equality but is also a clear violation of the UN Declaration of Human Rights, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-bodies-demand-release-of-political-prisoners-101640545964306.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Sero-surveillance in Uttar Pradesh from today||Sero-surveillance will again be done in Uttar Pradesh to check the level of antibodies among the masses against the Covid infection. Sample collection will begin from Monday. Earlier, sero-surveillance was done in September and October 2020. Under the fresh round, random sampling will be done among adult men, women and children in five districts while in 20 other districts sampling will be done in timeline. Six hundred and forty samples each will be collected from Ballia, Shahjahanpur, Kushinagar, Gaziabad and Sambhal, totalling to 3200 samples. In these districts, samples will be taken in the ratio of 3 adult men to 3 adult women and 3 children. Sampling will be random. All samples have to be collected in December. “We will begin sampling from Monday. A list of people from whom samples have to be taken is ready,” said a senior health official in Lucknow. In 20 other districts, 100 samples will be taken in different categories. The first category is of health workers who had tested positive for Covid between May 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020. Another category will be of 264 samples from among health workers who did not test positive till vaccination started on January 16, 2021. The next category is of people above 60-years of age who tested positive in RTPCR report between July 1, 2020 and February 28, 2021. A total of 332 samples will be taken collectively from all districts. The next category is of common people aged between 18 and 59 years who tested positive between May 2020 and August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/serosurveillance-in-uttar-pradesh-from-today-101640545900804.html
27-12-2021||Other||HC seeks UP govt’s reply on PIL alleging fraud in pension benefits meant for political prisoners||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a reply as to how many persons are getting pensions fraudulently by showing themselves to be detained as political prisoners during the period when national emergency was invoked in the Country (June 25, 1975, to March 21, 1977). Besides, the court also directed the government to specify in the reply as to whether these pensioners were the political prisoners and hence, entitled to get pension or were in jail on account of certain other offences committed by them. Hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by one Ashok Kumar Shamsha, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agarwal in its order dated December 16, adjourned the hearing of the case and fixed the date for next hearing to April 18, 2022. In the PIL, the petitioner has claimed that many persons are fraudulently receiving Loktantra Senani pension on monthly basis which was actually meant for political prisoners of the emergency era. The contention raised in the petition was that the many persons, who have been made respondents in the PIL, are recorded criminals in the police records, but have been extended the benefit of political pension in spite of the fact that some of them have been convicted for heinous offences. According to the PIL, the benefit of political pension should not be extended to such persons and the same having been given, the authorities are bound to rectify the same and withdraw any such benefit. It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that as per its estimate, around 1500 persons are receiving the pension fraudulently. It was contended in the PIL that in Pilibhit district alone, many people have been made entitled to the Loktantra Senani pension, even though they were not jailed as political prisoners during the emergency era and rather, they were sent to jails on allegations of chain snatching and attempt to murder against them. According to PIL, there are about 6000 such Loktantra Senani in Uttar Pradesh, and more than ₹35.35 crore of the government are being spent every month on the pension given to them. Apart from this, such pensioners are also provided with free travel service on roadways buses and free medical facilities in district hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-up-govt-s-reply-on-pil-alleging-fraud-in-pension-benefits-meant-for-political-prisoners-101640545424007.html
27-12-2021||Other||Ayodhya temple could have come up only during a Ram Bhakt regime: Yogi||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya could have happened only during the ‘Ram bhakt’ regime. “Neither those who fired bullets on ‘Ram-bhakts’ (referring to firing in Ayodhya during previous SP government under Mulayam Singh Yadav) nor Congress or ‘bua’ (BSP regime under Mayawati) would have ever constructed lord Ram’s temple. It had to be some ‘Ram-bhakt’ regime (referring to BJP) that could have done it,” the chief minister said at a public meeting organised during BJP’s Jan Vishvas Yatra at Manjhanpur in Kaushambi district. “Before 2017, Ram-bhakts got bullets while we (BJP) are constructing temple for them. Earlier, Kanwar yatras were stopped and now we shower flower petals on them. Earlier, due to poor management in Kumbh there used to be stampedes at Prayagraj. Now, when we organise Kumbh, people say ‘bhavya Kumbh-divya Kumbh”. BJP has fulfilled all its promises,” he said.The chief minister also accused the opposition of doing nothing when people faced problems.“Babua’ (Akhilesh Yadav) did nothing else except play on his smartphone while ‘bhai-bahen’ (Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi) were enjoying holidays in Italy and ‘bua’ (BSP chief Mayawati) was nowhere to be seen when the people were facing challenges. It was Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which helped the masses and those who had opposed vaccine at the time were actually against the very welfare of poor and masses,” Yogi said. “Were SP workers seen during pandemic? Some people are attached to the habits of their young days and that is why Akhilesh still plays kids’ game on smart phones and he did nothing for masses during corona outbreak. The BSP and Congress too didn’t do anything,” he said. During the event, the UP CM also inaugurated and laid foundation stones for 99 different development projects worth ₹87 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhya-temple-could-have-come-up-only-during-a-ram-bhakt-regime-yogi-101640545420944.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur police restructure 100-yr-old morning parade||Kanpur: To keep pace with the changing times, the Kanpur police have reshaped the morning parade that the British rulers introduced for the khaki-clad policemen at the police lines 100 years ago. Earlier, policemen in their crisp uniforms with their weapons fell in and marched around, doing foot and weapons drill through the week. Each Friday, the district superintendent of police would oversee how well they moved in formations with their weapons. But now it has been redesigned, as the Kanpur police feel it lacks any tactical gain to meet the challenges of the 21st century policing. “The ceremonial drill the British brought in 100 years back has been restricted to one day (Friday. For the rest of the days, a new course has been designed with experts from Special Protection Group to sharpen the fitness and skills of our men,” said Asim Arun, commissioner of police, Kanpur. More than merely marching around on instructions echoing through the ground, the men and women of all ranks have much more on their hands. “They can choose the course as per their ability. We have soft physical training, hard physical training, Zoomba exercises, yoga, weapons and tactical training and much more to help them prepare better,” he said. “Another session involves 40 minutes of professional training to handle weapons, cameras, drone and other tactical issues that help in their working,” he said. In the past three months since the morning parade system was restructured, much to relief of the leadership, the men and women have started morning trainings on their own. To make the entire mechanism effective, the Kanpur police have formed a district training unit (DTU) having 11 trainers who were sent to SPG and other organization for training. The DTU has the responsibility of holding the morning training, three-day mandatory weapons training and firing sessions. Also, it imparts training with regards to investigations and effective discharge of magisterial powers delegated to the police officers with the advent of the commissionerate system. There is a fortnightly review of the training and the participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-police-restructure-100-yr-old-morning-parade-101640545060832.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 59 fresh Covid cases, third Omicron case||LUCKNOW With 59 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on Sunday, the total number of active cases under treatment in Uttar Pradesh has crossed 300-mark, a level similar to the fourth week of August this year, according to the data from the health department. The state also reported its third Omicron case today. At present, the state has 323 Covid active cases. On August 27, the total number of active cases was 329 while on August 28, it was 299 cases. Since then, the number kept falling, as per the data. In all, 59 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday while in the past 48-hours 96 new cases were detected. “In the past 24 hours, 18, 2,587 Covid samples were tested and 59 new cases were reported,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical health), in a press statement. On Saturday, 38 samples came positive out of the 1, 97,506 samples tested for Covid-19, according to the health department. “Lucknow reported 17 Covid cases in the past 48-hours, of which five cases were reported on Saturday and 12 on Sunday. The rising trend has to be checked with compliance of Covid protocol by one and all,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Among the fresh cases in Lucknow, two had returned from Dubai on December 19 and 24. One passenger who returned from Jharkhand and another from Mumbai, tested positive for Covid. A patient, who came from Jaunpur for treatment at KGMU, also tested positive while four tested positive during the contact tracing of a positive case. Another person tested positive at Lohia institute. “People should avoid journey and travel only when it is necessary,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. He said that use of mask was essential for safety of self and others. US- return woman tests +ve for Omicron, 3rd case in UP Uttar Pradesh reported on Sunday its third Omicron case after a 29-year-old woman, who returned from US to Raebareli tested positive for Covid-19 and later her sample taken for Omicron also came positive. “The woman reached New Delhi from Florida (US) and then came to Raebareli. We took her sample on December 16 and it tested positive for Covid-19 in RTPCR test. The genome sequencing was done thereafter and it came out to be Omicron,” said Dr Virendra Singh, chief medical officer (CMO), Rae Bareilly. The woman is a photographer. “The condition of the woman is fine and all her 12 contacts have tested negative for Covid,” added Dr Singh.In a press statement, additional chief secretary (medical health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “A new omicron positive patient has been reported. This takes the total number of such cases to three in the state.” Earlier, two omicron cases were reported in Ghaziabad.Prasad said, “All the three patients who tested positive for Omicron have recovered. However, each one of us should remain cautious and adhere to Covid protocol. Also, we should ensure we take both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine. At present, Uttar Pradesh has 282 active Covid cases of which 205 were in home isolation.” Ensure Covid protocol in pvt buses, RTOs told The transport department has asked regional transport officers (RTOs) to coordinate with local transporters and find ways to enforce Covid-19 protocols in private buses in view of the Omicron threat. In a circular issued on Saturday, transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu directed zonal deputy transport commissioners, RTOs and ARTOs, to hold meetings with local transporters to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 protocol like covering faces with mask and following social distancing in buses. He asked the officials to provide action taken report to his office by December 28. The transport department’s action comes as a compliance of the chief secretary’s directives issued two days back. UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) managing director, according to government guidelines, was supposed to monitor the screening and other related arrangements at bus stations and inform the government every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-59-fresh-covid-cases-third-omicron-case-101640544760221.html
27-12-2021||Other||Gurugram sees first Omicron case, Covid caseload now 269||A 30-year-old man with travel history to the United Kingdom has tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, becoming the first such case in Gurugram, said officials from the state health department on Sunday.Rajeev Arora, Haryana’s additional chief secretary for health, said, “A 30-year-old man who had returned from the United Kingdom on December 10, has tested positive for Omicron variant in Gurugram. The patient tested positive for Covid-19 on December 18 when he was kept in isolation at a government facility and his samples were sent for genome sequencing. The results of which came on Sunday.” The district health officials said that the person tested positive for Covid-19 during the repeat RT-PCR testing done on the eighth day after travelling from high-risk countries, which is part of the monitoring process.Meanwhile, with 68 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tally of active cases in Gurugram crossed the 250-mark on Sunday for the first time in the past six months. According to the district health department bulletin, the district on Sunday had a total of 269 active cases.The last time when Gurugram had reported more than 250 active cases was June 19 (276 active cases). The number of new Covid-19 cases in the district has been on the rise since December 20. According to the health bulletin, the district reported 16 fresh cases on December 20, while it saw 23 cases the next day. Similarly, the new cases went up to 48 on December 24, and 59 on December 25, shows the bulletin. However, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that the situation is under control and that residents must follow all Covid-19 safety protocols. “Cases are increasing daily, but there is no need to panic. Testing has been increased in the district from 4,000 samples early this week to 5,000 samples now. Over 17,000 international travellers have entered the district in the past one month, of which over 3,500 are from high-risk countries. We are continuously monitoring all suspected cases and 5% of the samples at random of these travellers are being sent for genome sequencing,” said Yadav. On Sunday, the health department on Sunday collected 5,083 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,270,701, shows the data. According to the officials, 5,845 people received Covid-19 jabs on Sunday, of which 1,651 took their first dose and 4,194 received the second dose. With this, over 4.18 million doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in the district so far. Meanwhile, the officials said that a meeting will be held soon to discuss the preparations to start vaccination among children in the 15-18 age group. The development comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination for children in this age bracket will start from January 3.“Last month we had asked all schools in the district to prepare a database for children of different age groups. We have so far learnt that there are around 700,000 children of all age groups. Now, we need to find out how many of them belong to the 15-18 age group. The district task force will meet in the coming days when these details will be discussed with the education department and other departments concerned,” said the CMO. Medical experts welcomed the decision to start vaccination of children and said that it is essential as cases have started to increase again. Dr Himanshu Agarwal, principal consultant for paediatrics division at Max Hospital, Gurugram, said, “Approving the Covid vaccination for children between 15-18 years of age is a welcome step by the government. It is especially important with the current surge in Covid-19 cases in the country. Many parents are not sending their children to schools as they are not vaccinated. This move will enable children to join school and restart their normal lives. Children with comorbidities should be given priority for vaccination.” Results of the third statewide serological survey that was released in October this year had shown that over 69% of children aged 6-17 years in Gurugram district were exposed to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic. According to the results, antibodies were found in 68.4% of children between the ages six and nine years, while 70.4% of the children aged 10-17 years had developed antibodies against Covid-19. Gurugram reported overall seropositivity of 78.3%, higher than the overall seropositivity in Haryana of 76.3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-sees-first-omicron-case-covid-caseload-now-269-101640544280439.html
27-12-2021||Lucknow||Night curfew in Lucknow goes for a toss amid Christmas festivities||Lucknow: Night curfew went for a toss amid Christmas festivities on Saturday, with people crowding public places and restaurants till well past midnight. Hordes of people thronged Hazratganj on Christmas day, with many spending hours in the market after visiting the Cathedral. The entire road from Cathedral to Hazratganj crossing remained crowded till past midnight. Similar scenes were witnessed in several other places across the city. Gomti Nagar and Mahanagar areas that are dotted with restaurants and clubs also entertained guests till past 11 PM. All this occurred while the state recorded a spike in Covid-19 cases and got a third confirmed case of the new variant Omicron. December 25 was also the first day for the implementation of night curbs ordered by the state government amid fear of the spread of the new variant. While business owners supported the restrictions, they expressed inability to refuse customers on Christmas day. “I know that it was the first day of the curbs but it was Christmas, so it was very difficult to refuse the guests. We will follow the curfew strictly from Sunday,” said manager of a popular eatery in Hazratganj on condition of anonymity. Other business owners questioned the effectiveness of night curfew. “We are in the hospitality business that was badly affected ever since Covid-19 broke out. It is the festival time that gives us a brief period of good earnings. Refusing customers at this time will surely affect our business. Also the decision of night curfew seems partial when large political events are being organised in the day time,” remarked the owner of another restaurant in Hazratganj on condition of anonymity. According to sources, the police was limited to maintaining law and order and did little to implement the curfew. No case for violation of curfew was lodged in Lucknow by the police. Meanwhile, police officials have said that the night curfew will be imposed strictly in coming days. “The restrictions imposed as part of the night curfew will be imposed strictly in the city. We have communicated to business owners about the guidelines and sought their support. We also hope to get support from the public to ensure night curfew to ensure safety from the pandemic,” said Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/night-curfew-in-lucknow-goes-for-a-toss-amid-christmas-festivities-101640543860773.html
27-12-2021||Noida||Noida airport: Land acquisition process for 2nd phase of work to start in Jan||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration will start the land acquisition process for the second phase of the Noida international airport in Jewar from January next year, said officials on Sunday. The move came after the Uttar Pradesh government approved the social impact assessment (SIA) survey report on December 17.The district administration and Gautam Buddha University, which conducted the survey, sent the report to the state government for approval in July this year. Uttar Pradesh chief secretary R K Tiwari reviewed the report on the project’s impact on farmers in the region, before giving his approval for the same on December 17, said officials.Besides starting the process for land acquisition, the state government has asked the district administration to implement important outcomes and recommendations of the survey report to manage the impact of the project on the families of the farmers concerned. “We will start the land acquisition process from January. We will organise camps at six villages on January 7,8 and 10 to take the consent of the farmers, who are likely to be affected by the land acquisition process. The suggestions and objections of those opposing the project will be noted down for suitable remedial action on the same,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate (land acquisition) of Gautam Budh Nagar.Land in six villages -- Karauli Bangar, Dayanatpur, Kureb, Ranhera, Mundhera and Nagla Hukum Singh village -- falling under the project area will be used for works proposed in the second phase, such as setting up the third runway, and a commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of aircraft centre. The state government has handed over 1,334 hectares in Jewar to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International AG, which has been incorporated as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop Jewar airport -- last year. According to the concession agreement, the government has to provide 1,363 hectares to the subsidiary adjacent to the existing airport site for the third runway and further expansion.The state government has rejected the farmers’ demand of keeping Karauli Bangar village out of the project impact area. The villagers said that they will decide their next move in the future. “We will organise a meeting with the farmers, and then decide if we will file a plea in the high court or we will approach the state government for excluding our village from the project area,” said Mukesh Kumar, a farmer from Nagla Hukum Singh village. The SIA survey was conducted on the abadi settlement of the Nagla Hukum Singh village. The state government said the entire 160 hectares of the village will be needed for further expansion of the Jewar airport project.The state government has asked the district administration to identify and finalise the rehabilitation site for the families of the farmers, which will be displaced only after consultation and deliberation with the affected population. Schools, colleges, religious places like temples and mosques, burial and cremation grounds, public health centres, playgrounds, and other basic amenities like water supply, sewerage networks, and electricity connections among other facilities will have to be done in advance before the houses of the families living there are vacated.Two runway pavements are being developed in the first phase, which is to be completed soon, said the officials. The project, which will be completed in four phases, is scheduled to be done by September 29, 2024.
27-12-2021||Delhi||Night curfew in Capital kicks in at 11pm tonight||The Delhi government on Sunday clamped a night curfew beginning Monday that is unlikely to be relaxed before the end of the month, putting in place a ban on non-essential activities including eating out and shopping between 11pm and 5am as the Covid test positivity rate in the city breached 0.5% amid concerns over the Omicron variant.Delhi’s daily Covid-19 cases remained above the 200 mark for the second day on Sunday as the city recorded 290 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the highest since June 10. A test positivity rate of 0.55% was recorded, the highest since June 4.While a graded response action plan (Grap) released earlier said a night curfew would come into effect if the positivity rate remained above 0.5% for two straight days, officials said the measure was accelerated because of an “emergency situation”.While an official order was not immediately released, people aware of the matter said that during the night curfew, all restaurants, bars, markets and shops dealing in non-essential goods will have to close at 11pm. Only essential movement of individuals will be allowed during the curfew, they said.“All essential services will be permitted. An order specifying the restrictions and exceptions will be issued well in advance,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. The restrictions are set to impact celebrations on New Year’s Eve and January 1, with officials saying that no relaxations will be allowed in the final week of the year.The city’s Covid-19 caseload (the number of patients who are currently infected) also went past the 1,000 mark on Sunday for the first time since early July. According to the state health bulletin, there are 1,103 active cases in Delhi currently.Hotels, bars and restaurants that are permitted to function at 50% capacity will have to wind up before 11pm so that employees are able to reach home before 11pm, the official quoted above said.More restrictions in Delhi are likely to follow after the test positivity rate went past 0.5%, bringing the Capital close to the minimum threshold for stricter restrictions under Grap. According to a previously released plan, the Covid-19 Grap will be activated if the positivity rate remains over 0.5% for two consecutive days.The action plan classifies outbreak severity in four bands – yellow, amber, orange and red – with each representing a more severe outbreak and, thus, stricter curbs than the one preceding it.Asked why the night curfew was imposed before Grap came into effect, a district official said “an emergency situation demands emergency measures”.“Despite awareness and extensive enforcement exercises, it has been observed that people are violating the Covid protocols, especially those out for festivities ahead of New Year’s celebrations. It is not possible to deploy police officers and enforcement teams in all the corners of the city. People must become aware and responsible,” the official said, asking not to be named.Sunday’s case spike in Delhi was the highest since June 10, when the Capital added 305 infections. The positivity rate (the percentage of test samples that return positive) breached the 0.5% mark for the first time since June 6, and is now at its highest level since June 4, according to state government data.The city’s Covid-19 graph has been inching upwards since mid-December, with cases and the test positivity both showing an increase. The state government has already imposed curbs on public gatherings during Christmas and the New Year. Delhi has added 165 Covid-19 cases every day on average over the past week, more than double the 68 infections it added in the week ending December 19.To be sure, the infections and test positivity statistics are still far lower than what they have been in Delhi during its four major Covid-19 surges (between early May and June 2020, September 2020, October-November 2020 and April-May this year). Most hospital beds reserved to treat Covid-19 patients are not occupied currently. Of the nearly 13,500 general Covid-19 beds in the city, 262 are currently occupied, showed the Delhi government’s dashboard.A host of public transport-related curbs will come into effect once “yellow alert” is declared under Grap. The capacity of the Delhi Metro will be limited to 50% of a coach’s seating capacity and standing passengers will be barred. Only two passengers will be allowed in taxis, autos, and rickshaws.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said: “This is a good step and will help to curb the spread of the infection. During the cold season, most of gatherings are indoors, where the virus is more likely to spread. The government should be also thinking about reducing seating capacity in eating places, buses, Metro, theatres, and odd and evening numbers of shops to open.”Sanjeev Nagpal, a restaurateur, said that many people with pre-booked tables for December 31 have already started cancelling the bookings.Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, said the restaurants will have to close by 10.30pm so that the staff are home before the night curfew. “It will reduce restaurants’ operational hours by nearly 2.5 hours. Earlier, restaurants operated till 1am.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/night-curfew-in-capital-kicks-in-at-11pm-tonight-101640541819467.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||One dead, 2 others injured after car hits divider, overturns in south Delhi||A 36-year-old man died and two others were critically injured after the car they were travelling in hit a road divider and turned turtle near the Mahipalpur flyover in south Delhi on Sunday morning.Police said they are yet to ascertain the exact reason for the accident which took place at around 7.30am on the carriageway towards Delhi from Gurugram, causing a brief traffic jam on the road as many motorists stopped to examine the crash, with some of them helping the police teams rescue the three occupants who were trapped under the overturned Skoda car.“We are probing if there was low visibility on the road because of the morning fog, or if any mechanical fault in the car was the reason behind the accident,” said an officer who did not want to be named.The officer added that the damages to the car as well as the iron railing of the central verge of the road suggested that the vehicle was being driven at a high speed when the accident took place.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said that the Vasant Kunj South police station received a call at 7.40am regarding the road accident, following which a police team reached the spot. The police personnel rescued three injured men from the damaged Skoda car and rushed them to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where one of them was declared brought dead.“The deceased was identified by his first name Ankit. The injured men were identified as Rajkumar and Aditya, both aged 35. All of them were from Rohtak,” said DCP Sharma.Police said that the car belongs to Rajkumar but they were not sure who was driving the vehicle at the time of the accident.Ankit worked in a private company and lived in a rented accommodation in Gurugram. He was going to his hometown with his friends when the accident took place, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-2-others-injured-after-car-hits-divider-overturns-in-south-delhi-101640540502382.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt school students bag seed money for start-up ideas||Two teams of Delhi government school students bagged seed funding after pitching their ideas -- a low-cost gas leakage alarm and fabrics using ‘tie and dye’ technique -- at the Business Blasters TV programme episode that aired on Sunday. The groups won seed funds of ₹80,000 and ₹60,000 for their ideas, respectively.The Business Blasters TV programme provides a launchpad for students’ business ideas. The judges for the fifth episode were deputy CM Manish Sisodia and businesspersons Ravi Gupta and Divya Gupta.A government spokesperson said that a team of nine students came up with the gas leak alarm which they claimed can be sold for only ₹700, as against the ones in market which cost around ₹1,500-8,000 currently.“As a team, we wanted to be someone who could help the community and come up with the most cost effective alarm. We are currently lined up with 40 orders and are working on the alarm’s version 2.0,” said Aman, the team head. The team bagged a combined investment of ₹80,000 from the two investor judges on the show.Another group of five female students proposed setting up a business of high-quality fabrics using the “tie and dye” technique, and received seed funding of ₹60,000 from the judges who also promised them a space for their unit.Several other ideas were also presented at the event, including an automatic LED lamp by a group of seven students.A government official said that the programme has been designed to provide government school students an experience to work in teams, identify social challenges or business opportunities and prepare business plans to implement their ideas in their neighbourhoods. “All participating students can receive seed money of ₹2,000 per student. The teams will use this seed money with a clear objective to either earn profit or create social impact,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-school-students-bag-seed-money-for-start-up-ideas-101640540380221.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Light rain in parts of Delhi, brace for drop in mercury this week||Parts of Delhi recorded a drizzle on Sunday evening, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting similar rain activity on Monday and Tuesday due to an active western disturbance currently influencing the region.Between 5:30 pm and 8:30 pm, Safdarjung recorded 1.4mm of rainfall, while Palam received 0.2mm of rain. The Capital recorded a maximum temperature of 21.4°C, one degree above normal, and the minimum was 9.8°C, two notches above normal, on Sunday.Met officials said the minimum temperature in Delhi will start dipping from December 29 and reach around 5-6°C by New Year’s.Moderate fog is also expected to occur in the region with visibility dropping below 500 metres in the early hours of the day in the last week of December, from Monday.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said light rain was forecast to occur in parts of Delhi on Sunday night and in the early hours of Monday, with a similar spell expected on Tuesday too. “Delhi will receive a little rain, and there will be snowfall in the higher reaches (of north India). Following this spell, minimum temperature will once again start dipping and touch 5-6°C by January 1,” he said.The maximum is also expected to drop below the 20-degrees mark by December 29, owing to overcast conditions during the day in this period.Jenamani said the possibility of dense fog in Delhi is low, but shallow to moderate fog is expected from December 27 onwards. “As more moisture gets introduced, visibility will again start dropping. However, we are unlikely to see it drop below 200 metres,” he said.Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) has predicted that the rain spell will improve the air quality from December 29.Parts of Delhi recorded cold wave conditions between December 19 and 21, with mercury dropping up to 3.2°C at Safdarjung. Temperatures have since risen in Delhi owing to three successive western disturbances.While the first western disturbance impacted Delhi on December 22, a second one influenced the region on December 24 and 25. The third spell is predicted to be the strongest, bringing rain in parts of northern India, and expected to bring snowfall in the mountains.IMD’s forecast for Monday shows shallow to moderate fog, with the maximum and minimum hovering between 10°C and 22°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-in-parts-of-delhi-brace-for-drop-in-mercury-this-week-101640540200214.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man pose as magistrate to escape fine for wrong side driving, held||A 35-year-old man was arrested for allegedly impersonating a judicial officer and intimidating police personnel after they stopped his car for violating traffic rules, at Rani Jhansi Road in central Delhi on Saturday, senior police officers said.Police said they recovered a pistol with six cartridges, a fake identity card of a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) prosecutor, another fake ID similar to the one issued by Bar Council of India, fake shield, medals, and a visiting card of a chief judicial magistrate (CJM), allegedly from the possession of the alleged impersonator. Police said he also used a red beacon on top of his vehicle, in contravention of a 2017 ban.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said that around 7.30pm on Saturday, personnel were checking for traffic violations at Rani Jhansi Road when they spotted a blue Renault car coming from the wrong side. “The car was stopped and the person driving it was asked to produce his driving licence. The man started arguing with the police personnel after introducing himself as Lavleesh Sharma, and claiming that he was a CJM in Gurugram,” said the DCP.“When he was asked to produce his ID card, the man began threatening the police staff, who informed the local Paharganj police station about the matter. A sub-inspector reached there and searched the car as well as Sharma. An illegal pistol with six bullets was found along with many fake IDs and documents. After verification, Sharma turned out to be an impersonator and was arrested in a case of forgery, impersonation, possessing illegal firearms, and obstructing police personnel from performing their duties,” said DCP Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-pose-as-magistrate-to-escape-fine-for-wrong-side-driving-held-101640540020445.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt postpones shows on Ambedkar’s life as Covid cases rise||In the wake of an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, Delhi government has decided to postpone the series of plays on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar, which were scheduled to start from January 5 next year at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium in Delhi. The state government is yet to announce fresh dates for the musicals, which were to star actor Rohit Roy in the role of Ambedkar. “Delhi government had planned a grand show on the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar from 5th January, in Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. However, this show is being postponed in light of rising Covid cases. We shall announce a new date as soon as the situation improves,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s art,culture and tourism minister, earlier announced that the free show will begin on January 5, will be staged around 50 times throughout next month, and will feature renowned artistes.Delhi on Sunday recorded 290 cases of Covid-19, the city’s biggest single-day case spike since June 10. The new infections also came at a positivity rate of 0.55%, the state government’s daily health bulletin showed.AAP has maintained that the show should not be seen from a political prism. “This (the play) is not politics. It is not a political stunt. This is purely deshbhakti (patriotism). We had announced this plan during the beginning of this year itself, in my budget speech to be precise, because we are celebrating 75 years of Independence. It is part of the larger celebrations that are being held in Delhi under that itself,” Sisodia had told HT in an interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-postpones-shows-on-ambedkar-s-life-as-covid-cases-rise-101640539907222.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Worst December air spell holds Delhi in vice grip||Air quality in Delhi remained severe on Sunday for the sixth consecutive day, the longest spell of such bad air since 2015, when the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) started maintaining detailed records.Delhi recorded an average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 459 on Sunday, the worst since November 12, when the index had a reading of 471. Prolonged exposure to such air affects healthy people, and seriously impacts those with existing health conditions, according to the pollution watchdog.Delhi’s average AQI this December so far is 344, higher than December 2020 (331) and 2019 (337). It was only worse in 2018 (360) and 2016 (364), the data show.As a thick haze hung over the city, local sources of pollution, mostly open burning of biomass amid dipping temperature, and meteorological factors such as calm winds have led to higher concentration of pollutants close to the surface, experts said.“It is time to weigh in emergency measures again if there is no improvement by Monday,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment, an advocacy group. “This is certainly the longest episodic smog event in December for Delhi.”Emergency restrictions under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), such as a ban on construction and demolition, and stopping the entry of trucks into Delhi, were lifted on 20 December by the Commission for Air Quality Management on an improvement in air quality. However, air quality slipped to the severe zone ever since. A meeting on Grap was held on 23 December, but emergency measures were not reimposed.There might be some relief as parts of Delhi received light rain on Sunday evening. There could be light rain on Monday and Tuesday as well, the India Meteorological Department has predicted.Delhi’s average PM 2.5 levels were in the emergency or severe plus range – 334 micrograms per cubic metre – for 18 hours, CPCB’s control room data showed at 5pm on Sunday. The safe limit is 60 micrograms per cubic metre.The concentration of PM2.5 has to stay above a threshold of 300 micrograms per cubic metre for 48 hours for restrictions such as ban on construction and entry of trucks to kick in, according to Grap guidelines.Unlike the bad air in November, burning of farm residue was not in play, and the pollution was from local sources, Roy Chowdhury said. “This shows background emissions are still high and, if meteorological conditions become adverse, we see severe air quality, particularly when wind speeds drop. This calls for stricter enforcement,” she said.The western disturbance on 22 December led to a negative pressure zone around the region, with pollutants unable to disperse, said Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory.“Air is not flowing from Delhi towards the Indo-Gangetic Plain after this western disturbance created a negative pressure,” Saha said. “Wind speeds have dropped and local pollution is accumulating in Delhi.”It was unusual to see such a long polluted spell in December, and local factors required greater scrutiny, said Gufran Beig, project director of the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, a government forecasting body.“The moisture content at the moment is also not too high, and we are not recording dense fog, so such a spike in pollution is surprising,” Beig said. “Relief from rain is not expected immediately and, as per our forecast, air quality could remain in severe for the next 48 hours.”The AQI could return to the very poor category by Monday if Delhi receives enough rain, a forecast by the Early Warning System for Delhi showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/worst-december-air-spell-holds-delhi-in-vice-grip-101640539419358.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||AAP blames BJP-ruled MCDs for stray cattle on Delhi roads||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations for non-payment of dues to gaushalas and deaths of stray cattle after feeding on plastic bags and garbage in the city. Civic authorities, however, said that maintaining and opening gaushalas fall under the purview of the Delhi government.AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Sunday said that municipal corporations are responsible for catching stray cattle roaming around in the city and relocating them to gaushalas. “A nexus operates in the city under which illegal dairies milk these cows and then leave them to roam around on the streets to feed on garbage. Why are these cows not being taken care of in gaushalas?” Bharadwaj asked.Bharadwaj alleged that the BJP-led corporations are yet to pay long standing dues to the official gaushalas. “The official gaushalas are supposed to get ₹40 per cow per day for arranging fodder, out of which ₹20 is provided by the Delhi government and ₹20 is required to be submitted by MCDs, but the corporations are not making timely payments,” he claimed.The AAP spokesperson further said that the North MCD has not paid gaushalas for several years, claiming that it has an outstanding dues of ₹32 crore. “Similarly, SDMC has not made payments since February 2021 and EDMC has not made payments over the last three years,” he alleged.Bharadwaj said that it is a matter of shame that cows are dying while feeding on garbage and polythene bags “that choke their intestines”.Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that the maintenance of gaushalas is the primary responsibility of Delhi government’s animal husbandry department. “It has become AAP’s daily habit to level baseless allegations against us. Maintenance of gaushalas comes under the Delhi government. Our role is restricted to catch stray cattle, keep them in Timarpur cattle pound and shift them to respective gaushala licensed by the Delhi government,” Jain said.He added that the gaushalas in Delhi are already full and there is hardly any space to send more animals. “We had written a letter to the Delhi government last year to allocate more space to gaushalas and open more units, but no action has been taken,” he added.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that AAP functionaries are levelling baseless allegations to divert the attention of public from “real issues” like increasing air pollution, lack of healthcare facilities, depleting DTC bus service and excise policy. “When he is unable to find any new topics, Bharadwaj starts talking on the same issue two-three times in a week. They have claimed that dairies in urban villages are illegal. People of Greater Kailash area would also want to know if dozens on dairies operating in areas like Chirag Dilli, Shahpur Jat and Zamrudpur are illegal? What has Bharadwaj done to get these dairies closed in the last eight years?” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-blames-bjp-ruled-mcds-for-stray-cattle-on-delhi-roads-101640539300247.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: North MCD ropes in private consultant to improve Swachh ranking||After consistently faring among the poorest performers in the country in the annual Swachh Survekshan rankings, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to hire private consultants to improve its performance in 2022, for which the annual survey is expected to be carried out in January-February.In the 2021 Swachh Survekshan list, North MCD ranked 45 among the 48 local bodies in the country with over one million population.A senior North MCD official overseeing the preparations for the next survey said that an urban environment management company, ICUC, is helping the civic body to carry out environment assessment, identify focus areas and help in training supervisory staff to help improve the performance under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM). “The initial engagement of the company will be around six months, during which the next round of Survekshan and ODF (open defecation free) plus survey is to be carried out. They are helping us to identify our weak areas... WhatsApp groups have been set up to coordinate the activities of the department of environment managementservice (DEMS) with the consultant,” the official remarked.A consultant deputed at the municipal headquarters said each coordinating team comprises of an IEC (Information Education and Communication) expert to help with activities to enable behavioural changes, a solid waste management expert, a service level progress monitor and a technical head. “Discussions on the action plan are being held at the zonal level... A 13-point action-plan has been formulated and the last meeting was held in Narela zone on Thursday,” the consultant said.The North MCD comprises of six zones -- Rohini, Civil Lines, Keshavpuram, City-Sadar Paharganj, Narela and Karol Bagh.According to the report on the action plan, the immediate focus areas identified by the corporation include bulk waste generators, GPS in waste-lifting vehicles, anti-single-use plastic drives, waste reuse initiatives and weekly reporting of works carried out at ward level.Standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said that north corporation will initiate focused drives to improve performance in the next edition of survey, adding that changes are being made at the zonal level with the help of concessionaires.Among Delhi’s local bodies, the North MCD was assessed to be the worst performing corporation in the last survey.The North MCD covers the highest geographical area (604.5 sq km) and has a population of over 6.25 million people, as per 2011 Census. The corporation oversees sanitation work in 25 rural villages, 114 urban villages, 524 authorised colonies, 108 unauthorised-regularised colonies, 25 resettlement colonies and 419 unauthorised colonies. The civic body ranked 43 in the 2020 national survey.The Union urban affairs ministry’s cleanliness survey was carried out in January and March last year, and the performances judged on parameters such as the segregation and collection of waste, processing and disposal of garbage, sustainable sanitation, citizen’s feedback and innovation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-north-mcd-ropes-in-private-consultant-to-improve-swachh-ranking-101640539240321.html
27-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Experts call for steps to sustain wildlife at Asola Bhatti sanctuary||With a striped hyena being caught on camera traps earlier this month at the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, on the southern Delhi Ridge, along with multiple sightings of three leopards, the natural park not only has top predators and scavengers, but a variety of herbivores, largely fulfilling a complete foodchain and ecosystem.The next step, experts say, will be to initiate measures at the 6,874-acre sanctuary, to ensure that the wildlife is protected and sustained.Senior officials of Delhi’s forest department said ever since the imposition of the first Covid-19 lockdown last year, several new species of animals and birds were spotted at the Asola sanctuary. An ongoing census at the sanctuary to count all mammals has not only revealed the presence of at least three leopards, but also captured a striped hyena roaming the sanctuary. The census has recorded a total of 17 different mammal species so far.Sohail Madan, centre manager, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) at Asola, who are conducting the census, said ever since the count began in March 2021, initial trends indicate a definite increase in the population of mongoose, golden jackal and civet cat in the sanctuary. Porcupines also showed a ‘healthy’ count. The census is expected to be completed by 2023, Madan said.“There are more than two leopards at least, with camera traps capturing different leopard images. On December 3, we captured a striped hyena, evidence of which was last seen only in 2018 inside the sanctuary. So far, we can say there is an increase in the mongoose, jackal and civet numbers,” said Madan, adding 22 camera traps were being used for the census.According to him, the next step in preserving the rich diversity and prey base for different animals is to carry out enrichment plantation and canopy plugs for herbivores, while bio-dams and check-dams at regular gaps to ensure there is an adequate water supply.“If there are enough watering holes and sufficient food, we can then expect more animals to thrive in the existing area and more breeding will also take place. For the herbivores, we are carrying out enrichment plantation, growing native trees and shrubs which will provide an adequate ecosystem to these herbivores,” he said.Among the other animals sighted as part of the census include jungle cats, hog deer, Indian hare, nilgai, black buck and spotted deer, each captured on camera traps.“The signs of increased sightings of animal, especially a top predator such as the leopard, are a promising sign for the ecology of a region. This is an indicator that the ecosystem is complete and fully functional. Once we have completed our wildlife census, we will be able to give a better picture of where we stand,” said a senior forest official.Like Madan, the official also attributed this increased number in wildlife to several of the department’s conservation programmes to improve the availability of water, improve flora in the area and also limiting trespassing by locals into the forest land.Environment and wildlife experts, however, warn that government should not be content with mere sightings of newer species in the sanctuary, and added that the real test will be to sustain these animals in an urban setup like Delhi.“There is ample proof to suggest that high movement of people and vehicles in a forest, especially during the night, impacts the movement and foraging patterns of animals. Many animals move after dark, and if they sense the presence of humans, they tend to avoid their regular routes and eventually move away from the area altogether,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of wildlife protection NGO, Wildlife SOS. He said the forest department should make concerted attempts to limit the movement of people from neighbouring localities, such as Sangam Vihar and Tughlakabad.In 2016, a male leopard was spotted in the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in north Delhi, who was said to have been staying in the park for days before the authorities decided to move it to the Rajaji National Park for the safety of the people living around the area.Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, who spotted the leopard, says proper monitoring of the sanctuary and getting skilled forest teams will help the city maintain such green spaces for wildlife without causing any safety issues for either the animals or the residents of the area.“When we spotted the leopard at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, our foremost focus was to ensure that there was round the clock monitoring of the animal. Leopards tend to exist close to human habitation and survive on whatever is available, from a rat to even chicken waste, without causing any harm. We need proper monitoring mechanisms and skilled teams in these parks,” he said.CR Babu, from the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems, said the Nairobi National Park is a perfect example of how humans and wildlife can coexist peacefully if authorities take proper measures.“The Nairobi National Park is located very close to their airport. At any given time of the day, you can see vehicles passing close to the sanctuary. What works there is that they have built 12-foot tall boundary walls that keep the animals protected and also prevents humans from getting in. Such innovative measures need to be adopted,” Babu said.A senior official of the wildlife division of the union environment ministry said several aspects need to be taken into account while maintaining a wildlife sanctuary in a city. The primary consideration is the safety of humans residing around these areas, and that of the animals.“Even in states with high forest cover, where locals are fairly aware and used to encounters with wild animals, we find a great discord and instances of deaths of animals and humans. In an urban area, these challenges would multiply. There is no doubt that we can develop a successful sanctuary for animals in Delhi, but before that we need to develop safe wildlife corridors for the movement of animals, buffer zones around the sanctuary where even if the animal moves out of the main forest, they do not come into direct contact with humans. A strong anti-poaching policy is also important,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiexperts-call-for-steps-to-sustain-wildlife-at-asola-bhatti-sanctuary-101640538940943.html
27-12-2021||World||Israel hospital launches first test of second Covid-19 booster||An Israeli hospital administered fourth Covid-19 vaccine doses to a test group of health workers on Monday, in what it called the first major study into whether a second round of boosters will help contend with the fast-spreading Omicron variant.Results of the trial, likely to be closely watched internationally, will be submitted to Israel's Health Ministry in about two weeks, said a spokesperson for Sheba Medical Centre near Tel Aviv.Israel was the fastest country to roll out initial vaccinations a year ago, and became one of the first to launch a booster programme after observing that immunity waned over time.On Monday, the Health Ministry said it was shortening the time between offering the second and third doses of COVID-19 vaccine to three months from five months in order to beat back rising infections as Omicron spreads.Concerned about the risk of a sudden surge in hospitalizations, a ministry expert panel last week recommended Israel become the first country to offer a fourth jab to medical workers and those over 60 or with compromised immune systems.The proposal was welcomed by the Israeli government, which has struggled against a plateauing of turn-out for vaccines. But the expert panel was divided over whether there is enough scientific data yet to justify fourth shots. Final approval by Health Ministry director-general Nachman Ash is still pending, and Israeli media say he may limit fourth shots to over 70s."The biggest question is, how significant is Omicron? It's clear to all that it is very contagious. But whether it causes very severe illness - that's the most significant question," said Gili Regev-Yochay, who is running the Sheba trial.The Sheba study of 150 participants "will zero in on efficacy of the vaccine in producing antibodies, and safety, in order to ascertain if a fourth vaccine is needed in general", the hospital spokesperson said.Hagai Levine, an epidemiologist, said more data is needed to gauge whether there has been a drop in protection against severe disease and death provided by the three shots offered so far."We can't blindly assume that another shot will solve it all, because it won't," said Levine, who heads Israel's Association of Public Health Physicians.Some 63% of Israel's 9.4 million population have received the first two vaccine doses, according to ministry data. Almost 45% have taken a booster shot, they make up a little more than half those eligible for it. Close to 2,000 confirmed or suspected Omicron cases have been logged and infections have risen sharply over the past week.Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has been in self-isolation at home since Sunday after his 14-year-old daughter tested positive for COVID-19, with what his office says is probably the Omicron variant. He subsequently tested negative, and his office said on Monday he would continue to work from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-hospital-launches-first-test-of-second-covid-19-booster-101640625400014.html
27-12-2021||World||UAE issues first civil marriage license for non-Muslim couple||The UAE issued its first civil marriage license for a non-Muslim couple, state media reported Monday, as the Gulf country seeks to keep its edge over regional competitors.The United Arab Emirates -- where foreigners make up 90 percent of the approximately 10-million population -- has been amending its laws to present itself as a modernising force in a largely conservative region.The official WAM news agency said a Canadian couple were the first to marry under a new law on the personal status of non-Muslims in the Emirati capital Abu Dhabi.The move "contributes to the consolidation of Abu Dhabi's position as a world leading destination for skills and expertise from around the world," WAM said.Civil marriage in the Middle East, the birthplace of Islam, Christianity and Judaism, is uncommon and usually conducted under a religious authority of one of the three monotheistic beliefs.Civil marriages are allowed in Tunisia and Algeria.While some countries in the region allow civil unions based on certain conditions, some only recognise civil marriages conducted abroad and others not at all.Late last year, the UAE revamped an array of laws in a social liberalisation drive designed to burnish its progressive brand.These included lifting a ban on unmarried couples living together, loosening restrictions on alcohol and offering long-term residencies.Earlier this month, the UAE announced it will move to a Western-style Saturday-Sunday weekend.Starting on January 1, 2022, the Emirates will become the only Gulf country not to observe weekends from Friday, the Muslim day of prayer, to Saturday.Competition is hotting up as neighbouring Saudi Arabia, seeking to diversify its oil-reliant economy, aims to turn its capital Riyadh into an international hub.Saudi Arabia has lifted a ban on women drivers and eased its strict Islamic dress code.Last year, Riyadh said it would not sign contracts with companies that have their regional headquarters outside the kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-issues-first-civil-marriage-license-for-non-muslim-couple-101640625164701.html
27-12-2021||World||Scotland Yard probes video showing Sikh man declaring to assassinate Queen to avenge Jallianwala Bagh massacre||A video has surfaced on social media in which a fully masked man with a crossbow, identifying himself as an Indian Sikh, is seen declaring to "assassinate" Queen Elizabeth II to avenge the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, prompting Scotland Yard to launch a probe, days after an intruder armed with a crossbow was arrested at the monarch’s Windsor Castle.The video, shared on Snapshot, is that of a fully masked man who identifies himself as Indian Sikh Jaswant Singh Chail and declares that he wants to "assassinate" the monarch in revenge for the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, according to The Sun newspaper which obtained the video.Meanwhile, the 19-year-old intruder, who has not yet been named by the Metropolitan Police, is now being held over mental health issues.Scotland Yard officers were investigating the video reportedly linked to the intruder armed with a crossbow arrested at Windsor Castle on Christmas Day.The Metropolitan Police said that the arrested suspect has been sectioned under the UK’s Mental Health Act after a mental health assessment and remains “in the care of medical professionals”.“I’m sorry. I’m sorry for what I’ve done and what I will do. I will attempt to assassinate Elizabeth, Queen of the Royal Family,” the masked man is seen saying in the video.“This is revenge for those who have died in the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre. It is also revenge for those who have been killed, humiliated and discriminated on because of their race. I’m an Indian Sikh, a Sikh. My name was Jaswant Singh Chail, my name is Darth Jones,” he says.The massacre took place at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar during the Baisakhi festival in April 1919 when the British Indian Army under the command of Colonel Reginald Dyer opened fire at a crowd staging a pro-independence demonstration, leaving scores dead.In the video clip posted on The Sun website, the 'Star Wars' film-like masked figure holds a shiny black weapon and speaks in a distorted voice.It was reportedly sent to followers of the man's Snapchat account 24 minutes before armed security officers arrested him near the 95-year-old Queen’s private apartments.In a message sent on Snapchat alongside the video, the teenager wrote: “I’m sorry to all of those who I have wronged or lied to. If you have received this then my death is near. Please share this with whoever and if possible, get it to the news if they’re interested.”Police are also carrying out searches at a housing estate in Southampton, where the suspect reportedly lived with his family.“A 19-year-old man from Southampton was arrested on suspicion of breach or trespass of a protected site and possession of an offensive weapon,” Met Police said in a statement.“Following a search of the man, a crossbow was recovered. The man was taken into custody and has undergone a mental health assessment – he has since been sectioned under the Mental Health Act and remains in the care of medical professionals.“Enquiries into the full circumstances of this incident are being progressed by Metropolitan Police Specialist Operations,” the statement added.The police spokesman declined to comment on the identity of the person in the video.Buckingham Palace has also declined to comment, the BBC reported.Prince Charles and wife Camilla are spending Christmas with the monarch at Windsor Castle in Berkshire, south-east England, after she took the decision to call off her traditional Christmas at Sandringham estate in Norfolk amidst a surge in COVID-19 cases.Officers from Thames Valley and the Metropolitan Police said they responded to the breach on Saturday morning and arrested the man from Southampton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scotland-yard-probes-video-showing-sikh-man-declaring-to-assassinate-queen-101640623386223.html
27-12-2021||World||More parties in Maldives oppose ‘India Out’ campaign led by Abdulla Yameen||NEW DELHI: More political parties in the Maldives have opposed an “India Out” campaign led by former president Abdulla Yameen following his release from house arrest, saying the leader is recklessly inciting hatred among the people towards India. The Indian Ocean archipelago has witnessed the “India Out” slogan on social media several times over the past three years, but the movement has been expanded since the Supreme Court of the Maldives overturned Yameen’s conviction in a money-laundering and embezzlement case last month. The development allowed him to make a return to politics. Ties between India and the Maldives had hit a low during the tenure of Yameen, who was close to China. Yameen’s half-brother, former president and Maldives Reform Movement party leader Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, is among those who have opposed the campaign. The “India Out” campaign is mostly centred round unsubstantiated allegations that India is seeking to establish a military presence in the Maldives through ongoing security cooperation. Yameen has contended that the campaign is aimed at ensuring the independence of the Maldives. The Maldives government, in a statement issued on December 19, said it was “profoundly concerned” by attempts by a “small group of individuals and a few political personalities” to spread “misguided and unsubstantiated information to propagate hatred towards India, one of the closest bilateral partners” of the country. Gayoom said in an interview with Voice this week that no one should campaign against any neighbouring country. “In my opinion, one should not campaign against any neighbouring [or] friendly nation, not just India. Be it Pakistan, Bangladesh or Egypt, one should not run a campaign belittling any country,” he said. Also Read: Vikram Misri is new deputy NSANo one should do anything that affects the Maldives’ friendly relations with all countries, he said. “We want to work closely with all countries of the world. The Maldives is a country with very small resources [and it] can continue to develop only by maintaining a peaceful and secure relationship with the rest of the world,” he added. The Adhaalath Party, a coalition partner of President Ibrahim Solih, condemned efforts to “incite hatred in the people’s hearts towards neighbouring and global partners”. In a statement, it expressed concern at the “reckless act led by former President Abdullah Yameen to incite hatred towards neighbouring India amongst the civilians”. The diplomatic policy of the Maldives plays a major role in development, defence and security and the Adhaalath Party believes the “highest priority of the diplomatic policy should focus on ensuring [the] nation’s security and upholding national and public interests”, the statement said. In a globally connected world, bilateral ties need to be strengthened, especially when the country needs to cooperate with neighbouring and friendly states, the Adhaalath Party said. Strategic cooperation between India and the Maldives is the result of a long-standing relationship and ongoing projects were implemented during Yameen’s administration, the Adhaalath Party said, adding that his politically motivated campaign to “manipulate the public mindset is a stunt”. The Jumhooree Party, another coalition partner of Solih, said in a statement that it doesn’t support any activities which compromise the independence and sovereignty of the Maldives. The Constitution states the government cannot allow the establishment of foreign military presence in the Maldives, and the Jumhooree Party does not believe “there is any legal ground to decide the existence of Indian military presence” in the country. “It is beneficial for both countries... to station military personnel on official duties for specific duration of time; under bilateral agreements; on training purposes, talent and capacity building, crisis prevention and preparation exercises...and for other continuous training purposes,” the Jumhooree Party said.
27-12-2021||World||China's Xi'an imposes 'strictest' controls to halt Covid-19 outbreak||The locked-down Chinese city of Xi'an on Monday tightened Covid-19 controls to the "strictest" level, banning residents from driving cars around town in an effort to control the country's worst outbreak in 21 months.China has stuck to a "zero-Covid" strategy of tight border restrictions, lengthy quarantines and targeted lockdowns as Beijing prepares to welcome thousands of overseas visitors for February's Winter Olympics.But historic Xi'an -- where 13 million residents are facing their fifth day of home confinement -- is at the centre of a flare-up that has pushed nationwide daily infections to their highest numbers since March last year.Restrictions tightened further on Monday as Xi'an announced it would impose the "strictest social control measures", according to a city government social media account.The northern city -- home to the world-famous Terracotta Warriors -- recorded 150 new cases on Monday, bringing the total to around 650 since December 9.No vehicles are allowed on the roads unless they are assisting with disease control work, the latest announcement said.Police and health officials will "strictly inspect" cars, and those who break the rules could face 10 days' detention and a fine of 500 yuan ($78).Two other cities in Shaanxi province also reported a case linked to Xi'an, as authorities urged migrant workers from the city not to travel home in the upcoming Chinese New Year holiday.The outbreak of the fast-spreading Delta variant has caused severe symptoms in four patients including a one-year-old child, the state-run Global Times tabloid reported.Since locking down the city last week, authorities have launched several rounds of mass testing and placed nearly 30,000 people in hotel quarantine.All non-essential businesses have been shuttered, while each household can only send out one person to buy necessities every three days.The Xi'an government has come under fire for its perceived poor handling of the outbreak, with China's disciplinary body saying last week that 26 local officials had been punished for lapses in virus prevention.Authorities have strictly limited movement into and out of the city, with footage from state broadcaster CCTV on Sunday showing trucks waiting in line at road checkpoints as workers in hazmat suits checked health codes on drivers' mobile phones.Since the coronavirus first emerged in the central city of Wuhan in late 2019, China has largely kept the pandemic at bay.The country has officially recorded only two deaths in over a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-xi-an-imposes-strictest-controls-to-halt-covid-19-outbreak-101640598162354.html
27-12-2021||World||China starts to disinfect city of 13 million people after Delta outbreak||The western Chinese city of Xi’an has begun widespread disinfection measures since late Sunday to counter a jump in Covid infections that forced the lockdown of 13 million residents.Authorities are spraying disinfectants across the city and asking residents to close windows and avoid touching architectural surfaces and vegetation on streets. Private cars are not allowed on roads. The move came as daily infections spike to around 150 on Sunday and Monday, as health authorities seek to uncover more cases with a fourth round of mass testing.The 2022 Winter Olympics are set to kick off in Beijing Feb. 4. China on Monday reported a total of 162 domestic Covid infections, with 150 of those from Xi’an, the highest daily caseload since Jan. 22. A surge of that scale is rarely seen in China, which is the only major country in the world still aggressively trying to eliminate the virus via closed borders and stringent domestic curbs under what’s called a Zero Covid strategy. The Xi’an outbreak, which has seen more than 600 cases in less than three weeks and is being blamed on the delta variant, underscores the difficulty China faces in returning domestic infections to nil as the virus mutates to forms more capable of escaping through stringent containment measures. The nation has also found a handful of omicron infections among travelers from other countries but hasn’t seen the even more infectious and immunity-evading variant spreading into the community.Authorities locked down Xi’an last week on concerns that the virus had been spreading under the radar with many of the transmission routes unknown. Even so, local media quoted Zhang Boli, a senior medical adviser to the Chinese government on Covid, as saying it is still possible to get the outbreak under control by the end of January, before the Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-starts-to-disinfect-city-of-13-million-people-after-delta-outbreak-101640594907407.html
27-12-2021||World||China's local Covid-19 cases edge higher as Xian remains in lockdown||The Chinese city of Xian remained under lockdown for a fifth day on Monday as authorities reported 150 new local symptomatic coronavirus cases for Sunday, a slight decrease from the previous day.Case numbers in Xian, home to 13 million people, remain tiny compared with many clusters overseas, but authorities have imposed tough curbs on travel within and leaving the city under Beijing's drive to immediately contain outbreaks.Authorities have not announced any infection caused by the Omicron variant in Xian, where there have been 635 confirmed coronavirus cases during the Dec. 9-26 period. The 150 local symptomatic cases on Sunday compared with 155 a day earlier, and accounted for most of the 162 new domestic infections in China.Chine reported a total of 158 domestically transmitted symptomatic cases for Sunday.Nationwide, China has detected a handful of Omicron infections among international travellers and in South China.The new case number for Sunday marks the highest nationwide count of local symptomatic infections since the daily bulletin provided by the National Health Commission started to classify asymptomatic carriers separately from end-March 2020.In Xian, residents cannot leave the city without approval from employers or local authorities.Since Dec 23, households have been allowed to send only one person to shop for necessities every two days. Other family members may not leave home unless they have essential jobs or urgent matters to attend to, approved by employers or communities.On Monday, Xian authorities urged residents to stay home except for having their sample collected in a new round of citywide testing.Xian has also launched a city-wide disinfection campaign, with workers spraying pathogen-killing solutions onto roads and buildings, and residents were advised not to touch plants or building surfaces.Dongyan Jin, a virologist at the University of Hong Kong, said the mass disinfection of outdoor air and surfaces seemed unnecessary given the low risk of people catching Covid-19 from outdoor surfaces or air with so few people outside."This is shooting mosquitoes with cannon," said Jin, although he believes disinfection of indoor surfaces, especially in places visit by infected people, is necessary.The cities of Xianyang and Weinan, like Xian in Shaanxi province, each reported one local symptomatic case for Sunday. Local infections were also found in the Guangxi region and the provinces of Zhejiang, Guangdong and Sichuan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-local-covid-19-cases-edge-higher-as-xian-remains-in-lockdown-101640587211490.html
27-12-2021||World||Delta flight to Shanghai turned back because of Covid rules||Delta Air Lines said Monday that new pandemic-related cleaning requirements at a Shanghai airport were behind the turning back of a recent flight from Seattle in midair, a move that had prompted a protest from the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco.An emailed statement said the new mandates at Shanghai Pudong International Airport “require significantly extended ground time and are not operationally viable for Delta.”It wasn't clear what the rules are and what prompted the change, but it comes as China tightens its already strict Covid-19 travel restrictions in the face of a growing outbreak in the city of Xi'an and ahead of the Winter Olympics in Beijing in six weeks.Xi'an, which is about 1,000 kilometers (600 miles) southwest of Beijing, reported more than 300 new cases over the weekend, a sharp rise from previous days. The city of 13 million people has been locked down, with only one person per household allowed out every two days to shop for necessities.The Delta flight that turned back to Seattle last week left passengers with expired Covid-19 test results and U.S. visas, according to Chinese media reports.The consulate in San Francisco did not name Delta but said in a short statement Sunday that many flights from the U.S. to China had been delayed or canceled in recent days including a flight that turned back more than halfway to its destination.The consulate “had made a stern representation to the airline,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/delta-flight-to-shanghai-turned-back-because-of-covid-rules-101640594655413.html
27-12-2021||World||Myanmar court postpones verdicts in second case against Suu Kyi||A court in military-ruled Myanmar postponed its verdicts Monday on two charges against ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi in which she is accused of importing and possessing walkie-talkies without following official procedures, a legal official familiar with the case said.The case in the court in the capital, Naypyitaw, is among many brought against the 76-year-old Nobel Peace Prize laureate since the army seized power on Feb. 1, ousting her elected government and arresting top members of her National League for Democracy party.The court gave no reason for delaying the verdicts until Jan. 10, according to the legal official, who insisted on anonymity for fear of being punished by the authorities, who have restricted the release of information about Suu Kyi's trials.Suu Kyi's party won a landslide victory in last year's general election, but the military said there was widespread electoral fraud, an assertion that independent poll watchers doubt.Suu Kyi's supporters and independent analysts say all the charges against her are politically motivated and an attempt to discredit her and legitimize the military's seizure of power while keeping her from returning to politics. If found guilty of all the charges she faces, she could be sentenced to more than 100 years in prison.Suu Kyi was convicted on Dec. 6 on two other charges — incitement and breaching COVID-19 restrictions — and sentenced to four years' imprisonment. Hours after the sentence was issued, the head of the military-installed government, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, reduced it by half. She is being held by the military at an unknown location and state television reported that she would serve her sentence there.Suu Kyi has been attending court hearings in prison clothes — a white top and a brown longyi skirt provided by the authorities. The hearings are closed to the media and spectators and the prosecutors do not comment. Her lawyers, who had been a source of information on the proceedings, were served with gag orders in October.A charge under the Export-Import Law of having improperly imported the walkies-talkies was the first filed against Suu Kyi and served as the initial justification for her continued detention. A second charge of illegally possessing the radios was filed the following month.The radios were seized from the gate of her residence and the barracks of her bodyguards during a search on Feb. 1, the day she was arrested.Suu Kyi's lawyers argued that the radios were not in her personal possession and were legitimately used to help provide for her security, but the court declined to dismiss the charges.The court on Monday also heard video testimony from the vice chairman of Suu Kyi's party, Zaw Myint Maung, in another case against her involving alleged violation of COVID-19 restrictions during last year's election campaign, the legal official said.Zaw Myint Maung, who had been unable to appear in court earlier for health reasons, testified that people had gathered to see her when she visited Shwe Kyar Pin Ward during the campaign because they respect her, and it wasn't a violation of virus restrictions, the official said.The offense falls under the Natural Disaster Management Law and the maximum penalty is three years in prison and a fine.She is also being tried in the same court on five counts of corruption. The maximum penalty for each count is 15 years in prison and a fine. A sixth corruption charge, in which Suu Kyi and ousted President Win Myint are accused of granting permits to rent and buy a helicopter, has not yet gone to trial.In separate proceedings, she is accused of violating the Official Secrets Act, which carries a maximum term of 14 years.Additional charges were also added by Myanmar's election commission against Suu Kyi and 15 other politicians in November for alleged fraud in last year's election. The charges by the military-controlled Union Election Commission could result in Suu Kyi's party being dissolved and unable to participate in a new election the military has promised will take place within two years of its takeover.The military's seizure of power was met by nonviolent nationwide demonstrations, which security forces quashed with deadly force, killing nearly 1,400 civilians, according to a detailed list compiled by the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.Peaceful protests have continued, but amid the severe crackdown, an armed resistance has also grown, to the point that U.N. experts have warned the country could be sliding into civil war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-court-postpones-verdicts-in-second-case-against-suu-kyi-101640589306158.html
27-12-2021||World||Omicron in Europe: 1 lakh infection in a day in France, Belgium bans gatherings||The Omicron variant of coronavirus has been spreading fast across the world, even becoming the dominant strain in the United States. Since being detected in South Africa on November 24, the strain has spread to more than 100 countries till now.Also Read | Covid cases break records as Omicron spreads across the worldThe situation is particularly bad in Europe, which has been battered by Omicron. It has led to surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in countries like the United Kingdom, where one lakh cases were recorded in a day recently.Europe has recorded a greater number of deaths than any region in the past week with 53 per cent of the global total followed by the United States/Canada which accounted for 22 per cent of fatalities.Here are the latest updates on Omicron situation in Europe and the surge in Covid-19 infection there:Britain: The country saw another day of record Covid-19 cases on Friday (122,186), with new estimates showing swathes of London's population are carrying the virus. The surge is led by the Omicron variant.It has already become the dominant strain in Britain, according to country’s health authorities.The government has said that it could impose new restrictions after Christmas.France: The country broke the 100,000 cases threshold for the first time since the pandemic began as the Omicron variant continued its rapid spread. The hospitalisations have also doubled over the past month.More than 1 in 100 people in the Paris region have tested positive in the past week. Most new infections are linked to the omicron variant, which government experts predict will be dominant in France in the coming days.President Emmanuel Macron's government will hold emergency meetings on Monday to discuss the next steps in tackling Covid-19.Belgium: With Omicron already the dominant strain in Britain, and ravaging through France, neighbouring Belgium imposed new measures starting Sunday that ordered cultural venues like movie theaters and concert halls to close.Some venues, however, defied the ban, and thousands of performers, event organizers and others demonstrated Sunday in Brussels against the decision, carrying signs reading “The Show Must Go On”.The Netherlands: The Dutch government has gone farther than most European countries and shut down all non-essential stores, restaurants and bars and extended the school holidays in a partial new lockdown.Other countries like Italy reported a third successive record tally of cases on Saturday. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland imposed new restrictions Sunday on socialising, mainly limiting the size of gatherings, moves that the restaurant, pub and nightclub industries have described as economically devastating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-in-europe-1-lakh-infection-in-a-day-in-france-belgium-bans-gatherings-101640584452268.html
27-12-2021||World||Afghanistan universities yet to reopen, money just a reason listed by Taliban||The Taliban have said universities in Afghanistan are yet to open because of the economic crisis facing the country and also over the issue of co-education.Taliban minister of higher education Abdul Baqi Haqqani said on Sunday they will need more time and extra budget to make separate classes for girls and hire extra lecturers, reported Khaama Press.Public universities and high schools for girls are yet to be reopened in Afghanistan, which was recaptured by the Taliban on August 15 this year. After they sieged the country, the Taliban placed a ban on coeducation.The Taliban also ordered girls will no longer be allowed to sit in the same classes as boys in universities.Also read | No trips for Afghan women unless escorted by male relative: TalibanSeparately, the Taliban said women have to be accompanied by a close male relative if they want to travel long distances.The ministry for the promotion of virtue and prevention of vice in its guidance also called on vehicle owners to refuse rides to women not wearing headscarves, drawing condemnation from rights activists.Also watch | Taliban dissolve Afghanistan's poll panel, say ‘not needed’"Women travelling for more than 45 miles (72 kilometres) should not be offered a ride if they are not accompanied by a close family member," ministry spokesperson Sadeq Akif Muhajir told AFP on Sunday, specifying that the escort must be a close male relative.Before this, the ministry asked Afghanistan's television channels to stop showing dramas and soap operas featuring women actors. It also called on women TV journalists to wear headscarves while presenting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-universities-yet-to-reopen-money-just-a-reason-listed-by-taliban-101640580183868.html
27-12-2021||World||Covid-19 cases break records as Omicron spreads across the world||Countries across the world are seeing a fresh surge in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fulled by the highly mutated Omicron variant, which was detected in South Africa last month, prompting governments to reimpose stricter curbs and scrambling to boost testing and vaccinations.Omicron, which has been marked as the 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO), has triggered a new wave of Covid-19 in South Africa, the UK, France, Italy and several other regions.Michael Ryan, the WHO’s emergencies director, told AFP there currently is no indication to suggest that Omicron, although highly infectious, causes a more severe disease than previous Covid-19 variants such as Delta.The existing vaccines should protect people who contract Omicron against the worst outcomes of the disease, Ryan said in an interview.Here are is what the situation is like in the world's worst-hit countries:FranceThe European nation on Sunday recorded more than 100,000 virus infections in a single day for the first time in the pandemic, news agency AP reported citing health officials.More than 1,000 people in France with the virus died over the past week, bringing the country's overall death toll to more than 122,000.More than 1 in 100 people in the Paris region have tested positive in the past week, according to the regional health service. Covid-19 hospitalisations have also doubled over the past month.UKAs Omicron sweeps the country, Britain has been recording more than 100,000 cases in a single day. The UK Covid-19 cases hit a record for a third day on Friday, at 122,186, up from 119,789. Another 137 deaths were confirmed.The Omicron threat was underlined by data released by the Office for National Statistics, which estimated that 1.7 million people in the UK had Covid-19 in the week ending December 19, the highest number since comparable figures were first recorded in autumn 2020.USThe number of Covid-19 cases in the United States is on the rise, with an average of nearly 190,000 new infections daily over the past seven days, according to figures from Johns Hopkins University.According to the CDC, more than 76 per cent of the total corona cases in the US are of Omicron variants.In New York, the health officials on Sunday "identified four-fold increases in Covid-19 hospital admissions for children 18 and under beginning the week of December 5 through the current week."ItalyFollowing three successive days of record numbers of cases, Italy logged just 24,883 new infections on Sunday in a span of 24 hours. The number came down from a previous 54,762.Italy's health ministry said 54,762 new cases were reported on Saturday. Whereas 50,599 cases had come a day earlier. The ministry has blamed Omicron for about a third (28%) of the total corona cases.South AfricaThe number of people hospitalised for Covid in South Africa rose to 9,114 on Sunday, according to data from the National Institute for Communicable Diseases. The daily positive rate also increased to 27.2% from 25.7% a day earlier.The biggest share of new cases was recorded in coastal Western Cape province, at 28%, followed by KwaZulu Natal at 26%, both popular destinations for domestic tourists during the current summer holiday period.IndiaAs of Monday morning, the national tally of Omicron cases stood at 508 with Maharashtra reporting 141 cases—the most in the country.The state is followed by Delhi with 79 cases, Kerala has seen 57 infections, Gujarat has 49, Telangana 44, Tamil Nadu 34, Karnataka 31, Rajasthan 23, Haryana 10, Madhya Pradesh nine, Odisha eight, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal have reported six each, while Chandigarh and J&K have three each, followed by UP at two, and one each in Ladakh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh.In view of the rise in Omicron cases, state governments are imposing various restrictions such as night curfews, and a cap on the number of people allowed to attend social gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-break-records-as-omicron-spreads-across-the-world-101640576036612.html
27-12-2021||World||New South Wales, Australia's most populous state, reports first Omicron death||Australia's New South Wales state reported more than 6,000 new Covid-19 cases on Monday and confirmed its first death from the Omicron variant.The fatal case was identified as a man in his 80s who was infected at an aged care facility in western Sydney. He was fully vaccinated but had underlying health conditions.New South Wales, the country's most populous state, reported 6,324 new infections on Monday, a fall of 70 from the record number a day before. There were 524 people in hospitals, including 55 in intensive care.New measures came into force in New South Wales on Monday, including limits of one person per 2 square metres (22 square feet) in bars and restaurants and required "check-ins" with QR codes in hospitality venues.Health Minister Brad Hazzard said the state government is considering lifting the requirement for health workers to isolate themselves after being exposed to Covid-19 because of staff shortages.Victoria state reported 1,999 new cases on Monday with three deaths.State Covid-19 response commander Jeroen Weimar said Victoria has moved to random genome testing for the Omicron variant to better understand its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-south-wales-australia-s-most-populous-state-reports-first-omicron-death-101640571820208.html
27-12-2021||World||Weather disasters cost $170 billion in damages this year, $20 bn more than last||The ten most expensive weather disasters this year caused more than $170 billion (150 billion euros) in damage, $20 billion more than in 2020, a British aid group said Monday.Each year, UK charity Christian Aid calculates the cost of weather incidents like flooding, fires, and heat waves according to insurance claims and reports the results.In 2020, it found the world's ten costliest weather disasters caused $150 billion in damage, making this year's total an increase of 13 percent.Christian Aid said the upward trend reflects the effects of man-made climate change and added that the ten disasters in question also killed at least 1,075 people and displaced 1.3 million.The most expensive disaster in 2021 was hurricane Ida, which lashed the eastern United States and caused around $65 billion in damages. After crashing into Louisiana at the end of August, it made its way northward and caused extensive flooding in New York City and the surrounding area.Spectacular and deadly flooding in Germany and Belgium in July was next on the list at $43 billion in losses.A cold snap and winter storm in Texas that took out the vast state's power grid cost $23 billion, followed by flooding in China's Henan province in July that cost an estimated $17.6 billion.Other disasters costing several billion dollars include flooding in Canada, a late spring freeze in France that damaged vineyards, and a cyclone in India and Bangladesh in May.The report acknowledged its evaluation mainly covers disasters in rich countries where infrastructure is better insured and that the financial toll of disasters on poor countries is often incalculable.It gave the example of South Sudan where flooding affected around 800,000 people."Some of the most devastating extreme weather events in 2021 hit poorer nations, which have contributed little to causing climate change," the report's press release noted.In mid-December, the world's biggest reinsurer, Swiss Re, estimated natural catastrophes and extreme weather events caused around $250 billion in damage this year.It said the total represented a 24 percent increase over last year and that the cost to the insurance industry alone was the fourth highest since 1970.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/weather-disasters-cost-170-billion-in-damages-this-year-20-bn-more-than-last-101640566242274.html
27-12-2021||World||Omicron in US: New York sees 'four fold increase' in hospitalised children||With Omicron cases on the rise, New York health officials have reported an increase in hospitalized children, as the White House promised Sunday to quickly resolve the United States' Covid-19 test shortage.The New York State Department of Health warned "of an upward trend in pediatric hospitalizations associated with Covid-19," in a statement Friday.In New York City, it "identified four-fold increases in Covid-19 hospital admissions for children 18 and under beginning the week of December 5 through the current week," it said.Approximately half of the admissions are younger than five, an age group that is vaccine ineligible, the department added.The number of Covid-19 cases in the United States is on the rise, with an average of nearly 190,000 new infections daily over the past seven days, according to figures from Johns Hopkins University.The arrival of the new Omicron variant, compounded by holiday celebrations that typically include travel and family reunions, have caused a rush on tests in the United States, where it is difficult to get one in many locations.Top US pandemic advisor Anthony Fauci on Sunday acknowledged a Covid "testing problem" and vowed to make more tests available to Americans next month."One of the problems is that that's not going to be totally available to everyone until we get to January and there are still some issues now of people having trouble getting tested," Fauci told ABC News."But we're addressing the testing problem," he added, saying it should be corrected "very soon."On Tuesday, President Joe Biden announced a raft of new measures as the United States battles its latest Covid surge, including shipping half a billion free home tests in the wake of the Christmastime testing crunch.However, the White House, whose strategy has for weeks been mainly focused on vaccinations, has faced strong criticism over the fact that many tests won't be available until January.'Extraordinarily contagious'Fauci on Sunday emphasized that the administration was ramping up to tackle the spike and stressed that Omicron was "extraordinarily contagious."Apart from overwhelming hospitals and Covid testing sites, the Covid variant has forced the cancellation of hundreds of flights in the United States, as crews called in sick or had to quarantine after exposure to the virus.Recent studies in South Africa and Britain indicate that Omicron was less likely to lead to hospitalization than the previous strains of the virus and that the duration of hospital stays and oxygen needs for patients were lower, Fauci noted.But he also warned that Omicron's apparent lower severity is likely to be neutralized by how fast it is spreading."The issue that we don't want to get complacent about... is that when you have such a high volume of new infections, it might override a real diminution in severity," Fauci said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-in-us-new-york-sees-four-fold-increase-in-hospitalised-children-101640564334838.html
27-12-2021||World||Israel approves plan to double settlers in occupied Golan Heights||Israel’s government on Sunday approved a $317 million plan to double the Jewish settler population in the Golan Heights, 40 years after it annexed the territory captured from Syria.Prime Minister Naftali Bennett’s cabinet voted in favour of the plan that aims to build 7,300 settler homes in the region over a five-year period, during a meeting held at the Mevo Hama community in the Golan.It calls for 1 billion Israeli shekels to be spent on housing, infrastructure and other projects with the goal of attracting roughly 23,000 new Jewish settlers to the area, seized during the 1967 Six Day War.“Our goal today is to double the population of the Golan Heights,” the right-wing Bennett said ahead of the meeting.Bennett said the recognition by the Trump administration of Israeli sovereignty over the swath of land, and the Biden administration’s indication that it will not at this point walk that decision back, prompted the new investment in the region.Entrenching Israeli control over the territory would complicate any future attempt to forge peace with Syria, which claims the Golan Heights.Israel occupied the Golan Heights in the 1967 Mideast war and later annexed the territory, promoting settlement and agriculture there as well as creating a thriving local tourism industry.The US was the first country to recognise Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan, which the rest of the international community regards as Israeli-occupied.“The Golan Heights are Israeli. This is self-evident,” Bennett said.Israel has long argued that the strategically important area has, for all practical purposes, been fully integrated into Israel since it was captured from Syria and that control of the strategic plateau is needed as protection from Iran and its allies in Syria.Tens of thousands of Israelis live in the Golan Heights, which is also home to a number of formerly Syrian Druze villages, some of which oppose Israeli control.Palestinians, Israeli forces clash in West BankIsraeli forces clashed with Palestinians in the West Bank in an area that has seen a recent uptick in friction, the Israeli military and Palestinian medics said.The clashes on Saturday were part of days of tension in the area surrounding a West Bank settlement outpost and a spike in violence elsewhere in the West Bank and east Jerusalem.During the clashes, the military said, hundreds of Palestinians threw rocks and burned tires and shots were fired in the area. The military said forces responded with live fire and “riot dispersal means,” typically tear gas and stun grenades.The military also said shots were fired from a passing vehicle toward a military post near the West Bank city of Nablus, which is south of Homesh. It was not clear if the shooting was related to the clashes.The Palestinian Red Crescent said 10 people were wounded by live fire. The Palestinian Health Ministry said one of them, a 17-year-old, was seriously wounded. Dozens of others were wounded by rubber bullets.A soldier was lightly wounded, the military said.Homesh, in the northern West Bank, was dismantled as part of Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in 2005.But in recent years, Israeli settlers have returned to pray and established an unauthorised outpost at the site.Israel captured east Jerusalem and the West Bank in the 1967 Mideast war, and the territories are now home to over 700,000 Israel settlers.Most of the international community considers Israeli settlements illegal obstacles to peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-approves-plan-to-double-settlers-in-occupied-golan-heights-101640560452851.html
27-12-2021||World||At least five killed in suicide bombing||Authorities in Congo urged churches, restaurants and hotels to step up security on Sunday, fearing more violence after a suicide bomber killed five people in eastern Congo in the first attack of its kind.Beni Mayor Narcisse Muteba, a police colonel, warned owners of popular venues in the town of Beni that they needed to add security guards with metal detectors because “terrorists” could strike again.“We are asking people to be vigilant and to avoid public places during this festive period,” Muteba told The Associated Press on Sunday.Officials initially said the death toll was six plus the suicide bomber, but Muteba revised that figure a day later to five victims. Thirteen others remained hospitalised after the blast at the entrance to the Inbox restaurant on Christmas Day.Shortly after the attack, an AFP correspondent saw the remains of three bodies at the site of the blast, the Inbox restaurant. The remains of tables, chairs, bottles and glasses were scattered across the blast site.One city hall source told AFP that two children were among the dead, as well as two local officials. More than thirty people were celebrating Christmas there when the bomb went off, two witnesses told AFP.“I was sitting there,” local radio presenter Nicolas Ekila told AFP. “There was a motorbike parked there. Suddenly the motorbike took off, then there was a deafening noise.”Rachel Magali, who had been at the restaurant with her sister-in-law and several others, described hearing a loud noise and then people starting to cry.“We rushed to the exit where I saw people lying down,” she told the AP. “There were green plastic chairs scattered everywhere and I also saw heads and arms no longer attached. It was really horrible.”A police vehicle took the wounded to a nearby medical centre, which was immediately sealed off.Saturday’s bloodshed dramatically deepened fears that Islamic extremism has taken hold in Beni, which already has suffered years of attacks by rebels from the Allied Democratic Forces, or ADF.Muteba blamed the latest attack on those rebels, whose exact links to international extremist groups have been murky. The Islamic State’s Central Africa Province has claimed responsibility for attacks blamed on ADF, but it is unknown what role exactly the larger organisation may have played in organising and financing the attacks.There have been worrying signs that religious extremism was escalating around Beni: Two local imams were killed earlier this year within weeks of each other, one of whom had spoken out against the ADF.Then in June, the Islamic State group’s Central Africa Province claimed responsibility for a suicide bomber who blew himself up near a bar in Beni without harming others. Another explosion that same day at a Catholic church wounded two people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-five-killed-in-suicide-bombing-101640560114608.html
27-12-2021||World||Putin to mull options if West refuses guarantees||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Sunday he would ponder a slew of options if the West fails to meet his push for security guarantees precluding Nato’s expansion to Ukraine.Earlier this month, Moscow submitted draft security documents demanding that Nato deny membership to Ukraine and other former Soviet countries and roll back its military deployments in Central and Eastern Europe.Putin has urged the West to move quickly to meet the demands, warning that Moscow will have to take “adequate military-technical measures” if the West continues its “aggressive” course “on the threshold of our home.”Asked to specify what such Moscow’s response could be, he said in comments aired by Russian state TV on Sunday that “it could be diverse,” adding without elaboration that “it will depend on what proposals our military experts submit to me”.In remarks broadcast on Sunday, Putin said that Russia submitted the demands in the hope of a constructive answer from the West.“We didn’t do it just to see it blocked ... but for the purpose of reaching a negotiated diplomatic result that would be fixed in legally binding documents,” Putin said. He reaffirmed that Nato membership for Ukraine or the deployment of alliance weapons there is a red line for Moscow that it wouldn’t allow the West to cross.Separately, Russia has received a Nato proposal to commence talks on Moscow’s security concerns on Jan. 12 and is considering it, TASS news agency reported on Sunday.“We have already received this (Nato) offer, and we are considering it,” TASS quoted the foreign ministry as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-to-mull-options-if-west-refuses-guarantees-101640559902925.html
27-12-2021||World||Virus fears hit Christmas travel as flights cancelled||More than 7,000 flights have been cancelled worldwide over the Christmas weekend and thousands more delayed, a tracking website reported on Sunday, as the highly infectious Omicron variant brings holiday hurt to millions.According to Flightaware.com, more than 2,000 flights were cancelled on Sunday - including more than 570 originating from, or headed to, US airports. More than 4,000 delays were reported. Aircrew and ground staff have fallen sick or gone into quarantine after exposure to Covid, forcing Lufthansa, Delta, United Airlines, JetBlue, Alaska Airlines and other carriers to cancel flights during a peak travel period.More than 2,800 flights were scrubbed around the globe on Saturday, including more than 990 originating from or headed to US airports, with over 8,500 delays. On Friday, there were around 2,400 cancellations and 11,000 delays.Flightaware data showed United cancelled around 200 flights on Friday and nearly 250 Saturday - about 10% of those that were scheduled. “The nationwide spike in Omicron cases this week has had a direct impact on our flight crews and the people who run our operation,” United said in a statement on Friday.Delta scrapped 310 flights Saturday and over 100 more Sunday, saying it has “exhausted all options and resources”.The cancellations added to the frustration for many people eager to reunite with their families over the holidays after last year’s Christmas was severely curtailed.Chinese airlines accounted for the highest number of cancellations, with China Eastern scrapping more than 1,000 flights, over 20 percent of its flight plan, on Friday and Saturday - and Air China grounding about 20 percent of its scheduled departures over the period.Infections spikeFrance recorded more than 100,000 virus infections in a single day for the first time since the pandemic struck, and Covid-19 hospitalisations have doubled over the past month as the fast-spreading omicron variant complicates the government’s efforts to stave off a new lockdown.More than 1 person in 100 in the Paris region has tested positive in the past week, according to the regional health service. Most new infections are linked to the Omicron variant, which government experts predict will be dominant in France in the coming days.The Palestinian health ministry said on Sunday it had identified the first case of the Omicron coronavirus variant in the Gaza Strip. The carrier is a Gaza resident who was infected within the coastal territory, ministry official Majdi Dhair told a news conference.New daily US cases from the Omicron variant have now surpassed Delta’s peak, CNN reported. Hospitalisations remain lower than the peaks earlier this year, it said. More than 69,000 people were hospitalised on Friday, CNN said, citing department of health and human services data.Americans should stay vigilant against the Omicron variant despite evidence its symptoms may be less severe because the volume of cases can still overwhelm hospitals, President Biden’s top medical adviser said on Sunday.“The issue that we don’t want to get complacent about... is that when you have such a high volume of new infections, it might override a real diminution in severity,” Anthony Fauci told the ABC talk show This Week.Israeli PM’s daughter test positive for CovidIsraeli PM Naftali Bennett went into isolation at home on Sunday and will await the results of a Covid-19 PCR test after his 14-year-old daughter tested positive for the coronavirus, his office said.The premier’s daughter had been vaccinated against Covid-19, his office said. It did not disclose whether she had been infected by Omicron or the Delta variant also prevalent in Israel.China outbreak widensThe Chinese city of Xi’an, where 13 million residents are currently confined to their homes, announced tightened restrictions on Sunday as the country recorded its biggest Covid-19 infection numbers in 21 months.China has so far stuck to a zero-Covid strategy. Still on Sunday the country reported 206 new Covid infections - the highest daily number since March 2020. Xian reported 155 new Covid patients on Sunday. Its residents have already been tested several times, authorities said, and a “total” disinfection was to begin Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virus-fears-hit-christmas-travel-as-flights-cancelled-101640559658645.html
27-12-2021||World||Anti-apartheid icon Archbishop Desmond Tutu dead||South African anti-apartheid icon Archbishop Desmond Tutu, described as the country’s moral compass, died on Sunday aged 90, sparking an outpouring of tributes for the outspoken Nobel Peace Prize winner.Tutu, who had largely faded from public life in recent years, was remembered for his easy humour and characteristic smile — and above all his tireless fight against injustices of all colours. He was diagnosed with prostate cancer in the late 1990s and in recent years was hospitalised on several occasions.South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa, announcing the archbishop’s death on Sunday, called him a man of “extraordinary intellect, integrity and invincibility against the forces of apartheid”. “The passing of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu is another chapter of bereavement in our nation’s farewell to a generation of outstanding South Africans who have bequeathed us a liberated South Africa,” he said, weeks after the death of FW de Klerk, the country’s last white president.Expressing condolences, the Vatican in a statement said that Pope Francis was saddened by Tutu’s death. “Mindful of his service to the gospel through the promotion of racial equality and reconciliation in his native South Africa, his holiness commends his soul to the loving mercy of almighty God.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antiapartheid-icon-archbishop-desmond-tutu-dead-101640552442143.html
27-12-2021||World||UN 'horrified' by reports of civilians massacred in Myanmar, calls for 'thorough, transparent' investigation||A UN official said Sunday he was "horrified" by credible reports that at least 35 civilians were killed and their bodies burned in Myanmar, and demanded the government launch an investigation.Two workers for non-profit group Save the Children remain missing after their vehicle was among several that were attacked and burned in the incident in eastern Kaya state.A monitoring group and local media have blamed the attack on junta troops."I condemn this grievous incident and all attacks against civilians throughout the country," United Nations under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs Martin Griffiths said in a statement.He called for "a thorough and transparent investigation".Myanmar has been in chaos since a February coup, with more than 1,300 people killed in a crackdown by security forces, according to a local monitoring group."People's Defence Forces" (PDF) have sprung up across the country to fight the junta, and have drawn the military into a bloody stalemate of clashes and reprisals.On Saturday, photos appeared on social media purporting to show two burned-out trucks and a car on a highway in Hpruso township in Kayah state, with the charred remains of bodies inside.A member of a local PDF group said its fighters had found the vehicles Saturday morning after hearing the military had stopped several vehicles in Hpruso after clashes with its fighters nearby on Friday."When we went to check in the area this morning, we found dead bodies burnt in two trucks. We found 27 dead bodies," he told AFP on condition of anonymity Saturday."We found 27 skulls," said another witness who did not want to be named, and who said there were other dead bodies that could not be counted.Save the Children said later Saturday that two of its Myanmar staff had been "caught up" in the incident and were missing.The two had been travelling home after carrying out humanitarian work in the region, the charity said in a statement, adding it had since suspended its work in several regions.Myanmar's junta previously said its troops had been attacked in Hpruso on Friday after attempting to stop seven cars driving in a "suspicious way".Troops had killed a number of people in the following clash, spokesman Zaw Min Tun told AFP, without giving details.The Myanmar Witness monitor said it had confirmed local media reports and witness accounts from local fighters "that 35 people including children and women were burnt and killed by the military on 24th December Hpruso township".Satellite data also showed a fire had occurred around 1:00 pm (0630 GMT) on Friday in Hpruso, it added.AFP was unable to confirm the reports surrounding the clash, but AFP digital verification reporters said the images purporting to show the incident had not appeared online before Friday evening.PDF groups have surprised the army with their effectiveness, analysts have said, as the military struggles to break resistance to its rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-horrified-by-reports-of-civilians-massacred-in-myanmar-calls-for-thorough-transparent-investigation-101640547122624.html
27-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 28, 2004 — Tsunami toll 25,000; 7,000 in India||New Delhi/Colombo – RESCUERS PILED up bodies along southern Asian coastlines devastated by tidal waves that obliterated seaside towns and killed about 25,000 people in nine countries, and officials indicated on Monday that the death toll could climb far higher. Hundreds of children were buried in mass graves in India, and morgues and hospitals struggled to cope with the catastrophe. Somalia, some 4,800 km away, reported hundreds of deaths. The death toll rose sharply a day after the magnitude 9 quake struck deep beneath the Indian Ocean off the coast of Indonesia. Walls of water sped away from the quake’s epicenter at more than 800 kmph before crashing into the region’s shorelines, sweeping people and fishing villages out to sea. The governments of Indonesia and Thailand conceded that public warnings came too late or not at all. But officials insisted they could not know the seriousness of the threat because no tsunami warning system exists for the Indian Ocean. The international Red Cross said it was concerned about water-borne diseases like malaria and cholera. Rescuers converged on beaches and islands throughout the region to search for survivors, and offers of aid poured in from around the globe, as troops in the region struggled to deliver urgently needed aid to afflicted areas. The toll in Sri Lanka was over 12,000, India reported about 6,800 deaths and Indonesia 5,000. Thailand said hundreds of people were dead and thousands more were missing. Deaths also were reported in Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar, Bangladesh and Somalia. In Delhi, the UPA government announced an allocation of ₹500 crore for the National Calamity Contingency Fund towards relief and rehabilitation in the affected states. The Centre had earlier announced an ex-gratia payment of ₹1 lakh to the next of kin of each deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-28-2004-tsunami-toll-25-000-7-000-in-india-101640629371727.html
27-12-2021||India||Pakistan foreign ministry summons Indian diplomat over Dharma Sansad speeches||NEW DELHI: Pakistan on Monday summoned the senior-most Indian diplomat in Islamabad to convey its concerns over calls for violence against minorities by Hindu seers at a three-day event held in Haridwar. The charge d’affaires of the Indian high commission was summoned to the foreign ministry in Islamabad and asked to convey the Pakistan government’s serious concerns “over the widely reported open calls by Hindutva proponents for carrying out genocide of Indian Muslims”, an official statement said. Police in Haridwar registered a case on Thursday after videos of the three-day Dharma Sansad held during December 17-19 caused a furore since several seers participating in the event had called for violence against minorities. There was no response from the Indian side to the summoning of the diplomat by Pakistan’s Foreign Office. The Pakistani side impressed upon the Indian government that it was “highly reprehensible” that the seers who made the calls for violence had “neither expressed any regret nor the Indian government has condemned or taken any action against them so far”, the statement said. The reported hate speeches were viewed with grave concern by civil society and a cross-section of people in Pakistan, the statement said. A “toxic narrative against minorities, particularly Muslims and their persecution” has become a norm, and such incitement to violence had preceded riots in New Delhi in February 2020, the statement added. “India is expected to investigate these hate speeches and incidents of widespread violence against minorities, particularly Muslims and their houses of worship and take measures to stop such incidents from recurring in future,” the statement said. Pakistan asked India to ensure the safety, security and wellbeing of its minorities, including protection of their religious places and way of life.Relations between India and Pakistan are currently at an all-time low and the Indian side has summoned Pakistani diplomats in New Delhi several times in recent months to protest against instances of oppression of Pakistan’s Hindu minority and attacks on Hindu temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-foreign-ministry-summons-indian-diplomat-over-dharma-sansad-speeches-101640628951440.html
27-12-2021||India||China expert Vikram Misri, who has been aide to 3 PMs, is India’s new deputy NSA||NEW DELHI: Vikram Misri, India’s former envoy to Beijing and an expert on China, was on Monday appointed a deputy national security adviser in the National Security Council Secretariat.Misri, an Indian Foreign Service officer of the 1989 batch who has the rare distinction of serving as private secretary to three prime ministers, will assume his new position on January 1 after deputy national security adviser Pankaj Saran, a former envoy to Russia, completes his tenure.Working along with deputy national security advisers Rajinder Khanna and Dattatray Padsalgikar, both from the Indian Police Service, Misri is expected to play a key role in formulating India’s response to the military standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).During a farewell call with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi via video link on December 6, Misri said “certain challenges since last year had overpowered the vast opportunities” in India-China relations. He also expressed the hope that a “complete resolution” will be possible under the framework provided by Wang and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar.Earlier this month, Pradeep Kumar Rawat was named Misri’s successor in Beijing.Vikram Misri (IFS:1989)He has served in various capacities in MEA including EAMO.He has the distinction of serving as Private Secretary to three Prime Ministers of India.Served as Ambassador of India to China, Myanmar & Spain,will take charge as Deputy National Security advisor pic.twitter.com/7MMffzWbAfMisri played a crucial role in contacts with the Chinese government after the standoff in eastern Ladakh began in May last year and 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops were killed in a brutal clash in Galwan Valley in June 2020.Despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, India and China have not been able to reach common ground on disengagement at several friction points such as Depsang. Both sides have amassed tens of thousands of troops along the LAC.Misri has served as India’s ambassador to Spain (2014-2016), Myanmar (2016-2018) and China (2019-2021). He also served as private secretary to prime minister IK Gujral (1997-1998), prime minister Manmohan Singh (2012-2014) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi (May to July 2014). He has had stints in the Indian missions in Belgium, Pakistan, the US, Sri Lanka and Germany.Before joining the government, he worked for three years in the private sector in advertising and advertising filmmaking.
27-12-2021||India||Odisha woman raped by 4 backtracked in court. Judge says charge her with perjury||BHUBANESWAR: A 21-year-old woman who accused four men of raping her faces prosecution for perjury after she retracted her allegations against the four during the trial in a fast-track Odisha court, Kandhamal district public prosecutor Bijay Patnaik said on Monday.Judge Bhaskar Chandra Sahu acquitted the four men accused of gang rape after she turned hostile and ordered that the woman be tried under section 193 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which relates to giving false evidence in a judicial proceeding. It is punishable by a maximum jail term of three years and fine.“Prima facie, the judge concluded that the victim suppressed the truth of her own allegation though she is legally bound to state the truth. She deposed falsehood intentionally. She needs to be prosecuted under section 193 of IPC,” Patnaik said, citing the judge’s operative portion of the order pronounced in court on Friday.The public prosecutor said in May 2020, the woman alleged that four young men raped her when she was on her way to her cousin’s house. She filed a complaint four days after the alleged crime, and the police arrested the four accused within three days.The woman’s statement was recorded by the police as well as by a judicial magistrate under section 164 of the criminal procedure code.Statements of several witnesses were also recorded by the police which backed her allegations.“However, during the trial, she backtracked and denied everything that she alleged. She even categorically denied giving any statements to the police and judicial magistrate,” said Patnaik.The judge not only ordered her prosecution for giving false evidence but also directed that any compensation due to the woman under any government scheme should be put on hold till proceedings under section 193 for giving false evidence are completed. The district legal services authority, Phulbani can later decide the entitlement of the victim as per the law. The court, which cleared the four men, said the woman’s initial complaint wasn’t wrong but there was no evidence against the four, Patnaik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-raped-by-4-backtracked-in-court-judge-says-charge-her-with-perjury-101640626193558.html
27-12-2021||India||Mamata's intention mala fide: BJP on Missionaries of Charity's bank account freeze claim||Leader of Opposition in the West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari hit out at chief minister Mamata Banerjee for stating on Twitter the Centre froze all bank accounts of Mother Teresa-founded Missionaries of Charity.Adhikari demanded an unconditional apology to the nation from Banerjee, adding she used social media "unethically".“Mamata Banerjee’s intention is totally fabricated and mala fide,” Adhikari was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Another Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Saumitra Khan said Banerjee was making a “false” claim and accused her of indulging in “drama”.“Banerjee does not have any information. She should see how West Bengal has worsened in her rule. Her account freezing claim is completely false. She only does drama,” the Bishnupur MP said.Also read | Mother Teresa's charity denies bank account freeze after Mamata blames CentreEarlier in the day, the Trinamool Congress supremo took to Twitter to express her shock over the alleged freezing of bank accounts of Kolkata-headquartered organisation by the Centre.She further wrote that 22,000 patients and employees of the charity group were left without food and medicines following the Centre move.Hours later, the Union home ministry said the application for the renewal of FCRA registration was refused on December 25 for not meeting the eligibility conditions under the FCRA 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules 2011. The ministry added that no request or revision application was received for review of the refusal of renewal. It further said bank accounts of the charity organisation were frozen by the State Bank of India as requested by the group.Also read | Mamata claims Centre froze all bank accounts of Missionaries of CharitySoon after, the Missionaries of Charity issued a statement saying there has been no freeze order from the Union home ministry nor the charity's Foreign Contribution Regulation Act has been suspended or cancelled.“We would like to clarify that the FCRA registration of the Missionaries of Charity has been neither suspended nor cancelled. Further there is no freeze ordered by the Ministry of Home Affairs on any of our bank accounts,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-intention-mala-fide-bjp-on-missionaries-of-charity-s-bank-account-freeze-claim-101640620416889.html
27-12-2021||India||4.8-magnitude earthquake hits Srinagar||An earthquake of 4.8-magnitude on the Richter Scale hit Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar on Monday, informed the National Center for Seismology (NCS)."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.8, Occurred on 27-12-2021, 19:07:29 IST, Lat: 35.26 & Long: 74.80, Depth: 212 Km, Location: 130km N of Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India," tweeted NCS.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48magnitude-earthquake-hits-srinagar-101640623629982.html
27-12-2021||India||Sidhu says MLA can make cops 'wet their pants', officer sends defamation notice||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has courted controversy while praising two party members, allegedly saying that they are capable of making policemen wet their pants.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Daljit Singh Cheema slammed him over the purported remark and a Chandigarh police officer sent him a defamation notice."I have sent a defamation notice to him for humiliating the police," Chandigarh Deputy Superintendent of Police Dilsher Singh Chandel said.A sub-inspector also issued a video message condemning the remark.Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has backed the policemen and praised them for their role during militancy and COVID-19 times.The controversy erupted after Sidhu, at a recent rally in Sultanpur Lodhi while pointing towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, said he can "make a 'thanedar' (policeman) wet his pants".He repeated the remark at a rally in Batala on Sunday while praising local leader Ashwani Sekhri who was standing by his side.When reporters asked him about his remark, Sidhu indicated that it should not be taken literally.He said it's a way of saying that these Congress leaders "wield authority".A video clip of Sidhu making the remark went viral on social media inviting sharp reaction from some police officials and political leaders.Punjab Lok Congress president and former chief minister Amarinder Singh said it was sad that the men in uniform were being disrespected."Sad to see our men in uniform being disrespected. 1700 @PunjabPoliceInd personnel sacrificed their lives to bring the state out of the dark days and now they are being mocked by @INCPunjab leaders & above all their President. Shameful! A leader must give respect to earn respect," Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.SAD's Daljit Singh Cheema questioned the "silence" of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over Sidhu's remark.He asked both of them to tell Sidhu that he should refrain from making such a remark and ask him to withdraw his statement and seek apology from the police.Chandigarh DSP Chandel dubbed Sidhu's remark as "shameful"."It is very shameful that such a senior leader uses these words for his own force and humiliates them," Chandel said."This is the same force which protects him (Sidhu) and his family," he said in a video message.He even dared Sidhu to return his force deployed for his protection."Without (security) force, even a rickshaw puller will not listen to him," he said."I strongly condemn this remark and he (Sidhu) should not use such words for his force. The force has its own dignity and respect and it is our responsibility to maintain this dignity," he said.In a video message, Sub-Inspector Balbir Singh, posted in Jalandhar (Rural), said, "Such language was used by a senior leader against us, I strongly condemn it."He also requested the Punjab DGP not to allow the image of police to be affected."We live with our families in the society and our children question us why such language is being used against us," Balbir Singh said.He said this remark was not against any 'thanedar' but against the entire police force."I want to tell Sidhu Sahib that we are not cowards. We are brave and the whole country knows about the tales of our bravery," he said as he recalled the role of police against militancy.Without caring for their own lives, the personnel of the Punjab police provided food to the needy at their homes during the COVID-19 outbreak, he added.Commenting on the videos of the Chandigarh DSP and the sub-inspector, Ludhiana MP Bittu lauded the Punjab police for its role in eliminating terrorism from the state.Bittu, whose grandfather and the then chief minister Beant Singh died in a bomb blast in 1995, said, "Some videos of a DSP and sub-inspector have gone viral. First of all whatever has been said about the police, I seek apology," he said."I know it is Punjab police personnel, from senior IPS officer to the constable level, which did not care for their own lives and curbed terrorism with iron hand," Bittu wrote on his Facebook page.Bittu said during the COVID-19 outbreak, the police force personnel took food to the homes of people.Referring to the Ludhiana court bomb blast, he said it was the Punjab police which reached the spot first."How will they protect people if we use wrong words against them. It was very important that we stand by them," he said."We are proud of you and we salute you," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-says-mla-can-make-cops-wet-their-pants-officer-sends-defamation-notice-101640622495443.html
27-12-2021||India||Centre nudges 5 poll-bound states to exponentially increase testing, vaccination||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday advised five poll-bound states to ramp up of Covid vaccination of the eligible population through district-wise weekly plans; carry out an exponential increase of Covid testing to curb the sudden surge of cases; and strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour to five poll-bound states, according to a Union health ministry statement.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a high-level meeting with five states — Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab — to review the public health response measures for containment and management of Covid-19, and the vaccination status in these states. The meeting was held hours after Rajesh Bhushan and senior health officials held a meeting with the Election Commission of India discuss the prevailing Covid situation for upcoming assembly elections.While Uttarakhand and Goa have reported vaccination coverage for the first and second doses higher than the national average, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur have Covid-19 vaccination coverage numbers below the national average.A total of 142.38 crore vaccination doses have been administered so far, of which more than 83.80 crore vaccine doses are for the first dose and more than 58.58 crore are second doses of the vaccine, the statement said.The states were advised to speedily ramp up the Covid-19 vaccination of the eligible population for the first dose and ensure that those who were due for the second dose are administered the second dose.The states have also been told to draw up district-wise weekly vaccination implementation plans and review their implementation on a daily basis.The five states were also advised to exponentially increase the testing to ensure that the infected cases are identified promptly for timely initiation of public health response measures, and to ensure that there is no sudden upsurge in numbers due to low testing. “The state authorities were strongly advised to ensure that recommended Covid appropriate behavior is strictly followed and adequate measures are undertaken for their effective enforcement, the health ministry statement said.
27-12-2021||India||At Covid review with 5 poll-bound states, Centre hands out a 3-point to-do list||The Centre on Monday reviewed public health response measures for containment and management of Covid-19 and vaccination status with five election-bound states.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held the high-level meeting with senior officials of Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, the ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement.During the meeting, Bhushan advised officials to ramp up the vaccination drive against coronavirus for the entire eligible population through district-wise weekly plan with a daily review. Those yet to receive their first dose should be given the same at the earliest, while those awaiting their second dose of the vaccine would have to complete the course, the states were told.Testing would also have to be exponentially accelerated to curb the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases.The Centre also asked the states to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour.According to an ANI input, Bhushan will soon conduct a meeting with chief secretaries and medical officers of states and Union territories regarding the vaccination of 15-18-year-old and precaution doses for healthcare and frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities.Earlier in the day, the Union ministry issued a fresh set of guidelines on the expanded inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-reviews-public-health-measures-vaccination-status-in-5-poll-bound-states-101640621079512.html
27-12-2021||India||Govt fixes a 9-month gap for 3rd vaccine dose, says will send SMS alert||NEW DELHI: CoWIN system will send an SMS to beneficiaries eligible for availing the ‘precaution dose’ when the third dose becomes due for health care and frontline workers, and people aged 60 and above with comorbidities, said Union health ministry’s guidelines issued on Monday on the additional dose and children’s vaccination.“As a matter of abundant precaution, for those Health Care Workers (HCWs) & Frontline Workers (FLWs) who have received two doses, another dose of COVID-19 vaccine would be provided from 10th January 2022. The prioritization and sequencing of this precaution dose would be based on the completion of 9 months i.e. 39 weeks from the date of administration of 2nd dose,” the guidelines, which will come into effect from January 3, said.For children between 15 and 18 years eligible to take the shot, the only vaccine option at the moment is ‘Covaxin’ as this is the only vaccine approved in India that has WHO emergency use listing for the 15-18 years age group.A second vaccine, too, is approved by the national drugs regulator for use in ages 12 and above – ZyCoV-D, a dose made by Gujarat-based Zydus Healthcare. ZyCoV-D is yet to be included in the immunisation programme. “All persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities who have received two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, will on doctor’s advice be provided with a precaution dose from 10th January 2022, the health ministry document said. The nine-month gap between the second and third dose will, however, apply. This means that senior citizens will be eligible for the third dose only if they were given the second dose on or before 10 April 2021.According to RS Sharma, chief executive of National Health Authority that is leading CoWIN system implementation for the national Covid immunisation programme, the system will only register people from the three eligible categories if nine months from the second dose have elapsed.“Registration and appointment services can be accessed through both, the online and the onsite modes. The details of administration of the precaution dose will be suitably reflected in the vaccination certificates,” said the guidelines, issued two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the decision to permit the third dose to people falling in the eligible categories.Also, children eligible to take the Covid-19 vaccine shot from next year will be able to register on the CoWIN platform from January 1, said Sharma.“The system is being modified accordingly. Students can make use of their identity cards for the purpose of registration,” he said.All those whose birth year is 2007 or before will be eligible to register on CoWIN; they can self-register online through an existing account on CoWIN or can also register by creating a new account through a unique mobile number. For now, the facility is available for all eligible citizens of India. Eligible children can also be registered onsite by the verifier or vaccinator in facilitated registration mode, and appointments can be booked either online or onsite (walk-in), as per the government guidelines Prime minister Narendra Modi on December 25 announced key decisions in India’s fight against the coronavirus disease including the start of vaccination for children in the 15-18 age group from January 3, next year, and allowing ‘precaution dose’ for health care workers, frontline workers, and persons 60 and above who suffer from comorbidities, on advice of their doctor. The move came amid calls from experts to expand the vaccine drive, especially booster doses, to fight new variants such as Omicron, which has shown a substantial drop in vaccine efficacy against symptomatic disease. “Keeping in view the recent global surge of Covid-19 cases, detection of Omicron variant which has been categorized as a Variant of Concern (VOC), scientific evidence, global practices and the inputs/suggestions of ‘Covid-19 Working Group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI)’ as well as of ‘Standing Technical Scientific Committee (STSC)’ of NTAGI, it has now been decided to further refine the scientific prioritization and coverage of Covid-19 vaccination,” the health ministry said in a note.
27-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Vikram Misri appointed new deputy NSA, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vikram Misri is new deputy NSAChina expert and former Indian envoy to Beijing Vikram Misri was today appointed deputy national security adviser in the national security council secretariat. Misri, a 1989 batch IFS officer, will come in place of Pankaj Saran who demits office on December 31, 2021. Read more…Mother Teresa's charity denies bank account freeze after Mamata blames CentreThe Missionaries of Charity on Monday said the Union home ministry has not ordered a freeze on any of its bank accounts after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged the same. Read more…Only Covaxin for young adults, 39-week gap for precaution doses of 60+ & healthcare workersAs the country expands its vaccination programme against Covid-19, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday issued a fresh set of guidelines on the registration and inoculation drive that will cover children between 15 and 18 years of age, besides administration of ‘precaution doses’ for healthcare and frontline workers and those above 60 years of age with comorbidities. Read more…Uttarakhand government announces night curfew amid Omicron threatThe Uttarakhand government on Monday announced night curfew across the state, in view of the threat posed by the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. The decision comes days after neighbouring Uttar Pradesh announced similar curbs to check the spread of the infection. Read more…'Pollock handed me the ball and I felt paralysed': Former South Africa pacer recalls bowling to Tendulkar on Test debutAs everyone waited for the weather to clear on Day 2 of the Centurion Test between India and South Africa at the SuperSport Park, the broadcasters aired one of the most special innings played by an India batter in South Africa, Sachin Tendulkar's 50th Test century that the former India batter scored at this very ground all the way back in 2010. Read more…Mrunal Thakur was considered for Anushka Sharma’s role in Sultan, says Salman Khan: ‘She did not look like a wrestler’The star cast of the upcoming film Jersey - Shahid Kapoor and Mrunal Thakur- appeared on the Bigg Boss Weekend Ka Vaar episode that aired on Sunday. It was here that host Salman Khan revealed a hitherto unknown fact- that at one point, Mrunal was set to begin her Bollywood journey opposite him. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-vikram-misri-appointed-new-deputy-nsa-and-all-the-latest-news-101640616339035.html
27-12-2021||India||PM Modi’s UAE visit in Jan marks 50 years of diplomatic ties, deepen partnership||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to make his first foreign visit in 2022 to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in early January to chart a course to take forward the burgeoning relations between the two countries.India and the UAE will commemorate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties next year, and the visit is expected to focus on both deepening cooperation and looking for new areas for collaboration, people familiar with the matter said on Monday. Several agreements in different areas are likely to be signed during the visit.The dates for what is anticipated to be a brief visit are yet to be finalised by the two countries, though it is expected that the prime minister may travel to the UAE around January 6, the people said. Modi is also expected to visit the India Pavilion at the Dubai Expo, which has attracted more than 604,000 visitors in nearly three months.The pavilion has showcased the Indian start-up ecosystem through initiatives such as “Elevate”, which displays unconventional solutions created by 500 Indian start-ups, and also highlighted investment opportunities in sectors such as new and renewable energy, space, urban and rural development, oil and gas, textiles and education.India and the UAE are also engaged in negotiations for a comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) and are hoping to complete the talks by March next year. The issue is expected to figure during the prime minister’s visit, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-uae-visit-in-jan-marks-50-years-of-diplomatic-ties-deepen-partnership-101640618149846.html
27-12-2021||India||Amit Shah to address 3 public rallies in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow||Union home minister Amit Shah will address public meetings in Hardoi, Sultanpur and Bhadohi districts on Tuesday as part of the BJP's campaign for the assembly election in Uttar Pradesh due early next year.The BJP's Uttar Pradesh media co-incharge, Himanshu Dubey, on Monday said Shah is scheduled to visit the state on Tuesday and address three rallies as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party's 'Jan Vishwas Yatra'.Shah will address a public meeting at 12 noon at GIC Ground in Hardoi, at 2 pm at Awas Vikas Maidan in Omnagar in Sultanpur and at 4 pm at Vibhuti Narayan Government Inter College Ground in Bhadohi's Gyanpur, Dubey said.He is scheduled to address public meetings in Orai in Jalaun and Kasganj on Sunday.In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Shah was incharge of the BJP's Uttar Pradesh unit. He was the party's national president during the 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-address-3-public-rallies-in-uttar-pradesh-tomorrow-101640615976754.html
27-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand government announces night curfew amid Omicron threat||The Uttarakhand government on Monday announced night curfew across the state, in view of the threat posed by the new Omicron variant of coronavirus. The decision comes days after neighbouring Uttar Pradesh announced similar curbs to check the spread of the infection.The night curfew will come into effect from tonight. It will remain in force from 11pm to 5am till further orders, said an order issued by chief secretary SS Sandhu.However, essential services like health, movement of vehicles carrying health personnel, ambulances, postal services have been exempted from the ambit of the curfew.Private vehicles too will have the permission to commute for emergencies during the curfew with strict adherence to Covid and safety protocols.The Uttar Pradesh government reintroduced night curfew from Saturday after a review meeting chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Adityanath also asked officials to publicise the “no mask, no shopping” message for traders and shopkeepers. “Police should enhance patrolling, make public address system more effective to publicise safety norms and protocols...mask-wearing must be made mandatory for movement on roads and in markets,” a statement from Uttar Pradesh government said.The UP government also announced restrictions on social events like weddings and restricted them to 200 people, intensified police patrolling to ensure compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour, and upgraded vigilance at airports, bus stations and railway terminals for passengers coming to the state.The Omicron variant has been spreading fast in India. So far, the country has recorded more than 500 cases of the new coronavirus variant, which was detected in South Africa on November 24.The Centre government, meanwhile, extended the enforcement of nationwide Covid-19 containment measures until January 31, 2022, amid concerns over Omicron.Referring to the increased Omicron cases, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an advisory to all the states and Union Territories (UTs), directing them to implement a "normative framework for taking evidence-based containment measures at district and local level and extended the Covid-19 containment measures till January 31 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-government-announces-night-curfew-amid-omicron-threat-101640613405150.html
27-12-2021||India||Kerala imposes night curfew as virus spreads alarm. Check details here||Kerala on Monday joined the ever-growing list of states that imposed night curfews in the wake of rising cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus.The state government imposed a curfew between 10pm to 5am that will come into effect on December 30 and will remain in force till January 2. The new restrictions effectively imposed a complete ban on late-night New Year celebrations.Kerala logged 1,636 new infections on Monday, taking the caseload from the viral disease to 52,24,929. The state also reported 236 deaths, which raised the toll to 46,822 so far, an official press release said.Kerala's Omicron tally currently stands at 57 with 19 new cases of the highly transmissible strain of coronavirus being reported on Sunday. This is the highest one-day rise in the state so far.Health minister Veena George said of the 19 cases, 11 were detected in Ernakulam, six in Thiruvananthapuram and one each in Thrissur and Kannur."Persons coming from the UK, UAE, Ireland, Canada, Spain, Qatar and Netherlands were confirmed with the Omicron virus in Ernakulam. In Thiruvananthapuram, the infected came from the UK, Ghana and Qatar," the minister said.Earlier in the day, the Centre ordered all states and Union territories to ensure that local or district administrations promptly take appropriate containment measures based on the normative framework and their assessment of the pandemic situation in view of the worsening crisis.Meanwhile, night curfew was also imposed across Uttarakhand in view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The night curfew which comes into effect on Monday night will remain in force from 11pm to 5am until further orders, according to a statement issued by chief secretary SS Sandhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-imposes-night-curfew-as-virus-spreads-alarm-check-details-here-101640611499913.html
27-12-2021||India||Only Covaxin for young adults, 39-week gap for precaution doses of 60+ & healthcare workers||As the country expands its vaccination programme against Covid-19, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday issued a fresh set of guidelines on the registration and inoculation drive that will cover children between 15 and 18 years of age, besides administration of ‘precaution doses’ for healthcare and frontline workers and those above 60 years of age with comorbidities.The latest guidelines came two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation, made the announcement on the government’s move to expand the vaccination drive that he said was based on scientific advice. Covid-19 cases have been on a rise in a number of states, besides the fast spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the virus.Following are the key points mentioned in the guideline that will become effective from January 3, 2022.- The inoculation of children in the age-group of 15-18 years will begin January 3, 2022. For such beneficiaries, the vaccination option would be “Covaxin” only.- For those healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) who have received two doses, the third dose would be available from January 10, 2022. The prioritisation and sequencing of this precaution dose would be based on the completion of nine months or 39 weeks from the date of administration of the second dose.- All persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities who have received two doses of vaccine, will on doctor’s advice be provided with a precaution dose from January 10, 2022. Here too, the prioritisation and sequencing of the dose would be based on the completion of nine months or 39 weeks from the date of administration of the second dose.Co-WIN features and provisions:- HCWs, FLWs and citizens 60+ with co-morbidities will be able to access the vaccination for precaution dose through their existing Co-WIN account.- Eligibility of such beneficiaries for the precaution dose will be based on the date of administration of the second dose as recorded in the Co-WIN system.- Co-WIN will send an SMS to such beneficiaries for availing the precaution dose when the dose becomes due.- Registration and appointment services can be accessed through both, the online and the onsite modes.- Details of administration of the precaution dose will be suitably reflected in the vaccination certificates.- New beneficiaries aged 15-18 years will be able to register on Co-WIN. In other words, all those whose birth year is 2007 or before, shall be eligible.- Beneficiaries can self-register, online through an existing account on Co-WIN or can also register by creating a new account through a unique mobile number. This facility is available for all eligible citizens presently.- Such beneficiaries can also be registered onsite by the verifier/vaccinator in facilitated registration mode.- Appointments can be booked online or onsite (walk-in).- For such beneficiaries, option for vaccination would only be available for Covaxin as this is the only vaccine with EUL for the age-group 15-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-covaxin-for-young-adults-39-week-gap-for-precaution-doses-101640611236230.html
27-12-2021||India||Vikram Misri is new deputy NSA||China expert and former Indian envoy to Beijing Vikram Misri was today appointed deputy national security adviser in the national security council secretariat. Misri, a 1989 batch IFS officer, will come in place of Pankaj Saran who demits office on December 31, 2021. Saran was a former envoy to Russia. While Vikram Misri joins the NSCS, Pradeep Kumar Rawat has taken over as India's envoy to China.Misri has worked in the prime minister's office before and is well versed with the strategic environment in Indo Pacific.Vikram Misri will report to national security adviser Ajit Doval. The other two deputy NSAs are Rajender Khanna and Datta Pandsalgikar.
27-12-2021||India||As India opens jabs for 15-18 yrs, boosters for 60+, here's how Cowin registration will work||India will soon begin vaccinating its children aged between 15 and 18 years against coronavirus disease. In a televised address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that besides the adolescents, ‘precautionary doses’ will be given to citizens above 60 years of age with co-morbidities as well as healthcare workers.On Monday, the government came out with a set of guidelines to be followed for registration of eligible vaccine beneficiaries as the country moves on the next phase of the inoculation drive to fight the virus amid concerns over rising cases.Here is a detailed guideline on the same:- The process for registration of children on the Cowin app will be similar to the registration of adults on the platform.- Children between 15-18 years will be able to book their slots on the Cowin app by simply registering with their ID card from January 1.- Dr R S Sharma, Cowin platform chief, said besides Aadhaar and other national identity cards, children can use their class 10th ID card for registration.- Only Covaxin will be available for those belonging to 15 and 18 years of age||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-opens-jabs-for-15-18-yrs-boosters-for-60-details-on-cowin-registration-101640608342158.html
27-12-2021||India||‘Precautionary dose' applicable after 9 months of 2nd dose of Covid vaccine: NHA||The National Health Authority (NHA) said on Monday that healthcare workers and those above the age of 60 will be eligible for a 'precautionary dose' of vaccine against Covid-19 only after nine months of receiving the second jab."When you are more than 60 years of age and you have already been given two doses and if you want to register for the third dose, the gap between the second dose and the day you are registering or the day you are getting the third dose should be more than nine months which is 39 weeks," news agency ANI quoted Dr RS Sharma, the chief executive officer of NHA, as saying.Sharma, who also heads the functioning of the CoWIN platform, further explained the need for a comorbidity certificate from a registered physician for the third shot.Also read | What is ‘precaution dose’ for Covid? Which vaccine will be administered?“When you are eligible and you register, you will be asked whether you suffer from any of the comorbidities which have already been described in the earlier circular by the health ministry. If you say yes I do suffer from comorbidity then you can register and thereafter you can go to the vaccination centre. You have to show your comorbidity certificate given by your registered physician to summarise your problem doctor and thereafter you will be able to get the job so there is nothing different. The rules related to registration are the same and rules related to vaccinations are the same,” he told ANI.In a televised address on December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country would begin administering 'precautionary doses' to those above the age of 60 and suffering from co-morbidities from January 10, next year. Children aged 15-18 will also be eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine from January 3.Also read | 60+ likely to need co-morbidity certificate for third shot: OfficialsAccording to reports, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, which has been granted approval for restricted use in an emergency situation in the age group between 12 and 18 years, is likely to be the only vaccine available for children.The key decisions came amid growing concerns over a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which, experts fear, will be fuelled by the Omicron variant of coronavirus.The Omicron's national tally has crossed 400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/precautionary-dose-applicable-after-9-months-of-2nd-dose-of-covid-vaccine-nha-101640608651700.html
27-12-2021||India||First Omicron case in Northeast detected in Manipur||IMPHAL: The first Omicron case was detected in the Northeast on Monday after a person, who returned from Tanzania tested positive for it in Manipur, officials said.“After testing positive for Covid-19...on the eighth day of his arrival in India, the sample of the male passenger, who returned from Tanzania on December 13, was sent for genome sequencing. ...the report... confirmed that he is infected with the Omicron variant,” said state health services director K Rajo Singh. He added the infected person is at an isolation facility in Imphal and remains asymptomatic.Singh asked people to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and wear masks as the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is spreading fast. He asked people not to panic as the government was taking all necessary steps.Singh said the testing, contact tracing, and other Covid-19 related arrangements have been strengthened.Health officials have been monitoring 480 people who have arrived in Manipur from abroad. Out of them, 174 have completed their 14-day quarantine and have tested negative. The remaining 306 remain under surveillance.On Sunday, the state reported 17 Covid-19 cases, registering a positivity rate of 2.39%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-omicron-case-in-northeast-detected-in-manipur-101640607888282.html
27-12-2021||India||Missionaries of Charity itself requested SBI to freeze all bank accounts: Centre||Union home ministry on Monday said that the application for the renewal of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act registration of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity was refused on December 25 for not meeting the eligibility conditions under the FCRA 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules 2011. State Bank of India informed the Union home ministry that Missionaries of Charity itself sent a request to the bank to freeze its accounts, according to a release.The ministry issued a statement after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that all bank accounts of MoC were frozen by the Centre. Banerjee said all 22,000 patients and employees have been left without food and medicines, adding that “humanitarian efforts must not be compromised.”The home ministry said that no request or revision application has been received from MoC for review of this refusal of renewal.Mamata claims Centre froze all bank accounts of Missionaries of CharityThe registration of Missionaries of Charity, registered under FCRA vide Registration No 147120001, was valid up to October 31, 2021. The ministry said that the validity was subsequently extended up to December 31, 2021, along with other FCRA Associations whose renewal applications were pending renewal. While considering the MoC's renewal application, some adverse inputs were noticed, according to the central government.“In consideration of these inputs on record, the renewal application of MoC was not approved. The FCRA registration of MoC was valid up-to 31st December 2021,” the release said.“MHA did not freeze any accounts of MoC. State Bank of India has informed that MoC itself sent a request to SBI to freeze its accounts,” it added.
27-12-2021||India||'Omicron control or…': Varun Gandhi questions UP govt's priority amid pandemic||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi on Monday questioned the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to impose night curfew while allowing lakhs of people in rallies during the day. The member of Parliament from the Pilibhit constituency said the government’s decision to impose curfew in the night while organising massive rallies during the day is “beyond the comprehension of a common man.”“Imposing curfew in the night and calling lakhs of people in rallies during the day – this is beyond the comprehension of the common man,” Varun Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.“Given Uttar Pradesh's limited healthcare systems, we have to honestly decide whether our priority is to stop the spread of the dreaded Omicron or show electoral power,” the BJP leader further wrote on Twitter.
27-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maha govt promises action over remarks against Gandhi||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra govt promises ‘exemplary action’ over remarks against GandhiMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said the state government would seek information about Kaliputra Kalicharan Maharaj’s alleged comments praising Nathuram Godse for killing Mahatma Gandhi. He added exemplary action will be initiated if any wrongdoing was found.Amid opposition, CPI (M) announces campaign to drum up support for rail project in KeralaKerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) has announced a door-to-door campaign to drum up support for a high-speed rail project in the state amid opposition to it. Read more Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally goes up to 331, yellow alert likely under GrapDelhi reported 331 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and one death in the last 24 hours, according to the latest state health department's bulletin. With the case positivity rate rising to 0.68 per cent, the yellow alert of the graded action response plan (Grap) is likely to come into effect.Read moreChina's Xi'an imposes 'strictest' controls to halt Covid-19 outbreakChina has stuck to a "zero-Covid" strategy of tight border restrictions, lengthy quarantines and targeted lockdowns as Beijing prepares to welcome thousands of overseas visitors for February's Winter Olympics. Read more Dilip Kumar to Sidharth Shukla: Celebs who left us in 2021From Bollywood legend Dilip Kumar to Bigg Boss 13 winner Sidharth Shukla, here's remembering the departed souls who left their fans in grief. Read moreIND vs SA: Rahul Dravid's gesture leaves Cheteshwar Pujara all smiles after golden duck, fans impressed - WATCHWhile fans were not impressed with Cheteshwar Pujara's display but the right-handed batter received a warm gesture by Team India coach Rahul Dravid.Read more Lexus unveils hydrogen-powered off-roader recreational vehicle conceptThe Lexus hydrogen-powered ROV features the L motif front and rear lights and sports the Lexus badge at the rear. Read more&amp;nbsp;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maha-govt-promises-action-over-remarks-against-gandhi-101640602535730.html
27-12-2021||India||Varun Gandhi takes dig at UP govt for rallies amid rising Covid-19 cases||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Varun Gandhi on Monday took a dig at the Uttar Pradesh government for organising rallies amid rising cases of the new Covid-19 variant. “Imposing curfew in the night and calling lakhs of people in rallies during the day. This is beyond the comprehension of the common man,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. “Given Uttar Pradesh’s limited healthcare facilities, we have to honestly decide whether our priority is to stop the spread of the dreaded Omicron (variant) or show electoral power.”Gandhi said the maximum transmission typically happens during the day and the government should cut down on gatherings, which could emerge as Covid-19 clusters. He called for a holistic strategy. “Measures such as night curfews, weekend lockdowns have very limited impact in containing or suppressing the transmission. Hence, the administration should focus on strict and effective containment strategy.” He said the policymakers should lead from the front.Gandhi’s remarks came two days after Uttar Pradesh’s BJP government imposed a night curfew citing rising Covid-19 cases in the poll-bound state. It also limited the number of guests at weddings and other public functions to 200.The Centre on Monday asked states and Union territories to ensure local authorities take appropriate Covid-19 containment measures and consider imposing curbs during the ongoing festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-takes-dig-at-up-govt-for-rallies-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101640604049958.html
27-12-2021||India||2021 in numbers: Rural hospital deaths increased 45% compared to 2020 in Jan-May||The Covid-19 pandemic has added an additional disease burden, resulting in over 480,000 deaths since March 2020 according to state bulletins on the pandemic compiled by HT, with 69% of them occurring this year alone. This means more people have likely died this year than before the pandemic. However, this trend is not likely to be uniform across age groups or in all months. Here are two charts that show how the trends in all-cause deaths unfolded until May this year.
27-12-2021||India||Goa detects first case of Omicron variant||Goa reported its first case of the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus after an eight-year-old boy who arrived in the state from the UK on December 17 was found to be positive with the virus in reports that came in only on Monday, state health minister Vishwajit Rane announced. “[An] 8 year old boy who had travelled from the UK on 17.12.2021 has tested positive for #OmicronVirus as confirmed by NIV Pune. We will take steps as per the protocol of the Government of India, necessary stringent measures will be taken by the government of Goa in public interest based on the advice given by the expert committee,” Health Minister Vishwajit Rane announced via Twitter. Goa has introduced mandatory testing on arrival of all passengers arriving from high-risk countries that includes the UK. Those found positive are then isolated while they await the results of the genome sequencing of their samples that are currently being sent to the laboratories of the National Institute of Virology at Pune. The reports often take more than a week to come back. The Goa government has announced plans to set up its own genome sequencing lab in order to be able to quickly test for the presence of the faster spreading variant, but the lab will take at least a month to set up. The task force has also approved the procurement of a genome sequencing machine to be set up in the state so that the state does not have to rely on the NIV Pune Lab for genome sequencing.“We have approved the establishment of a genome sequencing machine at GMC. By Monday, Tuesday we will source the machine and place and order and within a month we will set it up,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday.Earlier, the chief minister said that the government will not impose any restrictions the New Year given that the festival is celebrated in a ‘big way’ in Goa, but will issue an advisory asking the general public as well as tourists to maintain precautions while celebrating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-detects-first-case-of-omicron-variant-101640603629385.html
27-12-2021||India||Goa detects first case of Omicron after boy with travel history to UK tests positive||Goa on Monday reported its first case of the Omicron variant of coronavirus after an eight-year-old boy with a travel history to the United Kingdom was found infected with the new strain.Health minister Vishwajit Rane said necessary measures will be taken by the Goa government based on advice from an expert committee."8 year old boy who had travelled from the UK on 17.12.2021 has tested positive for #OmicronVirus as confirmed by NIV Pune. We will take steps as per the protocol of the Government of India, necessary stringent measures will be taken by the government of Goa in public interest based on the advice given by the expert committee,” Rane wrote on Twitter.Also read | Centre rings Omicron alarm, asks states to impose district-level curbs as neededWith New Year around the corner when thousands gather at the coastal state to indulge in festivities, chief minister Pramod Sawant recently urged the tourism department to remain alert and ensure that Covid-19 protocol is followed to keep the spread of the viral disease in check.Meanwhile, the Centre ordered all states and Union territories to ensure that local or district administrations promptly take appropriate containment measures based on the normative framework and their assessment of the pandemic situation.The advisories came amid rising fears the Omicron variant may fuel another Covid-19 surge in India due to its highly transmissible nature. Many states have already imposed curbs as precautionary measures to stem the spread.Also read | With Omicron fuelling Covid-19 cases, will 2022 be different?Among others, Goa has introduced mandatory testing on arrival for all passengers arriving from ‘high-risk’ countries, including the UK.Those found positive are being isolated while they await the results of the genome sequencing of their samples that are currently being sent to the laboratories of the National Institute of Virology at Pune.On Sunday, Goa reported 25 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's infection count to 1,80,050, while the death toll remained constant at 3,519, according to the official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-detects-first-case-of-omicron-after-boy-with-travel-history-to-uk-tests-positive-101640602910845.html
27-12-2021||India||Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally goes up to 331, yellow alert likely under Grap||Delhi reported 331 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and one death in the last 24 hours, according to the latest state health department's bulletin. The active Covid cases currently stand at 1,289, of which 692 are in home isolation.With the case positivity rate rising to 0.68 per cent, the yellow alert of the graded action response plan (Grap) is likely to come into effect. The night curfew is set to kick in the national capital in view of rising cases of Covid-19, including the Omicron variant. The night curfew will remain in force from 11pm to 5am.All markets, restaurants, bars and shops dealing with non-essential goods will be shut during the night curfew. A ceiling of 200 people has also been put in place for gatherings related to weddings. Delhi night curfew: What's allowed and what's notEarlier this week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order banning all cultural events and gatherings for Christmas and New Year celebrations.Delhi has been witnessing a steady uptick in fresh infections and has also been leading the Omicron tally. According to Union health ministry data, Delhi has so far reported 142 cases of Omicron, followed by Maharashtra at 141, Kerala at 57, Gujarat at 49, and Rajasthan at 43 cases. On Monday, Manipur and Goa reported their first case of the highly contagious variant first detected in South Africa last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-tally-goes-up-to-331-yellow-alert-likely-under-grap-101640601795104.html
27-12-2021||India||Niti Aayog health index 2021: See ranking of states and union territories based on performance||Government think tank Niti Aayog on Monday released the fourth edition of its health index, which ranked states based on overall health performance. Kerala was ranked as the best performer on top, while Uttar Pradesh was the worst.The report was divided in three parts - larger states, smaller states and union territories. Among the smaller states, Mizoram was the best performer and Nagaland was at the bottom.Among the union territories, Chandigarh was on top, followed by Dadra and Nagar Haveli at number 2 and Delhi at number 3. Puducherry was the worst overall performer, according to the Niti Aayog report.The fourth round of the Health Index took into account the period 2019-20 (reference year).Niti Aayog’s health index is a weighted composite score incorporating 24 indicators covering key aspects of health performance.Here’s the health index released by Niti AayogLarger States:Smaller States: Union Territories:
27-12-2021||India||Amid opposition, CPI (M) announces campaign to drum up support for rail project in Kerala||Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) has announced a door-to-door campaign to drum up support for a high-speed rail project in the state amid opposition to it.The Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and activists are opposing the project citing a lack of environmental and social impact study for it. The government has faced criticism for pursuing the project ignoring protests.The CPI (M) has asked its cadres to carry out the campaign to highlight the advantages of the project, which the party believes will change the state’s face. Leaflets have been prepared to address the doubts raised about the project. The party has asked top leaders to coordinate explanation sessions in their districts.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated on Monday the government will go ahead with the project and asked people to discourage the forces derailing the state’s development. He said earlier same forces opposed a pipeline project and expansion of the national highway but the government ignored their protests and implemented both.“The Congress, BJP, and Jamaat-e-Islami are on the same platform to oppose the project. We will not bend before such opposition. (The promise for) K-Rail (project) was in the manifesto and people gave us a resounding mandate rewriting the poll history of the state,” he said. He asked the cadres to explain to people the project and remove their reservations.The ₹63,490-crore project seeks to develop a high-speed rail corridor connecting Kasaragod in the state’s north to Thiruvananthapuram in the south. The state needs 1,383 hectares of land for the project, of which 1,383 hectares are private.The rail line will bring down the travel time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, covering 529.45 km, to four from 12 hours. It will be completed by 2025, said Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd, the nodal agency for the project. The Centre is yet to approve the project.Left-leaning organisations such as Sasthra Sahitya Parishad have also opposed the project citing environmental degradation. “It seems the project caters to a higher income group. Its environmental and social impact studies were not done. At many places, it will run parallel to the existing line which the railways opposed. Going by the state’s existing developmental perspective, K-Rail cannot be termed a priority,” said the Parishad.Opposition leader V D Satheesan asked Vijayan to give up his adamant posture and address the apprehensions. “Even in the assembly, the government was not ready for a discussion. Its detailed project report is yet to be made public and experts were never consulted. The chief minister cannot even ally fears of the ruling party’s partners and Left-leaning outfits,” he said. He added the Congress-led Opposition will stage state-wide protests if the government goes ahead with the project. “Last budget says outstanding debt of the state will be ₹3.27 lakh crore by the end of this fiscal. The government is again trying for a huge loan for the K-Rail. The state is heading towards a debt trap.”Union minister V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, said the railway ministry has made it clear that it is not a viable project and called the state government’s approach to it dubious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-opposition-cpi-m-announces-campaign-to-drum-up-support-for-rail-project-in-kerala-101640601828199.html
27-12-2021||India||Mamata claims Centre froze all bank accounts of Missionaries of Charity||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said all bank accounts of Missionaries of Charity, founded by Mother Teresa, were frozen by the Centre. Expressing her shock, the Trinamool Congress supremo wrote on Twitt 22,000 patients and employees of the Kolkata-headquartered charitable group were left without food and medicines over the Central government’s move."While the law is paramount, humanitarian efforts must not be compromised," Banerjee added.Shocked to hear that on Christmas, Union Ministry FROZE ALL BANK ACCOUNTS of Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity in India!Their 22,000 patients & employees have been left without food & medicines.While the law is paramount, humanitarian efforts must not be compromised.While there has been no statement yet from the organisation or the Centre, a case had been filed earlier this month in Gujarat’s Vadodara district against the charity-run home for girls over reports of alleged forced conversion of inmates.Police spoke about allegations that girls were being asked to read the Bible and some marriages of those belonging to other communities being conducted as per Christian rituals. However, a nun working at the institute had refuted the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-claims-centre-froze-all-bank-accounts-of-missionaries-of-charity-101640601072486.html
27-12-2021||India||Kerala Christmas violence: 50 migrant workers held||Fifty people were arrested in connection with the Christmas day violence in Kizhakkambalam area of Ernakulam district and produced before a magisterial court here, police said on Monday. On Saturday night, Christmas day celebrations by migrant labourers from the north east part of India at Kizhakkambalam turned violent, leading to several policemen being brutally assaulted and two police jeeps badly damaged, with one set on fire. Eight policemen, including a Circle Inspector, were injured in the violence and subsequently, police lodged two cases -- one for the assault on the officers which also includes attempt to murder charges and the other for destruction of property -- and arrested 50 people in connection with the incident. It had initially taken 150 people into custody on Sunday morning itself. Rural SP K Karthik had said that two cases have been lodged in connection with the incident on December 25 night and the investigation was going on to identify all those involved in it and to collect evidence. Visuals of the violence which went viral on social media showed a large group of people surrounding the police vehicles, climbing on top of them, pelting them with stones and then thrashing them with sticks, leaving the vehicles in shambles. Subsequently, after the policemen retreated to safety, the workers set fire to one of the vehicles. Kitex Managing Director Sabu Jacob, had later told the media over the phone, that "the workers had brutally assaulted the police officers, including a Circle Inspector, who had reached the spot to resolve the arguments between two groups of labourers on Saturday night." He had said that initially the camp security and the supervisors tried to intervene and resolve the issue, but they too were assaulted and thereafter, the police were called. However, when the police arrived, the "uncontrollable" workers brutally attacked the officers. Jacob had further said that there was no criminal intent behind what happened and claimed that drugs were brought into the camp and some of the workers were probably under its influence, leading to them becoming "uncontrollable". He had also said that his company would cooperate with the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-christmas-violence-50-migrant-workers-held-101640600445765.html
27-12-2021||India||In Himachal, PM cites 'sabka saath, sabka vikas' vs 'khud ka swarth, parivaar ka swarth' models||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the Himachal Pradesh government followed the 'sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas' model in the state and worked towards implementing several development projects in line with its vision.“There are two development models in the state. One is 'sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas'. The other model is 'khud ka swarth, parivaar ka swarth'. The Himachal Pradesh government is working on the first model and has implemented many development programmes in the state,” Modi said after laying the foundation of various hydropower projects in the Himalayan state’s Mandi.Hitting out at previous Congress regimes, Modi said they prioritised their own welfare over that of the poor people unlike the BJP's model of governance that believes in development of all.Also read | Himachal’s Mandi reports first Omicron case"You will also be seeing another model that works for selfish gains. In states where they are running the government, the priority is not the welfare of the poor, but their own," Modi said.Speaking about vaccines, the PM said he was confident Himachal Pradesh would soon achieve its vaccination coverage target as he reiterated the government's decision to inoculate 15-18-year-olds from January 3 and administer precautionary doses to healthcare workers and senior citizens with comorbidities from January 10.He also lauded Himachal Pradesh for turning into one of the most important pharma hubs in the country. “During Covid-19, Himachal not only helped other states, but several nations too,” Modi added.“Today, the Himachal Pradesh government has completed four years. During its tenure, the government fought against Covid-19 and also made sure that development work in the state did not stop,” he added.Also read | Awareness key in fight against Omicron: PMModi also lauded his government's decision to increase the legal age of girls’ marriage saying it will buy them more time to study and build their future.Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister inaugurated various hydropower projects worth ₹11,000 crore.Among the projects launched during the day was the Renukaji Dam project that had been lying pending for about three decades. Six states viz Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Delhi were brought together by the Centre for making the project possible, according to the Prime Minister's Office."The 40 MW project will be built at a cost of around ₹7,000 crore. It will prove to be immensely beneficial for Delhi, which will be able to receive around 500 million cubic metre water supply per year," read the official statement.The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone of the Luhri Stage 1 Hydro Power Project. The 210 MW project will be built at a cost of over ₹1,800 crore. It will lead to the generation of over 750 million units of electricity per year. The modern and dependable grid support will prove beneficial to the surrounding states of the region as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-himachal-pm-cites-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-vs-khud-ka-swarth-parivaar-ka-swarth-models-101640595012793.html
27-12-2021||India||BJP forms 4 member committee for Brahmin outreach, ahead of UP Assembly polls||Amidst assessments that the Brahmin community in Uttar Pradesh is dissatisfied with the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has formed a four-member committee to decide on outreach programmes for the community in the state.The committee chaired by former Union Minister Shiv Pratap Shukla comprises members Mahesh Sharma, Abhijat Mishra and Ram Bhai Morakiya.The committee head, Shiv Pratap Shukla said "Confusion is being spread among Brahmins by Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) that the BJP is neglecting their community. We will aim to take the work done by the BJP to the public and impress upon them the reality that it is the BJP which has worked for the Brahmins."The decision to form the committee was taken after discussions with leaders from the Brahmin community in UP along with Union Minister and state in-charge Dharmendra Pradhana and BJP national president JP Nadda."The committee will strive to remove misconceptions being spread by the opposition and tell people that the number of Brahmin ministers in BJP are more compared to the opposition," he said.After the meeting with Nadda, another committee member, Mahesh Sharma said the committee discussed the BJP win in previous elections and deliberations were conducted on strategy for the upcoming Assembly polls in the state."We will form BJP government in Uttar Pradesh again and this time the result will be better than last time," Sharma said.Uttar Pradesh is slated to go to Assembly polls early next year.In the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-forms-4-member-committee-for-brahmin-outreach-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls-101640599698433.html
27-12-2021||India||Indian Army inquiry team to visit Nagaland firing site on December 29||An inquiry team of the Indian Army will visit the site in Oting, Nagaland where 14 civilians were killed in a botched up anti-insurgency operation by the security forces. The team will visit the incident site on December 29 and will also be present at Tizit Police Station in Mon District on the same day, reported news agency ANI citing the public relations officer of the defence ministry in Kohima.“Indian Army Inquiry Team solicits from the public at large any primary information (not forwarded or not from secondary source) pertaining to the incident. Any person having such information and desirous of deposing before the Inquiry is requested to do so at Tizit Police Station,” ANI quoted Defence PRO, Kohima, as saying.Last week, the Indian Army assured the people of Nagaland that the inquiry into the incident is progressing in an expeditious manner while they continue to cooperate with the SIT probe ordered by the state government."The inquiry ordered by Army is progressing expeditiously and all efforts are being made to conclude it at the earliest. We have taken out notices for people to come forward and assist us in the inquiry," reads the official statement."The Indian Army is also fully cooperating with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) inquiry ordered by State Govt and required details are being shared in a timely manner," it added, assuring the public that the action will be taken in accordance with the law.The killings of civilians by the Indian Army have triggered the debate around the alleged abuse of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA). On Sunday, the central government formed a high-level committee to examine the possibility of lifting the AFSPA in Nagaland. The panel will submit its report within 45 days.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-inquiry-team-to-visit-nagaland-firing-site-on-december-29-101640597545797.html
27-12-2021||India||With Omicron fuelling Covid-19 cases, will 2022 be different?||When the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic struck in 2019, it changed the way people “normally” live their lives. In 2020, it led to lockdowns and other severe curbs, and a desperate search for a vaccine.In 2021, as the Sars-CoV-2 virus mutated further, it caused the devastating second wave of infection which affected millions and killed hundreds of thousands. The United States, and now Europe, are the worst affected, with the former recording the highest number of fatalities in the world. In Europe, daily infection tally has been breaking records daily.Also Read | Indian govt rings Omicron alarm, asks states to impose district-level curbs as neededThis fresh surge in infection is led by the Omicron variant, which was detected in South Africa on November 24 but has spread in more than 100 countries now. It has once again brought the fears of lockdown and other stricter curbs to the fore.So, how is it going to be in 2022? Will there be more variants? What steps the governments will take? Here’s a look based on the facts that have emerged in the last few weeks.Is Omicron the last variant of coronavirus?No. Many health experts have said that the world will see more such mutations of the coronavirus, and urged the governments to speed up the vaccination coverage.Since its emergence in 2019, coronavirus has undergone several mutations - each one deadlier than the previous one. The World Health Organization (WHO) has already categorised Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta and Omicron as ‘variants of concern’.But Dr Julian Tang, professor of Respiratory Sciences at Leicester University, has said that the Sars-CoV-2 virus will evolve itself out of the pandemic strain very soon. “It will become milder, more transmissible to the point where you may only need to think about vaccinating the more vulnerable members of the population,” said Dr Tang.‘70% vaccination by mid-2022’The WHO has said that achievement of 70 per cent coverage with Covid-19 vaccines in all countries is imperative. The statement is based on the recommendation of Independent Allocation of Vaccines Group (IAVG).India has already given both doses to more than 60 per cent of the country’s eligible 944 million adults, while 90 per cent have received one dose, as announced by the Union health ministry last week. But health experts have warned that there is no room for complacency."Vaccination, some improvements in health infrastructure, partial but continued use of masking and omicron as a possibly more infectious but less virulent strain will contribute to a less devastating situation than what we saw in 2021," Vineeta Bal, an immunologist at the Pune-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research told Deutsche Welle.What about booster shots?According to WHO, booster doses are administered to those who have completed a primary vaccination series when, with time, the immunity and clinical protection has fallen below a rate deemed sufficient in that population. The emergence of Omicron variant has once again fuelled the talks of giving a booster shot to the people.Many countries, especially those in Europe, are contemplating making a booster shot necessary for travellers coming from other places. The leaders of Greece and the Netherlands have said in public that a rule making booster shot mandatory will most likely be implemented from February 2022.In India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Saturday night, announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" (booster shot) for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10.In Photos: Who are eligible for covid-19 precaution dose? When will it be rolled out?The decisions came amid rising Covid cases linked to the Omicron variant of the virus.Vaccination certificates to be mandatoryAs more and more countries inoculate their population against the deadly Covid-19, the vaccination certificate too has been made mandatory. The European Council gave green light to EU’s decision to make vaccination certificates mandatory to enter in Europe.These rules will come into force from February 1, 2022. Similarly, Singapore and other Asian countries are implementing the measure from early next year.India has also made vaccination certificates mandatory from countries where Covid-19 has been spreading fast. In many states, the document is necessary to enter public places, like malls etc.Omicron rewriting the Covid plan for 2022Living with Covid-19 in 2022 will mean assessing local risks and protecting oneself through vaccination, masking and social distancing."When I go to the store this afternoon, what helps me is to know how much Covid is in my community," said Dr Robert Wachter, chair of the Department of Medicine at University of California, San Francisco."There will not be one state of the pandemic. There will be different states for different people and for different regions," he said. "And that's going to be the way it is for the foreseeable future."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-omicron-fuelling-covid-19-cases-will-2022-be-different-101640592724662.html
27-12-2021||India||Centre rings Omicron alarm, asks states to impose district-level curbs as needed||The Centre on Monday issued an order to states and Union territories asking them to ensure that local or district administrations promptly take appropriate coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment measures based on the normative framework and their assessment of the situation.In its order, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said states may also consider imposing local curbs or restrictions, as needed, during the ongoing festive season in view of the threat posed by the new, highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus.“With distinct presence of the Delta variant and detection of Omicron cases in many states, there is need for greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision-making, and strict and prompt containment actions at the local and distinct levels, based on the assessment of the situation,” read a letter issued by home secretary Ajay Bhalla to the chief secretaries of all states.In accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ‘Satark’ and ‘Saavdhan’ warnings, the home ministry advised caution to all states and asked them to ensure that a high level of vigil and alertness is maintained “at all levels”.“I would like to reiterate that all the states and Union territories must observe all precautions, and not let the guard down,” the order reads. “Local/district administration, based on the normative framework and assessment of the situation, should promptly take appropriate containment measures. States may consider imposing need-based, local curbs/restrictions, to control the crowd during the festive season.”The holiday season in India is one to watch, especially amid rising concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron strain and experts fearing that public places may turn into Covid-19 hotspots.Several states have already strengthened curbs in districts reporting high case positivity rates along with measures such as bringing back the night curfew, strictly regulating large gatherings, and imposing restrictions on the number of guests who can attend marriage ceremonies and functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rings-omicron-alarm-asks-states-to-impose-district-level-curbs-as-needed-101640590373574.html
27-12-2021||India||Looking ahead to India’s strategic relationships in 2022: The China challenge||Deep winter has arrived in the Karakoram range with icy winds blowing down the 25171 feet-high Saser Kangri to the Indian Army outpost of Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) in the Ladakh sector.
27-12-2021||India||Made sure development work doesn't stop even during pandemic: PM Modi in Himachal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated and laid the foundation stones for multiple development projects worth ₹11,000 crore in the Mandi district on Monday.In his address following the event, PM Modi praised the state's efforts against the coronavirus pandemic and how the the development work remain unaffected. “Today, the Himachal Pradesh government has completed four years. During its tenure, the government fought against Covid-19 and also made sure that development works in the state do not stop," he said at the public meeting.“There are two development models in the State. One is 'Sabka saath, Sabka vikas & Sabka vishwas'. The other model is 'Khud ka swarth, parivaar ka swarth'. Himachal Pradesh government is working on the first model and has implemented many development programs in the state," he also said.Projects that were inaugurated include the 111 MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Power Project, which has been built at a cost of around ₹2,080 crore. It will lead to the generation of over 380 million units of electricity per year and help the state earn revenue worth over ₹120 crore annually, officials have said.He will also laid the foundation for the Renukaji Dam project, which was lying pending for around three decades until now.Prior to the event, PM Modi presided over the second ground-breaking ceremony of the Himachal Pradesh global investors' meet. The meet is expected to give a boost to investment in the region through the start of projects worth around ₹28,000 crore, according to a statement by the Prime Minister's office.The Prime Minister was accompanied by state chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and other senior officials at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-projects-worth-11-000-cr-101640587669010.html
27-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tejasvi Surya regrets his 'ghar wapasi'remarks||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tejasvi Surya regrets 'ghar wapasi' remarks, withdraws them 'unconditionally'In his hour-long speech made at Krishna Mutt in Udupi, Tejasvi Surya attacked other religions. “Christianity and Islam are not mere religions. They are political imperial ideologies. Read moreTirupati opens darshan slots for Jan, devotees will have to pay ₹1 crThe Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam has opened slots for darshan at the hill-shrine of Lord Venkateswara in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala and released 460,000 tickets online. Read more Amarinder meets Amit Shah ahead of Punjab polls, seat-sharing talk likelyFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday arrived at Union home minister Amit Shah's residence in New Delhi for a key meeting ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab. Read more.Omicron in Europe: 1 lakh infection in a day in France, Belgium bans gatheringsThe Omicron variant of coronavirus has been spreading fast across the world, even becoming the dominant strain in the United States. Since being detected in South Africa on November 24, the strain has spread to more than 100 countries till now. Read moreSalman Khan says ‘smiling like this is difficult after being bitten by snake’ as he poses outside farmhouse on birthdayA video shared by a paparazzo account shows the actor stepping out of his Panvel farmhouse for a birthday special photo-op. He greets the paparazzi with an ear-to-ear smile. Read moreMinnal Murali actor Tovino Thomas is prepping for 'next mission' like this...Tovino in real life can fly – we mean, literally. The actor performed flying pushups for his fans on Instagram on Monday and showed us how he is prepping up for his next mission – as Minnal Murali. Read moreHero F2i, F3i electric mountain bicycles launched with Bluetooth connectivityBoth Hero F2i and Hero F3i mountain electric bicycles offer upto 35 kilometre of range in one charge.Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tejasvi-surya-regrets-his-ghar-wapasi-remarks-101640588153144.html
27-12-2021||India||'Don't want PM to apologise and tarnish his image abroad': Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that farmers do not want an apology from Prime Minister Narendra Modi adding that they do not want to tarnish his image abroad.His statement comes days after the Centre repealed the three agricultural laws against which several farmers' unions had been protesting for nearly a year."We do not want the Prime Minister to apologise. We don't want to tarnish his reputation abroad. If any decision would be taken, it would not be done without the consent of farmers. We honestly cultivate the fields but Delhi did not pay attention to our demands," the BKU leader said in a tweet (roughly translated from Hindi).Reacting to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar's recent statement over three repealed farm laws, Tikait had said that the remark was intended to deceive farmers and would also humiliate the Prime Minister.Tomar at an event in Nagpur had said: "We brought the farm laws. Some people did not like it. But the government is not disappointed. We moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone and if the backbone is strengthened, the country will become stronger."However, the minister later clarified that the Centre has no plan to reintroduce farm laws adding that his statement during a programme was misquoted.Tikait has threatened to restart agitation if the farm laws are re-introduced by the Centre.The three farm laws were repealed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19. These bills were passed during the winter session of Parliament which began on November 23.The farmers, who had been protesting on the borders of Delhi against the three laws for almost a year, have suspended their agitation and returned to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-want-pm-to-apologise-and-tarnish-his-image-abroad-rakesh-tikait-101640585250234.html
27-12-2021||India||Tejasvi Surya regrets 'ghar wapasi' remarks, withdraws them 'unconditionally'||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tejasvi Surya has expressed regret over his remarks made at a programme in Udupi. The Bangalore South MP also said that he is “unconditionally” withdrawing his comments made in the speech at ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’ event.“At a program held in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt two days ago, I spoke on the subject of ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’. Certain statements from my speech has regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements,” Tejasvi Surya said on Twitter.At a program held in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt two days ago, I spoke on the subject of ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’. Certain statements from my speech has regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements.The comments were made at the Krishna Mutt on Saturday, where the young MP said, “Those people who have left their mother religion and have for various socio, political and economic reasons throughout India’s History. Those who have gone out of the Hindu fold must be brought back in whole, brought back to the mother faith, to the Hindu faith.”In his hour-long speech, Surya also attacked other religions. “Christianity and Islam are not mere religions. They are political imperial ideologies, and Hindus should understand this,” he said.The 31-year-old further said that temples and mutts must set yearly targets to convert people who got converted for various reasons back to Sanatan Dharma.The incident took place at a time when the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is facing the heat over implementation of contentious laws which are believed to be aligned with the ideological parent of the BJP, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The Christian community has also been facing attacks in the southern state.There has been similar anger against the remarks made at the Dharma Sansad in Haridwar (in Uttarakhand) where alleged hate speeches were made. An FIR has also been registered against the Dharma Sansad.The remarks in the Dharma Sansad were made between December 17 and 19, and later went viral on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejasvi-surya-regrets-ghar-wapasi-remarks-withdraws-them-unconditionally-101640586433457.html
27-12-2021||India||Amarinder meets Amit Shah ahead of Punjab polls, seat-sharing talk likely||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday arrived at Union home minister Amit Shah's residence in New Delhi for a key meeting ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab.According to officials familiar with the matter, cited by the PTI news agency, the ex-chief minister of Punjab is also likely to meet Bharatiya Janata Party national president JP Nadda later in the day amid speculation over a possible seat-sharing arrangement between Singh's Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and the BJP.Amarinder Singh, who founded the Punjab Lok Congress following a split with the Congress and him quitting the post of the chief minister, has indicated an intention to contest all 117 seats in the 2022 Punjab assembly polls.However, he confirmed two weeks ago the decision to form an alliance with the BJP and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) has been taken in principle and that the seat adjustment will be announced soon.It is being speculated in the political quarters that Captain Amarinder Singh's meeting with Amit Shah is likely to further take forward the talks of a possible seat-sharing arrangement. They may also explore a broad understanding of other issues.Elections to the 117-member Punjab assembly are scheduled to be held early next year, either in February or March, according to those familiar with the matter. The term of the current assembly elected in 2017 will expire on March 27, 2022, unless dissolved earlier.In the 2017 Punjab assembly election, Congress won an absolute majority in the state by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after ten long years.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as the second-largest party winning 20 seats in the 117-member Punjab legislative assembly.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could only manage to win 15 seats while the BJP secured 3 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-meets-amit-shah-ahead-of-punjab-polls-seat-sharing-talk-likely-101640584802724.html
27-12-2021||India||Chandigarh municipal corporation elections: AAP wins 4 wards, leads on 3; BJP, Cong trail||The Aam Aadmi Party' Damanpreet Singh on Monday defeated sitting mayor of Chandigarh Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ravi Kant Sharma as counting for Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls was underway. With this, the Arvind Kejriwal-led party has secured a win over five wards so far, while the BJP and the Congress both have won just two each, according to the state election commission.The AAP which contesting the polls for the first time is also leading on three other wards.Ravi Kant Sharma lost his seat to Damanpreet Singh from ward number 17 by a margin of 828 votes, according to the state EC data. On ward number 21, AAP candidate Jasbir defeated former mayor and BJP mayor Devesg Mudgil by a margin of 939 votes.The BJP was trailing in two wards of the Chandigarh civic body and leading on three others, the state EC data also showed.The Congress secured a win at two wards and maintained a lead on two other seats. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has so far secured the lead on just one seat.Speaking on the early trends, senior AAP leader Manish Sisodia thanked the voters for the mandate.  “According to the current trends, the people of Chandigarh have given us a grand welcome. I want to thank every voter and party worker for this," news agency ANI quoted him as saying.  Traditionally, the municipal election - held every five years - sees a locking of horns between the BJP and the Congress but the entry of AAP in Punjab this year has made the contest triangular this time.The BJP holds a majority in the current municipal body. In the last MC elections, the BJP won 20 seats and its erstwhile ally Shiromani Akali Dal 1. The Congress managed to win only four seats.Sixty per cent polling was recorded in the elections for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, which was held on Friday. About 6.3 lakh voters, including three lakh women, were eligible to cast votes.The highest 72.81 per cent polling was recorded in Ward 16 while Ward 23 witnessed 42.66 per cent poll percentage which was the lowest, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-elections-aap-wins-4-wards-leads-on-3-bjp-cong-trail-101640585262377.html
27-12-2021||India||Seven-term Rajya Sabha MP Mahendra Prasad passes away||Rajya Sabha MP from the Janata Dal(United) and industrialist Mahendra Prasad died at a private hospital here, his party said on Monday.The 81-year-old Prasad passed away on Sunday night after battling a prolonged illness.Prasad was a seven-term Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar and was also elected to the Lok Sabha once.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed condolences at the death of Prasad, founder of Aristo Pharmaceuticals, and said his demise is a big loss to society and politics besides industry.Prasad was first elected to the Lok Sabha on a Congress ticket in 1980. He remained associated with the party for a long time and shifted his loyalties later as its fortunes declined in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seventerm-rajya-sabha-mp-mahendra-prasad-passes-away-101640583679609.html
27-12-2021||India||6 Maoists killed in encounter on Chhattisgarh-Telangana border||At least six Maoists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh-Telangana border area on Monday morning, police said. The skirmish took place between 6 am and 7 am in a forest in Kistaram area of Chhattisgarh's Sukma district, located over 400 km from the state capital Raipur, they said. Six ultras, including four women, were killed in the gun-battle with the special anti-Naxal Greyhounds unit of the Telangana Police, a senior police official posted in Bastar said. A joint team of the District Reserve Guard and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Sukma was also out on the operation in the area as an auxiliary support to the Greyhounds team, he said. “As per preliminary reports, bodies of six ultras, including four women, belonging to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, were recovered from the spot,” the official said, adding that the operation is still underway. Terming the operation as a huge success, Sukma Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma claimed security forces inflicted a heavy blow to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, which had been instrumental in carrying out various deadly attacks in the past. “There are total five area committees of Maoists operating in Sukma. In the last six months, security forces have been successful in effectively controlling the activities of the Kerlapal and Konta area committees,” Sharma told PTI. Top cadres from the Kerlapal area committee surrendered in the last one year while in August this year, a local organisation squad (LOS) commander and his deputy from the Konta area committee were killed in an encounter with the Sukma police, he said. "Now that the Kistaram area committee has been significantly decimated, the next target will be to neutralise two other committees - Katekalyan and Jagargunda," he added. Earlier in the day, Telangana's Bhadradri Kothagudem district Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the ultras were killed in a joint operation of the Telangana and Chhattisgarh Police and the CRPF. He said they received a tip-off that Maoists were trying to attack the security forces and combing was stepped up in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-naxals-killed-in-encounter-on-chhattisgarh-telangana-border-101640583645158.html
27-12-2021||India||Tirupati opens darshan slots for Jan, devotees will have to pay ₹1 cr||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam has opened slots for darshan at the hill-shrine of Lord Venkateswara in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala and released 460,000 tickets online for the month of January, according to reports.The temple, which was closed amid the coronavirus pandemic, is now allowing devotees to visit the shrine by adhering to Covid protocols after two years. TTD started releasing the slotted Sarvadarshana (SSD) tokens for the month of January on the official website of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) from 9 am on Monday.Devotees can buy tickets both in the online and offline mode. The ticket will cost ₹1 crore and for Friday pilgrims will have to pay ₹1.50 crore, according to a report.The board is planning to use the funds for three major projects, including the construction of a super-speciality children’s hospital, reports suggest.On December 25, the board’s website received 14 lakh visitors just after the ticket release announcement and the entire slot was booked within 55 minutes.The board has released 20,000 tickets per day for January 1 and January 13 to 22 and 12,000 per day from January 2 to 12 and January 23 to 31. On the other hand, it released 5,500 virtual service tickets online for January 1, 2, 13, 22, and 26, all of which were booked within minutes.The temple board has mandated a certificate of vaccination with both doses of the Covid-19 jab for devotees or a negative Covid-19 report for darshan.It has also implemented new guidelines amid the surge in the Covid-19 cases while also keeping in mind the increase in the number of devotees. Authorities have directed devotees to book their tickets with Aadhaar card details.Udayasthamana Arjitha Seva was launched in 1981 but stopped in 1995 before being officially wound up in 2006. When first introduced, tickets were priced at ₹1 lakh. The board sold around 2,600 tickets. However, 531 tickets have been left unutilised.Now, the board has decided to allot these tickets, the reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-opens-darshan-slots-for-jan-devotees-will-have-to-pay-rs-1-cr-101640582203445.html
27-12-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises by 6,531, Omicron cases also see a spike||India on Monday reported 6,531 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the overall tally to 34,793,333, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Cases of the Omicron variant have also surged to 578, a jump of 70 cases, according to the health ministry data.Now, Delhi has the most number of Omicron cases at 142, followed by Maharashtra (141), Kerala (57), Gujarat (49), Rajasthan (43), Telangana (41), Tamil Nadu (34), and Karnataka (31) and other regions. The health ministry also said of the 578 Omicron cases in India, 151 patients have already recovered or been discharged from hospitals.The country’s death toll mounted to 479,997 after 335 people succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, the ministry also informed.The active caseload remained below the 80,000-mark and now stands at 75,841. As per the data, the active cases account for less than 1 per cent of total cases (0.22 per cent).According to the ministry, 7,141 people have recuperated from the disease in the last 24 hours and the cumulative recoveries stands at 34,237,495. As people continue to recover from Covid-19, the recovery rate has surged to the highest since March 2020. It is currently at 98.40 per cent, the ministry data showed.With 0.87 per cent, the daily positivity rate has been less than 2 per cent for the last 84 days. While the weekly positivity rate is at 0.63 per cent, less than 1 per cent for the last 43 days.The country conducted as many as 6.72 million tests as of today, the ministry also informed. On the vaccination front, India has administered 1.41 billion vaccine doses till now.Amid the rising cases of the Omicron variant, several state governments, including that of Delhi’s, have imposed restrictions, including night curfews.Starting Monday, a night curfew will be imposed in Delhi from 11pm due to rising Covid-19 cases and the threat posed by Omicron. It will remain in effect till 5am.Those exempted from the curfew include government officials, judges and judicial officers, medical personnel, pregnant women and patients, people going on foot to buy essential items, media persons, and people going to or returning from railway stations, bus stops and airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-6-531-omicron-cases-also-see-a-spike-101640582567404.html
27-12-2021||India||India logs 156 Omicron cases in a day. Delhi overtakes Maharashtra as top contributor||India's Omicron case count went up by more than 100 in the past 24 hours, the daily brief issued on Monday by the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed. According to government data, India's Omicron tally increased from 422 on Sunday to 578 a day later, which means that the country added 156 cases of the highly infectious variant to its nationwide tally in the single-day stretch between Sunday and Monday.Multiple states reported new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, with two regions reporting their very first cases of the new rapidly-transmissible variant. Omicron, the data shows, has now spread to as many as 19 states and Union territories in India, up from 17 a day ago, and put the entire country on high alert.The two states which reported their first Omicron cases on Sunday are – Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Moreover, although Maharashtra was until a day ago contributing the highest number of Omicron cases in the country, the count in Delhi was closing in fast. Monday's data showed that the national capital had overtaken Maharashtra as the highest contributor to the nationwide Omicron tally.According to the official data, as shared by the health ministry, Delhi (142) has reported the highest number of Omicron infections in the country, followed by Maharashtra (141), Kerala (57), Gujarat (49), Rajasthan (43), Telangana (41), Tamil Nadu (34), and Karnataka (31).Also Read | Mumbai reports 922 fresh Covid cases & 2 deaths in 24 hours amid Omicron alarmThe states which showed a marked increase in Omicron cases over the past 24 hours are:Delhi (from 79 to 142 cases)Maharashtra (from 108 to 141 cases)Kerala (from 38 to 57 cases)Madhya Pradesh (from zero to nine cases)However, the health ministry noted that of the 578 total Omicron cases in India, 151 patients have already recovered or been discharged.All foreign returnees from "at-risk" as well as other countries are being tested in most states, and the samples of those found positive for Covid-19 are being sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-156-omicron-cases-in-a-day-delhi-overtakes-maharashtra-as-top-contributor-101640578192458.html
27-12-2021||India||Scattered rainfall, dense fog expected in Northwest India||Scattered rainfall and dense fog are expected in parts of Northwest India during the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. On Sunday morning, shallow to moderate fog was reported from isolated pockets in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Tripura. Very dense fog was reported from South Punjab. Bhatinda reported zero visibility and Ganganagar (Rajasthan) of only 25 m.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation was over East Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan. An induced cyclonic circulation was lying over Southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood. A trough (line of low pressure) was running from the cyclonic circulation over Southwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood to Vidarbha across west Madhya Pradesh. Under the influence of these systems, light to moderate scattered to fairly widespread rainfall and snowfall was very likely in the Western Himalayan region till Tuesday. Light rainfall at isolated places was likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan till Tuesday and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall in Uttar Pradesh till Wednesday.Isolated thunderstorms, lightning, and hailstorm were also likely in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.Air quality is expected to improve significantly. “The pollution particles accumulated due to low wind speed are expected to be washed away by Monday evening,” said VK Soni, who heads IMD’s environment and research centre.Minimum temperatures were 2-4 degrees C above normal in many parts of Northwest, Central, and East India. No significant change in minimum temperatures is likely in Northwest India during the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scattered-rainfall-dense-fog-expected-in-northwest-india-101640578845262.html
27-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: EC to discuss current Covid-19 situation ahead of polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Will polls in 5 states get postponed amid Covid-19? Decision likely todayThe Election Commission of India (ECI) will hold a meeting with senior officials of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, including Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, on Monday to discuss the current Covid-19 situation ahead of the assembly elections in five states next year, reports said. Read More60 and above: What you need to get third Covid-19 vaccine jabPeople aged 60 years and above will be given a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from January 10 next year if they suffer from certain co-morbid conditions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday. PM Modi called the third shot a precaution dose. Read More‘Great New Year’s gift’: Covid task force chief explains decision to vaccinate childrenPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to include adolescents between 15-18 years of age in the country’s vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has several benefits, Dr NK Arora, chairperson of Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), has said. Read MoreEx-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's judicial custody to end todayThe judicial custody of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the ₹100-crore extortion case, is set to end on Monday, December 27. Read More‘We almost played like an A team, not even a regular team’: Gavaskar picks highlight of Shastri’s tenure as India coachIndia batting legend Sunil Gavaskar on Sunday picked Ravi Shastri's biggest highlight from his tenure as the head coach of the Indian team, recalling the magnificent comeback from 36 all-out in the Adelaide opener in the 2020/21 tour of Australia to win their second consecutive Test series Down Under. Read More'It reached onto my hand, bit me thrice': Salman Khan on snake bite incident at Panvel farmhouseActor Salman Khan has spoken in detail about how he was bitten by the snake at his farmhouse near Panvel. The incident took place on Saturday night following which he was taken to a hospital in Navi Mumbai and was discharged on Sunday morning. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ec-to-discuss-current-covid-19-situation-ahead-of-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101640575515393.html
27-12-2021||India||In a jibe at SP, Adityanath refers to arrested UP businessman Piyush Jain||Kanpur businessman Piyush Jain, who was arrested by central agencies after a series of raids, is linked to the Samajwadi Party, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has alleged.The opposition party has denied Adityanath’s charges."For the past two-three days, continuous raids are being conducted on the premises of a person belonging to the SP. ₹257 crore in cash and several kilograms of gold and silver was recovered," Adityanath said while addressing a rally on Sunday.Adityanath also said the previous government of the SP was looting people while now the money is being spent on welfare schemes. He added crores of rupees embezzled during the previous government’s regime is now being recovered from walls even it has been out of power for five years. Also read | UP businessman Piyush Jain who stashed ₹200 crore arrested"While the Bharatiya Janata Party's double engine governments are working with full commitment, you must have seen, those who are out of power for five years, even today crores of currency notes are coming out of their walls,” he added.Surendra Kumar, Goods and Services Tax joint commissioner (Kanpur), told PTI on Sunday night Jain has been arrested on charges of tax evasion. The perfume industrialist is likely to be taken to Ahmedabad from Kanpur for further action, he said.Also read | I-T recovers record ₹150 crore cash from UP businessmanAnother official said cash worth over ₹257 crore as well as gold and silver was recovered during a series of raids on the premises owned by Jain.The money was allegedly linked to the dispatch of goods via fake invoices and without e-way bills by a goods transporter, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-jibe-at-sp-adityanath-refers-to-arrested-up-businessman-piyush-jain-101640574466247.html
27-12-2021||India||Will polls in 5 states get postponed amid Covid-19? Decision likely today||The Election Commission of India (ECI) will hold a meeting with senior officials of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, including Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, on Monday to discuss the current Covid-19 situation ahead of the assembly elections in five states next year, reports said.Assembly elections are due in five states including Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab in 2022."The Election Commission of India will convene a meeting on December 27 at 11am with senior officials of the ministry of health and family welfare, including secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The meeting will discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation for upcoming assembly elections in five states," news agency ANI quoted a person familiar with the development as saying.Also read | Ready for safe polls, says CEC ChandraThe meeting will come days after the Allahabad High Court requested the Election Commission to immediately postpone the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh for one to two months amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Last Thursday, the high court also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the ECI to immediately ban rallies and public meetings of political parties in the state.On December 23, Bhushan directed the poll-bound states to “exponentially ramp up vaccination”, especially in the “low coverage districts” to protect the vulnerable population.Also read | Amid Omicron rise, curbs brought back in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru | 10 pointsThe directions came just hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with officials amid the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.The Union health ministry has also sent multidisciplinary teams to Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. The teams will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions and submit a report every evening by 7pm.They will specifically look at contact tracing, including surveillance, containment operations; Covid-19 testing, including sending of adequate samples from clusters to INSACOG network for genome sequencing; Covid appropriate behaviour and its enforcement; availability of hospital beds, ventilators and medical oxygen; and vaccination progress.Meanwhile, data compiled across states showed the number of infections of the Omicron variant detected across India on Sunday crossed the 500-mark, even as more than 150 of these cases have already recovered.As many as 77 new cases of the heavily mutated Omicron variant were reported on Sunday and the number of states and Union territories that have reported these infections has now touched 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-polls-in-5-states-get-postponed-amid-covid-19-decision-likely-today-101640569907872.html
27-12-2021||India||60 and above: What you need to get third Covid-19 vaccine jab||People aged 60 years and above will be given a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from January 10 next year if they suffer from certain co-morbid conditions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday. PM Modi called the third shot a precaution dose.RS Sharma, chief executive officer of the National Health Authority, which also operates the government’s CoWIN platform, said the process will be the same that was followed when the Covid-19 vaccination was opened for people of 45-plus category, who suffered from specified co-morbidities.Official data show there are at least 137.5 million people above the age of 60 years, who could be eligible for the precaution dose.Also read | What is ‘precaution dose’ for Covid? Which vaccine will be administered?Senior citizens will have to show a medical certificate that shows they have specified co-morbidities to be eligible for a precaution dose.They will have to get a certificate from a registered medical practitioner that can be scanned and uploaded on the CoWIN portal or produced at a vaccination centre.Government experts said the gap between the primary and additional doses could be between nine and 12 months and that the details are still being worked out.Also read | 9-12 months' gap likely between 2nd dose and 'booster' precaution dose: ReportsSharma said the CoWIN platform will be tweaked for the revised policy and the process will not take much time as the same module will be followed as earlier.The inoculation drive for senior citizens started on March 1 this year, the same day as persons between 45 and 59 years of age suffering from certain medical conditions. Some 20 co-morbidities were listed at the time.Also read | PM Modi announces vaccines for teens, 'precaution dose’. Expert lists next planPeople with specified medical conditions included those who were immuno-compromised, on cancer treatment, undergoing or having undergone organ or tissue transplant surgery, afflicted with chronic kidney, liver, lung or cardiovascular disease, or those on immunosuppressant drugs, among others.The World Health Organization (WHO) has said additional doses of a vaccine may be needed as part of an extended primary series for target populations where the immune response rate following the standard primary series is deemed insufficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-and-above-what-you-need-to-get-third-covid-19-vaccine-jab-101640566690392.html
27-12-2021||NA||Breaking LIVE: 7 cops hurt during resident doctors' protest near ITO, reports ANI citing Delhi Police||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:UAE issues first civil marriage license for non-Muslim coupleThe UAE issued its first civil marriage license for a non-Muslim couple, state media reported Monday, as the Gulf country seeks to keep its edge over regional competitors. Read moreOver 4,400 people fined for Covid-19 norm violation in Delhi on Sunday, reports PTIAmid a rising number of coronavirus cases in Delhi, over 4,425 people were fined for violating norms such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing on Sunday, according to news agency PTI.7 cops hurt during resident doctors' protest near ITO, reports ANIAt least seven cops were injured during resident doctors' protest near ITO on Monday, news agency ANI reported citing Delhi Police.Centre reviews public health measures, vaccination status in 5 poll-bound statesReviewing public health measures and vaccination status in 5 poll-bound states, the Centre on Monday advised ramping up vaccination of all eligible population through district-wise weekly plan following a daily review.The Centre also directed strict enforcement of the Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.Karnataka imposes night curfew from Dec 28 to Jan 7The Karnataka government has imposed a night curfew between 10pm to 5am in the state from December 28 until January 7, reported news agency ANI quoting Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant. The restriction came in the wake of rising cases of the Omicron variant in the state.Telangana reports 12 new cases of Omicron variantTelangana has reported 12 new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of infections from the new strain to 55, reported news agency ANI. Of the total infections, 10 people have completely recovered and been discharged from the state-run TIMS hospital.Maharashtra reports 26 new Omicron cases, surpasses Delhi as leading contributorMaharashtra has reported 26 fresh cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, surpassing Delhi as the leading contributor of the infections from the new strain.Amit Shah chairs high-level NCORD meetingHome minister Amit Shah on Monday chaired a high-level Narco Coordination (NCORD) meeting in which following decisions were taken:1) Shah directed arrangement of container scanners at ports2) He also ordered to prepare national narco-canine pool3) A standing Inter-Ministerial Committee to be set up to curb misuse of dual-use precursor chemicals 4) An effective system to be put in place to stop increasing use of Dark Net and Crypto-currency in illegal drugs tradeKerala govt imposes 10pm-5am night curfew from December 30 to January 2In view of the rising Omicron cases, Kerala government on Monday imposed a night curfew (10pm to 5am) from December 30 till January 2. Read more‘Precautionary dose' applicable after 9 months of 2nd dose of Covid vaccine: NHAThe National Health Authority (NHA) said on Monday that healthcare workers and those above the age of 60 will be eligible for a 'precautionary dose' of vaccine against Covid-19 only after nine months of receiving the second jab. Read moreFirst case of Omicron variant detected in NortheastThe first case of Omicron, the fast-spreading variant of coronavirus, was detected in Northeast on Monday after a male passenger with a travel history to Tanzania tested positive for the new strain.Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally goes up to 331Delhi has reported 331 Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total tally from the viral infection in the union territory to 14,43,683. The positivity rate has risen to 0.68 per cent. Read moreHaryana cabinet expansion tomorrow, new ministers to take oath at 4 pmHaryana cabinet expansion to take place tomorrow. New ministers of the state cabinet are expected to take oath tomorrow at 4pm: CMOGoa reports 1st Omicron case, 8-year-old boy with travelling history to UK found infectedGoa reported its first Omicron case on Monday after a 8-year-old boy with travelling history to UK was found infected with the new strain of the coronavirus. Read moreBMC calls meeting with health, ward officers over rising Covid-19 cases in MumbaiBrihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Chahal has called a meeting on Monday with health and ward officers over rising Covid-19 cases in Mumbai.Kerala top performing state in Niti Aayog health indexKerala top state in overall health performance among larger states, Uttar Pradesh the worst, says the fourth Health Index by Niti Aayog.Local Covid-19 containment measures, curbs may be imposed, as needed: Centre tells statesIn fresh advisory, Centre tells states that local Covid-19 containment measures, curbs may be imposed, as needed, in festive season.Afghanistan universities yet to reopen, money just a reason listed by TalibanThe Taliban have said universities in Afghanistan are yet to open because of the economic crisis facing the country and also over the issue of co-education.Maharashtra: 35 police personnel, govt employees test positive in 2 daysAs many as 35 people including police personnel and government employees test positive for Covid-19 during the RT-PCR testing of 2,300 people conducted in the last 2 days during the Winter Session of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly: Vidhan Bhavan Sensex tanks over 400 points in opening session; Nifty trades at 16,875Sensex tanks 444.83 points to 56,679.48 in opening session, Nifty tumbles 128.40 points to 16,875.35. India's daily Covid-19 tally falls 6.52%, Omicron count goes up to 578With 6,531 new cases, India's daily Covid-19 tally falls 6.52%, according to the Union health ministry' website. Meanwhile, the Omicron count has goes up to 578, the ministy also informed.BSF recoveres 3 IEDs in OdishaSpecial Operations team of Border Security Force (BSF) has recovered 3 IEDs adjacent to a road near Tentulipadar in Swabhimaan Anchal in Odisha onSunday, informs BSF in statement. Ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's judicial custody to end todayAnil Deshmukh’s custody was extended earlier this month, hours after suspended police officer Sachin Waze told the state-appointed inquiry commission the former home minister had neither made any monetary demands nor was any money collected from Mumbai's bar owners or people related to them.60 and above: What you need to get third Covid-19 vaccine jabPeople aged 60 years and above will be given a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from January 10 next year if they suffer from certain co-morbid conditions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday. PM Modi called the third shot a precaution dose. PM Modi to launch hydropower projects worth ₹11,000 crore in Himachal todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday visit Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, where he will inaugurate and lay the foundation for hydropower projects worth more than ₹11,000 crore. Included among these is the Renukaji Dam project, lying pending for around three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-breaking-news-december-27-2021-101640566121787.html
27-12-2021||India||PM Modi to launch hydropower projects worth ₹11,000 crore in Himachal today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday visit Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, where he will inaugurate and lay the foundation for hydropower projects worth more than ₹11,000 crore. Included among these is the Renukaji Dam project, lying pending for around three decades.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the completion of the 40-megawatt hydropower project was only made possible by the collective effort of six states—Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, and Delhi—at the behest of the central government.Built at a cost of ₹7,000 crore, the Renukaji Dam will optimally utilise the hydropower potential of the Himalayan region to bring benefits to as far away as national capital Delhi, which will be able to receive a water supply of around 500 million cubic meters per year.Prime Minister Modi will also lay the foundation stone of the Luhri Stage 1 Hydro Power Project, a 210-megawatt dam that's built at a cost of more than ₹1,800 crore and is expected to generate over 750 million units of electricity per year. According to the PMO, the modern and dependable grid support will prove beneficial to the surrounding states of the region as well.Additionally, the Prime Minister will also lay the foundation of the Dhaulasidh Hydro Power project on Monday, the first of its type in the Hamirpur district of the state. “The 66 MW project will be built at a cost of over ₹680 crore,” reads an official press release. “It will lead to the generation of over 300 million units of electricity per year.”PM Modi will also inaugurate the Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Power Project. “The 111 MW Project has been built at a cost of around ₹2080 crore,” the release added. “It will lead to the generation of over 380 million units of electricity per year, and help the state earn revenue worth over ₹120 crore annually.”Finally, Prime Minister Modi will preside over the second ground-breaking ceremony of the Himachal Pradesh Global Investors' Meet on Monday. The meet, according to the PMO, is expected to give a boost to investment in the region through the start of projects worth around ₹28,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-hydropower-projects-worth-rs-11-000-crore-in-himachal-today-101640562258031.html
27-12-2021||India||‘Great New Year’s gift’: Covid task force chief explains decision to vaccinate children||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to include adolescents between 15-18 years of age in the country’s vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has several benefits, Dr NK Arora, chairperson of Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), has said.Dr Arora has said the country already has a vaccine for children, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which has shown it has a very good immune response in them in trials.Arora’s comments come ahead of the vaccination drive for those between 15-18 years of age from January 3, 2022, which was announced by PM Modi on December 25 amid rising Covid-19 cases linked to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Also read | Vaccination for 15-18 years: Only Covaxin likely to be administered"Children between the age of 12 and 18 years, particularly those in the age group of 15 to 18 years, are very much like adults. Our research within the country also says that almost two-thirds of the deaths which occurred due to Covid in India are within this age group. So, this decision was mainly taken to protect the adolescents,” Arora told ANI in an interview.He also listed two other advantages of immunising adolescents against Covid-19.“One is that they are quite mobile, they have to go to the school colleges and their risk of getting an infection, particularly in the light of Omicron, is present,” he explained.Also read | Policy on booster, additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in 2 weeks: Dr NK Arora"Secondly, many times these adolescents get infection into their households where elderly and those with comorbidities can get infected. So, in view of all this, the country has decided to introduce vaccination for children between 15 to 18 years," he said.He also said immunisation of these children can be started in a short period without any specific preparation and that the dosage requirement will be the same as adults.Dr Arora said Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has shown a “very good” immune response during trials.Also read | 9-12 months' gap likely between 2nd dose and 'booster' precaution dose: Reports"In fact, it is slightly better than adults. Secondly, this vaccine is a safe vaccine, and even local effects like pain, swelling in the arms is much less as compared to adults. We would like to offer this protection to our adolescents," he said."Although the disease's effects are much milder, but as we know many schools have opened. A lot of parents are still not very confident in sending their children to schools,” he added.“So this vaccination drive will also be giving confidence to them. I would say it's a great New Year gift for our adolescents."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-new-year-s-gift-covid-task-force-chief-on-decision-to-vaccinate-kids-101640564579727.html
27-12-2021||India||Greenpiece: Need mask standards to protect the people||These days, we wear masks to prevent both Covid and air pollution.But when the air is better, we don’t necessarily wear other masks, intended only to ward off the virus. We typically wear one mask type. Since the pandemic, many mask types have sprung up across the country. Some wear only blue single use masks, others flaunt cloth masks, calling them eco-friendly.What does this mask diversity mean for our health?The virus cannot be kept out by wearing a cloth mask unless the cotton has other layers inside. As far as air pollution goes, this depends on the specific particle. It is hard for most users to go looking for the correct mask for each usage type.Nor should a user have to do this.India needs masks standards to guide and protect its people.A mask in India must meet various needs.It must fight Covid and pollution, sometimes just dust. Workers on a construction site need masks as do young school children.And because this is India, the mask must not suffocate the user in the heat either. Instructions about its disposal should be clear.Standardizing masks is key to public and environmental health, to saving lives. It is also key to using the appropriate resources in the most impactful manner.The Bureau of Indian Standards must use available data and issue standards to protect lives and prevent the wrong use of materials. We can fight Covid and climate change both, if robust regulation kicks in.(The writer is founder and director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)
27-12-2021||India||BJP plans to appoint coordinators as part of its village outreach drive||In a major community outreach in rural areas, the farmers’ wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party plans to appoint co-ordinators in every village to inform farmers about the various welfare schemes of the central government, a BJP leader said told HT.The development comes ahead of crucial assembly elections in the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur.During a national executive meeting of BJP’s Kisan Morcha on Sunday, the first meeting after the contentious farm laws were repealed, party functionaries in states were told to hold meetings and organise seminars to tell farmers about the farmer-centric policies of the Narendra Modi government.“We will soon start appointing gram syanyojak (village coordinator) in every village across the country,” Manoj Yadav, national media in-charge of BJP farmers’ wing, said.“The central government has come out with several schemes such as soil health card, Pradhan Mantri Kisan Fasal Bima Yojana (crop insurance scheme), etc., for the welfare of farmers, and we want to reach out to farmers and tell them about them.”There will be a seminar by party workers every three months where they will take up one policy or scheme of the central government and explain them in detail, Yadav said.While BJP leaders say the farmers agitation will have little impact on the upcoming assembly elections as the laws have been repealed, they agree there is a need for an outreach campaign in rural belts, especially in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.In poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, the state unit’s farmers’ wing has planned a Kisan Sammelam (farmers’ conclave) in 75 districts till January 3. Kameshwar Singh, president of the state’s BJP farmers’ wing, said the party has been organising meetings and rallies since June.“There are around 56,000 villages in UP, and in the past few months, we have organised several programmes to reach out to the farmers. In the Kisan Sammelan, our focus is on telling farmers about the Centre and state government schemes for farmers,” Singh said. “It is also to listen to their concerns and how they have benefit from the various schemes.”Of the 403 assembly constituencies in India’s most populous state, 104 have a large percentage of sugarcane farmers, he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s decision to increase the minimum support price for sugarcane by ₹25 per quintal will benefit lakhs of farmers, Singh said. “This is one of the many farmer-centric measures taken by the UP government,” singh said. “Though our outreach initiatives, we are going to tell farmers about it,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-to-appoint-coordinators-as-part-of-its-village-outreach-drive-101640557027582.html
27-12-2021||India||Tikait: SKM won’t fight any polls, no link to those joining the fray||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions that spearheaded the yearlong agitation against the three agriculture laws, will not contest any elections and those contesting have nothing to do with us, farmer leader and Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday.The development comes a day after 22 farmer unions, that protested against the Centre’s now-repealed farm laws under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), formed a political front -- the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) -- to contest the 2022 Punjab assembly elections.Reacting to the announcement at an event in Jaipur, Tikait said: “I am not joining politics and Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not contesting any elections. Those who are contesting are doing it in their individual capacity... Those who are contesting have nothing to do with us. Ours is not a political manch (platform).”On the farmers’ group forming a political front in Punjab, Tikait said, “We are holding a meeting on January 15 and we will talk about this then.”He, however, said that the farmers will play the role of kingmakers in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections.
27-12-2021||India||Govt panel to review Afspa amid Nagaland killings row||The Centre has decided to institute a five-member committee to look into the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act from Nagaland, chief minister Neiphiu Rio said on Sunday, weeks after 13 civilians were killed by the army at Oting in the state’s Mon district.According to news agency PTI, Vivek Joshi, who is Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India, will head the five-member committee while Additional Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Piyush Goyal will be the member secretary of the panel.Other members of the committee are chief secretary and DGP of Nagaland, inspector general of Assam Rifles (North) and a representative of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), PTI quoted a government official as saying.Indian Army personnel opened fire at a truck carrying local coal miners to Oting village from Tiru on December 13. The soldiers of the 21 Para Special Forces appeared to have mistaken the civilians for militants.A jawan was killed in retaliation by civilians on the same day.There were massive protests across the state with Naga organizations seeking a fair probe into the incident.On Sunday, a joint statement from deputy chief minister Y Patton and leader of Naga Peoples’ Front Legislature Party TR Zeliang said that the panel has been directed to submit its recommendations within 45 days.“The committee will submit its report within 45 days and withdrawal of Disturbed Area and AFSPA from Nagaland will be based on recommendations of the committee,” the statement said.A court of inquiry will take action against the army personnel “directly involved” in the Oting incident and action will be taken immediately “on the basis of fair inquiry”, the statement said.“A court of inquiry will initiate disciplinary proceedings against the army unit and personnel who were involved in the Oting incident, and action will be taken against on the basis of a fair probe. The identified persons facing the investigation will be placed under suspension with immediate effect,” the statement said.The Nagaland government will provide jobs to the next of the kin of the deceased, it said.The decisions were taken at a meeting of Union home minister Amit Shah and Rio, along with Patton and Zeliang on December 23.The meeting was also attended by North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor and Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.On December 20, the Nagaland assembly adopted a five-point resolution denouncing the killings in Mon and demanded the repeal of Afspa from the region.The Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, is in force in Nagaland, Manipur, Assam, parts of Arunachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir. It allows security forces to open fire on any person on suspicion, and arrest individuals and search premises without warrants, in designated disturbed areas.Thanking Shah “for taking up the matter with utmost seriousness”, Rio on Sunday urged “all sections to continue to maintain a peaceful atmosphere.”During the recently concluded winter session of Parliament, Shah expressed regret over the killings and said that a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the “unfortunate incident” will complete its investigation within a month. He also said the firing was a consequence of “mistaken identity”.
27-12-2021||India||With 77 new cases, India’s Omicron tally crosses 500||The number of infections of the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2 detected across India on Sunday soared past the 500-mark, even as more than 150 of these cases have already recovered, data compiled across states showed.A total of 77 new cases of the heavily mutated variant were reported on Sunday, as the number of state and Union territories that have reported Omicron infections has now touched 19, with two new regions – Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh – joining the list on Sunday.The national tally of Omicron cases now stands at 508 — Maharashtra has reported 141 cases (the most in the country), followed by 79 cases in Delhi, Kerala has seen 57 infections, Gujarat has 49, Telangana 44, Tamil Nadu 34, Karnataka 31, Rajasthan 23, Haryana 10, Madhya Pradesh nine, Odisha eight, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal have reported six each, while Chandigarh and J&K have three each, followed by UP at two, and one each in Ladakh, Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh.The number of people who have recovered from recovered from Omicron infections, meanwhile, touched 153, data showed.On Friday, Union health ministry had said that a government analysis of 183 Omicron cases in India found that 70% of the infected are asymptomatic and the rest have mild symptoms.Expert across the world have pointed out that people infected with the Omicron variant are less likely to require hospital admission, with a small proportion among them showing symptoms and those too likely to be mild. They have said the new Sars-CoV-2 variant may be less severe in people with past infection and those vaccinated, when compared to the Delta variant.“Regarding infection with Omicron, it does not necessarily lead to severe symptomatic clinical disease. In India, about a third of all detected cases were mildly symptomatic and the rest were asymptomatic; therefore, the treatment for Omicron-infected symptomatic individuals remains the same,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-77-new-cases-india-s-omicron-tally-crosses-500-101640555654621.html
27-12-2021||India||60+ likely to need co-morbidity certificate for third shot: Officials||Senior citizens seeking a third vaccine jab will have to produce a medical certificate that shows they have specified co-morbidities to be eligible for a precaution dose, according to people familiar with the matter.People aged 60 years and above will be given a third dose from January 10 if they suffer from certain co-morbid conditions, along with health and front line workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday.“We are going to follow the same process that was followed when Covid vaccination was opened for 45-plus category of people who suffered from specified co-morbidities,” said RS Sharma, chief executive officer of the National Health Authority, which also operates the government’s CoWIN platform.Citizens eligible for the additional shot will have to get a certificate from a registered medical practitioner that can be scanned and uploaded on the CoWIN portal or produced at a vaccination centre, Sharma said.The gap between the primary and additional doses could be between nine and 12 months, government experts said, although the details are still being worked out. The inoculation drive for senior citizens started on March 1 this year, the same day as persons between 45 and 59 years of age suffering from certain medical conditions. Some 20 co-morbidities were listed at the time.“This (the interval) would be based on how long it takes for the vaccine-derived immunity to wane,” said a government expert who declined to be named.India has at least 137.5 million persons above 60 years of age, official data show, who could be potentially eligible for an additional dose.Persons with specified medical conditions included those who were immuno-compromised, on cancer treatment, undergoing or having undergone organ or tissue transplant surgery, afflicted with chronic kidney, liver, lung or cardiovascular disease, or those on immunosuppressant drugs, among others.The third jab is being called a precaution dose, Modi said, adding that the step was taken in the light of the amount of time front line and health workers are spending in the service of Covid-19 patients that will also strengthen their confidence.Additional doses of a vaccine may be needed as part of an extended primary series for target populations where the immune response rate following the standard primary series is deemed insufficient, according to the World Health Organization.The objective of an additional dose in the primary series is to enhance the immune response to establish a sufficient level of effectiveness against disease. In particular, immuno-compromised individuals often fail to mount a protective immune response after a standard primary series, but also older adults may respond poorly to a standard primary series with some vaccines, the global health agency said.“Since senior citizens largely suffer from one or more underlying medical conditions, making their immune system weak, it was decided by experts looking into the matter to allow them also to have the precaution dose,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “Health care and front line workers are anyway at high risk of getting the disease, owing to their nature of work. Hence, they needed additional protection.”It is a good idea to allow an additional dose for high-risk people, experts said.“Omicron could possess a potential risk in some elderly with long diabetes, heart and lung diseases, and those who are immunosuppressed, as witnessed with previous variants causing hospitalization and fatality,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, head of infectious diseases and infection control at Aster DM Healthcare (India units), which runs a chain of hospitals.“With global evidence and support for booster doses to combat the new variant, we hope that this initiative will prevent infections among the most exposed (healthcare workers),” Dr Warrier said.The CoWIN platform, which provides the technological backbone of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive, will be tweaked for the revised policy.“The process will not take much time as the same module will be followed as earlier,” said Sharma.
27-12-2021||India||Kerala high-speed rail: CPI expresses concern, PCC warns Tharoor to mend his ways||Junior partner in the ruling Left Democratic Front, the Communist Party of India, on Sunday expressed concern over growing resentment against the government’s ambitious high speed rail project even as the Congress asked party MP Shashi Tharoor who refused to oppose the project to fall in line. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, made it clear that the rail project was in the Left Front’s manifesto and there was no going back on the project but the Congress and other opposition parties said “K Rail will turn into another Nandigram” for the party and government. The Congress meanwhile has toughened its position on Tharoor. “If you are a party MP you have to follow the party line. Otherwise, you can leave the party, we have told him in clear terms. There is no personal opinion before the collective decision of the party. Hope he will clear the air soon,” said party state president K Sudhakaran. Two weeks back when 17 MPs from the state wrote to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav urging him not to give clearance to the high-speed project ‘K Rail,’ Tharoor abstained from it saying he needed more time to study the project. But he made it clear that not signing the letter does not mean that he supported the project. While attending the inaugural ceremony of Lulu Mall in the state capital on December 16 Tharoor lauded the developmental initiatives of the CM hurting the party leaders again. But the senior leader made it clear that he never shied away from congratulating a person who had done a good job and there was no need to read between lines. The Congress was forced to go after Tharoor after some allies resented his open defiance and the ruling CPI(M) started praising his “bold position,” said party insiders adding he was asked to clear the air at the earliest. “All must have a personal opinion. But once the United Democratic Front took a decision all leaders are bound to go by it. Tharoor’s indifferent position will weaken the UDF stand,” said Revolutionary Socialist Party leader N K Premachandran MP. Congress MP Rajmohan Unnithan also criticized Tharoor saying, “The party always protected him in critical times, not the CPI(M).” Despite mounting criticism from the party Tharoor is yet to react. Fissures have also started appearing in the ruling dispensation over the K Rail project. “There is a lot of apprehension among people. The government will have to clear them and release the detailed project report (DPR),” said CPI joint secretary Prakash Babu. Many left-leaning organisations like Sasthra Sahitya Parishad have also opposed the project saying it will be a sure recipe for environmental degradation. When Left MPs met the railway minister last week in Delhi CPI MP Binoy Viswom kept away from it. Though he cited personal reasons, people close to him said he was not happy with the project. Many environmental activists have also opposed the ₹63,490-crore proposed project, saying the state is yet to learn lessons from recent natural calamities and early warnings of climate change. They said the government was going ahead with the project without a proper environment impact study. Unfazed by criticism, the chief minister said his government will go ahead with the project, with his party asking its workers to “expose forces” that are bent on “derailing developmental activities” of the state. “For some it has become a habit to oppose everything. The government will not bend before such forces. People gave us a huge mandate to implement such projects,” said the CM in Pathanamthitta. The K-Rail project aims at developing a high-speed rail network, connecting north Kerala’s Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram in south. The state will need 1,383 hectares of land for the project, of which 1,383 hectares are private land. The state is planning to fund the project using equity funds from the government, foreign lending and railway ministry’s partial funding. The new rail network will bring down the travel time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, covering 529.45 km, to only four hours (from 12 hours at present) and it will be completed by 2025, said the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd, the nodal agency for the proposed project. The Centre is yet to give the green signal to the project. 
27-12-2021||India||BJP asks Telangana cops not to give permission to Munawar Faruqui show, vows to prevent his entry into Hyderabad||HyderabadFour days after stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui announced that he would be performing a show titled “Dhandho” in Hyderabad on January 9, the Telangana unit of Bharatiya Janata Party has declared that it would not allow the show to take place at any cost.State BJP president Bandi Sanjay on Saturday gave a call to the workers of BJP Yuva Morcha to go all out to prevent Faruqui from performing in Hyderabad. “It is your responsibility to prevent Faruqui from entering the city,” he told them at a function at the state party office.On December 22, Faruqui took to his Instagram to announce his show titled ‘Dhando’ in Hyderabad on January 9. The sale of tickets would be done online, though the venue of the event has been kept a secret.Firebrand BJP lawmaker from Hyderabad T Raja Singh also wrote a letter to Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy not to give permission to Faruqui to stage his show in the city, as it was meant for creating hatred against Hindu religion and gods.Singh reminded that Faruqui had earlier been arrested and imprisoned for 37 days in the past for creating hatred against Hindu gods. “He also made serious comments against Union home minister Amit Shah in a programme at Indore in January. He also made comments against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), Godhra incident and Kar Sevaks etc,” he pointed out.He warned that if the programme was allowed, the Hindu supporters would come out on roads and take up protests that would disturb the peace of Hyderabad.It may be mentioned that on December 17, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s son and state information technology minister K T Rama Rao welcomed stand-up comedians like Faruqui and Kunal Kamra to stage their shows in Hyderabad.“Hyderabad is truly cosmopolitan and offers stand-up comedians an open invite. We don’t cancel shows of Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra just because we are not aligned with them politically,” KTR said.In November, Faruqui”s show in Bengaluru was cancelled after protests by Hindu right-wing groups, who alleged that he had hurt their religious sentiments in one of his shows. Besides Bengaluru, his shows in Gujarat, Gurugram, Chhattisgarh, and Goa too were cancelled following threats from various right-wing groups.
27-12-2021||India||Row over K Rail intensifies as CPI expresses concern||The Communist Party of India (CPI), a part of the ruling CPI (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, on Sunday expressed concerns over the growing resentment against the government’s K Rail project, which has already drawn flak from Congress and other opposition parties in the state. “There are a lot of apprehensions among people. The government will have to clear them and release the detailed project report (DPR),” said CPI joint secretary Prakash Babu.The ₹63,490-crore K-rail project aims at developing a high-speed rail network, connecting north Kerala’s Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram in the south. The state will need 1,383 hectares of land for the project, of which 1,383 hectares is private land. The state plans to fund the project using equity funds from the government, foreign lending and the railway ministry’s part-funding. The rail network will bring down the travel time between Kasaragod and Thiruvananthapuram, covering 529.45 km, to only four hours (from 12 hours at present) and it will be completed by 2025, said Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd, the nodal agency for the proposed project. The Centre is yet to give a green signal to the project. Many left-leaning organisations like Sasthra Sahitya Parishad have also opposed the project, saying that it will be a sure recipe for environmental degradation. When Left MPs met Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnav last week in New Delhi, CPI MP Binoy Viswom kept away. Though he cited personal reasons, people close to him said he was not happy with the project. Many environmental activists have also opposed the proposed project, saying the state is yet to learn lessons from recent natural calamities and early warnings of climate change. They said the government was going ahead with the project without a proper environmental impact study. “No proper environment impact study was done. It seem the government is in hurry. It will lead to displacement of thousands of people and wetland will be affected. Such big projects will cripple fragile environment of the state. It seems the state is yet to learn a lesson from recent natural calamities,” said Dr S Vijayan, a wildlife scientist, who was part of the Madhav Gadgil committee on Western Ghats. Metro Man E Sreedharan also said the high-speed rail project was not feasible in a state like Kerala. “In a densely- populated state it is not feasible. Moreover, around 140 km of the rail line passes through wetland and it is not suitable for high-speed trains,” he said. The Congress and other opposition parties said, “K-Rail will turn another Nandigram” for the party and government. The reference is a clash between police, West Bengal-ruling CPI (M) members and villagers in Nandigram in 2007, which sparked violence, leaving 14 people dead and many more injured.Unfazed by the criticism, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said his government will go ahead with the project, with his party asking the cadre to “expose forces” that are bend to “derail developmental activities” of the state. “For some, it has become a habit to oppose everything. The government will not bend before such forces. People gave us a big mandate to implement such projects,” Vijayan said in Pathanamthitta. Congress rap Tharoor (Subhead)The Congress on Sunday toughened its position on party MP Shashi Tharoor, who refused to oppose the project and sought more time to study it.“If you are a party MP you have to follow the party line. Otherwise, you can leave the party, we have told him in clear terms. There is no personal opinion before the collective decision of the party. Hope he will clear the air soon,” said party state president K Sudhakaran. Two weeks back, 17 MPs from the state wrote to railway minister Vaishnav urging him not to give clearance to the high-speed project. Tharoor abstained from it, saying that he needed more time to study the project. However, he clarified that not signing the letter does not mean that he supported the project. While attending the inaugural ceremony of Lulu Mall in the state capital on December 16, Tharoor lauded the developmental initiatives of Kerala CM Vijayan, hurting the sentiments of party leaders again. The senior leader made it clear that he never shied away from congratulating a person who did a good job, and there was no need to read between the lines. The Congress was forced to go after Tharoor after some allies resented his open defiance of the party, and the CPI (M) started praising his “bold position,” said party insiders, adding that he has been asked to clear the air at the earliest. “All must have a personal opinion. But once the United Democratic Front (UDF) decides, all leaders are bound to go by it. Tharoor’s indifferent position will weaken the UDF stand,” said Revolutionary Socialist Party leader N K Premachandran MP. Congress MP Rajmohan Unnithan also criticised Tharoor saying, “the party always protected him in critical times, not the CPI (M).” Despite mounting criticism from the party, Tharoor is yet to react. 
27-12-2021||India||Ranthambore tigress gives birth to a cub, big cats tally stands at 78: Officials||December 26, 2021 JaipurA tigress has given birth to a cub in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve, taking the big cat population to 78, forest officials said on Sunday. Officials said tigress T-99 was spotted with a cub in zone 10 of the reserve. The reserve now has 20 tigers, 30 tigresses, and 27 sub-adults and cubs, apart from 4 tigers each in the Keladevi range and Dholpur range of the reserve. District forest officer, Mahendra Sharma said, “Six-year-old tigress, T-99 is sighted with a cub in Halonda area in zone-10 of RTR. The cub is of around 3-4 months, and it is the first litter of the tigress.” In the last three months, two tigresses -- T-63 and T-105 -- were sighted with three cubs each in the reserve. A forest official said the big cat population in the reserve is constantly increasing, which is good for tiger conservation but is an issue of concern as territorial disputes and migration is happening. 
27-12-2021||India||River boards to manage all projects: Govt rejects Andhra, T’gana pleas||The Centre has turned down requests from the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments not to bring all irrigation projects being built on Krishna and Godavari rivers under the respective river management boards of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti, but to restrict them to only inter-state projects, officials familiar with the development said on Sunday. In a recent communication to the Andhra Pradesh government, joint secretary of Union Jal Shakti ministry Sanjay Awasthi said as per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, all the major and medium irrigation projects built on Krishna and Godavari rivers during the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh regime would be brought under the purview of the river management boards. Since all the projects in the respective river basins are inter-linked, they cannot be seen in isolation and hence, should be monitored by the river management boards, a senior official of the Andhra Pradesh state irrigation department said, quoting the Union ministry. On July 15, 2021, the Union ministry issued a gazette notification bringing 36 projects in the Krishna basin and 71 in the Godavari basin in both Telugu states under the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB), respectively. The projects were to be handed over to the two boards from October 14 for administration, operation, maintenance and regulation of their components, including barrages, dams, reservoirs and other regulating structures, besides hydel power plants, part of the canal network and transmission lines. However, the two-state governments raised objections to the Union ministry over the gazette notifications. At the first KRMB meeting on August 4, which was boycotted by the Telangana government, the Andhra officials suggested that only projects like Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala, which are common to the two states, be brought under the purview of the board. Similarly, Telangana also wrote a letter to the KRMB in the first week of December to exempt the Jurala irrigation project and two other lift irrigation projects – Nettempadu and Bhima built on Krishna river – from the purview of the board, as it purely serves the needs of Telangana and had no dispute with Andhra Pradesh. However, the Union Jal Shakti officials made it clear that all the irrigation projects and the schemes associated with them under both the Krishna and Godavari basins would be brought under the control of the respective river management boards. “All these projects were mentioned in the AP Reorganisation Act; and hence, were brought under the purview of the boards. If any project has to be given any exemption, it requires necessary amendments to the Act by Parliament,” the irrigation department official said, quoting Awasthi’s letter. Concerning the projects being constructed post bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh, the Union minister said both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh should submit the detailed project reports (DPRs) of these projects to the ministry for clearance within six months. 
27-12-2021||India||2 more names added to FIR in Haridwar hate speech case||Names of two more seers were added to the case filed in connection with alleged hate speeches delivered at a 3-day event in Haridwar, police said Sunday.Names of Annapurna maa and Hindu Mahasabha general secretary Dharamdas Maharaj were added to the FIR police registered last week. That FIR, filed on charges of promoting enmity between communities under IPC section 153(a), had named only Jitendra Narayan Tyagi (formerly Waseem Rizwi).The case was registered at Haridwar Kotwali police station after videos of the three-day Dharma Sansad -- held from December 17-19 -- caused outrage on social media as the participating seers allegedly called for violence against minoritiesHaridwar Kotwali police station SHO, Rakendra Kataith, said, “During the probe, police added the names of the above-mentioned seers after verifying the videos of the event.”“With the addition of the two names, the total number of named accused in the case is now three. As the investigation progresses, identities of more accused would be ascertained and added to the case,” said Kathait.Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said “Such events and hate speeches won’t be tolerated at all,” and assured all possible legal action against the accused if they were found guilty.The case is being investigated by a sub-inspector rank police officer of Kotwali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-names-added-to-fir-in-haridwar-hate-speech-case-101640543260986.html
27-12-2021||India||Christmas event disrupted in Assam; two detained||Two men were detained after a group disrupted a Christmas event in Silchar town on Saturday night demanding that Hindus should not participate in it, police said Sunday, adding that a suo motu complaint has been filed against the duo. According to eyewitnesses, the group entered the event at the Presbyterian Church around 10 pm and started demanding that Hindus leave the church saying christmas is a “festival of outsiders”. The men claimed they were activists of Bajrang Dal but the outfit has denied any association with them. A member of the group said, “We have no issues with Christians celebrating Christmas... Our problem is with the Hindus came here... as they dress up to a church and sing ‘merry christmas’.” The group left before the police reached. Cachar district SP Ramandeep Kaur said, “Nobody has registered any complaint officially but on the basis of video footage on social media, we have registered a complaint. Two individuals have been picked up for interrogation and further investigation is going on.”Sources with knowledge of the matter said the duo was released on PR bond later on Sunday evening and were instructed to appear before Silchar Sadar Police Station on Monday morning. Bajrang Dal’s president for Cachar, Dima Hasao and Mizoram, Mithun Nath, denied any involvement in the incident. “We decided not to interrupt Christmas celebration and ordered all our members to refrain from doing any such thing. We are trying to find whether these boys are our members,” he told HT. Senior journalist Anirbanjyoti Gupta strongly condemned the incident and said his son was assaulted by the group. Senior journalist Anirbanjyoti Gupta strongly condemned the incident and said his son was assaulted by the group. “My father was an RSS Karyakarta and legends like pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya and Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji stayed in our house. Grandson of such a man has been manhandled just for attending a Christmas festival in Silchar... Shame, shame, shame. Is it the Culture of Hindutva? We should think once again,” he wrote in a Facebook post on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/christmas-event-disrupted-in-assam-two-detained-101640543140556.html
27-12-2021||India||No attempt to bring back farm laws, Cong spreading rumours: Tomar||The central government has no intention of bringing back the contentious farm laws that were repealed last month, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar clarified on Sunday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to withdraw the agricultural reform laws to keep the honour of the farmers,” Tomar said, reacting to statements by the opposition Congress party that protests might be renewed if such a step was being considered. “The Congress is spreading rumours to cover up its own failures. The farmers should be beware of this.”The three laws , approved in September 2020, sparked widespread protests by famers. The government repealed them in the recently concluded winter session of Parliament after a statement to that effect by Modi.Speaking at an event in Nagpur on Friday, Tomar had remarked: “We took a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India’s backbone. And if the backbone is strengthened the country will get stronger.”His comments drew sharp criticism. “The agriculture minister has insulted Modi’s apology — it is highly condemnable,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had tweeted on Saturday. “If the anti-agro-farming steps are taken again, then there will be annadata satyagraha again.”The government had earlier tried to explain the benefits of the three laws – the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 – to protesting farmers, but failed to convince them.On November 19, the Prime Minister announced that his government will withdraw the three laws. On November 29, Parliament repealed the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-attempt-to-bring-back-farm-laws-cong-spreading-rumours-tomar-101640542901818.html
27-12-2021||India||Want to manufacture BrahMos so no country casts evil eye on us: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the Defence technology and test centre and BrahMos manufacturing centre -- to be established by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Lucknow.Speaking on the occasion, Singh said India wants to manufacture BrahMos missiles not to attack anyone, but to ensure that no other country has the audacity to cast an evil eye .The Uttar Pradesh government has allocated 200 acres of land for the project.The BrahMos manufacturing centre, announced by BrahMos Aerospace, is a modern, state-of-art facility in the Lucknow node of the defence industrial corridor.The next generation BrahMos missiles are to be manufactured at the facility, which is scheduled to be operational in 2-3 years. Around 80-100 missiles will be manufactured at the Lucknow unit each year. The missile is capable of carrying a nuclear warhead.Singh expressed confidence that the foundation laying of the two units would herald a new chapter in defence manufacturing of the country, and the economies of Lucknow as well as the state.So far, an investment of ₹1,400 crore has been received for the defence corridor in UP, Singh said.Stressing the need to maintain nuclear deterrence, he said, “We want to manufacture BrahMos on Indian soil so that no country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on India.”“It has never been the character of India to attack any other country or grab even an inch of land of any country,” he said.Singh stated that India has attained a respectable position in areas of defence technologies, including the development of state-of-the-art missile systems in recent years and has made commendable progress in building its defence industrial base.He slammed Pakistan of carrying out terror attacks in the country.“There is a neighbouring country. It got separated from India sometime back. I don’t know why its intentions vis-a-vis India are always bad. It committed acts of terrorism in Uri and Pulwama,” the defence minister said.“And then our Prime Minister took a decision and we went to the soil of that country and destroyed terrorist hideouts and when there was a need for airstrikes, we did that successfully,” he said.“We gave the message that if somebody dares to cast an evil eye on us, then not just on this side of the border, but we can go to the other side and hit them. This is India’s strength,” Rajnath added.The defence minister praised UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for expediting land acquisition for the project.“When I spoke to Yogiji and expressed the desire to establish this project, he did not take a second and said land will be made available at the earliest. I thank the chief minister for making 200 acres available in just one and a half months,” he said.Rajnath Singh stated that action against the mafia and improved law and order scenario in the state has made Uttar Pradesh a favoured destination for companies in India and abroad.“Before 2017, riots were common, criminals and mafia ruled the roost in the state. But today, Uttar Pradesh’s law and order is being discussed in other states. ‘UP ki sarkar bhaut asardar’ is what others are saying,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-manufacture-brahmos-so-no-country-casts-evil-eye-on-us-rajnath-101640542784590.html
27-12-2021||India||Tweaks in green laws may dilute safeguards, warn experts||The government has recently tabled draft legislations in Parliament to modify laws on biodiversity conservation and wildlife protection to improve ease of business that activists said could dilute environmental safeguards in the country.The Biological Diversity Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021, tabled in Parliament on 9 December by environment minister Bhupender Yadav, provides exemptions to projects promoting Indian medicine systems, also known as Ayush. It has been sent to a joint parliamentary committee for further scrutiny.On December 17, the government tabled the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Bill, 2021, which seeks to rationalise the schedules under which wildlife is protected. It too has been referred to a parliamentary standing committee.The draft laws are the latest in a series of tweaks carried out the central government to reform processes related to environmental and forest approvals for infrastructure and developmental projects.The proposed modifications would effectively address current ecological and economic needs of the country, the government has said, but legal experts are concerned that such large-scale reforms would sidestep environmental concerns. Activists also said these modifications are sought without asking for public comments, as is the norm when laws are up for amendments.However, minister Yadav said the Centre has sought comments on the forest conservation law, which is why a consultation paper was released to the states.In October, the environment and forest ministry released a consultation paper on amending the forest conservation law to significantly change forest governance in India, which include facilitating private plantations, and exploration or extraction of oil and natural gas beneath forests by drilling holes from outside the forest areas. the consultation paper also suggested that the use of forest land for strategic and security projects of national importance should be exempted from the need to obtain prior approval.“The Wildlife Protection Act 1972 has to be amended for implementation of the Convention on International trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). India is party to CITES and we have international obligations related to it,” Yadav said. “As far as the biological diversity amendment bill is concerned, these amendments were referred by four government constituted committees.”However, several provisions in the draft laws introduced in Parliament could weaken environmental regulations, lawyers and researchers said.“The standing committee of the state board for wildlife is a derogatory step, as it will replicate the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife, which had led to a situation where the national board rarely meets and all decisions are taken by a select group of members of the standing committee, who are chosen by the environment minister,” said noted environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta. “The aim of constituting the standing committee of the state board is to exclude vocal conservationists from the decision-making process. All powers will now be vested with a small group headed by the state minister in charge of forest and wildlife.”Dutta is also concerned about the proposed modifications to the biodiversity law. One of the major changes in the proposed law is that registered Ayush practitioners can access any biological resource and its associated knowledge for commercial utilisation, without giving prior intimation to the state biodiversity board.“The amendment seems to be done with the sole intention of providing benefit to the Ayush industry,” Dutta wrote in a recent critique. “The main focus of the bill is to facilitate trade in biodiversity as opposed to conservation, protection of biodiversity and knowledge of the local communities. The amendments are completely contrary to the aim and objective of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002.”The amendment bills should be seen as part of a larger scheme of redesigning environmental regulation, said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research, a think tank. The environment ministry has released several new policies and guidelines this year to ease provisions for mining, expansion of industries, and facilitate defence and security infrastructure.“In 2021, the environment ministry has been pushed to do two things. First, align its regulation to economic reforms introduced by the central government and, second, ensure compliance with international agreements including those related to climate change and access to biological resources,” Kohli said. “The government is redesigning environmental laws to enable the unlocking of natural resources, asking fewer ecological questions and reducing standards of public involvement in decision-making.”Several new guidelines, policies were released by the ministry this year to ease provisions for mining, expansion of industries, and facilitate defence and security infrastructure.Easing norms for defence-related worksIn March, the ministry wrote to state governments stating that states cannot impose any additional environmental or conservation directions for infrastructure projects in forest areas other than what has already been stipulated by the Centre while granting forest clearance to a project. While granting forest clearance to a project under the Forest (Conservation) Act, it is presumed that the state government has already examined the proposal properly at all levels and has exercised due diligence. “Hence, the stipulation of additional conditions after according in-principle approval is against the norms and also demonstrates that such diligence was not made,” the letter had said. Independent experts had cautioned that such a guideline will curb the powers of the state in raising objections or suggesting additional environmental safeguards.On May 10, new guidelines were issued to state that the environment ministry’s regional offices will now consider and expedite forest clearances for “critical infrastructure projects” in Left-wing extremism (LWE)-hit districts and those related to defence and security in border areas instead of the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC). Experts pointed out that leeway to defence projects could lead to giving green signal to a lot of projects that may be tangentially connected to defence but mainly of some other requirement.The environment ministry this year also allowed companies operating in several industries, including some polluting ones, to expand capacities on the basis of a self-certification that this will not “increase the pollution load.” In May, the ministry released a user manual for online submission of an undertaking on no increase in pollution load due to expansion.Facilitating miningThis year a number of amends were made to facilitate new mining projects. In July, the environment ministry made provisions for mining permits to be transferred to new mining lessees from previous leaseholders, without having to apply for fresh forest clearance. In a letter to all states and union territories on July 7, the ministry said that the transfer of approval under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, can be made provided mining companies that are new lease holders meet certain conditions like complete compliance of terms and conditions stipulated in the forest clearance granted previously.In September, the ministry wrote to all state governments stating that roads, conveyor belts, railway infrastructure etc. that connect mines to ports or other destinations can now be considered as standalone projects that can be approved by the regional offices of the union environment ministry instead of the Forest Advisory Committee. The letter stated that the ministry of coal had requested the environment ministry to consider the possibility of constructing new linear projects linking mines to dumping or loading sites.The ministry of coal launched an auction for mines last year. In the first tranche 38 were listed and in the second tranche 67 mines in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh were listed for commercial coal mine auctions.In October, the ministry relaxed the environmental norms for the expansion of certain iron, manganese, bauxite, and limestone mines. It issued an office memorandum (OM) on October 20 stating that expansion of up to 20% capacity for mines of these four minerals which have a 5-star rating can be allowed only based on a public consultation.Last month, the ministry went a step further and approved the commencement of mining in non-forest land even before forest clearance is granted to allow the activity in contiguous forest land in blocks where mining involves both types of lands.Air quality CommissionCentre brought in the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act 2021 in August to provide for the constitution of the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas to address severe air pollution in Delhi NCR. The newly constituted Commission continues to have sweeping powers in controlling air pollution in Delhi NCR.Any non-compliance or contravention of any provisions of this ordinance, rules made thereunder or any order or direction issued by the Commission is a punishable offence with imprisonment of up to five years or with fine which may extend up to ₹one crore or with both. The new ordinance has clarified that provisions of this section will not apply to any farmer for causing air pollution by stubble burning or mismanagement of agricultural residue. The constitution of the Commission was criticised by legal experts because it is again a move to centralise powers, they said.Developing the IslandsThis year saw a concerted effort to facilitate so-called development in the Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands. The environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee considered multiple infrastructure projects in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands including luxury tents and resorts on some islands; two water aerodrome projects in Shaheed and Swaraj islands (formerly Neil and Havelock islands, respectively); two major township and area development projects on the Great Nicobar Island and Little Andaman, one of which is also likely to involve denotification of a tribal reserve.The Lakshadweep administration introduced the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) 2021 that seeks to develop the islands as a major tourist destination similar to Maldives according to Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Scientists and former bureaucrats put up a stiff resistance against the draft saying that it ignores Lakshadweep’s vulnerability to climate crisis, rights and culture of indigenous people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tweaks-in-green-laws-may-dilute-safeguards-warn-experts-101640542720417.html
27-12-2021||India||Awareness key in fight against Omicron: PM||Awareness and discipline have to be the strength of Indians in the fight against the Omicron variant of coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his monthly radio broadcast to the nation.Although scientists are constantly studying the new variant and the government is working on their suggestions, it is the effort of citizens that is crucial to defeat the global pandemic, Modi said in this year’s last Mann Ki Baat programme on Sunday.“We have to remember that a new variant of Corona has already knocked on our doors,” he said. “In such a situation, self-awareness and self-discipline are our strength in the fight against this variant of Corona. Only our collective strength will defeat corona, and it is with this very sense of responsibility we have to enter into 2022.”India will start vaccinating children aged 15 and above from 3 January, and there will an additional jab for fully inoculated frontline health workers and senior citizens from 10 January, the Prime Minister had announced on a televised address on Saturday.The government’s efforts to inoculate the country’s population is praiseworthy, he said. “Crossing the 140 million vaccine dose mark is an achievement of every Indian,” Modi said in the 84th edition of the radio programme. “This shows that every Indian has trust in the system and trust in science and in scientists. It is also a testament to the willpower of the people who are fulfilling their responsibilities towards society.”The Prime Minister also spoke about the tragic helicopter crash in which chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 defence personnel lost their lives. He paid tribute to Shaurya Chakra awardee Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor who succumbed to his injuries a week after the crash, for his humility and effort to inspire students.Referring to Singh’s letter to his school principal after receiving the military decoration for valour, Modi said, “After reading this letter, the first thought that came to my mind was that even after reaching the pinnacle of success, he did not forget to nurture his roots. When he had time to celebrate, he showed concern for the generations to come…he did not boast of his valour, instead he referred to his failures, but talked about how he converted his shortcomings into his strength.”In the letter, which went viral on social media after Singh’s death, he wrote that “it is okay to be mediocre” and performance in school was by no means the measure of things to come in life.Modi noted that the Swachh Bharat campaign for cleaniness and hygiene was a common theme in all the suggestions and messages he received from people for the new year. He spoke about the individual initiatives of people to contribute to the Swachh Bharat initiative. He also listed out the various measures taken by the government.He made special mention of the Arunachal Pradesh Airgun Surrender Campaign, a unique initiative in the northeastern state to halt the indiscriminate hunting of birds. People have surrendered about 1600 airguns, Modi said.The Prime Minister also spoke about efforts by individuals and institutions to promote Indian culture and protect ancient art forms from extinction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/awareness-key-in-fight-against-omicron-pm-101640542666415.html
27-12-2021||India||Terror attacks rose during pandemic year in India: US report||India faced more terror attacks in the first year of the Covid-19 pandemic, 2020, than the previous year, with 37% of these incidents being reported from Jammu and Kashmir, according to data compiled by the US state department.The data shows that there were 10,172 terror attacks across 98 countries in 2020, 1,300 more than the incidents reported in 2019.Overall, 679 terrorism-related incidents were reported in India last year, in which 567 people were killed (2% of global fatalities in terror attacks in 2020). In 2019, 655 terror attacks were recorded in the country, according to the US data.Even though India was in the top 10 countries for most terrorism incidents last year, it was not in the top 10 for fatalities. Afghanistan reported 1,722 terror attacks followed by Syria (1,322) and DR Congo (999).The US data reveals that the states in India that experienced the most terror incidents were Jammu and Kashmir with 257 incidents (37.8%), Chhattisgarh with 145 incidents (21.4%), and Jharkhand with 69 incidents (10.2%).The Union home ministry’s data, however, shows that 244 terror attacks took place in J&K in 2020. The government shared this data in Parliament on March 23 this year.The Centre has said that terror incidents have come down in J&K since the nullification of Article 370 on August 5 in 2019 and major terror networks in the Valley have been dismantled by security forces.The home ministry did not respond to a query on the difference in data on terror incidents in 2020.The US state department report said that “Indian security agencies are effective in disrupting terror threats, although gaps remain in interagency intelligence and information sharing”.Among the perpetrators in India, according to the US data, CPI-Maoist continued to be the fourth most destructive group in the world in 2020, with 298 incidents and 202 fatalities. They were behind 44% of the total (679) terror attacks in the country, while Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Hizbul Mujahideen were responsible for 6% of all incidents. According to the records, 29% of the terror incidents were not attributable to any outfit in India.The Taliban (including the Haqqani Network) were responsible for the most terror incidents (1,325) and fatalities (7,417) in 2020, followed by ISIS-Core (which comprises the ISIS elements in Iraq and Syria), al-Shabaab, CPI-Maoists and ISIS-DR Congo, the US analysis shows.Mumbai-based national security analyst Sameer Patil said: “The pandemic provided the opportunity for many terrorist groups worldwide to regroup and strengthen their activities as much of the attention in the last one year was focused on containing the Covid outbreak and enforcing lockdowns. The same can also be said for the Left Wing Extremist groups in India.”“With regard to the situation in the Kashmir Valley, the mainstream terrorist tanzeems regrouped under different front organisations to carry out random acts of violence targeting the security forces, minorities and other vulnerable sections of the society. For carrying out this violence, they relied on the Over Ground Workers, which also helped them to escape security forces’ dragnet. This kind of violence was sensational but also difficult to sustain, which is exactly what has happened,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-attacks-rose-during-pandemic-year-in-india-us-report-101640542605120.html
27-12-2021||India||Terrorist linked to murder of cop shot dead in Anantnag||A suspected terrorist involved in the murder of a police officer last week was gunned down by security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Sunday.The deceased man, a member of the terror organisation Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK), was identified as Faheem Bhat of Kadipora in Anantnag, police said.“He had recently joined terror outfit ISJK and was involved in killing of martyr, assistant sub-inspector Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at police station Bijbehara,” said Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police, Kashmir.Unidentified men had on Wednesday evening shot at Ashraf, who succumbed to his injuries.In the past three days, security forces have killed six suspected terrorists in south Kashmir, including four on Saturday in two separate gunfights.On Sunday’s shooting, a police spokesperson said security forces received information regarding the presence of a terrorist in Kalan Sirgufwara village of Anantnag on Saturday evening, following which a joint cordon and search operation was launched by security forces.The terrorist was given ample opportunity to surrender, the spokesperson said. “However, he denied the surrender opportunities and instead, fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party.In the ensuing encounter, the trapped terrorist was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of encounter. He has been identified as Faheem Bhat,” the spokesperson said.Police have registered a case under relevant sections of law.“Pertinently, in the last 48 hours, joint teams of police and security forces neutralized six terrorists in four successful anti-terrorist operations without any collateral damage,” the spokesperson added.Meanwhile, two policemen were injured in a grenade attack in Pulwama district on Sunday evening, PTI reported. The attack took place at Pulwama’s main square, said the report, adding that terrorists hurled a grenade at a police team.WITH PTI INPUTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-linked-to-murder-of-cop-shot-dead-in-anantnag-101640542482270.html
27-12-2021||India||In 20 years, 51% sessions adjourned early in Parliament: Rajya Sabha data||Adjourning a Parliament session ahead of its schedule—as has been the case in the last five sessions—is neither a new trend nor an exception. For, 51% or 32 of 62 sessions in the past 20 years had to be curtailed for various reasons, a Rajya Sabha secretariat analysis showed.Disruptions, an increasing trend in parliamentary strategy, were in focus in the recently concluded winter session of Parliament that saw Rajya Sabha proceedings washed out partially. It also saw the suspension of 13 members over unparliamentary behaviour, only to rake up a row over the validity of such suspension.Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu asked for a report on the trend of early adjournments after the winter session was cut short on December 22, a day ahead of schedule. To be sure, the winter session fared better than the last four sessions as some of them were shortened by a week or even 13 days.The analysis of early adjournments showed that since the 193rd session held during July-August 2001, 32 of the 63 sessions till the just concluded winter session, ended before schedule. While 25 sessions (40%) of the 63 ran their full course, 6 sessions (9%) concluded beyond the scheduled duration.Since 2020, Parliament has been affected by the Covid pandemic starting with last year’s budget session that was cut short by 13 days. This time, too, the session was wrapped up a day before schedule amid fears over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.“On account of running short of the scheduled calendar of sittings, the Rajya Sabha has lost a total of 108 sittings (7.42% of the total scheduled sittings) over the last 20 years. With the House meeting beyond the schedule for a total of 23 sittings in 6 sessions, the net loss in sittings was 85, accounting for 6% of the total scheduled sittings of 1,455 over 20 years,” the analysis said.During the Narendra Modi government, 14 of 25 sessions held since June 2014 fell short of schedule, accounting for 56% of the total.“Reasons for such early adjournments include disruptions, agreement among the parties, government’s proposals, elections and the pandemic recently,” said a senior official of the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-20-years-51-sessions-adjourned-early-in-parliament-rajya-sabha-data-101640542361451.html
27-12-2021||India||Majority not a defence for arbitrary action: CJI Ramana||Chief justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday said a popular majority is not a defence for arbitrary actions of the government and underscored that all wings of the government should work within the Constitutional limits. He added that it would be “unthinkable” for democracy to function “without judicial review.”Delivering the fifth Sri Lavu Venkatewarlu endowment lecture on ‘Indian Judiciary – Challenges of future’ at Siddhartha Law College in Vijayawada, the CJI also criticized the tendency to brand judicial review as judicial overreach.“Such generalisations are misguided…If judiciary does not have power to review, then functioning of the democracy in the country would be unthinkable,” he said.He also raised concern over the growing tendency to disregard and even disrespect orders of the court. “The executive needs to assist and co-operate for rule of law to prevail in the nation,” he said.He also dismissed the criticism that judges themselves are appointing judges and said it is one of the “widely propagated myths”.Justice Ramana said the judiciary was one of the many players involved in the process of appointing judges and said some of the recommendations made by high courts on appointment of judges are still to be transmitted to the Supreme Court by the law ministry.The CJI referred to a recent comment made by Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP from Kerala John Brittas in Rajya Sabha that the appointment of judges by judges in India was unheard of anywhere in the world. He wondered whether the appointment of judges should be shrouded in mystery, secrecy and darkness. Brittas had made the remark on December 21 during a debate on The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021.“It is nowadays fashionable to reiterate phrases such as ‘judges are themselves appointing judges’. I consider this to be one of the widely propagated myths,” the CJI said.Ramana pointed out that many authorities were involved in the appointment process including the law ministry, state governments, governor, high court collegiums, intelligence bureau and the topmost executive. “I am sad to note that the well-informed also propagate the aforesaid notion. After all, this narrative suits certain sections,” Ramana said.He called for improving the service conditions of judges to attract the best talent and fill vacancies.The CJI pointed out that people approach the judiciary only when other state organs fall short of constitutional expectations. Considering the monetary and psychological impact of litigation, no individual would like to approach the court without a serious grievance, he said.Stating that pendency of cases was a complex issue, he said it could only be resolved through a multi-pronged approach. Increased use of alternative dispute resolution (ADR), clear legislation, executive actions within legally prescribed limits, cooperation of advocates and litigants, prompt implementation of orders, respecting the rule of law, etc., are part of the solution.He said there were 46 million cases pending before Indian courts. By itself, this number is not a very useful indicator, taking into consideration 1.4 billion population of India and the judge-to-population ratio of 21 judges per million.“Nearly 47 percent of the total litigation comprises government cases. Actions or inaction of authorities leads to a lot of litigation in the country,” he said.
27-12-2021||India||SP dreaming of winning polls to stop Ram temple work, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused the Samajwadi Party (SP) of “daydreaming” of coming back to power in Uttar Pradesh and stopping the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Uttar Pradesh is slated to go to the polls early next year.“Samajwadi Party is daydreaming that it will come to power again in Uttar Pradesh and they will stop the ongoing work at Ram Janmabhoomi. Akhilesh Ji, no one can stop the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” Shah said at a public rally as part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jan Vishwas Yatra, in Jalaun.He also accused the SP and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) of being “casteist”, adding that there were only  “three Ps: Parivarwaad, Pakshpaath, and Palayan under the SP rule”.“I want to say that we are going win more than 300 seats in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election 2022. Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party are casteist parties. But Modi Ji and Yogi Ji stand for Sabka saath, sabka vikas,” he said.In the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 of the 403 seats, while the SP bagged 47, the BSP won 19 and the Congress could manage only seven seats.Without naming the SP or its leader Akhilesh Yadav, he said that those who got karsevaks fired upon and were instrumental in toppling the Kalyan Singh government haven’t liked the construction (of the temple) one bit.They are daydreaming that fortune would smile on them and they would get power in Uttar Pradesh, he said.“It (stopping the work) is not going to happen no matter what anyone thinks or tries,” Shah said, adding that SP and BSP used to taunt the BJP for using Ram temple merely as a poll plank.“Modi ji has fulfilled his promise just after getting the solid mandate from the people (for a second term). Soon, a Ram temple as high as the sky will be visible for all in Ayodhya,” he said in Orai.He accused the Opposition of feeling ashamed to restore the glory of Hindu symbols.At the other rally in Kasganj, he asked the crowd if they would vote for those against the Ram temple in Ayodhya.The home minister also referred to the recently inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi.“The corridor of (Kashi) Vishwanath temple was deserted since the time of Mughal ruler Aurangzeb, but Modiji changed it all in Varanasi. Now, one carry gangajal directly to the temple in Varanasi. The Congress, the SP and the BSP all opposed but Modi abolished Article 370 in Kashmir on August 5, 2019. There was terrorism during Congress rule at the Centre, but Prime Minister Modi carried out surgical strikes across the border when terrorists targeted Uri and Pulwama,” the home minister said.He termed the SP and BSP as casteist parties.“The regime of ‘Bua and Babua’ (Mayawati and Akhilesh) in Uttar Pradesh did not do any development for the masses and were confined to caste-based politics and their own families. On the other hand, the BJP, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, has worked for all,” he said both in Orai and at Kasganj, where the BJP’s Jan Vishwas Yatra reached on Sunday.Hitting back, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “It’s already apparent that the BJP is getting panic attacks. There’s massive buildup of support for Samajwadi Party as people want it back to put the state back on development track. The divisive and hate politics won’t work.”Shah said that all six Jan Vishwas Yatras, flagged off on December 19 and travelling through 403 assembly constituencies, were getting a warm welcome from supporters across the state.Kasganj is part of Etah parliamentary constituency from where former Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh governor and ex-UP chief minister the late Kalyan Singh, had been elected as MP.Amit Shah remembered Kalyan Singh and described him as a leader who let his chief minister’s post go (in 1992) when it came to the cause of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“The landslide victory for BJP in 2014, 2017 and 2019 would not have been possible if there was no Kalyan Singh,” said Amit Shah.“Kalyan Singh ji spoke of good governance within Uttar Pradesh for the first time. He worked towards giving rights to the backward society. Kalyan Singh ji chose Ram Janmabhoomi over the chief minister’s chair,” he said.Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer Singh ‘Raju’, the current BJP MP from Etah, shared the stage with Amit Shah at Kasganj.“During the past regime in UP before 2017, girl students used to stay away from schools, but in these five years of Yogi Adityanath’s tenure as CM, it is now the criminals who are leaving the state. Decades had passed but work on the Ram temple in Ayodhya could not begin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was voted to power again in 2019 and the Ram temple construction became a reality,” said Shah.“Earlier, there used to be riots in Uttar Pradesh, but now medical colleges and expressways are coming up in Uttar Pradesh. Not a single riot has taken place in Yogi Adityanath’s rule in the state. Incidents of loot, rape and kidnapping have gone down in UP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi made free of cost vaccination for over 130 crore citizens of India a possibility,” Shah said.Talking about the development works in UP, he said, “Eighteen big schemes are being launched in the state. Thirty medical colleges and five expressways are coming up in Uttar Pradesh. Sugarcane farmers are being paid their due amount and 20 sugar mills are being modernized.” The Union home minister ended his speech with “Jai Sri Ram”.In Kasganj, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya highlighted that SP president Akhilesh Yadav did not pay tribute to “Babuji’ (Kalyan Singh) and asked his followers to avenge the insult to Singh who championed the cause of the backward castes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-dreaming-of-winning-polls-to-stop-ram-temple-work-says-amit-shah-101640541882187.html
27-12-2021||India||Seven months and counting: The longest Silger stir retains its verve||It is 10 pm on a cold December night. A group of about 30 teenaged boys and girls are gathered around bonfires under a tamarind tree in Silger village. The light from the fires cuts through the darkness, the silhouette of the forests flickering in the shadows. The gathering at this hour, in this part of Chhattisgarh, is unusual. For Silger is in the forested heart of south Bastar, the epicentre of a deadly, decades-long battle between security forces and Maoist insurgents. A battle where many innocents have been caught in the crossfire.On a usual day, Silger would have been pitch black, and eerily quiet. But voices suddenly pierce the night air. The teenagers have started singing. The song is new, and has no name. But the chorus has the words “O adivasi re...jaago re”(Awake, O Adivasi). They start singing the verse, “tere saamne tere bhai ko goli maara re...tere saamne tere ghar dwaar cheen liya re (they shot your brother in front of you, they stole your home in front of you).”It is a song of protest.Around the singers, there’s movement in the makeshift tarpaulin tents, and scores of protesters emerge and join in. Thousands of kilometres away, farmer collectives may have won their battle with the government and left for home in joyous victory marches, but in the Chhattisgarh hinterland, a protest, now the longest in Bastar’s history, has been going on for the past seven months. A protest that has all the markings of the region’s macabre and complicated history – protest against a security camp, four deaths, a typical government response centred on calling the dead and protesters Maoists or sympathisers, and a long impasse that has gone on into winter without any constructive intervention.The beginning of the Silger protestOn May 12, residents of Silger began protests against a new camp of the Central Reserve Police Force. For four days, the number of protesters swelled. The villagers argued there was no permission for the camp, and that it would only bring more harassment to residents. The security agencies argued that it was the villagers who had asked for the camp, that it was key to driving away Maoists and bringing any form of development, and that the protests were being pushed by Maoist cadre.Five days later, as the number of protesters kept rising and more villages joined in, there was sudden gunfire. Chhattisgarh Police said it was an exchange of fire with Maoists in the crowd, but villagers claimed the security forces unilaterally opened fire. Three people were brought dead to the hospital. A few days later, a fourth woman succumbed to her injuries as well.“On the night of May 16, the protesters returned to their villages, but the next afternoon some people, including some Maoists of Jagargunda Area Committee, reached the camp and started firing. When the camp was attacked, the security personnel retaliated,” Sunderaj P, inspector general of police in Bastar, had said at the time.A day later, Sunderaj told the media that the three that died immediately were from “frontal organisations” of the Maoists.“The deceased were identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma); Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi; and Kursam Bhima, militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur),” he said.But two weeks later, a two-member fact finding team comprised of noted economist and human rights activist Jean Dreze and lawyer activist Bela Bhatia visited the spot, and said they found no evidence that supported the police claim that an armed group of agitators took over the protest on May 17, and intended to burn down the CRPF camp, leaving the forces with no choice but to open fire.The report said the camp was set up in the dead of night at around 3 am on May 12, without informing villagers, and about 40-50 of them were dispersed by force when they protested against the camp the next day.“On May 14, about a thousand adivasis of five gram panchayats started a mass protest... People shouted slogans demanding the removal of the camp. Every day the police tried to disperse them, sometimes with lathis, sometimes with “mirchi pataka” or tear gas. Dozens of protestors sustained minor injuries... and returned to their villages for local treatment,” the activists alleged.Witnesses alleged that by May 17, the number of protestors grew exponentially, perhaps touching 10,000, and some of them started pelting stones after a baton charge, and tear gas and bullets being fired into the air to control the crowds, Dreze and Bhatia said.“By that time the forces were on both sides of the road with protesters in the middle. Soon police firing started. Three protestors were killed on the spot (one of them, Uika Pandu, also called Murali, of Timmapuram village, who was hit in the head, was only 16 or 17 years old), at least another three had bullet injuries and as many as 40 were injured in one way or another,” they said.Chhattisgarh Police maintained that the CRPF camp was established to facilitate construction of a road on the Basaguda-Jagargunda axis, as it was an important corridor for Maoists and a stronghold of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army Battalion number 1, led by Maoist commander Hidma.Sunderaj had then refuted claims made in the fact-finding report and said villagers were properly briefed about the nature of the camp on May 13 by police and an executive magistrate, and they returned convinced with the response.“Meanwhile, the Maoists were planning to destabilise this camp to protect their corridor. So the Naxals mobilised their frontal organisation members and militia cadres from the surrounding area and sent them to Silger on May 17 with a conspiracy to instigate violence and launch an attack on the security forces deployed in the Silger camp,” the Bastar police chief said.How has the protest run for seven monthsOn May 20, a group of protesters banded around the Mool-Vaasi Bachao Manch (platform to save indigenous people), the aim of which was to streamline the Silger protest. Raghu Madyami, 21, president of the Manch, has been leading the protest with 26 other office bearers since then.The Manch later formed a cultural wing, the Mool Niwasi Sankriti Kala Manch, which now composes songs , slogans and plays. For the past seven months, the platform has sought to build systems that are sustainable for a mass protest.In the middle of December, when HT reached the spot, there were about 20 small camps of protestors. “Each camp belongs to a village taking part in this protest. Every five days, a group of villagers come here and reside in their village’s camp. They bring their food and cook. Each day at around 11am, we protest outside the Mokur camp, which is 700 metres from here, and the next day, another group comes to replace them,” said Raghu, sitting outside the Timmapuram village camp in Silger.For the Manch or other protestors who come from far-flung areas, villagers donate cereals. “We have also developed two acres of land for vegetables in the last seven months,” said Raju Sori, president of Mool Niwasi Kala Manch.A day starts at 7am, and protesters cook and eat by 10. They then march towards the camp to mark their protest and return by 2pm. Groups then begin to search for wood for fires that must burn at night. By 7, dinner is done, and from 8pm to midnight, they sing the winter away. Every day for the past seven months.Silger’s impact in BastarThe Silger protest has marked a new shift in the Maoist-state conflict in Bastar, inspiring more protests against the establishment of security camps, and other sites. Over the past few weeks, there have been demonstrations at a newly made Border Security Force camp in Kanker district, and the sites of alleged police atrocities like Sarkeguda and Gompad.The firing in Silger led to a rethink in the police establishment on how to establish new camps, according to an Indian Police Service officer serving in Bastar. “As security forces penetrate core Maoist areas, some protests will be there, but it can be handled by the resolution of genuine demands of villagers and winning their confidence,” he said requesting anonymity.Soni Sori, a tribal rights activist, said that the state government was mistaken in its belief that the protest would die a natural death, and this could have political consequences. “I believe that it is the longest protest of tribals in the history of Bastar against any government. The way people reacted after the agitation against the Salwa Judum, which sidetracked the Congress for 15 years, similar things will happen in the next election. I am not sure if they will return to power,” she said.“None of the questions that the Adivasis tried to raise through the movement have been answered by the government yet,” Bhatia said. “Why was a camp established on village land without telling them, or without a gram sabha (village council meeting)? Why was a judicial enquiry not ordered into the killings of the three protestors and the woman who succumbed to her injuries later? Why has the report of the enquiry conducted by the Sukma deputy collector not been made public yet? When will the guilty policemen be punished?”Government responseDespite the hard stance police and the administration initially took on the firing, over the months the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government has made a climbdown, attempting to reach out to protesters. On July 1, a delegation of protesters and activists met with chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, where the families of the victims were offered a compensation and jobs.“When the chief minister asked about our demands, we told him that we want an inquiry into the matter led by three retired judges, which will include a Dalit judge, a tribal and one non-tribal judge. The chief minister also offered compensation and jobs, but the people were not ready to accept. They want an investigation first,” said Soni Sori, who was present in the meeting.Telam Ramdas, one of the many protesters from Gomguda village, said that they wanted to see administrative action before they accept compensation. “Our demands are simple – terminate the official responsible for killing our brothers, and take back the camp,” he said.While no judicial probe has been ordered, the state government ordered an enquiry at the level of the sub-divisional magistrate on August 12, which is yet to submit its report. “The probe is ongoing and in its last stages,” said Vineet Nandanwar, collector, Sukma.In an interview with HT on December 17, chief minister Baghel defended his government’s stance, and pointed to the attempts at dialogue. “Which government has met and talked to the people where the incident has taken place? We have sent the member of Parliament, legislators and also the members of their own community to have dialogue with them,” Baghel said.Asked why then his government had failed to quell the protests, Baghel said, “Those helpless people have been made to sit to protest at gunpoint. But it is the very first time that the population over there is with us, on our side. The camps are established on their demand only.”Back in Silger, 497km from Raipur, the group of protesters is still singing, and it is now close to midnight. When the clock strikes 12, the protesters will return to their camps to adjourn for the day.They will be back tomorrow. One young protester said, “We will sing every night until our demands are met.”
27-12-2021||India||Boiler blast in factory kills 7 in Muzaffarpur||At least seven people were killed and 11 injured when the boiler at a food processing factory exploded in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district on Sunday morning, officials said.The incident occurred at a noodles factory in Bela industrial area of Muzaffarpur, said Jayant Kant, senior superintendent of police. “It appears that the accident occurred due to a blast in the boiler,” Kant said. “The victims have been identified as labourers who worked as daily wage earners. Some of them may well be regular ones. A list is being prepared.”Two other factories in vicinity were also damaged, he said.Three of the seven people who died have been identified. They were Prakash Rai of West Champaran, and Vinod Rai and Sandeep Kumar, residents of Mushari in Muzaffarpur district, said Gyan Prakash, subdivisional magistrate of Muzaffarpur East.Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed sorrow over the tragedy and announced a compensation of ₹4 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased. He ordered a probe into the blast.“We need to find out why the factory was operational on a Sunday. A government certificate was given for operation of the boiler in May,” said Ramsurat Rai, the state’s revenue and land reforms. “A high-level inquiry to be conducted, followed by action against those found guilty.”Local people rushed to the spot after the explosion and rushed some of the victims to the Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital with help from the district administration. Later, a team from the state disaster response force recovered three bodies. The bodies were mutilated beyond recognition, according to Guneshwar Mandal, police inspector at the hospital.“Seven others who sustained injuries in the explosion are undergoing treatment for minor to moderate injuries,” said hospital superintendent Dr Babu Saheb Jha. “Their condition is stable and they are out of danger.”Action will be taken against those found responsible for the explosion, said Pravan Kumar, district magistrate of Muzaffarpur. “We will look into the causes behind the accident after the rescue operation and investigate the matter from all possible angles, including human error or mechanical among others,” the DM said.People living near the factory said there was a deafening explosion at around 10 am. “We rushed to the spot, only to find what would otherwise have been a part of the noodle factory was reduced to mangled and crumbled remains. There was complete chaos and commotion,” said Shashi Rajan Rai, a local resident.The factory, established about four years ago in Bela Phase II industrial area, made noodles and confectionaries. The unit was operational for long hours, said Shashi Rajan Rai, who lives in the neighbourhood.One of the injured told reporters that the explosion occurred suddenly in the morning. “Before anything could be understood, the machine started falling apart,” said Pankaj, who is undergoing treatment at the hospital. “A few of my friends got trapped under it. There was shouting and confusion on the premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boiler-blast-in-factory-kills-seven-in-muzaffarpur-101640541759516.html
27-12-2021||India||Understanding the unequal nature of India’s economic recovery||That the Indian economy is recovering from the pandemic’s disruption is an undisputable fact. However, what is under doubt is not the existence of the recovery itself, but the nature of it. Here are four charts which suggest that India’s growth might have become more unequal in its post-pandemic phase.The different trajectories of fuel consumptionBecause the pandemic forced imposition of social distancing norms, tracking mobility levels became among the most important indicators of restoration of economic activity in the post-pandemic phase. Mobility levels have been increasing consistently in India, if data from Google Mobility indices is to be believed.However, what is also true is that most technology-based mobility indicators – they use Internet-based devices to track mobility – have a formal sector bias. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (Nibri) for example, uses the Apple Driving Index, which sources data from persons with access to Apple devices. This source – the poor are less likely to be using mobile Internet devices – introduces a pro-rich bias in these indicators.Tracking fuel consumption from the petroleum ministry’s database offers some evidence into this bias and highlights a class aspect to restoration of mobility, and by extension, economic activity in the Indian economy. While consumption for all kinds of transportation fuel – petrol, diesel and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) – fell sharply during the first lockdown, petrol and diesel led the recovery as restrictions were eased in 2020, a trend which continued in 2021. This was understandable as there were significant restrictions on air travel even after the easing of lockdown restrictions. However, this trend has reversed in the past few months and it is ATF consumption which is closing its gap with pre-pandemic consumption levels, while the consumption of petrol and diesel has actually shown a dip. Numbers speak for themselves. Consumption of petrol-diesel as a share of pre-pandemic levels (2019-20) has actually lost momentum in the last two months whereas this trend is not to be seen in the consumption of ATF. Even LPG consumption shows a similar trend as petrol-diesel.While predicting the exact reason for this trend is an exercise in speculation, the adverse impact of higher petrol-diesel and LPG prices on consumption, and hence mobility, cannot be ruled out. End consumers of ATF are richer than those who consume petrol-diesel. A March 2021 HT analysis by Vineet Sachdev cited data from a survey commissioned by the petroleum ministry to argue that the poor have a large share in consumption of petrol and diesel in India.Difference in revival of two-wheeler and passenger car salesThe demand for two-wheelers and passenger cars are a widely accepted proxy for purchasing power of the non-rich and rich in India. Data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) shows that the two were moving broadly in tandem the year before the pandemic struck. This seems to have changed after the pandemic. While the sale of passenger cars saw a sharp revival in the first quarter of 2021-22, this was not the case for two-wheeler sales. A November 2021 Bloomberg Quint story quoted a Bajaj Auto Ltd (an important two-wheeler manufacturer in India) official describing the two-wheeler demand as being “stressed”. To be sure, sales data for both cars and two-wheelers has been contaminated because of the supply-side problem due to shortage of microchips. Still, the divergence in trajectory of revival in demand for cars and bikes underlines the class-difference in purchasing powers post pandemic.The class-difference in economic sentimentThe persisting stress in the RBI’s Consumer Confidence Surveys (CCS) has been among the most important indicators of general stress levels in the economy.While the RBI’s CCS is important statistical evidence, it has two important limitations. CCS is only conducted in urban areas (13 major Indian cities to be precise) and it does not give a class-wise break-up of economic sentiment.CMIE’s consumer sentiment numbers can fill an important gap here. The Index of Current Economic Conditions in the CMIE’s consumer pyramid survey is based on comparison of financial condition of households compared to a year ago, and their perception about whether or not this is a good time to buy consumer durables such as televisions and two-wheelers etc. The Index of Current Economic Conditions highlights the class-wise disparity when it comes to the pandemic’s impact. This index was broadly same across different income categories – they vary from less than ₹1 lakh per year to more than ₹10 lakh – in November 2017. While the richest started increasing their gap, it was still not very high until November 2019. This gap increased in a big way by November 2020 and has still not closed in a significant manner in November 2021, the latest period for which monthly data is available. If the Indian economy has to achieve a sustainable growth trajectory, it is crucial that the economic sentiment of the non-rich recovers as well. This is all the more important given the fact that some of the pent-up demand from the rich, both for goods as well as services (vacations for example) could begin to dissipate going forward.
27-12-2021||India||1000 tourists stranded in heavy snowfall in Sikkim, army steps in||More than one thousand tourists, stranded near the Indo-China border in East Sikkim, were rescued by the Indian army on Sunday. On Saturday, 1027 tourists in 120 vehicles, got stranded over a stretch of 15 km as the area witnessed massive snowfall. A media statement issued by the army said, “1027 tourists, who had been stuck in the upper reaches of East Sikkim near the China Border at Nathu La following heavy snow on Saturday, have been rescued.” There was heavy snowfall at Nathu La, Tsomgo Lake and adjoining areas on the afternoon of Christmas bringing down the temperature to sub-zero levels. On Sunday, the temperatures at Nathula and Tsomgo in East Sikkim, the two famous tourist destinations, were -8 and - 4 degree Celsius. In West Bengal, snowfall was reported from Darjeeling Hills and Sandakphu, the state’s highest point located at an altitude of 3,636 metres, on Friday afternoon. The temperature continues to remain below zero degrees Celsius. There has been heavy rush of tourists both in Darjeeling and Gangtok and almost all the rooms have been sold out till the first week of January. After the heavy snowfall, the vehicles started skidding on the Jawaharlal Nehru Marg that connects these areas with Gangtok, the state’s capital. Army personnel of the Black Cat Division posted in the area rescued the tourists in army vehicles and shifted them to a Military Camp located near 17 Mile. All the tourists were served with meals, provided warm clothing and critical medical support, said the release issued by Col Deven Makhija. On Sunday, they were sent back to their destinations. Sonam Tshering Bhutia, inspector general of police, checkpost, Sikkim said: “Though most of the stranded tourists have been rescued, around one hundred are still being brought back to Gangtok. The stranded vehicles continue to remain stuck due to the snowfall.” 
27-12-2021||Today's||An agenda to foster digital inclusion in India||Of the 1.18 billion mobile connections in India, 600 million have smartphones, and encouragingly this number is increasing by 25 million per quarter. About 700 million Indians are now internet users and consume about 12 GB of data per person a month.
27-12-2021||Today's||Decoding the draft data protection law||The Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Personal Data Protection Bill has tabled its report in Parliament. The good news is that two years after the JPC was appointed to consider the first draft of the bill, this marks a step forward in the journey of filling a crucial legislative vacuum. The bad news is that the text of the law recommended by the JPC is unable to safeguard people’s privacy, leaving a lot to be desired. The bill still needs further amendments before it can be enacted as a rights respecting law.
27-12-2021||Today's||Developed countries must ramp up targets for climate finance||From the 1972 Stockholm conference on environment and development, India has been an active participant in the forefront of global initiatives to save the world from anthropogenic interventions. At the Glasgow climate conference, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi announced ambitious climate goals. He proposed specific time-bound steps, which he called panchamrita. Modi’s panchamrita include: India will get its non-fossil fuel energy capacity to 500 gigawatts by 2030; India will meet 50% of its energy requirements till 2030 with renewable energy; India will reduce its projected carbon emission by one billion tonnes by 2030; India will reduce the carbon intensity of its economy by 45% by 2030; India will achieve net-zero emission levels by 2070.
27-12-2021||Today's||Climate and us: Protecting landscapes, biodiversity will be key in 2022||It has been an eventful year for the environment sector in India. Not only because the environment ministry launched largescale reforms to rationalise the current economic needs of the country but also because India took an important stand on behalf of the global south at the Glasgow climate change negotiations (COP 26) last month.
