03-06-2020||Rupnagar||IIT Ropar ranked 47th in the Asia University rankings||The Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar, has been ranked 47th in the Asia University rankings 2020, a statement said here.The IIT, Ropar entered the top 50 list for the first time, said a statement issued by the IIT Ropar.“Amid pandemic crisis, a cheering news to share that IIT Ropar has achieved the rank among top 50 institutions in the Times Higher Education Asian University rankings 2020,” IIT Ropar Director Sarit K Das said.With the 47th rank, IIT Ropar’s growing influence has echoed its vision of contribution to knowledge, to society and to the nation, Das further said.In February this year, the institute had also made a debut in the Emerging Economies University rankings 2020, being ranked 63rd, sharing the rank with IIT Madras, said the statement.Das said even in this time of COVID-19, IIT Ropar is progressively giving solutions to combat this pandemic which is a proof of its commitment to the nation. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-ranked-47th-in-the-asia-university-rankings-94011
03-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports seven new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported seven new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, officials said.A 40-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman from Banur’s Naggal Salempur were tested positive.  The woman was pregnant and was found having the infection during a prenatal check up.Baltana reported two cases---a 50-year-old man and his 21-year-old son.District authorities have sealed off the house and medical teams have begun tracking and isolating their contacts.A Class 4 employee working at a local health centre tested positive in nearby Dhakoli.Two men in their thirties---a 39-year-old from Dera Bassi and a 36-year-old from Mohali’s Sector 78---were the district’s other two cases.The developments take the number of COVID-19 cases in Mohali to 123, officials said---although Punjab government's official coronavirus tally for the district still stands at 120.There is ususually a lag between district tallies and the the state's official tally.Moihali has 17 active COVID-19 cases currently, and has reported three deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-reports-seven-new-coronavirus-cases-94005
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Below normal day temp at most places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||The maximum temperature at most places in Haryana and Punjab continued to hover below the normal limits on Wednesday, the Meteorological department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, according to the MeT department.In Haryana, Ambala's maximum temperature settled at 35.9 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, it said.The maximum temperature in Hisar was six notches below normal at 36.5 degrees Celsius, the Met department said.Narnaul registered a high of 35 degrees Celsius, which was seven notches below the normal limits, it said.In Punjab, Ludhiana recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal limits, the MeT department said.Amritsar registered a maximum of 36 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while Patiala's maximum temperature was 36.3 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal limits. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/below-normal-day-temp-at-most-places-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-94004
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Don't rush to media after writing letters to CM, state minister asks party MP||A day after Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa raised the issue of unpaid dues of sugarcane growers in a letter to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Punjab Minister Brahm Mohindra on Wednesday asked him not to “rush to the media” after writing letters to the CM.Don't rush to the media with your letters written to the CM, unless the issue of public interest raised by you in them are the last thing in your mind and your intention is something else, said the minister, in a swipe at the party MP.Mohindra said as a loyal Congressman, Bajwa had full right to raise issues of public interest, but there is always a "proper way" to do things. Bajwa on Tuesday had accused his party's government in Punjab of not taking “concrete steps” to ensure outstanding payment of Rs 681.48 crore to cane growers.In a letter to CM, Bajwa had claimed that around 70,000 sugarcane growers had not been paid their dues amounting to Rs 681.48 crore for the 2018-19 and 2019-20 seasons by the cooperative and private sugarmills.Punjab minister for Local Bodies and Parliamentary Affairs, Brahm Mohindra on Wednesday said a letter to the CM should be addressed to the CM only and not to the media. “It is good that you have been flagging for the attention of the CM the issues of the public interest, but the letters addressed to the CM should ideally reach the CM directly and not through the media,” said Mohindra telling Bajwa that this did not convey the right message. You don't rush to the press with your letters addressed to the CM as it defeats the real purpose or may be your purpose is actually something else,” Mohindra said in a statement here.Releasing letters to the media before dispatching it to the chief minister makes the motive and purpose of such letters obvious that the public concern raised in these letters is the last thing in the mind of the person, he further said.Mohindra asked Bajwa to act as the spokesperson of the Punjab government and highlight great achievement by the state in fighting the COVID-19.The minister pointed out that Punjab had the highest recovery rate of about 90 per cent while the death rate is less than two per cent. “This was despite a huge influx of NRIs and infected pilgrims all of whom were treated properly and have recovered completely,” he said, adding “this was possible only because our CM took the lead in imposing the lockdown and curfew ahead of the Centre and other state governments”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-rush-to-media-after-writing-letters-to-cm-state-minister-asks-party-mp-93987
03-06-2020||Meerut||Man accused of beheading wife in Ludhiana killed in UP encounter||A man accused of killing a Punjab woman here over a year ago after marrying her died of bullet injuries he suffered while trying to flee from the custody after his arrest, said police on Wednesday.The Meerut police had on Monday arrested key accused Shakib, his brother Mussarat, father Mustkeem, sisters-in-law Reshma and Ismat and friend Ayaan for their alleged roles in beheading the Ludhiana woman, whose headless body with both its arms chopped off was found in the field of Lohia village in Daurala on June 13, 2019.Following the arrests, the police had held a press conference on Monday, claiming to have solved the blind murder of the 23-year-old woman last June.Meerut Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Sahani on Wednesday said Shakib, while being taken from the press conference venue at police lines to the police station, snatched a pistol from a constable accompanying him and ran away.Following this, the police team gave him a chase, but he opened fire on the team, in which a constable was injured, he said, adding, Shakib, meanwhile, hid in a forested area, which policemen surrounded with help from villagers.As the police closed in on Shakib, he continued to fire, forcing police to retaliate, in which he suffered bullet injuries and was admitted to a hospital during treatment, said Sahani.During the treatment, the accused died in the hospital on Tuesday, said the SSP, adding the injured constable is still undergoing treatment. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-accused-of-beheading-wife-in-ludhiana-killed-in-up-encounter-93951
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||80 Punjab passengers reach home as flight with 153 Indians from Dubai lands at Chandigarh airport||A special Air India flight has brought back 153 stranded Indians from Dubai under the Centre's Vande Bharat Mission, Chandigarh international airport officials said on Wednesday.The AI 1916 flight landed at the international airport on Tuesday night.This was the third flight under the mission to land here. Earlier, 244 Indians were brought back through special flights from New York and Ukraine's capital Kiev. Eighty of the passengers who landed on Tuesday here belonged to Punjab, the officials said. Thirty-seven of them belonged to Himachal Pradesh; 13 from Haryana; 11 from Chandigarh; four each from Delhi and J-K; and two each from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.All passengers will be taken to their home districts under the supervision of officials where they will be quarantined according to the government guidelines.All precautionary measures related to COVID-19 were at place at the international airport. The passengers were screened by the Punjab Health Department authorities.The Centre had recently said the mission to bring back stranded Indians will continue till June 13 and the extended phase will cover 47 countries. As per the government policy, Indians having "compelling reasons" such as pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing prospects of deportation are being brought back. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/80-punjab-passengers-reach-home-as-flight-with-153-indians-from-dubai-lands-at-chandigarh-airport-93940
03-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Social distancing norms go for a toss as Punjab minister inaugurates lab in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 3In times of Covid-19, social distancing norms went for a toss here on Wednesday when Medical Education Minister OP Soni inaugurated a lab.The rules were flouted in the presence of senior officers, including the Deputy Commissioner, Civil Surgeon, and SSP at Government Medical College here.The minister was here to inaugurate the new VRDL lab. As soon as the minister reached the lab for the inauguration, he was surrounded by doctors, police personnel, college staff and mediapersons, throwing the social distancing rules to the wind.When asked about the violations at the event, a senior health officer said, “All are policymakers. They themselves should realise their responsibility and follow the guidelines.”When an SHO, who was on the spot, was asked about it, he said, “We will issue challans only if the seniors direct us.”The Health Department, meanwhile, restated that social distancing -- also called physical distancing -- meant keeping stipulated space between you and others when you are outside of your home. “To practise social or physical distancing, one should stay at least 6 feet (about 2 arms’ length) from other people.”The Director, Health Services, this week notified a penalty of Rs 2,000 for the violation of social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/social-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-punjab-minister-inaugurates-lab-in-patiala-93937
03-06-2020||Jalandhar||Coronavirus: Punjab reports one death, 34 new cases||Punjab reported one death and 34 new coronavirus cases, taking the state's COVID-19 toll 47 from 2,376 infections.A coronavirus-positive person from Jalandhar died at DMCH, Ludhiana on Wednesday. This is the ninth death from coronavirus in Jalandhar, where cases have seen a steady rise in cases in the past one week. A resident of Tagore Nagar in Jalandhar, the woman—who was initially admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar and later referred to DMC—had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 1.Nodal Officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, said, “The woman had co-morbidities and was also diabetic. She had also tested positive for COVID-19. She died last night.”On Tuesday, an 85-year-old ex-serviceman and 60-year-old from Pathankot succumbed to the disease in Punjab. The state also reported 41 fresh cases, taking the total count to 2,342 on Tuesday.SAS Nagar (7), Pathankot (7), Jalandhar (3), Gurdaspur (3), Faridkot (3), Hoshiapur (3),  Patiala (2),  Amritsar (2), Muktsar (2), Bathinda (1), and SBS Nagar (1) reported new cases, the state's COVID bulletin showed. Thirteen of the 34 new cases had travel history.Of SAS Nagar's seven new cases, three had travel histories---one of whom recently returned from Lucknow---three were categorised as ILI (influenza-like illness) and one was an auxillary nurse midwife. In Pathankot, four of the seven who tested positive were contacts of already diagnosed cases. Two were categorised as ILI and the last had a travel history. In SBS Nagar, one person who recently returned from abroad tested positive. Jalandhar reported three new cases, including one person who recently returned from abroad, the state bulletin showed.  The bulletin  puts the district tally at 258.District authorities however said 10 people had tested positive since Tuesday evening---eight were members and contacts of a family which had come in contact with a Lajpat Nagar family and one of their contacts at Bhargo Camp. Jalandhar administration puts the district tally at 263.There has been some inconsistency between Jalandhar district’s media bulletin and the state media bulletin---tallies of the state and district media bulletins have differed significantly for several days now. A migrant was among two people who tested positive in PatialaTwo people who recently returned from abroad were among Gurdaspur's three new cases.In Faridkot, an auxilury nurse midwife and a police person tested positive. The third case was a person who recently returned from abroad.All three of Hoshairpur's cases were contacts of already diagnosed cases. In Bathinda, one person who recently returned from abroad tested positive.The district-wise breakup for COVID-19 in Punjab stands as follows: Amritsar (390), Jalandhar (258), Ludhiana (200), Tarn Taran (157), Gurdaspur (144), Hoshiarpur (133), Patiala (125), SAS Nagar (120), SBS Nagar (105), Sangrur (102), Pathankot (76), Ropar (70), Muktsar (68), Faridkot (66), Fatehgarh Sahib (64), Moga (64), Bathinda (50), Ferozepur (46), Fazilka (44), Kapurthala (38), Mansa (32), and Barnala (24).Ten of Punjab’s 22 districts--- Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Patiala, SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Sangrur---account for 64 per cent of Punjab’s COVID-19 cases.Breakup of Punjab's coronavirus death count is: Ludhiana (9), Jalandhar (8), Amritsar (7), Hoshiarpur (5), Gurdaspur (3), SAS Nagar (3), Kapurthala (3), Pathankot (3), Patiala (2), SBS Nagar (1), Ferozepur (1), Ropar (1), and Barnala (1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-reports-one-death-34-new-cases-93896
03-06-2020||---||Ludhiana gold dacoity kingpin arrested with police uniform, fake IDs||Chandigarh, June 2Planned to loot bank cash vanTejinder Singh, alias Teja, also confessed that he and his close associate Rachpal Singh, alias Daula, were planning to loot a bank cash van that was used to transport currency from the main branches of the SBI to ATMs.The police on Monday arrested the mastermind behind the recent 2-kg gold dacoity in Ludhiana. He had allegedly committed the crime to mobilise funds for carrying out targeted killings as part of a pro-Khalistan agenda to disturb the state’s peace.A special team of the Organized Crime Control Unit (OCCU) arrested Tejinder Singh, alias Teja, listed as one of the most wanted gangster-terrorist in Punjab. He belongs to Mehadpur village in Balachaur.DGP Dinkar Gupta said a set of Punjab Police uniform and an identity card of Seema Suraksha Bal, a paramilitary force of the MHA, were seized from Teja. He was also the prime accused in the January car-jacking incident from Kharar. The accused reportedly planned to use the uniform and the card to gain access to restricted areas for various kinds of crimes, including terrorist actions, said Gupta.The police have also recovered a Chinese 30 calibre pistol, 10 cartridges and a Chevrolet Optra car from his possession. Investigations have revealed that he had also prepared a fake Aadhaar card and driving licence from Noida (UP). While on the run, he stayed at different locations in Delhi, Rajasthan, UP, and Haryana.Teja, who had been arrested earlier for involvement in more than 25 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, car-jacking, dacoity etc., disclosed that he had been radicalised and motivated to carry out targeted killings by some terrorists whom he met in various prisons.Teja also confessed that he and his close associate Rachpal Singh, alias Daula, of Bhuchar Kalan (Tarn Taran district) were planning to loot a bank cash van that was used to transport currency from the main branches of the SBI to ATMs in Maur and Talwandi Sabo.After his release from the prison in December 2019, he and Daula, who was earlier in jail for his involvement in cross-border smuggling of drugs and weapons and is now absconding in a recent case of murder in Tarn Taran district, had procured sophisticated weapons from across the border. They were also expecting a fresh consignment of automatic arms/ drugs, said the DGP.A case has been registered against Teja and his associates, at State Special Operation Cell, SAS Nagar, under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-gold-dacoity-kingpin-arrested-with-police-uniform-fake-ids-93647
03-06-2020||Aman Sood||‘Expert workers from UP’ got Ghanaur illegal distillery going||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2Specialised labour from Uttar Pradesh and machinery bought from bootleggers in several states led to the setting up of the illegal liquor distillery unit in Ghanaur, which was sealed last month in a joint operation by the police and excise officials. The fake liquor was being supplied not only to other parts of Punjab but to states such as Haryana, Uttarakhand and UP.Kingpin Dipesh Kumar was arrested last week for setting up and running the illegal Ghanaur distillery since December 2019. A senior police officer, investigating the case, said: “Dipesh went to Uttar Pradesh to meet professional bootleggers and bought machinery for turning ENL (extra neutral alcohol) into fake branded liquor.”“He also brought labour, expert in this work, to run the distillery after demand for cheap liquor increased in Ghanaur,” he added.“Around that time Congress-backed Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh entered into a partnership with Dipesh,” said sources. “Amrik would arrange the raw material, including ENL and stickers of various brands, for Dipesh. He would buy the liquor from Dipesh and sell it at his vends,” the officer said.Amrik is yet to be arrested despite his bail application being rejected by the local court. Insiders allege that Amrik could evade arrest as he has strong political connections. The sarpanch is also known to be a confidant of local MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur. Talking to The Tribune correspondent, Jalalpur said: “I have been a vocal critic of my own government over certain issues. I know Amrik Singh and he has a clean record. Now attempts are being made to victmise me and my supporters”.Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Harpal Cheema, meanwhile, said the Aam Aadmi Party would seek a reply in the Vidhan Sabha from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who also holds the excise portfolio, about the illegal distillery and the distribution of fake liquor. “Ghanaur DSP Manpreet Singh, who is also part of the SIT, said: “We are following certain important leads and will disclose the findings shortly”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expert-workers-from-up-got-ghanaur-illegal-distillery-going-93688
03-06-2020||Sangrur||Dalit women break shackles, seek share in reserved land||Having stayed behind the veil for many years, local Dalit women have finally begun to stand up for their rights. They have been leading protests against upper castes and the Panchayat Department, demanding 33 per cent reserved village common land on annual lease. “It’s a fight for our self-respect. Five to six years back, in a majority of villages, upper castes, who had taken the land in the name of their Dalit servants, would cultivate the reserved land. The Dalits would have to face humiliation whenever they went even to a roadside to get fodder for animals. But now  do not wish to remain landless,” said Nikki Kaur from Kulara village. Parmjit Kaur, zonal secretary, Zameen Prapti Sangharash Committee, said they had been fighting for the reserved land for Dalits in about 50 villages of the district. “This year, women have come in large numbers and with their support, we have succeeded in getting the reserved land for Dalits in 33 villages,” she said. “In many villages, we have proved through joint farming that reserved land can help Dalits,” said a protester. Bimal Kaur, district cashier, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab, said they were working in 40 villages of the district and had got the land allotted to Dalits in 33 villages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalit-women-break-shackles-seek-share-in-reserved-land-93565
03-06-2020||Balwant Garg||‘Disinherited’ Faridkot princess now gets share in royal property||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, June 2A princess, who was allegedly disinherited 40 years back by her father Maharaja Harinder Singh Brar, the last ruler of the erstwhile Faridkot state, from his vast property worth over Rs25,000 crore for marrying against his wishes, has been finally declared one of his rightful successors.Amrit Kaur (84) has been successful in proving, in three judicial courts (from CJM to High Court), that the propound “will” of her father which had “disinherited” her from the property was a fake document prepared in 1989.Harinder Singh had died on October 16, 1989, leaving behind daughters Deepinder Kaur and Maheepinder Kaur as his legal heirs under the Hindu Succession Act as per the controversial will.Maheepinder Kaur died a spinster in 2003 in Himachal Pradesh. Deepinder Kaur, who was married in a royal family of West Bengal, also died on November 11, 2018. The Maharaja’s lone son, Tikka Harmohinder Singh, had died before him on October 13, 1981, while his eldest daughter, Amrit Kaur, who was allegedly disinherited, is still alive.According to the will purportedly executed by Harinder Singh on June 1, 1982, Amrit Kaur was “disinherited” for marrying against his wishes.As per the controversial will, the Maharaja had bequeathed his entire property to Maharawal Khewaji Trust, which is looking after the properties for the last over 31 years.A Chandigarh resident, Amrit Kaur had challenged her father’s will in 2010, claiming that some of his old servants had executed a dubious will to retain control over the property.In July 2013, the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, had declared the will void and named Deepinder and Amrit Kaur as legal heirs.However, members of the Trust challenged this decision. In March 2018, Chandigarh district court upheld the lower court’s verdict. Then, the Trust challenged the verdict in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and now, this court has upheld the lower court’s verdict.“Representing a style of architecture that flourished during the second half of the nineteenth and first half of the 20th century in the Sikh states of Punjab, the rulers of Faridkot state had built a variety of buildings,” said Subhash Parihar, an art historian who wrote a book, Architectural Heritage of a Sikh State: Faridkot.Proves will was fake||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/disinherited-faridkot-princess-now-gets-share-in-royal-property-93566
03-06-2020||---||Leftist poet Naushervi dies at 83||Chandigarh, June 2 When Khalistani guns were silencing voices of dissent across Punjab’s hinterland, he would fearlessly roam villages with a red badge bearing Lenin’s image on his worn-out coat. He would speak at the funeral of fallen comrades at a time when it was forbidden to attend the last rites.  Prof Hamdardveer Naushervi, a renowned Leftist poet, who inspired generations of rebels, passed away at his home town Samrala on Tuesday. He was 83. He was cremated in the afternoon. He wrote around 20 books. Prof Naushervi, along with Gursharan Singh, was one of the founders of the revolutionary cultural movement under the banner of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch. “It was on his suggestion that in 1982 the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch was abbreviated as PULS Manch, the organisation which understands the PULSE of the people,” says Amolak Singh, president of the Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch. Naushervi’s real name was Buta Singh Pannu; he hailed from Naushehra Pannuan in Tarn Taran district. After serving in the Air Force for a brief period, he joined as a lecturer at Malwa College, Bondli, near Samrala. He fondly named his house in Samrala as “Kavita Bhavan”. It was known as the centre of literary activity in the area. “He built a room in the basement, where he would read and write. In jest, he would tell his young revolutionary comrades: ‘We poets often suffer from the illusion that living in a basement is equivalent to an underground life’,” recalls Amolak Singh. Whenever somebody would ask him his date of birth, he would say, “Don’t ask that question. I want to die young.”  Truly, Professor Naushervi died young.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leftist-poet-naushervi-dies-at-83-93567
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Release cane growers’ dues: Bajwa||Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa and three Congress MLAs have asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately release the pending dues of Rs681.48 crore to 70,000 surgarcane farmers, as well as recover the pending amount from private sugar mills.In a joint open letter, along with MLAs Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi and Joginder Pal, Bajwa has drawn attention of the CM towards the need to protect the sugarcane farmers and the sugar industry, failing which there could be 20 per cent drop in sugarcane cultivation in the state.The leaders said the total pending dues from the cooperative and private sugar mills were Rs298.48 crore and Rs383 crore, respectively. The unpaid dues for the 2018-19 season amounted to Rs96.36 crore, they said, adding that the amount left to be paid for the 2019-20 season was Rs585.12 crore.“As per the Sugarcane Control Order and Clause 3 (3) of the Sugarcane Purchase and Regulation Act, the sugar mills must make payment within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane. Otherwise, the mills will have to make these payments along with interest for the delayed period,” the letter said."It is a matter of grave concern that the government has taken no concrete steps to ensure that these payments are made to the farmers,” said Bajwa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/release-cane-growers-dues-bajwa-93568
03-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court for tips to subordinate officers on ensuring witness attendance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court wants subordinate judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to go back to the benches for being guided about the ways of ensuring attendance of witnesses and execution of court process.The High Court has asked the Chandigarh Judicial Academy to include “appropriate material” with special focus on “compelling the attendance of witnesses and execution of court process” in training and refresher courses for judicial officers. The order’s copy was directed to be circulated among judicial officers in the two states and UT.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi asserted that the complainant, police officer, prosecutor and accused did not have any power or authority to grab a witness and drag him to the witness box Justice Tyagi observed that they were wholly dependent either on willingness of witnesses to appear or the court’s assistance for securing their presence. Even where the witness was a police officer, government servant or employee of an agency or state instrumentality, the administrative superior lacked the authority to issue coercive process.They could initiate disciplinary action for non-appearance, which could take a sufficiently long time and not have the immediate effect of ensuring appearance. As such, the complainant, prosecution or accused could not be saddled with the responsibility to produce witnesses. The court could not decline its assistance in securing their presence.Justice Tyagi asserted: “In the administration of criminal justice, a duty is also cast upon the court to arrive at the truth by all lawful means. If the prosecution or accused fails to discharge responsibility in producing witnesses, the court cannot absolve itself of its responsibility to summon and examine all witnesses whose evidence appears to be essential for a just decision of the case.” Justice Tyagi added that the court was required to exercise its powers to ensure the presence of all material witnesses, whose examination was essential for just decision.WHAT THE BENCH HELD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-for-tips-to-subordinate-officers-on-ensuring-witness-attendance-93569
03-06-2020||---||3-yr extension to GNDU Vice-Chancellor||Amritsar, June 2 The tenure of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) vice-chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu has been extended by three years.  Professor KS Kahlon, registrar, GNDU, said the official letter on the decision would be shortly received by the varsity. Prof Sandhu had joined the GNDU as vice-chancellor in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-yr-extension-to-gndu-vice-chancellor-93570
03-06-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court refuses to issue orders on discharge policy||Chandigarh, June 2 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today refused to issue directions to the state government on a petition against the discharge of Covid-19 patients without conducting the Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test. Disposing of a petition filed in public interest, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli took note of the fact that the state was strictly adhering to ICMR guidelines. Chetan Bansal and another petitioner had earlier claimed that persons so discharged would act as carrier in the absence of test and such an act would result in widespread manifestation of Covid-19. It would also seriously jeopardise the health of the citizens. The Punjab Additional Advocate-General and Additional Solicitor-General of India, on the other hand, submitted that a policy for treatment and discharge of Covid-19 patients had been prepared by the ICMR. It was added that the state was acting strictly in accordance with the guidelines. “It goes without saying that the issue raised by the petitioners is rightly treated not to be adversarial by the state and it is stated that they would welcome any suggestion made by any person which shall be considered by the experts and if found feasible would be implemented. In the circumstances, the petition is disposed of by granting liberty to the petitioners to approach the authorities with their suggestions,” the Bench asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-refuses-to-issue-orders-on-discharge-policy-93572
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Those in custody to be tested if symptomatic||The government has revised the guidelines for Covid-19 testing for arrested persons. Now, only symptomatic persons will be tested for the disease. It was earlier mandatory to test every arrested person for Covid-19. As per the revised guidelines issued by the Director, Health Services, the RT-PCR test will be done only of prisoners who have flu-like symptoms. The police will arrange the place for isolation of symptomatic person until the test result is made available. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/those-in-custody-to-be-tested-if-symptomatic-93573
03-06-2020|| ---||Couple ties knot, fined Rs10,000 for no masks||Chandigarh, June 2 A couple who is seeking protection from the Punjab and Haryana High Court after tying the knot against family wishes has been fined Rs10,000 for not wearing masks during the wedding ceremony. Referring to photos attached with the protection petition, Justice Hari Pal Verma asserted that the petitioners and others at the time of wedding were not wearing masks, which is necessary in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.  “Accordingly, the petitioners are burdened with Rs10,000 as costs to be deposited with theDC, Hoshiarpur, within 15 days,” Justice Verma said, adding that the amount would be utilised for arranging masks for public. In their plea, the petitioners had contended that they were adults and had solemnised their marriage in accordance with law. However, the respondent-relatives were not accepting their marriage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/couple-ties-knot-fined-rs10-000-for-no-masks-93574
03-06-2020||GS Paul||To meet Pakistani girl, Bangladesh man walks 2,000 km to Attari||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 2Proving love knows no boundaries, a Bangladeshi national first crossed the India-Bangladesh border illegally, then covered 2,000 km, mostly on foot, amid the Covid-19 lockdown to reach the India-Pakistan border in the hope of meeting his social media friend from Karachi.However, the BSF arrested him while trying to cross the border.Identified as Nayan Mian, alias Abdullah, 26, he is a resident of Shariatpur, a district in the Dhaka division of central Bangladesh.A senior BSF officer said he arrested for loitering near the border. He was only carrying a mobile phone with a Bangladeshi SIM card and Indian currency notes.About his intention to cross the border without a passport, Mian told officials that he was desperate to go to Pakistan as the girl’s family members were marrying her off.During questioning, he revealed that the girl’s family shared ties with his family, but they were separated after his parents shifted to Bangladesh in 1971. A few years ago, he connected with the girl on social media and started liking her.Mian said he first reached Kolkata, then passed through Agra, New Delhi and then came to Punjab.“The girl is my cousin and we were connected through social media. We used to talk through video calls, but had been out of touch for 10 to 15 days. She had accepted my marriage proposal and that’s why I intended to visit her. I heard that many stranded Pakistanis were being repatriated these days, so I thought of taking a chance,” he said.“On May 31, we found him loitering near the Attari-Wagah border. As he could not cross it because of the fencing, he was searching for a gap. He had entered India after crossing a riverine on the India-Bangladesh border. After reaching Kolkata, he started on foot and also took lift to reach New Delhi. In the same manner, he reached Ludhiana and then Amritsar. From Amritsar, he walked to Attari,” said the officer.The BSF handed him over to the Gharinda police for further investigation. SHO Gagandeep Singh said he had been booked under provisions of the Foreigners Act and the investigation was on. “We have brought the matter to the notice of the department concerned and trying to contact his family members in Bangladesh,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-meet-pakistani-girl-bangladesh-man-walks-2-000-km-to-attari-93575
03-06-2020||---||Finally, Amritsar to be part of Rs60,000 crore expressway||Chandigarh, June 2Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday accepted the state government’s demand for including Amritsar in an expressway project that will connect Delhi and Katra, putting an end to the speculation over the status of the holy city in the project.‘IGI will be 4 hours away’ When the expressway comes up, travel time from Amritsar to the Delhi airport (IGI) will reduce from eight hours to four hours. The expressway will be just five km from the Golden Gate. Spread over 415 km, the new greenfield alignment will provide the shortest and high-speed connectivity to Amritsar. —Shwait Malik, Rajya Sabha memberEarlier, some reports surfaced that Amritsar was dropped from the Rs60,000 crore project.As the Centre has acceded to the state government’s demand, the Amritsar’s place in the project gets an official stamp of approval.Gadkari conveyed the news to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during a video-conference on Tuesday.The Centre also agreed to convert the Punjab stretch of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway into a greenfield project by providing a direct spur from Nakodar, onward to five historic towns of Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Tarn Taran leading to Amritsar.The Chief Minister had earlier raised the matter with the Centre after Amritsar residents and their representatives expressed concern that expressway did not connect religious and historical towns of Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib and Tarn Taran.The original proposal of the NHAI had entailed widening of the existing GT road from Kartarpur to Amritsar as a brownfield project, which was proving expensive as it would have resulted in major demolition on account of land acquisition.During the video-conference, the Union Minister told the CMthat the NHAI had approved the alignment of phase I of the expressway with the Delhi-Gurdaspur section as a greenfield project.To speed up the process of land acquisition for the new greenfield alignment, the Chief Minister agreed to an early meeting between the NHAI and state government.A government spokesperson said the greenfield alignment would provide direct connectivity to Amritsar starting from Kangsabu village on the Jalandhar-Nakodar NHconnecting Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and Amritsar and merging with Amritsar-Dera Baba Nanak road near Rajasansi airport.Harsimrat claims credit for it||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/finally-amritsar-to-be-part-of-rs60-000-crore-expressway-93577
03-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh---||Ministers oppose proposal to hike property tax||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 2 A proposed move by the Local Bodies Department to increase property tax and water and sewer cess to avail the increased fiscal borrowing limit seems to have run into rough weather.  The move was opposed by some ministers in the recent Cabinet meeting as increasing the rates would not be conducive at this juncture as the elections to 127 urban local bodies (ULBs) are due later this year.  Moreover, the government, in the wake of Covid-19, has extended the time limit to pay dues of property tax, water and sewer cess under the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme. The department has brought in the OTS scheme to encourage consumers to pay the principal amount in the given time, waiving the interest and penalty. Increasing the tax at this juncture would be counter-productive, ministers said.  This comes in the backdrop of CM Capt Amarinder Singh announcing to forgo the portion of fiscal deficit enhancement offered by the Centre in lieu of withdrawing free power to farmers. Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra said, “We cannot burden the common man during this tough time. When we are extending the time limit to pay the dues related to property tax, water and sewer cess, there is no sense in burdening them further.” As part of fiscal reforms to avail the increased borrowing limit, the department has to notify the floor rates of property tax in the ULBs, in consonance with the prevailing circle rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ministers-oppose-proposal-to-hike-property-tax-93578
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Akalis seek 50% cut in power tariff||The SAD today accused the Congress government of committing a fraud on Punjabis by announcing a “superficial” decrease in power tariff, which, it says, was negated immediately by an increase in fixed charges for all domestic categories.Terming the latest tariff order as an attempt to befool the people, the SAD demanded that power bills of domestic consumers for the period of lockdown be reduced by 50 per cent. Besides, he called for total waiver of all bills served on consumers of Scheduled Caste and Backward Class communities during the Covid lockdown.In a statement here, MP Balwinder Singh Bhundur said: “On one hand, the government has reduced domestic tariff by 25 to 50 paisa per unit and, on the other, it has increased fixed charges across all domestic categories from Rs15 to Rs30 per month.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-seek-50-cut-in-power-tariff-93579
03-06-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Seizures from distilleries expose illicit liquor trade||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The recent seizure of a large quantity of Punjab Made Liquor (PML), allegedly meant for illegal sale in the state, from a distillery in Gurdaspur, has established the charge that liquor is being smuggled from distilleries to evade excise duty.Two truckloads of country-made liquor (1,400 cases each) were seized from the distillery at Keeri Afgana on May 31. The Tribune has learnt that the liquor bottles had labels saying “meant for sale in Arunachal Pradesh”. The Excise Department has not issued any pass for the sale of liquor to Arunachal Pradesh. The cost of liquor seized from the distillery, owned by kin of a religious adviser to the government, is estimated to be around Rs56 crore.The FIR has been registered only under Section 61 of the Excise Act without naming any accused. The same distillery was responsible for molasses spillage in the Beas two years ago, and was let off after paying a part of Rs5 crore fine imposed on it.This was the second such seizure. On May 22, the department had conducted search operations at 15 distilleries and three breweries. At that time, 22,262 cases of PML, allegedly meant for illegal sale in the state, under the garb of sending it to Chhattisgarh, was seized from a Rajpura distillery. After this, all 100 excise and taxation officers and inspectors were shifted.The alleged illegal sale of liquor is a reason why the excise collection has been falling short of target. It was down by Rs286.79 crore in 2017-18, Rs927.60 crore in 2018-19 and Rs1,820.07 crore in the first 11 months of 2019-20.Mafias active in state, claims BJPThe Punjab BJP on Tuesday said several mafias with interests in different businesses were active in the state, as it accused the Capt Amarinder Singh government of looking the other way. “One after the other, scandals are tumbling out of the closet. The writ of the mafias run large in liquor, sand and seed businesses, but the government has failed to rein them in. On the contrary, Congress ministers are busy fighting with bureaucrats,” state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma said. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seizures-from-distilleries-expose-illicit-liquor-trade-93580
03-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Man ‘murders’ two brothers for property||Tarn Taran, June 2A property dispute turned bloody when a man allegedly shot dead his two brothers at Kot Dharma Chand Kalan village today.The deceased have been identified as Dilbag Singh (50) and Lal Singh (40).The police have booked eight persons, including Manjinder Singh (brother of the deceased), his wife Gurjit Kaur, uncle Gurdial Singh and his son Gajjan Singh, for murder and criminal conspiracy.DSP Sucha Singh Bal said Manjinder’s four accomplices were yet to be identified. He said a piece of land was divided among three brothers by their father Bahal Singh some time ago, but there was a dispute among them.On Tuesday, Bahal Singh, who lived with the deceased, was stopped from cutting trees by Manjinder Singh and his accomplices. They claimed the trees were planted on his share of land. This sparked a verbal duel. Dilbag Singh and Lal Singh reached there to help their father.Manjinder and Gurdial Singh opened fire, seriously injuring Dilbag and Lal Singh. Both were taken to the Civil Hospital where Dilbag was declared brought dead, while Lal Singh succumbed to injuries later. The DSP said the accused were absconding.Eight booked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-murders-two-brothers-for-property-93581
03-06-2020||---||SIT formed to probe seed ‘scam’||Ludhiana, June 2 Even as one more person was arrested and another 12 dealerships were revoked for selling unauthorised non-certified seeds in the district, DGP Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday constituted a state-level SIT to get to the bottom of the racket. The SIT, headed by ADGP Naresh Arora, will take over the Ludhiana SIT investigation, and will look into any other existing and future complaints regarding the sale of spurious seeds. The SIT has been tasked with expeditious completion of the probe to ensure that all culprits are identified and arrested at the earliest, the DGP said in a press statement. Giving details of the arrest made by the Ludhiana SIT, the DGP said the accused had been identified as Baljinder Singh, alias Ballian, of Ludhiana’s Bhundri village. Baljinder’s arrest followed that of Harwinder Singh, alias Kaka Brar, who was arrested for his alleged involvement in the scam. The owner of 34 acres in Jagraon, Baljinder is a member of farmers’ association formed by the PAU to give information to farmers about new seeds and techniques.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-formed-to-probe-seed-scam-93582
03-06-2020||---||Ex-serviceman among 2 dead||Chandigarh, June 2An 85-year-old ex-serviceman admitted at Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital died here today. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 31. With this, the death toll in the state has gone up to 46.The victim was admitted to the hospital as he was a cardiac patient and when his Covid test was done, it came out to be positive.After he tested positive, a doctor couple from Khanna who work at the hospital also tested positive. Other staff of the hospital were also quarantined.Dr Rajesh Bagga, Civil Surgeon, said, "He was a cardiac patient and possibly died due to dilated cardiomyopathy. He was also Covid-positive and on a ventilator since May 31.The second death was reported from Pathankot district. Dr Bhupinder Singh, SMO, Pathankot, confirmed that the latest victim was Harsh Kumar (60), a resident of Indira Colony, who died due to Covid-19 this morning. He had been admitted in the Government Medical College in Amritsar for the last four days. He was put on ventilator support on Monday night and passed away in the wee hours today. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Meanwhile, 41 fresh cases were reported in the state today, taking the total count to 2,342.Eleven cases were reported from Jalandhar district, eight from Pathankot, six from Sangrur, four from Ludhiana, two each from Moga, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur districts. One case each was reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar, Patiala and Faridkot.Eight cases were reported from Jalandhar city alone. These include seven members of a family from Defence Colony and one of their employees from Bhargo Camp. The family runs a sanitary business in the city and was in contact with Covid-19 patients from Lajpat Nagar. Two more employees of their company have tested positive but since they belong to HP, they have not been included in the Jalandhar tally. The housemaid of the family has tested negative while the couple's younger daughter has not been tested yet. Besides, three men, who came from Kuwait, were declared positive last evening.In Kapurthala, two jail inmates have been declared Covid-positive, spreading panic among other inmates.Govt surveys Private hospitals||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-serviceman-among-2-dead-93591
