04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Dr Inderjeet Singh to be new VC of GADVASU||Punjab’s Director Animal Husbandry Dr Inderjeet Singh was on Thursday chosen as new vice chancellor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Ludhiana.The decision was taken in a meeting of senior functionaries, including Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary, Animal Husbandry, and other officials.Dr Singh who is currently serving as Director, Animal Husbandry, Punjab, is a known scientist in the field of veterinary sciences. He hails from Haryana and joined Animal Husbandry Department as director in 2018.Before joining Punjab, Dr Inderjeet worked as a Principal Scientist at ICAR-Central Institute for Buffalo Research, Hisar.His major research interest focuses on the study of ovarian physiology in relation to fertility and infertility in buffalo and its manipulation for optimisation of reproductive efficiency of the species.Dr Singh, who has around three decades of experience in the field of veterinary sciences, said that though his focus will remain on improving academic quality, research work and strengthening extension activities, he will also try to help the government in formulating policies regarding the problems being faced by the farmers, including stray cattle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-inderjeet-singh-to-be-new-vc-of-gadvasu-94520
04-06-2020||Parvesh Sharma||Arrested man tests positive for COVID-19, 51 Barnala policemen put under quarantine||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, June 4The Barnala health department authorities have put 51 policemen of the district under quarantine after a Malerkotla resident, who was arrested on Monday, tested positive for COVID-19.The health department authorities have begun the process of contact tracing of the positive patient.As per the sources, the officers put under quarantine include the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), the Superintendent of Police, the Assistant Superintendent of police (ASP), the Deputy Superintendent of Police, the in charge of the Barnala Crime Investigations Agency and his other staff, and the Station House Officer (SHO) of Mehal Kalan police station and his staff.“on Thursday, the report of the arrested person came positive. Since he had been in the custody of the police, we have put 51 policemen under quarantine at various places. We have also formed special teams for more contact tracing. The situation is under control,” said Dr Gurwinder Singh, Barnala Civil Surgeon.Some policemen informed that the alleged accused was arrested in a joint operation by the CIA and the Mehal Kalan police from Malerkotla town of Sangrur.Later, the policeman of both CIA and Mehal Kalan had also come in contact of their seniors, making the list of contacts longer.“Our police team had arrested the man with 12,500 habit-forming tablets. All policemen would follow the advice of the health department. A total of 51 policemen have been put under quarantine,” said Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrested-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-51-barnala-policemen-put-under-quarantine-94470
04-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Sikh hashtag unblocked on Facebook and Instagram after nearly three months||After nearly three months, Facebook and Instagram unblocked #Sikh (hashtag Sikh) on Thursday.On March 7, Facebook admitted that the hashtag was mistakenly blocked.The Sikh community approached Facebook with a request to unblock it.An official statement released by Instagram Communication on their Twitter handle (@Instagramcomms) said: “We have unblocked the hashtag #sikh on Instagram and are working to unblock #sikh on Facebook. We’re investigating why this happened. We will follow up here later today with more information.”We have unblocked the hashtag #sikh on Instagram and are working to unblock #sikh on Facebook. We're investigating why this happened. We will follow up here later today with more information.  It further said that #sikh is now unblocked on Facebook too.“Thanks for your patience today. We investigated this issue and found that these hashtags were mistakenly blocked on March 7th following a report that was inaccurately reviewed by our teams,” read the third tweet.The company said that this is an incredibly important, painful time for the Sikh community.“We designed hashtags to allow people to come together and share with one another. It’s never our intention to silence the voices of this community, we are taking the necessary steps so this doesn’t happen again.”The issue surfaced on social media platforms on Wednesday after the users—including Sikh organsiation —started posting on Facebook about blocking of hashtag #Sikh.Several users learned about the blocked hashtag when they tried to post about Operation Blue Star on the Golden Temple in Amritsar in the year 1984.They questioned the company and then Facebook and Instagram carried out its investigation into the matter.Canada-based author Rupi Kaur also raised the issue tweeted: “The hypocrisy of @facebook’s approach to free speech: zuckerberg says fb’s principles prohibit him from blocking trump as he incites violence & hate. meanwhile as sikhs raise their voice to mark the injustices of 1984: sikh hashtags are blocked. @instagramcomms do better.the hypocrisy of @facebook's approach to free speech: zuckerberg says fb’s principles prohibit him from blocking trump as he incites violence & hate. meanwhile as sikhs raise their voice to mark the injustices of 1984: sikh hashtags are blocked.@instagramcomms do better. https://t.co/wk53NvKbIz pic.twitter.com/vMEw7f02Gv  To Kaur tweet, Adam Mosseri, head of Instagram replied: “Not sure how the #sikh hashtag ended up blocked. It’s now unblocked on Instagram, we are working to unblock it on Facebook, and we’re investigating why this happened. #Sikh is now unblocked on Facebook.”Dear @instagram, Sikhs worldwide are shocked at hashtag #Sikh being blocked. Receiving the following message, “we restrict certain content and actions to protect our community” when we use hashtag #Sikh. For this awful & discriminatory experience, @InstagramComms must answer. pic.twitter.com/ZiL1qqP5Do||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-hashtag-unblocked-on-facebook-and-instagram-after-nearly-three-months-94410
04-06-2020||New Delhi||'Langar on wheels' by Delhi Sikh community is dishing out thousands of meals||Carrying forward the tradition of serving food through community kitchens beyond the walls of gurdwaras, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee on Monday started 'Langar on Wheels' to provide food and water to the destitute.Even though the lockdown restrictions have been relaxed, lack of income and dwindling finances have pushed people into a state of deep despair and distress.To ensure that no one sleeps empty stomach, estimated fifteen thousand people living in Jhuggi-Jhopri clusters, railways stations, bus stands, rain shelters and pavements will be served food daily.Committee President Manjinder Singh Sirsa said that 15 vans will leave Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, situated in the heart of the national capital, in the wee hours of the day and serve food to people at various places across the city."They will be left in a lurch if proper food etc is not provided to them," Manjinder Singh Sirsa added. He said that the vow was taken after several NGOs and institutions, which were providing food to the needy amid lockdown, withdrew their services.जिन राहों पर कोई चलने को तैयार नहीं... वहाँ भी मदद करने सिख पहुँच ही जाते हैं 🙏🏻Langar on Wheels initiative of Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib serving thousands of people everyday in different parts of New Delhi. pic.twitter.com/8i7EPApBjM  The Committee President added that the initiative has been started for one month but will be extended from time-to-time till the economic activities are restored and disadvantaged people are able to sustain themselves.The Committee will remain in touch with the Sikh leaders, government officials and resident welfare associations of the respective areas to gauge the demand of the food. He added that additional food will be rushed to any place if the demand escalates.Vans with banners highlighting food and water arrangements for needy persons will also be stationed at different places like railway stations and bus stands. Those in need will be served 'langar' at a convenient place with social distancing.Harmeet Singh Kalka, General Secretary of the committee, said that the decision to start 'Langar on Wheels' has been taken as it was 'impractical' for most of the poor people to find the nearest Gurdwara. "Now, we have decided to go where the people are."The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee had earlier launched a similar community kitchen initiative for migrant labourers at around ten locations in the national capital region. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/langar-on-wheels-by-delhi-sikh-community-is-dishing-out-thousands-of-meals-94395
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Fight against Covid far from over: Punjab Chief Minister||Punjab Chief MinisterAmarinder Singh on Thursday ask everyone to tread with cautioned as the fight against the coronavirus is far from over and advised all to take precautions."As of 3rd June, Punjab has a total of 300 active cases out of 2,376 patients that have tested positive so far," the Chief Minister informed in a tweet."Yesterday, 34 patients tested positive and 12 patients recovered of Covid19. Our fight is far from over and I want you all to join Mission Fateh by taking full precautions," he added.As of 3rd June, Punjab has a total of 300 active cases out of 2,376 patients that have tested positive so far. Yesterday, 34 patients tested positive & 12 patients recovered of #Covid19. Our fight is far from over & I want you all to join #MissionFateh by taking full precautions. pic.twitter.com/w61tXK6U6B  As part of the state's battle against Covid-19, Amarinder Singh on Tuesday launched the Mission Fateh song featuring Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan, Kareena Kapoor, Gurdass Maan and Harbhajan Singh, besides a star-studded line up of personalities from sports and Punjabi cinema.Battle against #Covid19 is a long-drawn one which can be won only if all of us come together. We need to inculcate the habit of wearing masks, maintain social distancing & frequently washing hands. Sharing this song on #MissionFateh & request all to share for spreading awareness. pic.twitter.com/VHaaxaQqGs  Urging everyone to come forward and complement the state's efforts to save precious lives by disseminating information about the preventive measures, the Chief Minister said that with the cooperation from everyone, Punjab has been successful in controlling the spread of the virus to a great extent.The song, which also features local boy Sonu Sood alongside Punjab Police poster boy ASI Harjit Singh and TikTok sensation Noor, has been sung by Punjabi music director and singer B. Praak.The song is a unique initiative to give the message of maintaining social distancing, wearing masks while going out and washing hands regularly to achieve Fateh, or victory, over the pandemic.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fight-against-covid-far-from-over-punjab-chief-minister-94393
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Punjab reports 39 new cases, state tally rises to 2,415||Punjab on Thursday reported 39 new coronavirus cases, taking the state's case tally to 2,415.Amritsar reported 15 new cases, while Jalandhar and Pathankot reported four cases each.Ludhiana reported six new COVID-19 cases, taking the district's case tally to 209. All six are contacts of positive cases, according to District Epidemiologist Dr Ramesh.The District Epidemiologist said that out of a total of 22 samples sent to GMC Patiala, five have reported as COVID-positive, according to the results received on Thursday morning. These include one patient from Meharban village and four from Baupur village in Ludhiana. All the four cases from Baupur are contacts of a patient who came back from Manesar. The Baupur village cases include a 57-year-old woman, a 14-year-old boy, a five-year-old boy and a 24-year-old man. The Meharban case is the contact of a patient from Chhawani Mohalla in Ludhiana.A two-year-old girl who tested COVID-positive on Thursday is the daughter of the doctor couple who was earlier found positive.As many as 150 patients from Ludhiana district have been discharged from hospital after treatment so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said that as per the directions of the Punjab government, any person not wearing a mask would be fined Rs 500, if any bus owner, car owner or auto-rickshaw/two-wheeler owner does not follow social distancing rules, then they would be fined Rs 3,000, Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 respectively. Any person breaking home-quarantine would be fined Rs 2,000 and any person spitting in a public place would be fined Rs 500.Bathinda reported three new COVID-19 cases, taking the district's case tally to 56. The three persons are from the same family and had returned from Sriganganagar in Rajasthan. They were tested on returning and their reports were received on Thursday morning. They were under home quarantine. At present, there are eight active cases in the district, while others have been discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/coronavirus-punjab-reports-39-new-cases-state-tally-rises-to-2-415-94381
04-06-2020||---||Stuck migrants demand transport||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stuck-migrants-demand-transport-94252
04-06-2020||---||BFUHS medical varsity warns aspirants against blocking of seats||Faridkot, June 3To stop the unethical practice of blocking of seats by candidates during the MD and MS (postgraduate medical courses) admissions, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) issued a public notice on Wednesday evening. It states that if any candidate who has been allotted a seat in the second round of counselling does not report at the allotted institute, he/she will be allowed exit from the course with the forfeiture of refundable security.GC Ahir, registrar of the BFUHS, has also announced that once a candidate takes the seat allotted in the second round, he/she will not be eligible to leave the seat and will not be eligible for any other round of counselling.This rule is as per directions of the Supreme Court in Dar-Us-Slam case, said the registrar. “To ensure that no allotted medical seat is vacated by any candidate, we want that only those candidates should submit their choices and preferences for the second round who are firmly willing to join the allotted seat,” said the registrar. The process of inviting willingness for the second counselling started on June 2.In view of the pandemic, the university is conducting online counselling of admissions to PG courses. The university shall conduct the second round of online counselling shortly, said the registrar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bfuhs-medical-varsity-warns-aspirants-against-blocking-of-seats-94053
04-06-2020||---||Raise issues with party, Mohindra tells Bajwa||Chandigarh, June 3 Minister for Local Bodies and Parliamentary Affairs Brahm Mohindra today took a dig at former PCC president and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa for going public on the issues which “he should have ideally raised in the party or a government forum”. On Tuesday, Bajwa along with three MLAs — Fateh Jung Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi and Joginder Pal — had asked the CM to immediately release the pending dues of Rs 681.48 crore to 70,000 sugarcane farmers, as well as recover the pending amount from private sugar mills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raise-issues-with-party-mohindra-tells-bajwa-94054
04-06-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Technical varsities in Punjab may hold exams only for final-year students||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3Amid the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions on opening of educational institutions, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has asked the state technical universities and Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training to promote students of intermediate semesters. Only final-year students should be asked to appear in the examinations, it said.Near 1.50 lakh students are enrolled with two state technical universities. Acting on the directions of the AICTE, the technical education board has already issued instructions to polytechnic colleges to promote students in second and fourth semesters while conducting exams of students of the final semester. Around 50,000 students of polytechnic and pharmacy are enrolled with the board. Of these, 17,000 are in the final year.Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, in a communication to its affiliated colleges, has intimated about conducting exams of final semester students of all courses.Technical Education Minister Charanjit Channi said an announcement to promote students in all intermediate semesters would be made in the coming days after formally discussing the subjects in a meeting. “The exams will be conducted with the next semester papers. Moreover, due to the lockdown, many students have not been able to deposit the examination fee. Such a decision will go in the favour of students,” he said.A senior government functionary said due to the lockdown, it had become impossible for outstation students, especially of Bihar and J&K, to sit in the offline examinations. Some of the students were under quarantine after reaching their home states.The IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, has also announced to conduct online exams for final-semester students.Secretary, Technical Education, Anurag Verma said initially, the exams were scheduled for July. “But now, the Ministry of Home Affairs has announced to issue fresh instructions on opening of educational institutions in July. So we are waiting for the instructions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/technical-varsities-in-punjab-may-hold-exams-only-for-final-year-students-94055
04-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Over 500 attend event at Jagir’s dera in Begowal||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3President of Istri Akali Dal Jagir Kaur today violated Covid-19 lockdown guidelines by opening up dera that she heads at Begowal and holding a gathering of over 500 devotees.Sant Baba Prem Singh Murarewale Dera was opened today on the occasion of the founder’s death anniversary. The sangat paid obeisance, sat down to listen to religious hymns and partook langar that went on for four hours.As the event went on, neither Jagir Kaur nor Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh wore a mask. Popular ‘katha vachak’ Bhai Jaswant S Parwana also attended the event.Jagir Kaur said, “I had already conveyed to the entire sangat through social media that they need not gather for the event and that I will ensure relaying of live telecast through TV channel, FB and YouTube. Still sangat from across Jalandhar and Kapurthala turned up and we could not refuse them entry. More than 500 devotees attended the event, but the dera volunteers made them leave the venue after short sittings. For the same reason, we organised parallel langar so that all should take meals before leaving. We ensured social distancing norms and gave masks to devotees who did not carry them along”.She added that she had taken permission for the event from the administration. However, Deepti Uppal, DC, Kapurthala, said the permission was only for the live telecast. “We were told that there will be no gathering. I even got nakas set up on all connecting roads to check traffic. I am not aware that there was any big gathering today,” she said.“I removed my face cover when I sat in the front row as I was maintaining a good distance from everyone around. Later when I came out, I had covered my face,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/over-500-attend-event-at-jagirs-dera-in-begowal-94056
04-06-2020||---||Akali ex-MP slams move to ‘dilute’ state powers||Chandigarh, June 3 Shiromani Akali Dal senior leader and former MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra today made it clear that his party would not be part of any legislation to be adopted by the Centre that eroded the powers of the state. He claimed that the Akali Dal had consistently fought for autonomy to the states. Referring to Centre’s recent announcement to virtually do away with the state agricultural marketing produce legislation, he said any intervention by the Centre would tantamount to encroachment on the rights of the states. The move was skewed against the farmers in general and Punjab in particular whose contribution to the country’s food security continued to be the highest. The stand by Chandumajra is set to ruffle many feathers in the SAD-BJP. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar had recently slammed the Akalis on the issue of reports of withdrawing free power facility to farmer. The two leaders had said that the Centre was forcing many anti-farmer policies on the state, but no Akali leader had questioned its decisions. Chandumajra said of late, the governance model being implemented by the Centre was exhibiting tendency towards centralisation and weakening the powers of the states and the move to amend the marketing produce Act was its latest manifestation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-ex-mp-slams-move-to-dilute-state-powers-94057
04-06-2020||---||Doctors protest fee hike in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 3Government doctors across the state today protested the recent MBBS/MD fee hike. Doctors wore black badges in many government hospitals on a call given by the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association. The protests were supported by the Punjab Paramedical and Health Workers Union in the state.Major protests were seen at the office of Directorate Health Services, Chandigarh, district, sub-divisional and block-level hospitals in Moga, Bathinda, Mansa, Sangrur, Barnala, Tarn Taran, Muktsar, Fraidkot, Hoshairpur, Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib.Addressing a protest in Moga, PCMSA state president Dr Gagandeep Singh said, “The government has hiked the fee for MBBS by 80 per cent. The fee for the course was earlier Rs 4.40 lakh for students in the merit list. After the hike, it will be Rs 7.80 lakh, which is very high for marginal, middle and lower middle families.”Dr Manohar Singh, general secretary of the PCMSA, and Gagandeep Singh Shergill, its senior vice president, said the government seemed to be looking for profit in providing medical services and education. It should roll back the decision, they said.Dr Ranjit Singh Rai, vice president of the association, said the move would benefit private colleges and would keep meritorious students out of colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-protest-fee-hike-in-punjab-94059
04-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Among neighbouring states, MBBS fee highest in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 3At a time when private institutes are charging a heavy amount for medical courses, government colleges have also started to follow suit.State/UT Annual MBBS feesPunjab Rs 1.56 lakhChandigarh Rs 23,000Haryana Rs 48,000Rajasthan Rs 33, 500HP Rs 60,000From just Rs13,000 annual fees in 2010 to Rs1.56 lakh today, Punjab’s government colleges have now got the tag of having the highest fees for the MBBS course among its neighbouring states.After an 80 per cent hike in the MBBS course fees in government colleges, medical education seems to be no longer affordable for the poor.The annual MBBS fees, surprisingly, is much lesser in government colleges of Haryana, wherein the charges range between Rs30,000 and Rs50,000. In PGI, Rohtak, the annual fee is just Rs38,600.Similarly, in Rajasthan, the annual fee for MBBS course in government colleges is Rs33,500. In Himachal Pradesh, which has established four government colleges within two years, the annual MBBS fee is Rs60,000.Notably, the fee for a full five-year course in government-run medical colleges in Punjab from this session will amount to Rs7.8 lakh from Rs4.4 lakh previously.Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, said people were ready to pay in lakhs for admission in schools, so why couldn’t they pay for a course like MBBS? He said, “To provide good infrastructure and impart quality education, the government needs funds, and therefore, the fee has been hiked.”Medical Education Minister OP Soni said, “There is not much hike in the MBBS fees. The cost of new equipment required for medical education has already increased, which compelled us to hike the fees.”When asked about starting a new government medical college in Mohali, he said, “We are facing problems due to Covid. We are doing our best to start it from this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/among-neighbouring-states-mbbs-fee-highest-in-punjab-94060
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu in talks with AAP, Prashant?||Amid reports that the Punjab Congress and AAP were in talks separately with political strategist Prashant Kishor to draft their campaign strategy for the 2022 elections, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu has emerged as an important factor.‘Pressure tactic’If Sidhu is not rehabilitated in the Congress, he may move out. The timing of the report suggests that it could be a pressure tactic to grab the attention of the Congress leadership. — Cabinet ministerAfter resigning from the Council of Minister last year, Sidhu has been lying low and restricting himself to his constituency in Amritsar.Reacting to a report of Sidhu being in talks with AAP through Kishor, a senior party leader termed it premature.“Sidhu is desisting from targeting the CM on any issue. This means he is keeping his doors open to return to active political scene in the Congress under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh. With central leadership in favour of Sidhu, it is to be seen whether Sidhu joins hands with Capt Amarinder or waits till the elections,” said a senior party leader.Sources confirmed that the state Congress was jittery on two fronts, first on hiring Kishor, lest he signs a deal with AAP, and secondly, to ensure that Sidhu does not move out of the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-in-talks-with-aap-prashant-94061
04-06-2020||---||Extension to 2,200 schools of Punjab for another session||Chandigarh, June 3 Providing a major relief to students, staff and managements of associated schools, the Punjab Government has provided extension to around 2,200 such schools for another academic session (2020-21).  Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said after reviewing the critical situation due to the spread of Covid-19, the Education Department had decided to give them a breather for some time. He added that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had approved the proposal. The minister said that during the extension period, these schools would have to strictly ensure the safety and security of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/extension-to-2-200-schools-of-punjab-for-another-session-94062
04-06-2020||Moga||Youth Cong leader booked in rape case||A Youth Congress leader allegedly blackmailed and raped a nurse, who is posted in a remote village of Nihalsinghwala subdivision, in his car on a ‘kuchha’ road between Bhagike and Saidoke villages, the police said here today. It is only after Nihalsinghwala CJM Amandeep Kaur gave orders that the police registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC against accused Varun Joshi. A hunt has been launched to nab him. Varun’s wife Mamta Rani is the sarpanch of the village where the victim is posted at the primary health centre. The nurse alleged that Varun allegedly started blackmailing her over her objectionable pictures. He allegedly extorted Rs 4 lakh from her. On April 25, he allegedly took her to an isolated place and raped her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-cong-leader-booked-in-rape-case-94063
04-06-2020||---||90% patients asymptomatic: Punjab Health Department||Chandigarh, June 3More than 90 per cent of those who have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state were found to be asymptomatic. Besides, over 95 per cent of the 47 Covid deaths in the state have occurred in patients who had co-morbidities, mainly those afflicted with cardiovascular diseases, hypertension and diabetes.‘Death rate under control’I hope the study will play a key role in saving the lives of patients who are suffering from various chronic diseases. We have so far been successful in controlling the death rate. — Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health MinisterThese are some of the findings of a study being undertaken by the Health Department in association with Dr Rajesh Kumar, a public health specialist and epidemiologist at the PGI. The study is being undertaken after analysing the patient history of all nearly 2,300 Covid patients in the state.The department started monitoring the patient data to analyse the progression of the pandemic after the total cases crossed 2,000. The study includes the analysis of patients who are worst affected, their age group, co-morbid conditions in patients cutting across different age groups and the recovery of asymptomatic and symptomatic cases as well as serious cases. The study is also analysing how the population of the state as a whole reacts to the spread of the pandemic, as the patients are living in similar environmental conditions.“This will help us classify patients as pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic, mild, medium and severe cases, study the outcome of treatment in each and then formulate our plans for medical intervention,” a senior health officer told The Tribune. The study, so far, is not analysing the samples of those found positive posthumously.As the number of cases rise, the study is also helping the state formalise its preparedness to deal with the pandemic. Though the number of oxygen beds as of now is around 600, the department is all set to ensure oxygen supply network in all 22 district hospitals and in some of the big government-run sub-divisional hospitals. ‘We are adding more beds with oxygen facility to deal with any eventuality as the disease progresses,” said a senior functionary.Health officials say other than following guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), they are also following the international guidelines. Though the state is mostly testing those persons who came in contact with the positive cases, the department says this will be tweaked further to test only those asymptomatic contacts of patients who had been in touch over the past 10 days. “For people who come from outside the state, the diagnosis and surveillance would, however, be much stringent,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/90-patients-asymptomatic-punjab-health-department-94064
04-06-2020||---||34 new cases, another death in Punjab||Chandigarh, June 3A 64-year-old man from Jalandhar today died at the DMC, Ludhiana. With this, the death toll in the state due to Covid-19 has risen to 47.This is the ninth death from the virus in Jalandhar where cases have seen a steady rise in the past week. A resident of Tagore Nagar in Jalandhar, the man, who was initially admitted to a private hospital, was referred to Ludhiana and tested positive for Covid-19 there on June 1.Nodal Officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, said, “The man had co-morbidities and was also diabetic. He died last night.” With three persons testing positive today, the cases in Jalandhar rose to 258. Apart from that, with 34 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 2,376.As per the government bulletin, among districts, seven cases each were reported from Pathankot and SAS Nagar, followed by Jalandhar, Gurdaspur, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur (3 each); Patiala, Muktsar and Amritsar (2 each); SBS Nagar and Bathinda (1 each).After a gap of two days, five new cases surfaced in SAS Nagar, taking the total count to 120 in the district. Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said the new positive cases included a 40-year-old man and a 28-year-old pregnant woman from Naggal Salempur village in Banur. The woman was found positive during a pre-natal check-up.In Pathankot, seven fresh cases surfaced today. Four are said to be contacts of a resident of Mirpur Colony, who died of the disease on May 27.In Faridkot, three more cases, including a policeman and a pregnant woman, were found positive. Rajinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon, said the policeman was deputed at a naka in Kotkapura for the past many days. A pregnant woman of Kotkapura and a person of Mumbai have also tested positive.Apart from that, two persons tested positive in Muktsar district. Notably, the district was declared virus-free on May 29. Dr HN Singh, Chief Medical Officer, Muktsar, said, “A 19-year-old girl from Tarmala village and a 33-year-old man of Malout have tested positive. Both had returned from Gurugram on May 29 and 30, respectively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/34-new-cases-another-death-in-punjab-94065
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||3 migrants who returned to Bihar from Punjab test +ve||Two per cent of migrants returning to Bihar from Punjab have been found infected with Covid, random sampling by the Bihar Government has revealed. Only three persons of the 157 tested on return to Bihar were found positive. A Health Department spokesperson said the fact assumed greater significance in the backdrop of huge percentage of positive figures in comparison with other states. The spokesperson said Delhi recorded the highest percentage with as many as 218 (26 per cent) found positive of the 835 tested. In case of those returning from West Bengal, 373 samples were collected, of which 33 were found positive. In case of Maharashtra, a total of 1,283 samples of labourers were tested by the Bihar Government and of these, 141 i.e. 11 per cent, were found positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-migrants-who-returned-to-bihar-from-punjab-test-ve-94066
04-06-2020||Karam Prakash||Lakhs working, but few registered under migrant Act||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 3During the nationwide lockdown, over 12 lakh migrant labourers gave their names to the government to return to their states. Ironically, the state Labour Department did not have the record of the labourers.Despite the Inter-state Migrant Workmen Act in force, none of the migrant labourers have been registered as per the law by the department.According to the Act, every establishment, which employs five or more inter-state migrant workers or had employed such workers on any day of the preceding 12 months, has to register them with the department.At present, only 10 companies are registered under the Act in the state. However, the number of migrant labourers in the companies is not clear.Over the years, the Act has remained a ‘non-starter’ despite 20 lakh migrant labourers working in 2,52,741 industrial units and 2,800 brick kilns in the state.VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “The Act has always remained a non-starter in the state. The reason is that the contractor has to register himself before submitting the names of migrant labourers. Secondly, the contractor or employer has to inform the department of the workers’ domicile before hiring. This makes the process a tedious one.” He said 10 companies were registered under the Act in the state.The Inter-state Migrant Workmen Act stipulates a journey allowance for the workers from the place of work to the residence in his domicile state. The allowance is to be paid by the contractor. During the time of the journey, the workers are to be considered on duty.Experts said had the migrant labourers been registered, the government could have provided relief material and financial help, and averted the exodus. Notably, the government had to direct the Deputy Commissioners to register migrant labourers so that food and relief material could be provided to them during the lockdown.Vijay Walia, an activist, said, “The Labour Department could not register the workers because employers didn’t provide the information. Despite negligence from the employers’ end, the department didn’t take any action against them for failing to provide the details.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lakhs-working-but-few-registered-under-migrant-act-94067
04-06-2020||---||Charges framed against court staffer for YouTube videos||Chandigarh, June 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court today framed charges against an employee of the subordinate judiciary, who uploaded YouTube videos lambasting judicial officers and allegedly made statements in the media without the sanction of the competent authority.The developments took place during the hearing of a “court on its own motion” or suo motu case against employee Harmeet Singh. Amicus Curiae PS Hundal and respondent-contemnor’s advocate Rajvinder Singh Bains were present during the proceedings before the Bench of Justice Jawant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash. Harmeet Singh had initially joined Ludhiana Sessions Division as a clerk. He was posted at Jagraon due to administrative convenience, but allegedly kept pressurising the competent authority for transferring him back to Ludhiana.Taking up the matter, the Bench asserted it would be in the interest of justice if proper charge was framed against the respondent–contemnor and an opportunity was given to substantiate his claim by way of producing evidence, if any. His contentions, including claim that circulation by way of YouTube did not amount to publication and whether the act amounted to scandalising the judicial system, were moot questions which could be answered only after evidence and evaluation of submissionsThe first charge read: “You have made a ‘YouTube’ account titled ‘Ugly face of Indian Judiciary, Ludhiana’ and uploaded videos lambasting judicial officers by levelling false allegations and conveyed wrong message to the public and discouraged the public from getting justice from the Court of Law”. Another charge said the act of uploading videos scandalised the entire judicial institution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charges-framed-against-court-staffer-for-youtube-videos-94068
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana seeks ‘physical hearing’||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana today resolved to recommend to the High Court and the special committee of judges to start normal functioning of the courts by allowing appearance of advocates.  During the council meeting, “strong views” were expressed by some of the members that the functioning of the virtual courts had left “common advocates” with the feeling that the arrangement had given added advantage only to a select few. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bar-council-of-punjab-and-haryana-seeks-physical-hearing-94069
04-06-2020||Morinda||Man kills wife, nephew in Morinda||A resident of ward no. 1 on the sugar mill road hacked his wife and her nephew to death on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Kajal and Sahil while the accused Alam, after committing the crime, consumed some poisonous substance. He was admitted to a local government hospital. Kajal’s mother Babli said the accused was staying with them after marriage. She said Alam used to quarrel a lot with her daughter over petty issues. Around 1.30 am, Alam first killed Kajal using a weapon and then attacked Jassi, Sahil and Bobby, sons of her eldest daughter Sweety, who was not at home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-kills-wife-nephew-in-morinda-94070
04-06-2020||Tribune Reporters---||80 cases of illicit liquor recovered, two nabbed||Fatehgarh Sahib/ Abohar, June 3 A joint team of the district Excise and Taxation Department and CIA staff, Sirhind, raided a farmhouse at Bhamarsi Jer village and recovered 80 cases of liquor.  As per the sticker on the bottle, it was meant for sale in Arunachal Pradesh. The team also arrested two persons whereas one managed to escape. SSP Amneet Kondal said the police had launched a campaign against liquor smugglers and people were coming forward to provide information. She said the police got a tip-off that Kamaljit Singh, alias Bachi, a resident of Lohar Majra village, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurjant Singh, alias Janta, a resident of Tarn Taran and Sukhwinder Singh, alias Jassi, working as a salesman at a wine shop, were involved in the smuggling of illicit liquor. She said a police party conducted a raid and recovered 80 cases of liquor and arrested two of the accused. In Abohar, 37 litre lahan was seized from Charanjit Kaur and Gaura Rani of Ajit Nagar, 150 litre lahan and 25 bottles of liquor from Gurcharan Singh Dodewala, 30 litre lahan from Jaswant Singh of Dhani Chirag, 24 litre lahan from Jaswinder Singh Alamgarh, 132 bottles from Paramjeet Singh Pamma and Sher Singh of Tootwala, 36 bottles of Haryana-made liquor from Vikram Vicky of Azeemgarh, 50 litre lahan and 20 bottles from Sahib Ram and Bittu of Dhani Bhatawali, 20 bottles each from Shanker Lal Mehrana and Prem Singh Himmatpura and 12 bottles from Sheilu Singh of Prem Nagar. The accused have been booked under the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/80-cases-of-illicit-liquor-recovered-two-nabbed-94071
04-06-2020||Barnala||Man arrested with Rs 50K drug money||The Barnala police arrested a man with 273 gm of heroin and Rs50,000 drug money on Tuesday evening. The accused has been identified as Yakoob Khan. “Our team has seized 273 gm of heroin and Rs50,000 from Yakoob Khan, who was driving down in his Innova car. During investigations, it came to light that he has been facing many FIRs in various districts, including Barnala, Sangrur and Ludhiana,” said Barnala SSP  Sandeep Goel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-arrested-with-rs-50k-drug-money-94072
04-06-2020||Amritsar||Photo-artist Surinder Singh dies at 83||Noted photo-artist Surinder Singh (83) died after suffering a cardiac arrest today. He is survived by wife,  son and daughter.  Surinder Singh was son of famous painter GS Sohan Singh and grandson of Gian Singh ‘Naqqash’, the fresco painter who worked at the Darbar Sahib for over three decades. His uncle Sunder Singh was among those who were martyred in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 1919.  His younger brother Satpal Danish, a world famous Sikh artist, said Surinder Singh was the pillar of the family under whose vision the legacy carried on.  “He complained of chest congestion in the morning and was taken to Escorts Hospital for a check-up. He died after suffering a cardiac arrest”, he said.  Their shop, located near the Golden Temple complex, is a treasure trove of documents related to Sikh history and culture.  Surinder Singh was the first manager of the SGPC’s Golden Offset Press. Besides this, the DSGMC’s printing press at Gurdwara Rakabh Ganj was also established under his supervision. He had designed the title covers of many books of the GNDU. Mourning his death, SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said Surinder Singh’s departure was a loss and his contribution for preservation of Sikh history could never be ignored. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/photo-artist-surinder-singh-dies-at-83-94073
04-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Jalandhar seaman dies in Mumbai||Stuck in Mumbai due to lockdown, seaman Suraj Singh (25) of Dhanowali village in Jalandhar died in Mumbai on Tuesday due to injuries that he had sustained due to a fall. He had to join a shipping company in Dubai in the last week of March but he could not go due to the lockdown.Sumit, Suraj’s brother said on May 31, Suraj had fallen from the fourth floor of a building and suffered an injury. His liver was damaged. He underwent a surgery there but succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-seaman-dies-in-mumbai-94074
04-06-2020||Ropar||IIT-Ropar to install pressure cabins in hospitals||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-to-install-pressure-cabins-in-hospitals-94077
04-06-2020||Ropar||Mittal demands CBI probe into relief work||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mittal-demands-cbi-probe-into-relief-work-94078
04-06-2020||Ropar||Asia University Rankings: IIT-Ropar bags 47th rank||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/asia-university-rankings-iit-ropar-bags-47th-rank-94080
04-06-2020||---||Dalit farm worker 'tortured', probe on||Bathinda, June 3The family members of Dalit farm worker Kuldeep Singh today levelled allegations against the latter’s landlord and the police for giving him third degree torture when he was kept in illegal custody at the Sangat police station here.Victim’s father Sukhdev Singh and family members Veerpal Kaur, Mehenga Singh and Ram Kotguru said Kuldeep was working as a farm worker on the land of a highly-influential person, who was also the former sarpanch of Jai Singh Wala village. On May 28, on the say-so of landlord, some persons kidnapped Kuldeep and took him to an accomodation, where they beat him, abused and made casteist remarks on him. Later, they accused him of stealing and handed him over to the Sangat police station.Further, the kin alleged that before registering any case against Kuldeep, the CIA-2 Bathinda police gave him a third degree torture and electrocuted him.After the matter came to light, members of various farm unions held a protest outside the police station.On the evening of May 31, cops escorted Kuldeep from the rear door of the police station to hospitalise him, but their vehicle was stopped by the protesters.Union leaders alleged that the police had violated human rights by keeping Kuldeep in illegal custody from May 28 to 31.On the complaint of Kuldeep, the police registered a case against village’s former sarpanch Hamir Singh and Gurditta Singh, Baldev Singh and Harjit Singh for carrying out the attack over a monetary issue at the Sangat police station.BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union state secretary Lachman Singh demanded that a section of kidnapping and the SC/ST Act should be incorporated into the FIR. They have also sought a case against the police officials who gave third degree torture to Singh and the government to fund the treatment expense of the victim. The union activists have warned that they would protest on June 4 outside the Sangat police station.SSP Nanak Singh said: “This matter has been marked for probe to the DSP (Rural).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalit-farm-worker-tortured-probe-on-94083
04-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Four days, 7 hospitals, pregnant woman dies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3Amid Covid hardship, a UP migrant lost his pregnant wife and child despite visiting seven hospitals in four days.Having moved to Jalandhar in November last, Vicky got a job at a brick kiln after struggling for a while. Just when things started looking up, Covid came with all its challenges.Vicky’s wife Seema (19) was pregnant and the couple were expecting their child on June 5. Around mid-May, Seema started complaining of unease and pain, though it wasn’t that consistent. The couple assumed the condition could be due to the final stage of pregnancy till the pain turned unbearable on May 28.Seema was rushed to a hospital in Adampur but to their dismay, the authorities denied her admission. She was then taken to the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar where doctors diagnosed her with a serious complication and referred her to the Amritsar Medical College.“The Adampur facility told us she was critical.... At the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, precious time was lost as we were first told to get a Covid test done. When the report came, the doctors said the child’s condition was critical and told us to go to Amritsar,” said Vicky.The migrant labourer said Seema’s condition was normal on May 5 when her last ultrasound was done.In Amritsar, his wife was treated for two days but doctors there too didn’t promise much. Vicky also tried his luck at four private hospitals. All turned him away due to lack of funds. A doctor at a private clinic said: “The patient was brought on the evening of May 31 (Sunday) in a critical condition... but the family couldn’t afford treatment.” Seema was brought back to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, where she breathed her last on May 31.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “Seema required tertiary care in Amritsar, but the couple didn’t like it there and returned to us in a further complicated condition. Her was a case of intra-uterine death. The baby died in the womb.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-days-7-hospitals-pregnant-woman-dies-94211
