01-10-2021||The National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education — better known as the Midday Meal (MDM) scheme — has been redesignated as the PM Poshan scheme. Going beyond this cosmetic change||Making meals count||Over the years, the scheme has often been in the news for the wrong reasons — poor quality of food, violation of the menu guidelines, shortage of cooks, pilferage of foodgrains. In December 2018, the Supreme Court had imposed fines on Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Jammu & Kashmir for not properly monitoring the implementation of the scheme. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has repeatedly flagged issues such as the unhygienic conditions in which the food is prepared, the inferior quality of infrastructure (kitchen sheds, utensils etc.) and incorrect reporting by the authorities about the coverage of schools and students. It’s praiseworthy that the Centre has directed the states and UTs to adopt the Direct Benefit Transfer system for providing honorarium to cooks and helpers so as to make the payment process transparent and plug leakages.India, which was ranked 94th out of 107 countries on the Global Hunger Index last year, is among the worst performers worldwide in terms of child wasting (low weight for their height) and child stunting (low height for their age). PM Poshan has a key role to play in addressing the nutritional needs of crores of children, particularly those from poor and underprivileged families. It can be a game-changer only if there is zero tolerance to various lapses which have a bearing on the health of kids. Strict monitoring and fixing of accountability can go a long way in making the scheme realise its immense potential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/making-meals-count-318446
01-10-2021||Free electricity and health services||Competitive freebies||As pragmatism is laid to rest in favour of unrealistic projections in Punjab, each party is outdoing the other in raising the quantum of free offerings to the ‘aam aadmi’, whose bar of expectation is anyway set low. Even the thought of fiscal prudence or structural changes, let alone floating the concepts, stands no chance in front of lazy, unworkable giveaways that could quickly lose meaning in the absence of an attempt to address core issues. Each citizen, and not just voters, for instance, deserves better answers to nagging questions as to why a ‘power-surplus’ state fails miserably in supplying round-the-clock electricity, and what accounts for the high tariff. If genuine welfare is the promise, realistic and informed conversation on what is wrong and how it can be undone would serve Punjab better.Tamil Nadu, another state which has made a name for itself in the freebies culture to woo voters, got a reality check from the Madras High Court ahead of the election this April, when it advised leaders to stop this and engage in promoting infrastructural facilities instead. Not that it put an end to the parties’ flirtation, but the message was stark: do not reduce your duty to irresponsible populism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/competitive-freebies-318441
