04-10-2021||The collapse of a seven-storey building in a Shimla suburb must serve as an urgent warning for a city that is congested||Shimla building collapse||With migration from rural regions due to job opportunities, the population of Shimla Urban has grown from 80,177 in 1981 to 169,578 in 2011. Due to scarcity of housing plots, and the National Green Tribunal’s ban on construction in Shimla’s core, green and forest areas, the city has expanded in all directions. Several major localities — with buildings going up to eight storeys, against the city limits of four — are situated on slopes, with inadequate sewerage and water disposal infrastructure. This leads to water seeping to the foundations of buildings, making them structurally unstable — as reportedly happened in the case of the building that collapsed last week.The state government has announced an inquiry into the incident. If a probe is conducted regarding the city’s most hazardous constructions, its report would only reflect the warnings issued by experts over the decades: Deviation from approved plans of buildings in and outside the municipal limits; almost guaranteed regularisation after paying a fine because mass demolition of buildings is not ‘practical’. An inquiry may also uncover the complicity of government officials and politicians in clearing dubious structures, such as a seven-storey building approved for a proposed petrol station in the Chhota Shimla locality. An urgent look into construction activities in Shimla and its suburbs is the need of the hour, and more stringent rules should be framed before approval is given for construction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/shimla-building-collapse-319755
04-10-2021||Twenty-Eight years after the NN Vohra Committee report on criminalisation of politics highlighted the nexus between criminals||Stain on steel frame||Unfortunately, this isn’t the first such incident. In recent times, many senior police officers have come under the scanner for hobnobbing with politicians in a questionable manner. Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh — who levelled allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh — is missing. A lookout notice has been issued to trace him as he faces several criminal cases. Certain alleged videos, leaked on social media, have linked self-proclaimed antique collector and YouTuber Monson Mavunkal to Kerala Congress president K Sudhakaran and state police DIG S Surendran. It’s sad to see civil servants — once described by Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel as the ‘steel frame of India’ — facing such allegations.German social scientist Max Weber described political neutrality and anonymity as important tenets of modern bureaucracy which insulated bureaucrats from politicisation and made them professional. But recent developments clearly allude to deviation from the Weberian model. Undoubtedly, such allegations against top police officers undermine people’s faith in the rule of law and dent the credibility of the State system. Given the fact that the political class stands accused of wrongdoing in such cases, it would be unrealistic to expect governments to take corrective measures. Having identified the problem, it’s incumbent upon the Supreme Court to issue necessary directions to rid India of this menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stain-on-steel-frame-319756
