05-10-2021||The allegation of a Union Minister’s son driving his father’s car into a crowd of farmers||Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Unless journalists and politicians are allowed to reach the spot, it is difficult to ascertain the truth and understand the grievances of the victims. Opposition leaders have been stopped from visiting the site of the violence, which can only be termed an undemocratic act by the UP Government. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Deepender Hooda were pushed around and detained late Sunday night. Former CM Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary were also detained, prompting violent responses from their cadre. Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, his colleagues and others were denied permission to land in Lakhimpur Kheri, which has obviously become a highly volatile battleground for political one-upmanship.The Union Government is wrong if it thinks it can wear the farmers down by letting the protests go on for nearly a year. The farmers’ belief in their cause can keep the agitation afire for long. Instead of provoking the agitators ( Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar’s statement needlessly created a stir), the government should talk to them to find a meeting point.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-320241
05-10-2021||Five years after the Panama Papers stirred up a hornets’ nest||Pandora’s box||Rampant tax evasion and stashing of black money are inextricably linked to socio-economic inequality. The Pandora Papers have come at a time when the world is still grappling with Covid-19, which has not only claimed millions of lives but also sharply widened the gulf between the rich and the poor. According to a report of Oxfam International, a British consortium of charities, the 1,000 richest people across the globe recouped their Covid losses within just nine months, but it could take more than a decade for the world’s poorest to recover from the economic impact of the pandemic. The ‘inequality virus’ hit India hard, with its billionaires reportedly increasing their wealth by 35 per cent during the 2020 lockdown.The financial shenanigans of the elite are depriving developing nations such as India of much-needed tax revenue that can be utilised to fund mega projects in healthcare, education, agriculture, environment and other sectors. The Pandora Papers should hopefully set in motion a thorough inquiry by the governments concerned, followed by legal proceedings to bring the offenders to book. Collective action can act as a major deterrent to the accumulation and concealment of wealth that is ill-gotten or unaccounted for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pandoras-box-320237
