06-10-2021||This newspaper is not given to tilting at windmills or raging against every red rag of political hooliganism that power-drunk rulers throw at us. But the video clip that has surfaced from Lakhimpur Kheri||Mowing down protest||While the almighty government has the monopoly of wisdom on what laws suit the nation, the voters in turn have every right to protest against those they find anathema; this contract between the government and the people distinguishes subjects from citizens. We cannot surrender our constitutional rights to goons in the guise of ministers. A mere monetary compensation and two cross-FIRs do not do justice to the memory of Lovepreet Singh, Nachhatar Singh, Daljeet Singh and Gurvinder Singh, the farmers who were allegedly run over by the minister’s vehicles, and journalist Raman Kashyap, whose corpse had bullet holes on the chest and arms. Three others termed BJP supporters have also died, probably lynched by the aggrieved mob. The minister should step down or be removed without further delay, and all those involved in this ghastly incident should be arrested forthwith and be made to stand trial.If the government proves that the video clip is fake, it has every reason to take action against those who doctored it and circulated it. And, of course, the Prime Minister can reinstate the minister if he gets exonerated after a fair trial. But till then, his place is in the Lakhimpur Kheri police station, not the home ministry. At times, even legitimate criticism of governments is construed as sedition. Ita fiat esto; we remain yours seditiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mowing-down-protest-320652
06-10-2021||IT was a recipe for the eventual implosion of a vast number of private engineering and BTech colleges that had sprouted in the country a couple of decades back. They had been unable to keep up with the dynamic challenges of the educational needs of students in a world that is fast shedding the old ways to embrace newer technology-driven industries. Ironically||Churning in tech education||With students’ queues drying up and over 70-90 per cent seats going abegging, private engineering colleges across the country have been collapsing like ninepins in the past around eight years. Their plummeting placement and quality records have kept prospective students away. In the past three years, 37 BTech colleges have been forced to shut shop in Haryana alone. Engineering courses accounted for the majority of the 69 per cent seats going unfilled in 402 courses offered by Himachal Pradesh’s scam-tainted private universities in the 2020-21 session. The portents for engineering colleges in Telangana, Maharashtra, Kerala, Odisha and West Bengal are ominous as there are no takers for around 50 per cent of their seats in various streams.However, this churning in the technical education sphere is not without a bright side. The disintegration calls for an urgent cleansing in the sector. As such fields of study as artificial intelligence gain prominence and demand for the once-coveted trades fades, it is time for the old order to change. A whole new set of millennials have spawned a flourishing industry in the virtual world where virtually anything and everything — cooking, travel, gardening, dance, music, beauty, couture et al — is being monetised. One opportunity for educationists lies in tapping their need to upscale basic technical skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/churning-in-tech-education-320628
06-10-2021||IT’S a cause for concern that the name of a former Director General of Military Intelligence||Seychelles connection||The retired officer’s son has claimed that the bank account with ABC was never opened as ‘we did not go ahead with our business plan’. He has cited ‘security reasons’ for skipping mention of the military credentials of Lt Gen Loomba (retd) while incorporating the business company. However, several questions remain unanswered. The choice of the offshore destination itself raises suspicion. The Seychelles, an archipelago in the Indian Ocean, is regarded as a tax haven in view of its ‘very favourable’ tax treatment of offshore companies. It’s only recently that the Seychelles committed to undergo a supplementary review of its tax system with the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, the top international body on tax evasion.Even as a multi-agency group comprising the tax department, the Enforcement Directorate, RBI and the Financial Intelligence Unit will probe all Indian names on the Pandora list, the authorities should pay close attention to cases involving military personnel, bureaucrats and other officials. The probe team needs to find out whether any portion of the wealth accrued from kickbacks were ever laundered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/seychelles-connection-320627
