07-10-2021||The seizure of a minuscule quantity of drugs by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from a cruise ship has disproportionately grabbed the headlines||Catch the big fish||In stark contrast, the confiscation of around 3,000 kg of heroin at the Mundra port in Gujarat’s Kutch district last month hasn’t exactly sent shock waves through the country, even though the drug haul is regarded as one of the biggest ever in the world. The value of the seized contraband is estimated to be around Rs 21,000 crore in the international market. The ongoing investigation has pointed to an international racket’s involvement in the trafficking of drugs from Afghanistan to India via Iran. It’s such key players in the supply chain that the authorities need to focus on instead of the occasional consumer of ganja or charas. There should be zero tolerance for those who trade in synthetic drugs that are not only highly addictive but also life-threatening.Ironically, the NDPS Act, which India enacted in 1985 after succumbing to American pressure, continues to have recreational substances such as cannabis on its list, while the US and some other western countries are legalising their use by adults and also allowing possession of small quantities. Our legislation needs to be revisited so that the consumption of relatively innocuous drugs can be decriminalised. Rooting out the hydra-headed drug menace requires long-term commitment. For a start, catch the big fish before going after the small fry.Also read: Raid on cruise ship ‘fake’, no drugs found: Maharashtra minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/catch-the-big-fish-321153
07-10-2021||The testimony given to the US Senate panel by former Facebook employee Frances Haugen||Tech-tonic shift needed||Questioning the FB’s algorithm that delivers a constant stream of content to keep people engaged, that may, eventually, be harmful, especially for young girls and kids, Haugen opines that the algorithm be tweaked to enable safer material delivery. She says that 20 per cent of the young users are mentally affected — e.g. search for healthy food leading to toxic material supplied over body-shaming that induces anorexia among many teens. Senator Richard Blumenthal pointed out that the Big Tech now faces the big tobacco moment of truth. The other incriminating evidence relates to FB — through its relay of divisive and misleading posts — having been partly responsible for amplifying polarisation that led to the January 6 bloody riots at the US Capitol in Washington after the US presidential polls.Worried by the harmful impact on young users, voices calling for FB to thwart its plans to launch the Instagram version for kids are already rightly gaining ground. Lawmakers across the planet are perked up to the need for strengthening regulatory mechanisms in the field of technology. The tech giants must simultaneously check their greed-induced moral bankruptcy. Moral upgradation is the key to a caring and responsible system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tech-tonic-shift-needed-321154
