08-10-2021||Targeted killings of prominent citizens belonging to the minority communities in the Kashmir valley during the past few days have created an atmosphere of panic and fear. More civilians than security forces’ personnel have been killed in terrorist-related incidents this year in Jammu and Kashmir||Targeted killings in Valley||News reports suggest serious attempts to target businessmen, aimed at sending a message to non-Muslims who have been staying here peacefully for decades. The security establishment and the civil administration have a huge task on their hand to instil a sense of security and calm. Amid the gloom, the strong condemnation of the brutal acts of violence, cutting across political, religious and ideological lines, is the balm Kashmir needs badly. The stoicism, fearlessness and courage shown by the late Bindroo’s daughter in the face of extreme pain and loss have resonated in every home, whatever the faith of its occupants. Kashmir has seen too much blood and tears to allow any repeat of the horrors of the past.As there is a reset on strategy to hunt down the terror groups and a review of the threat perception of the vulnerable, there is a paramount need to involve political leaders, community representatives and the civil society to ensure communal harmony, and dispel anxieties. A political dialogue — difficult as it surely is after the scrapping of Article 370 and the events that followed — may still be a work in progress, but active engagement can be quite handy in effective public messaging, given the circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/targeted-killings-in-valley-321578
08-10-2021||With the onset of paddy procurement||Farm fires are back||The bio-decomposer, a microbial solution that converts stubble into manure, holds the key to dousing field fires. Delhi has taken the lead on this front, while neighbouring states are warming up to this method of in situ management of crop residue. In Punjab, farmers are being incentivised to sell stubble for use as fuel in power generation. These are baby steps at best, considering the humongous amount of paddy straw generated – about 20 million tonnes annually in Punjab alone.Even as residents of Delhi breathe the ‘worst air’ between November 1 and 15, as per an analysis of last five years’ data, air pollution is choking Uttar Pradesh virtually on a daily basis. According to a study by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, UP is the leading emitter of particulate matter PM2.5 in India due to the usage of solid fuels in households. While some challenges are state-specific, stubble burning is one problem wherein inter-state cooperation and coordination can herald winds of change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/farm-fires-are-back-321588
