09-10-2021||Sustained diplomatic pressure from New Delhi has prompted the UK government to add India to its list of vaccine-eligible countries for Covishield. From October 11||Diplomatic victory||The UK had initially refused to recognise Covishield, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), drawing a sharp reaction from India. Even as Britain faced allegations of vaccine ‘racism’, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla warned of ‘reciprocal measures’ if the dispute was not resolved to India’s satisfaction. Later, British officials claimed that there were issues with India’s vaccine certification process and not with the vaccine itself. In a tit-for-tat move, India made it mandatory for all British nationals arriving in India from the UK to undergo a 10-day quarantine even if they were fully vaccinated. The signs of strain in bilateral ties were visible in the sporting arena as well. Earlier this week, India pulled out of the 2022 Birmingham Commonwealth Games’ hockey competition, citing Covid-19 concerns and the UK’s ‘discriminatory’ quarantine rules for Indian travellers. Caught on a sticky wicket, Britain had no option but to do a climbdown.Such unfair policies have already been red-flagged by the World Health Organisation, which has expressed concern that Covid-19 vaccines having a proven efficacy and approved by the global health body for emergency use are not being recognised in all countries. Now that the acrimonious matter has been settled, India and Britain need to work in close cooperation to fight the pandemic. It’s laudable that the Indian government has allowed the SII to supply Covishield vaccine in bulk to AstraZeneca under a contractual obligation with the UK-based firm, even as India has resumed the Vaccine Maitri programme for worldwide distribution of the shots. Western countries such as the UK would be well advised to take a cue from India’s vaccine diplomacy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/diplomatic-victory-322101
09-10-2021||The need to guard against the hazards of lopsided development is evident from the deplorable condition of the village road leading to Kharkara from Bhatsana village in Dharuhera block of Haryana’s Rewari district. A state that has seen unprecedented emphasis on road-building||Maintaining village roads||The farmers’ agitation has seen the rural roads in Haryana being put to greater use to reach destinations by those commuting to and from Delhi. For the state government, the maintenance of village roads should be a priority. While user fee collection at the toll plazas might have been hit because of the stir, the state should generate additional resources and put to good use the market committee fee which was only recently hiked, along with the rural development fund cess. The upkeep of roads should also be a must after the rains. The lockdown saw the suspension of regular repair work. With the situation returning to normal, it should be resumed.The Centre has formulated from time to time projects for the development of roads, not just the national and state highways, but also the village and other district roads. With nearly two-thirds of the roads in the country being village roads, their serviceability is important to ensure that the benefits of government schemes percolate down to the people for whom they are intended. The district administration should be accountable for ensuring coordination between the different wings of the government and fixing lapses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/maintaining-village-roads-322100
