11-10-2021||FOR this year’s Nobel Peace Prize||Journalists bag peace Nobel||Even as consumers are assailed by a confounding bombardment of news and views that are inextricably interspersed with fake news and propaganda, peace awardees Maria Ressa of the Philippines and Dmitry Muratov of Russia stand out for keeping the flag of fact-based journalism flying. Undeterred by authoritarian pressure and a volley of legal cases, Ressa, the co-founder of news portal Rappler, has been at the forefront of a series of investigative stories that shine light on the Rodrigo Duterte-led Philippine government’s anti-drug campaign smeared with murders. Muratov has bolstered press freedom with his newspaper Novaya Gazeta being the sole anti-establishment voice, showing the mirror to the Russian government. Despite six of its journalists having been slain, the paper has stuck to professional integrity, again proving that you can shoot the messenger, not the truth.That journalists have been bestowed this prize for the first time since 1935 when Carl von Ossietzky got it for revealing that Germany’s Nazi administration was secretly re-arming after World War I is a sobering reminder of the rise of dangerously regressive and divisive forces and the need to contain them. The issue gains more significance in this age of the largely uncontrolled social media boom. The immense power wielded by Big Tech companies and the impact of their unchecked online media content on gullible consumers’ mindset is fraught with disastrous implications. As Messa says, ‘What we’re seeing is a thousand cuts to the body politic, to our democracy.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/journalists-bag-peace-nobel-322859
11-10-2021||FOR the government||Tatas to pilot Air India||With Air India, Air Asia and Vistara under Tatas, the choice would be merger or aligning routes so that their services don’t overlap. Combined, the three could be a fighting force against IndiGo, the clear leader. Air India gets two-thirds of its income from international routes; this market offers Tatas a huge opportunity as Gulf carriers have grabbed a large chunk of Indians travelling abroad. An immediate signal of change would be reducing the trust deficit among customers, addressing the apparent shortcomings and raising the standards. The new management will have to move urgently to trim the operational losses. Modernising the fleet would entail a large spend.Several unions have welcomed the ‘ghar wapsi’ to Tatas, expecting a mutually beneficial working relationship, given the behemoth’s care-for-worker ethos. The government will continue to pay the retirement benefits of around 55,000 former employees. Tata Group will retain the current staff for the first year, VRS may take off in the second. Air India needed a better deal, it’s got it. Now it’s got to do better, with fresh intent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tatas-to-pilot-air-india-322858
