12-10-2021||With the 13th round of Corps Commander-level talks between India and China ending inconclusively||India-China impasse||The Indian Army has claimed that the ‘constructive suggestions’ made by it were not agreeable to China, while the Western Theatre Command (WTC) of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army has accused India of making ‘unreasonable and unrealistic demands, adding difficulties to the negotiations’. Both sides are preparing to dig in for the long haul with an eye on the coming winter, which is usually quite harsh in the areas in question. The Indian Army’s decision to rejig the tasking of its forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in a bid to reduce the multiplicity of commands, is in consonance with its strategy of staying the course. The reworking of the command structure, which will not entail any movement or relocation of units, is expected to improve operational readiness and coordination.India’s move mirrors China’s sharp focus on the WTC, which recently got its fourth Commander in a year or so. This theatre command not only oversees the border with India but also covers Xinjiang and Tibet Autonomous Region. The recent attempted incursions by Chinese troops in Barahoti sector (Uttarakhand) and Tawang sector (Arunachal Pradesh) show that the neighbour is in no mood to mend its ways. New Delhi needs to be more watchful to pre-empt another misadventure, while putting the ball in Beijing’s court to ensure long-term peace along the LAC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/india-china-impasse-323299
12-10-2021||Large tracts of the country — from areas surrounding Mohali to Agra and from Gurugram to Pune — are witnessing an alarming outbreak of dengue this monsoon season. Busy preparing for the ominous third wave of Covid||Dengue outbreak||With a prolonged season of monsoon this year, the consequent waterlogging has led to a rise in mosquito-borne diseases, including dengue. Though it is fairly well known that stagnant water is a breeding ground for the Aedes aegypti mosquito, the outbreak response must be strengthened towards making the communities aware and involving them in disease prevention. Gurugram’s figures are telling in this respect. The city, which has this year seen the highest number of dengue cases in five years, over 11,000 notices have been issued to households for being host to mosquito larvae. In the tricity, Mohali has become the hotspot of dengue. It is on alert as people testing positive have been soaring in the past one and a half months, accounting for 95 per cent of this year’s figures. While 344 dengue cases surfaced in September, the first eight days of October saw 277 more patients falling prey to this vector-borne disease. Covid-hit Maharashtra is pressured as it also deals with over 8,000 dengue and 1,700 chikungunya cases that were reported across the state till September, with Pune seeing the number of cases double in a month.With the vaccine for dengue still in the initial trial stage, fogging of the affected and disease-prone areas and screening measures, along with the citizens’ dedication to keeping the surroundings clean and dry, are effective strategies to avert an epidemic. A proper audit of the numbers of infected patients and mortality statistics are necessary for formulating better control and treatment protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dengue-outbreak-323298
