13-10-2021||SINCE January||Guns from the east||In Jhajjar district alone, the police registered 128 cases under the Arms Act this year, arresting 135 individuals and seizing 138 guns. In 2020, as per National Crime Records Bureau data, 2,427 illegal firearms were seized in Haryana, out of 67,947 across India. Haryana’s number seems tiny when compared with 32,776 for UP, the hub of illegal arms manufacture, with the highest number of crimes committed with firearms. The production of illegal firearms surges when elections approach, as happened before this year’s panchayat elections in UP. With rising demand in neighbouring states, illegal weapons find their way to criminals in states such as Punjab, Delhi and Haryana.It’s a well documented fact that the UP-Bihar region is the centre of illegal gun manufacturing in India, yet the situation has not changed over the years. If anything, the demand only seems to be increasing. One factor behind the failure of law-enforcement agencies to stamp out this industry is the nexus between the political class, hired musclemen and criminals — politicians often depend on gun-wielding henchmen for influence, especially during elections. The story of the flow of illegal arms from UP and Bihar is so old, it’s enough to make right-thinking individuals lose hope. For the sake of the safety of its citizens, the Central and state governments must urgently work in unison to tackle this menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/guns-from-the-east-323777
13-10-2021||THE precarious power situation||Power pangs||The ministry has told the states to utilise unallocated power of the central generating stations to meet their requirements, failing which this allocation will be withdrawn and given to others that need it badly. However, in the absence of coordination between the Centre and the states, things have taken a turn for the worse. It’s a hand-to-mouth existence for most thermal plants as their coal supplies are dwindling fast. All roadblocks ought to be removed at the earliest so that the plants keep operating, even if at a diminished capacity.The abatement of the pandemic’s second wave and the encouraging tempo of the vaccination programme have contributed to a full-throttle resumption of economic activity and consequently a sharp rise in the consumption of electricity. The onset of the festival season has also upped the power demand. While short-term arrangements are being made to ease the situation that threatens to derail the nation’s economic recovery, it is imperative to look at the larger picture. India is the world’s second-highest importer, producer and consumer of coal, with China being on top. This heavy dependence on coal, coupled with the reluctance to optimally tap sources of renewable energy, should be reduced to make the country less vulnerable on the power front.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/power-pangs-323775
