14-10-2021||THE lifting of capacity restrictions on domestic airlines from October 18 comes on the heels of a surge in festive||Back to packed flights||With the tourism industry seeing a welcome rebound following the fall in coronavirus cases and an aggressive vaccination programme, sticking to capacity restrictions served little purpose. For the aviation industry, the development comes as a positive, but next on its radar would be getting the curbs on fare bands lifted. On that count, the Centre would be well advised not to rush into taking a decision, since the pent-up demand presents a perfect trigger for an unnecessary ticket price war at a much higher minimum base level. The urge to undo the losses suffered during the past year-and-a-half could result in unreasonable practices by airlines that would not be in the interest of consumers, most of whom would be venturing out for their first family holiday after months together.The pandemic has dealt a particularly rough hand to the travel and tourism industry, and for the operators, the sight of packed airports and flights for travel destinations would come as a glimmer of hope. That should mean added, and not lesser, responsibility, be it on adhering to Covid-protocol guidelines or right pricing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/back-to-packed-flights-324229
14-10-2021||EVEN as the World Health Organisation (WHO) is yet to grant emergency use authorisation to Covaxin||Covaxin for kids||With schools, coaching centres and sports complexes reopening gradually, the need for inoculation of youngsters cannot be overemphasised. The devastating second wave had seen a surge in coronavirus infections among children. There are apprehensions that kids might also turn out to be a high-risk group during the third wave, as and when it strikes. A major challenge will be to build confidence among students and their parents and nip vaccine hesitancy in the bud. Transparency is of the essence. It’s imperative to make vaccine safety and efficacy data public. Indisputable evidence is a must to silence the doubters and naysayers. The WHO nod, which is expected later this month, could be a game-changer as India plans to take its vaccination programme to the next level. However, a setback at this stage will send the Indian authorities back to the drawing board.Another challenge pertains to the manufacture and supply of Covaxin. Of the 96 crore-plus doses administered so far in India, Covaxin’s contribution has been barely 11 per cent. Bharat Biotech would have to considerably ramp up production to cater to the sizeable population in the youngest category. Striking a balance between the requirements of different age groups won’t be easy. The country has fully vaccinated only about 30 per cent of its adults till date. So, a lot of ground has to be covered to ensure that people most vulnerable to the worst outcomes get protection at the earliest. A calibrated, data-driven approach is the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covaxin-for-kids-324228
