15-10-2021||The Centre should listen carefully to Farooq Abdullah||Listen to Farooq Abdullah||Whatever might have been Farooq’s failings as an administrator, this one gesture exemplifies his stature as the tallest politician of Jammu and Kashmir and his role in building bridges and calming frayed nerves. And J&K needs its trusted, old politicians to play their mandated parts to restart the political process and re-engage the masses at the earliest. Farooq has always held the Indian flag aloft — be it in Geneva as part of the 1994 Indian delegation led by AB Vajpayee, or in 1996 when he revived and legitimised the electoral process in the troubled state.Now, when a repeat of the exodus of Hindus and Sikhs is being feared and old memories of killings of Pandits in 1990 and Sikhs in 2000 are haunting the vulnerable minorities, the Centre should strengthen the hands of the real representatives of the people of J&K, for whom a threat to their lives is an occupational hazard. Pakistan is merely using the Afghan context to create greater terror and polarisation in J&K, which can be effectively countered by the Indian forces under the political leadership of the sons of the soil. The J&K leaders who insist that they are Indians are our national treasure, but to appreciate their commitment to the Indian cause, our rulers need to remove their Hindutva goggles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/listen-to-farooq-abdullah-324643
15-10-2021||India’s private healthcare industry provides vital services to those who can afford to pay for them as the country’s public healthcare system is overburdened||Regulate private hospitals||Now the Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Central Government on a private petition that seeks the formation of an audit mechanism for complaints from Covid-19 patients or their caregivers, who allege that private hospitals fleeced them. In the past too, the Supreme Court was forced to intervene on such matters, going to the extent of commenting: ‘Hospitals survive on human distress... It has become a big industry at the cost of human suffering.’ However, judging from reports of overcharging from across the country, it is clear that for many hospital managements, the lure of money trumps the fear of law. Even in these times of terrible human suffering, a large number of hospitals place profits over medical ethics.Why, even in non-pandemic times, the misery of patients and their caregivers cannot be discounted — private hospitals are known for their exorbitant rate cards, starting right from high parking charges. Freeing patients and attendants from the clutches of unscrupulous hospitals, and keeping them under close scrutiny, should be a priority of governments at the Centre and states at all times — and not only during a pandemic. That can be possible if the public health infrastructure is strengthened and modernised — this, in turn, can only be done by drastically increasing public health spending, which presently is just over 1% of our annual GDP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/regulate-private-hospitals-324635
