16-10-2021||INDIA has been ranked 101st out of 116 countries||Hunger index ignominy||Making generalisations about neighbours like Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan doing better is a futile exercise. India’s circumstances are hugely different, its challenges so much bigger. But then, so are its grand ambitions and its march to greatness, as the leaders do not forget to remind daily. India has to first and foremost contend with itself and confront the truth that the fight against hunger is off track. The food security situation is not an issue, but distribution is, inequity is, choice of meal is, systemic failure is. An acknowledgement of what’s not working despite the best of intentions is the first step to finding better solutions.Malnourishment in early childhood has long-lasting negative impacts. Child and maternal malnutrition also contribute significantly to the total disease burden. Programmes of the Integrated Child Development Services scheme, which cover pregnant and lactating mothers too, and Poshan Abhiyaan are critical instruments. Any shortcoming or underperformance plays a huge role in slowing down the pace of improvement. The ‘Clean India’ campaign brought in the much-needed construct of hygiene and consequent well-being, but here, too, a forthright assessment of its progress would serve the government and the country better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hunger-index-ignominy-325148
16-10-2021||AS far as China is concerned||The Bhutan-China MoU||Against this intensity of political and security ties, Thursday’s announcement of a Bhutan-China MoU to resolve their boundary dispute through a three-step solution should come as a jolt. The Ministry of External Affairs limited itself to expressing wariness and also awareness that Bhutan and China have been holding talks. But it was ingenious of the spokesman to equate these talks with India’s boundary negotiations with China. While China and Bhutan seem to have taken a decisive step to resolving their dispute, New Delhi and Beijing are having trouble in all three sectors of their unresolved 3,488-km boundary. Their last military talks ended in a mutual blame game.It is not as if this is a sudden development. As the Bhutan-China joint press release noted, both sides began discussing the three-step solution in April. The process of achieving finality on a boundary with China typically takes a decade (it has the largest number of land boundaries in the world). And much can change in between. But this flagging of Bhutanese sovereignty comes after Bangladesh and Sri Lanka declined to subscribe to India’s pet ‘Free and Open Indo-Pacific’ concept. India needs to take stock whether its animosity towards China and increasing identification with US’ interests in the region are encouraging its neighbours to explore other options.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-bhutan-china-mou-325147
