18-10-2021||Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni has won his fourth IPL crown||Dhoni’s fourth crown||Yet, the likes of the 24-year-old Ruturaj Gaikwad, 22-year-old Shivam Mavi or Devdutt Padikkal (21) represent another facet of the world’s premier domestic T20 tournament — it gives youngsters the stage and environment to learn and get noticed. Gaikwad, the highest run-scorer in the IPL this year, has scored heavily for his state team, Maharashtra, in domestic cricket in empty stadiums. Being propelled into the IPL has changed his fortunes. He now has access to top-class infrastructure, can pick the finest minds in the sport, his confidence is sky-high after thrashing some of cricket’s top bowlers — and he has achieved financial security.Early this year, India chased down 328 for victory in the final Test against Australia. winning the series 2-1. A hooked six by 21-year-old Washington Sundar off Pat Cummins, the world’s best fast bowler, stood out in the final moments of the match — Sundar’s confidence was born in the IPL. The same could be said of Shardul Thakur, Mohammed Siraj, Shubman Gill, Hardik Pandya and Jasprit Bumrah, who seemed ready when they made their international debut. In other words, while the IPL is a refuge of the oldies who are no more good enough for international cricket, it also serves as a test for those who wish to play at the highest level. Gaikwad is the latest youngster to have done well in this test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dhonis-fourth-crown-325937
18-10-2021||South Asia remains a cauldron of discontent||Minority rights||All these instances of pick-and-choose murders of members of the minority communities ought to remind us of the cases of lynching of Muslims in the name of cow protection all across north India. Violence against a minority community in one country can trigger bloodshed against those following the religion of the perpetrators in a neighbouring country in a never-ending cycle of death and forced migration. All these murders should be treated as majoritarian crimes across communities, states or national borders. And only unequivocal condemnation by the local majority community can put an end to these attempts — conscious or otherwise — at ethnic cleansing.According to reports, while promising to hunt down Islamist extremists, Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina has warned against an Indian Hindu response to the attacks on puja pandals, which would only make Bangladeshi Hindus more vulnerable. These are words of wisdom, which should be remembered by all communities all across the region. Minority rights are a sacred covenant for a civilised society. Unfortunately, most South Asian countries have descended into a pre-modern orgy of torture and hunting of minorities. As long as we cannot wish away religion, we need to devise ways of assimilating diversities to ensure peaceful coexistence of communities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/minority-rights-325938
