19-10-2021||That the country has come a long way in its vaccination drive against the Covid-19 virus ever since it began in January this year is a matter of great relief||Vaccination drive||The drive has to guard against the risk of reaching a plateau and complacency setting in. Export of vaccines should not be at the cost of its availability at home. With travel, social and political gatherings increasing, the country has to sort out the issue of acceptability of its vaccine certificates by other countries so that its nationals are able to go abroad without any hindrance. Along with this, there is still need to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour to minimise risks.The government is also faced with the task of deciding on vaccinating children against Covid-19. The emergency use authorisation of Covaxin on 2 to 18 years old has been recommended, but the DCGI nod is awaited. Another vaccine, ZyCov-D, was approved for emergency use in those above 12 years. While the US and the UK have already inoculated adolescents, India will have to take an informed decision, with students gradually returning to classrooms. Amid a sense of achievement, it is also important for the vaccination drive to not lose its focus and steam. Much has been achieved but a lot more remains to be done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccination-drive-326421
19-10-2021||Multilateral alliances have become a geopolitical necessity in a multipolar world. Like other countries||Multilateral track||Yet another Quad is taking shape as the Foreign Ministers of India, the US, Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) held a virtual meeting. India’s Foreign Minister S Jaishankar is presently on a five-day visit to Israel — his third trip to that country in the past four years. The establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and the UAE last year, facilitated by the US, has opened a major window of opportunity for India as it enjoys friendly ties with both nations. Israel’s Foreign Secretary Alon Ushpiz has made it clear that Tel Aviv envisages a greater role for India in the ‘dramatically changed’ landscape of the Middle East.Indeed, New Delhi has a lot to gain from any alliance that bolsters regional connectivity and cements economic partnerships. However, it would be naive of India to view any existing or emerging Quad as a bulwark against Chinese aggressiveness. The benefits accruing from multilateral tieups won’t translate into military strength on the ground. Wedged between two hostile neighbours, India should be open to forging more alliances that can help it gain diplomatic heft on the international stage. New Delhi also needs to dispel the impression that it is merely toeing the American line on strategic relationships. Charting its own autonomous course, while focusing on trade expansion and people-to-people ties, should be the way forward for India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/multilateral-track-326422
