21-10-2021||India has taken cognisance of an increase in the intensity of China’s military exercises and deployment of troops in the eastern sector and claims to be well-prepared to respond to any contingency. These are the key takeaways from the media briefing by the Eastern Army Commander in Arunachal Pradesh. The message to the neighbour is loud and clear||Eye on the Chinese||China’s intransigence was plainly visible during the recent round of military talks, which failed to end the stalemate over the friction points in eastern Ladakh. While keeping all channels of communication open for military and diplomatic deliberations, India has gone ahead with making its presence felt on the ground. The Army has enhanced the deployment of air assets, including unmanned aircraft, near the border with China. The stepping up of day-and-night surveillance over the LAC is expected to give the troops greater confidence to take on the enemy, as and when required.India’s strategy of expediting infrastructure development in border areas can prevent China from gaining a tactical edge. Last week, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh virtually conducted the final breakthrough blast of the Sela tunnel in Arunachal Pradesh. The tunnel, whose construction is likely to be completed by June 2022, is aimed at ensuring faster movement of troops in Tawang, a strategically located district bordering China. With new villages having come up on the Chinese side, India can’t afford to lag behind in terms of connectivity and visibility. Overall, a cautious approach, guided by the bitter lessons learnt from the 1962 debacle and more recently the Galwan clash of 2020, can enable India to hold its ground against the formidable foe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/eye-on-the-chinese-327260
21-10-2021||It has a refreshing||40% seats for women||TMC in West Bengal and BJD in Odisha, to their credit, have already demonstrated their commitment. Of the Trinamool’s 42 candidates in the 2019 General Election, 17 or 41 per cent were women; BJD announced 33 per cent tickets for women and fielded seven from 21 seats. The Congress fielded 54 women (nearly 13 per cent), the BJP 55. Clearly, there is a lot of catching up to do, but why the political mainstream remains edgy on the subject also explains the elusive consensus and the tardiness on the legislation for 33 per cent reservation for women in the Lower House of Parliament and state Assemblies. There is a distinct lack of intent. The Congress’ move is commendable, any change though would need steadfast adherence.A United Nations study lists evidence that women’s leadership in political decision-making processes improves the quality of life. It cites research in rural India that the number of drinking water projects in areas with women-led local bodies was 62 per cent higher. Women, it says, demonstrate political leadership by working across party lines and by championing life-altering issues. Unfortunately, gender equality is often a political sloganeering and not in terms of electoral representation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/40-seats-for-women-327257
