23-10-2021||The administration of 100 crore vaccine doses is a major milestone for India in its valiant fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The nation has every reason to celebrate this feat||Beyond vaccine century||While congratulating every Indian for the monumental teamwork, PM Narendra Modi has also sounded a note of caution. He has exhorted people to keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour during the festival season, when overcrowding in public places is a common sight. The complacency that crept in after the first wave abated early this year had contributed largely to the havoc wreaked by the second surge.Around 75 per cent of India’s adults have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine, while over 31 per cent have been administered both shots. One in every four Indian adults is still unvaccinated, at a time when the country is striving to meet the December deadline for inoculating all of them. The Centre will also have to take a call sooner than later on the vaccination of children, besides booster shots for adults. Among the other challenges are ramping up production of Covaxin, which accounts for only 11 per cent of the 100-crore doses given so far, even as the wait for this vaccine’s international recognition is getting longer. The journey ahead may not be easy, but the vaccination gains achieved over the past nine months should give the nation confidence to deal a decisive blow to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/beyond-vaccine-century-328252
23-10-2021||In a show of resolve||Gauri Lankesh case||In the death of Gauri Lankesh, several pertinent questions cropped up among which is the safety of journalists in general and women journalists in particular. The occupational hazards encountered in living up to professional commitments and the opposition faced make the task of performing one’s duty tough. There have been several incidents of journalists being assaulted in other states, too, which show the risks involved as well as the indifference of not only the governments in these states but also of their administrative machinery. It is hoped that the court’s stance might send the right message and help in bringing down such incidents, for in a democracy, resorting to violence is not a substitute for opposition to an ideology. For governments keen only on celebrating their achievements, it might well point to the fact that pursuit of justice can be relentless.The Supreme Court has given several landmark decisions of late to make up for the gaps in the functioning of the executive and the legislature. But that only makes its job tougher. It should ensure that investigation in the case is properly carried out. The police and other state agencies should also cooperate. The apex court remains the only bulwark against the raging religious right-wing impunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/gauri-lankesh-case-328231
