25-10-2021||The Supreme Court is unhappy with governments over the inordinate delay in appointments to consumer dispute redressal commissions. Despite its August 11 order to fill vacancies in all such commissions in eight weeks||Quasi-judicial bodies||The Consumer Protection Act was originally enacted in 1986 to provide for better protection of the interests of consumers and for the purpose of making a provision for the establishment of consumer protection councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer disputes. However, the disposal of consumer cases has not been fast due to various constraints. Also, the post-liberalisation Indian market has witnessed drastic changes in terms of products and services and the players offering them. The emergence of global supply chains, rise in international trade and rapid development of e-commerce have led to new delivery systems. While consumers have got multiple options, they have been rendered vulnerable to new forms of unfair and unethical trade and business practices such as misleading advertisements, tele-marketing etc. Parliament repealed and re-enact the Consumer Protection Act in 2019 to provide appropriate and swift interventions to protect consumers from such vulnerabilities. However, a large number of posts in consumer commissions remain vacant, rendering the law meaningless to a large extent.Qualifications, selection criterion, method of recruitment, security of tenure, remuneration and conditions of service are key determinants of independent functioning of judicial/quasi-judicial bodies. A close look at the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, and the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, makes it clear that there is an attempt to assert executive dominance in appointments to the discomfort of the judiciary. While the judiciary and the government indulge in a slugfest over who controls appointments to tribunals and consumer commissions, the consumers continue to suffer. This unpleasant situation must end at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/quasi-judicial-bodies-329099
25-10-2021||The problem of managing crop stubble is seeing a major step towards resolution||Paddy straw for biofuel||Managing paddy stubble has proved to be a challenge, with farmers resorting to burning it because of the limited time window left for sowing the rabi crop. According to the Commission for Air Quality Management, the incidence of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh has shown a steep decline this year. But with the onset of winter — the period when air quality in Delhi-NCR gets affected the most — preventive measures are needed. Covid-19, which affects mostly the respiratory system, has served to underline the importance of a clean environment.There are also plans to set up an ethanol plant at Una in Himachal Pradesh, for which crop stubble will be procured from the adjoining states. There have also been individual initiatives like in Rahrianwali village of Punjab’s Muktsar district where villagers have taken to turning paddy straw into bales, used in cow shelters, and have supplied them to Rajasthan and Gujarat. All this has been done without any financial assistance from the government or subsidy. More such efforts are needed to rid the region of a problem that has become endemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/paddy-straw-for-biofuel-329096
