27-10-2021||BY all accounts||India’s nomination for Oscars||A 15-member jury panel picked up Koozhangal from 15 movies shortlisted for selection, reportedly without any note of dissent. A jury member has spoken about the reason for not picking up Sardar Udham — the much-acclaimed movie on freedom fighter Udham Singh — for the Oscars: “But it is a little lengthy and harps on the Jallianwala Bagh incident... But in the process, it again projects our hatred towards the British. In this era of globalisation, it is not fair to hold on to this hatred.” This is a curious comment, suggesting that this jury member may have judged Sardar Udham from a flawed perspective. The animus of a character in a historical movie cannot and should not be transported to the current times; the anger of Udham Singh — or others engaged in the struggle to free India — against the colonial British officers for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre cannot and must not be interpreted as “our hatred towards the British” in our times. Just as a movie on the life of the Rani of Jhansi and her conflict with the British imperial power cannot be interpreted as “hatred” for the British people of today.Interestingly, Kangana Ranaut has been given the national award for her portrayal of the Rani of Jhansi in Manikarnika. It is curious that while a government-appointed panel rewards Kangana for her depiction of the Rani of Jhansi’s battles against the British, a jury of the Film Federation of India rejects another historical movie as India’s entry for the Oscars because it projects “our hatred” towards the British. If this is indeed the reason for not sending Sardar Udham to the Oscars, it’s based on a flawed reading of cinema and history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indias-nomination-for-oscars-330063
27-10-2021||THE Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)||NCB’s credibility at stake||Even as a departmental vigilance inquiry has been initiated against Wankhede, there is no denying that his position has become untenable. Since he had led the cruise drugs bust, his continuation as the zonal head can adversely impact the investigation. The shady goings-on in Maharashtra have again turned the spotlight on tainted officials who thrive on political patronage. Earlier this year, ‘encounter specialist’ Sachin Waze came under the scanner of the National Investigation Agency after the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near business tycoon Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai residence and the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. The case caused major reverberations as Param Bir Singh was shunted out as the Mumbai Police Commissioner. Himself accused of corruption, Param Bir trained his guns at state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, alleging that the latter set extortion targets for cops. The minister had resigned after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the charges.Such sordid episodes have laid bare the nexus between politicians, officials and criminals, showing law enforcement agencies in a poor light and sparking accusations of vendetta and misuse of power. With its credibility at stake, the NCB needs to go all out to clean its Augean stables and weed out the black sheep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ncbs-credibility-at-stake-330062
