29-10-2021||Close on the heels of India’s historic feat of administering 100 crore Covid vaccine doses comes the sobering fact||Dragging feet on 2nd dose||More than 76 per cent of India’s adults have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine, while over 32 per cent have been administered both doses. Several studies have established that two shots offer greater protection from the virus than just one. These reliable findings should suffice to spur people to get themselves fully vaccinated. But if they are not doing so, the Central and state governments must try to bring them on board through multi-media awareness campaigns and advisories. In the worst-case scenario, warnings can be issued to make them see reason.Another dampener is the delay in the grant of international recognition to Covaxin. The WHO has sought clarifications from the vaccine manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, and will meet on November 3 for a final risk-benefit assessment for Covaxin’s emergency use listing. It has reportedly been deliberating on data supplied by Bharat Biotech since early July, but has asserted that it cannot cut corners. Among the millions of Indians inoculated with this vaccine are those who are not able to travel abroad due to the long wait for WHO’s nod. An adverse decision can undermine India’s vaccination programme, which has made rapid strides in recent months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dragging-feet-on-2nd-dose-331013
29-10-2021||How religion poisons everything — This subtitle of a book by Christopher Hitchens||Poisoning sport||Cricket matches between India and Pakistan are so rare nowadays that they acquire rabid nationalistic — and in some cases, religious — intensity. Former Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar passionately espouses the two-nation theory, based on pre-modern separatism rooted in tribalism and religion; it is anathema to the equalitarian ideals on which modern India was founded. In the past, slogans based on religious belief had poisoned the atmosphere in grounds in Sharjah, where religiosity and nationalism would create an ugly brew in the 1980s and 1990s.Unfortunately, the race towards medieval ideas has been taken up by some in India as well, as reflected in comments by former cricketer Virender Sehwag regarding bursting of crackers in parts of India, ‘to celebrate Pakistan’s victory’. In Punjab, some Kashmiri students were attacked for allegedly supporting Pakistan. The trend becomes more worrisome when the government gets involved — in UP, the police have filed cases against three Kashmiri students for allegedly shouting pro-Pakistan slogans. In Srinagar, after some students of medical colleges celebrated Pakistan’s win, the J&K Police registered cases under the provisions of the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against them and college managements. Such actions are disproportionate, heavy-handed and undesirable in a modern democracy. Extremist ideas must not necessarily be matched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poisoning-sport-331014
