30-10-2021||Nemesis catching up with the accused in the Rewari gangrape case in Haryana that took place three years back will offer a glimmer of hope in a state that has earned notoriety for a spate of crimes against women. That the criminal justice system can function with effectiveness will come as consolation to the affected family. The incident was initially marked by police apathy which resulted in delayed action||Rewari gangrape||But some questions will remain. That the girl had to travel to another town for coaching meant the absence of such facilities locally. In its rush for development, Haryana would do well not to neglect its rural areas and provide them with the required wherewithal. Some of the accused were also known to the girl. The girl’s family also had to face isolation in the village, not a healthy social trend as it perpetuates the process of victim-shaming.For a state that has been according high priority to empowerment of women, quick action in such cases will inspire confidence. Haryana has produced a string of sportswomen who have brought glory to the country through their performances. That they receive encouragement and support might be a good sign but the state would need to go beyond that and curb the increasing incidence of crimes against women to boost its image. The Rewari incident was not in isolation. Other towns have also reported instances of heinous crimes against women with regularity. Clamping down on them and ensuring justice will help restore public confidence in the system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/rewari-gangrape-331712
30-10-2021||The 26th edition of the Conference of Parties (COP26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change||COPing with climate change||India has rightly stated that COP26 should not be confined to ‘promises and pledges’ as the world needs rapid and deep emission cuts this decade rather than distant targets. With combating climate change being a universal challenge, India has also asserted that global climate action must be guided by the principles and values of climate justice and equity.The build-up to COP26 has laid bare the glaring inequalities and trust deficit between the developed and developing nations. The US and other affluent countries had promised to transfer $100 billion annually to help poor countries switch to clean energy, but most of them are not contributing their share. China, the US and European Union nations emit over 50 per cent of the world’s 36.44 Gt (gigatonnes) of carbon dioxide, while Africa and India, each with 17% of the global population, contribute just 4 per cent and 7 per cent, respectively. Rather than leading by example, the West is asking the rest of the world to reduce or eliminate the use of fossil fuels. There is no denying that the poor nations are much more vulnerable to extreme weather events than the rich ones and ill-equipped financially as well as technologically. The Covid pandemic — which has spared neither developed nor developing nations — has taught us that it’s all about sinking or swimming together. This lesson should spur the world to let our planet breathe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/coping-with-climate-change-331714
