04-06-2020||Tarn Taran||5 illegal weapons seized, 1 arrested||‘Defer advance payment of tax’Amritsar: The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has demanded deferment of advance tax payment for entrepreneurs due to lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19. In a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the PPBM advocated for the deferment of advance taxes scheduled to be filed on June 15 and September 15. Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, said the companies were going through a period of extreme financial stress and hardly any business had taken place for nearly three months. The advance tax for 2020-21 should be divided into two installments, he said. Samir Jain, general secretary of the PPBM, said the advance tax should be deferred as the Central government had extended the nationwide lockdown to June 30. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-illegal-weapons-seized-1-arrested-94365
04-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Resident doctors back students, protest in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 3Taking up the cudgels on behalf of MBBS students and aspirants, the Resident Doctors’ Association Punjab (RDAP) at Government Medical College (GMC) held a protest against the recent hike in course fee announced by the state government.The resident doctors, along with many from the faculty, wore black badges as a mark of protest during the duty hours. The resident doctors protested after finishing off their shift and sought rollback of the hike.The government has recently announced an 80 per cent hike in fee for MBBS course. With the decision coming into force from the ensuing session, students would have to pay Rs 7.80 lakh instead of Rs 4.40 lakh for the entire course.The protesters stated that the fee had been increased 875 per cent since 2012. Until 2012, students had to pay Rs 80,000 for the entire course. With the government increasing fee in 2013, the MBBS students had to pay Rs 1.50 lakh. With another hike in 2015, the course fee rose to Rs 4.40 lakh.Jaswinder Partap Singh, the president of the RDAP, said: “With the 80 per cent hike in fee, students would have to pay approximately Rs 2 lakh per year.” He said many deserving students would not be able to join the course as they could not pay the fee. He added that the standard of health services in the state would go down as meritorious students wouldn’t be able to join medical courses because of the high fee. Dr Vaibhav Chawla, the president of Medical Students Association at the GMC, said: “When we joined the course in 2015, the annual fee was from Rs 30,000 to Rs 80,000. In the last five years, it has reached Rs 2 lakh per year.”He said families of many students enrolled in the course would not be able to pay the increased fee. The resident doctors stated that they would continue to wear black badges till the decision was revoked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resident-doctors-back-students-protest-in-amritsar-94338
04-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja---||Suwidha Centres witness long queues, staff unhappy||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 2 With the government giving relaxations in the lockdown and work resuming in government offices, Suwidha Centres witness heavy rush of visitors. Moreover, social distancing norms go for a toss. Though the district administration has deployed policemen outside Suwidha Centres to maintain social distancing, many visitors still manage to enter the premises. Employees at Suwidha Centres said applicants are not ready to listen to them. Residents, who had applied for some certificates before the Covid-19 outbreak, are now visiting the centres to collect the same. “As government offices were also closed, people will get their certificates with some delay. There is no need to visit Suwidha Centres unnecessarily,” said an employee. “I had applied for a marriage certificate in February. On Wednesday, I visited the Suwidha Centre to know the status. Employees asked me to check the status of the application online,” said Sandip Singh, a resident. Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said, “As it is the first week of relaxations in the curfew, we have observed heavy rush at Suwidha Centres. Employees were trained to maintain social distancing, but people are not listening to them. We have deployed policemen outside the centers. We are keeping a tab on the situation. We will make some strict arrangements in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suwidha-centres-witness-long-queues-staff-unhappy-94339
04-06-2020||---||Saplings planted last year set on fire||Amritsar, June 3 Some unidentified persons set vacant land at the Verka-Vallah bypass on fire. Volunteers had planted saplings of trees at this site during a ‘Rukh Nahi, Manukh Nahi’ drive last year.  Environment activists from Guru Nanak Dev University had planted 50 amaltas, five banyan trees and neems on the coroner of the BRTS stand in August last year. Mahinder Singh Brar, a volunteer, who was part of the drive, said all trees were grown up to 10 feet. “It was a humid day on August 11 when we planted saplings of these trees. We had contributed Rs7,000 from our pockets for the purpose. All our volunteers are from GNDU. We used to watering these plants once a week. It is a major setback to our campaign. All the team members are hurt with this incident,” he added.        Besides amaltas, the volunteers also planted 88 pilkhan trees (Ficus Virens) on the other side of the same flyover. All these 80 pilkhans are safe. The drive was initiated in memory of Guru Nanak Dev University student Gagandeep Singh, who had died due to cancer 10 year ago. His friend Mahainder Singh Brar started planting trees with Gagandeep.  After his death, Brar and other volunteers plannted around 7,000 plants on the Guru Nanak Dev University  campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saplings-planted-last-year-set-on-fire-94340
04-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal---||Police thwart bid to encroach MC land in Batala||Tribune News Service Sri Hargobindpur, June 3 Acting swiftly, the Batala police averted an attempt to claim possession of a government land by a cloth merchant who has his establishment near the site. In a complaint submitted to the Sri Hargobindpur police station, the Executive Officer (EO) of the Municipal Committee, Jatinder Mahajan, stated that owners of the Pannu Cloth House in the main market tried to take possession of a large piece of land lying vacant near the bus stand. The issue had been the talk of the town for the past several days, following which a section of residents wanted the cops to intervene. SSP Opinderjit Singh, on receipt of the complaint, instructed the Sri Hargobindpur Station House Officer (SHO) to make sure that attempt was averted. The SHO sent a police party to the disputed site. There were rumours that MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi was helping the cloth house to encroach the plot. He, however, vehemently denied his involvement. “Ever since I got elected as legislator, not even a single case of encroachment has happened in the city. Why will is happen now? On the contrary, I asked the police to take action which they did. Encroachments will never be allowed in the town,” he said. The MLA added that he had already asked the cops to act strictly against such people who were out to disturb the peace of the area by indulging in acts of hooliganism. EO Mahajan said: “The cloth house owners were using every trick in the book to encroach the land. Today, I was left with no option except to call in the cops. The land belongs to the MC and nobody will be allowed to encroach upon it,” he said while showing a copy of the complaint filed with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-thwart-bid-to-encroach-mc-land-in-batala-94341
04-06-2020||Amritsar||KCET, Amritsar, students take to online learning||Manju Bala, director, Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET), said though their college remained closed due to Covid, students were attending online classes. She said while the syllabus was completed online through various e-portals such as Google classrooms, Google meet, Zoom and management’s own e-governance system, a good number of taxonomy-based questionnaires and multiple choice questions were provided to students for the preparation of the final exams. She added that besides, students were given practical exposure through virtual labs, which is an online platform, provided by IITs and other top educational institutes. “Students are regularly motivated to join online mock tests to upgrade their technical skills. The training and placement cell is also offering online counselling,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kcet-amritsar-students-take-to-online-learning-94342
04-06-2020||---||DAV College, Amritsar, research scholar designs two UV sanitisation units||Amritsar, June 3  Working on innovative ideas to combat Covid-19, Dr Vibha Chopra of DAV College, Amritsar, in collaboration with Dr SJ Dhoble of RTM Nagpur University, has successfully designed two UV-based sanitisation units viz. for mobile phone and multipurpose units for daily usage items, including fruits and vegetables. The work has been filed for patenting. Speaking about the invention, Dr Chopra said, “The UV technology can be used as one of the methods for sanitisation since UV-C light has germicidal properties. The UV technology is a clean method for sanitising. It is cost effective, environment-friendly and leaves no residues like chemical disinfectant methods. Besides, it is a time-saving technique. It will cause no harm to the environment and humans since the devices are fully protected and closed.”  “The devices are economical and can be used at homes, offices and specially hospitals to sanitise daily usage items. The designed units are expected to show 99.9 per cent of germs, fungi, bacteria and virus-killing effectiveness,” she added. Claiming that the UV-based sanitisation unit can also sanitise eatables and clothes, unlike other chemical-based sanitisers, Dr Chopra said it is safe to use it. “After switching off the UV lamps, the unit will leave no residue like other disinfectants. The device is fully enclosed so it has an advantage that the whole air in the device is subjected to a known UV dose and the disinfection effectiveness can be accurately measured. The presently developed design is the first prototype and can be readily used in hospitals, offices and police stations. Systems with smaller dimensions and further automation are in progress in view of rapid disinfection.” Dr Rajesh Kumar, principal, DAV College, congratulated the inventors of the device.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-college-amritsar-research-scholar-designs-two-uv-sanitisation-units-94343
04-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||1 killed, 2 hurt in road mishap in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 3  A person was killed and two others injured in a road accident near Sangha village on the Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib road on Tuesday.  The police have booked the truck driver, Manjit Singh of Bhaini Gurmukh Singh.  The deceased has been identified as Sheera of the local Gokalpur locality. The injured were his wife and grandson. The police said the victims were coming from Kapurthala on a moped when the speedy truck hit them from the front.  They were admitted to the Civil Hospital, from where Sheera was referred to a Amritsar hospital. Later, he succumbed to his injuries. The truck driver has been released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-killed-2-hurt-in-road-mishap-in-tarn-taran-94344
04-06-2020||---||Depot holder booked for selling wheat||Amritsar, June 3The city police booked four persons, including a ration depot holder, for selling government’s wheat in the market here on Wednesday.The suspects have been identified as Ranjit Singh, Angrej Singh, Rajpal Singh, alias Raja, all residents of Bhala Pind, Rajasansi, and Simranjit Kaur, a resident of Patti Multan Shah Vallah. Of them, Angrej and Rajpal were arrested.Food Supply Inspector Munish Kumar said Simarjit Kaur, depot holder at Vallah, had been cheating innocent beneficiaries of government’s welfare schemes by distributing them less wheat. He said with the help of Ranjit, Angrej and Rajpal, she loaded the wheat on a mini-truck and planned to sell it at high rates in the market.Avtar Singh, investigating officer, said, “We have arrested Anagrej and Rajpal with the mini-truck laden with wheat.” A case under Sections 420,409 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/depot-holder-booked-for-selling-wheat-94345
04-06-2020||---||Dal Khalsa can’t  hold march in Amritsar tomorrow||Amritsar, June 3The administration has refused permission to Dal Khalsa to hold ‘Ghallughara Yadgaari March’ on June 5 to mark the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar. Now, the Dal Khalsa leadership has decided to send its five-member team to the Akal Takht on the same day at 5 pm.In view of the pandemic and shopkeepers facing financial crisis due to the lockdown, the Dal Khalsa has also decided not to give the ‘bandh’ call this year.Addressing a press conference, Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said the march by five members of the Dal Khalsa will be symbolic in nature.He said the Punjab Government, through the Amritsar administration, has refused the permission to hold the march. “We had given in writing to observe the WHO guidelines and government safety instructions, but the administration has made the Home Ministry directives as its basis not to give permission for the march,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-cant-hold-march-in-amritsar-tomorrow-94346
04-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Prices of pulses fall by 20%||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 3With the lifting of curfew and easing of lockdown restrictions, retail prices of pulses have fallen by around 20 per cent. Resumption in regular supply of pulses and the availability of fresh vegetables at low prices, combined with lack of demand, have contributed to the fall in prices.Kuldeep Kaur Dhillon, a homemaker and resident of Anmol Avenue, said: “Fresh vegetables were being delivered on the doorstep at moderate rates. So families prefer to consume fresh farm produce rather than pulses.”Anil Kapoor, the president of the Amritsar Distributors Association (ADA), said the crash in vegetable prices had disrupted balance in the market. This had shifted the demand from pulses to vegetables. He said the demand for pulses had decreased across the state. “Fearing prolonged lockdown, people stocked sufficient amount of pulses for their good shelf life. So they do not require immediate replenishment for their domestic stocks,” he said.The supply of cereals, as most of them come from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, has resumed, dispelling any fear of delay in the arrival of fresh stocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prices-of-pulses-fall-by-20-94349
04-06-2020||---||Student body for regular classes before exam by Guru Nanak Dev University||Amritsar, June 3Stating that online education cannot compensate for regular classes, the Students For Society (SFS) has asked the university authorities to provide 15 days of clasrooom teaching to students before conducting examinations. Guru Nanak Dev University has released schedule for examinations for exit courses but students say that they are half-prepared for it. “We conducted a survey among students of exit courses and a majority of them expressed dissatisfaction with online teaching. The fact is that only one-fourth of students reside in areas that enjoy good internet connectivity. Those from other states such as Jammu and Kashmir and rural areas cannot attend online classes,” said Vijay Kumar, the president of SFS.Another roadblock to success of online teaching and self-study is that the sudden lockdown forced a lot of students to return to their native places without taking their luggage or books, he said.A final year student of a bachelor’s course said: “Teachers are completing their syllabus only by giving assignments on Google Classroom. They don’t even take any Zoom sessions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/student-body-for-regular-classes-before-exam-by-guru-nanak-dev-university-94350
04-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Hand embroidery artisans face survival crisis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 3Hand embroidery artisans are not expecting normalcy in their business anytime soon, especially when their art has already been taken over by machine work.Although they have resumed work after relaxations in the lockdown, the artisans are still waiting for customers.“We have to start our business from scratch after two-month curfew and lockdown,” said Mukesh Kumar, a hand embroidery shop owner in Sirki Banda Bazar, near Katra Dulo, in the walled city area.“Hand embroidery is done especially on women garments worn on special occasions such as marriages and festivals. The Covid outbreak has forced many to postpone their functions. We can expect some improvement in the business only when the restrictions are completely lifted," he said."We are open for two days – Tuesday and Friday - in a week as per the schedule allotted by the district administration in view of the pandemic. Nevertheless, customers don’t know about this. They don’t know when our shop is open and sometimes they return. Earlier, we used to work till late evenings, but now we work only for half day due to lesser work," he rued.He said most of their customers came from adjoining districts, including Batala, Qadian and the rural belt of Amritsar. Due to the coronavirus scare and restrictions in the plying of road transport, they were not coming as of now."Taking advantage of the situation we are going through, most customers seek discount and sometimes we, too, have to compromise on the rates," he said.Mukesh has resumed the work with two workers at present. Earlier, he had eight workers. He has provided masks and sanitisers to his staff. The remaining workers are doing work from home due to space constraint."It is indeed a tough time for all of us. We are taking all necessary precautions. However, if the situation continued for a couple of months, the survival is going to be difficult for sure," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hand-embroidery-artisans-face-survival-crisis-94351
04-06-2020||---||AAP protests outside residence of minister in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 3The youth wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest outside the residence of the Medical Education and Research Minister, Om Parkash Soni, over the recently announced increase in MBBS fee.Accompanied by supporters, Youth wing in-charge and Barnala MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, Sunam MLA Aman Arora and state youth wing president Manjinder Singh Sidhu marched towards Soni's residence from the District Transport Office.The protestors were stopped a short distance from the residence by the police. Lashing out at the government, Meet Hayer said: “Like the Badal government, the ruling Captain government had buckled down under pressures from the private medical education mafia.” He said the party would continue to raise their voice against the fee hike until the decision is revoked.MLA Arora said if the government could give exemption of Rs 750 crore to “liquor mafia” and Rs 250 crore to “sand mafia” under the guise of Covid epidemic, why it could not offer a paltry Rs10 crore concession to young and promising students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-protests-outside-residence-of-minister-in-amritsar-94352
04-06-2020||---||2 more cases in Amritsar district, total count 405||Amritsar, June 3The district reported two fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total count to 405. While one of the patients from the Bharat Nagar area with influenza-like illness has no travel or contact history, the other one from Anand Avenue is a contact of a positive case.Health officials said at present, the number of active cases in the district is 88. While it has reported seven deaths, 310 persons have been cured.Lack of proper awareness among health professionals and supporting staff about disposing of the used PPE kits, sanitisers, gloves and shoe covers is also a cause of concern.The protective equipment used by the staff of Government Medical College was seen stacked on a shelf and scattered on the ground at the mortuary.A faculty member, who did not wish to be named, said, “While some kits are to be incinerated, others can be used again after proper sanitisation. Throwing them causally anywhere could be dangerous. There is a need to create awareness about the issue among employees.”Even masks used by general public can be seen scattered on roads. According to the medical guidelines in view of Covid-19, residents are required to dispose of their masks properly and not to throw them on roads or in dustbins with other waste.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-cases-in-amritsar-district-total-count-405-94354
04-06-2020||---||Alternative plans help this UPSC aspirant sail through pandemic||Amritsar, June 3The Covid-19 lockdown has impacted most of the students preparing for competitive exams as they are uncertain about future. But Rajwinder Kaur, a young UPSC aspirant, has some alternative plans. Rajwinder, who has done masters in chemistry from Guru Nanak Dev University, has been preparing for the UPSC examinations, which is conducted by May-end every year.“I was quite hopeful to crack the UPSC examinations as my preparations were really good. But then the lockdown happened. Since then, it is not clear when the examinations will be conducted or if they will be cancelled for this year owing to special circumstances,” she added. Despite the odds, the 21-year old is not disappointed.“I considered my options well in advance when the initial stage of the lockdown started and enrolled myself in MA mass communication. As a student of the first semester, I still have an academic year to complete even if the UPSC examinations results do not go according to my plans. I do not want to waste another academic year,” she said.“My sister, who has done PhD, has been supporting my education till now through her stipend. I plan to take up some part-time job or paid internship while I study further and prepare for the UPSC to help her,” said Rajwinder.Meanwhile, coping with the stress of uncertainty has also tough the young girl a few lessons.“I am an organised person. So, I do not like things hanging in doubt. A majority of the students who prepare for any competitive examinations are also focused and involved in preparations in a way that they hardly consider any other option or an outcome that doesn’t go according to their plans. But, the lockdown has taught me to be flexible and keep my options open for all possibilities. I would like to advise the same to others who are preparing for such exams that they should not lose heart and just re-plan their goals,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/alternative-plans-help-this-upsc-aspirant-sail-through-pandemic-94356
04-06-2020||Sachin Khanna||‘Government must come up with plan to boost consumer demand’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Covid-19 has hit hard as the industrial demand has vanished. With migrant labourers returning to their native places, manufacturing hubs are unable to operate at their full capacity. Its impact is likely to remain in 2020.When do you expect resumption of businesses at full capacity?We have just restarted the recycling business and are finding it quite hard due to poor demand and listless response from the trading sector. Consumption patterns will change and people will conserve cash to meet priorities.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We paid salaries to all our employees for March, April and May. We have started manufacturing with 30 per cent capacity.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?No matter how many reserves you have, in a manufacturing unit, you will always feel the pinch when an event of this magnitude takes place.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Challenges are opportunities. In the past when we were the only unit paying excise duty on shoddy products, we were pushed into export of our products and had to leave the lucrative local market to those units who sub divided and became micro or small units. Today, over 70 per cent of the small or micro units manufacturing shoddy in Amritsar and Panipat have warped up their businesses. We will have to innovate further and explore new avenues and options to produce and sell our products. This is a challenge that might turn to a new opportunity. But as of now, it is a tough time.What are your expectations from the government?Governments all over the world are helping organisations get back to work by providing assistance on wage payments or other sops. In India, we have to face a high financial cost as compared to the west. The government should have reduced the rate of interest to 4 per cent for three to six months as compared to 9 per cent to 12 per cent being charged by banks. The so-called reduction of interest rates by the RBI is going towards large banks fixing their balance sheets and since the RBI has left it discretionary to the board of banks. None of the benefits are actually being passed on to the MSME sector. Our government really needs to do much more and come up with innovative solutions to boost consumer demand. India Inc has begun production but demand is quite low.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-must-come-up-with-plan-to-boost-consumer-demand-94357
