07-06-2020||Amritsar||Review guidelines regarding langar, SGPC chief urges Punjab govt||SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on Sunday urged the Punjab government to review its guidelines regarding langar, terming the practice an ‘inseparable' part of the Sikh religion.Allowing the opening of religion places from Monday during the current phase of the coronavirus lockdown, the state government on Saturday had prohibited the offering of 'prasad', food or langar (community kitchen).“Langar is an inseparable tradition of the Sikh religion and the government should review its decision,” said Longowal.He said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) was preparing food for devotees by following all norms of the Health Department.Giving 'prasad' to devotees is also an old tradition of the Sikh religion and the government should review its guidelines regarding this while keeping in mind the sentiments of the Sikh community, said Longowal.He, however, said as the Golden Temple is reopening for devotees on Monday, all coronavirus-related guidelines will be followed. Longowal said the thermal screening of devotees visiting the Golden Temple will be a must.“Various health teams have been deployed at the entrances to the Golden Temple where devotees will undergo thermal screening,” said the SGPC president, adding that wearing masks will be a must.Social distancing norms will be followed strictly inside the premises, he said.Devotees will be sent inside the sanctum sanctorum one by one, Longowal said, stressing that people were keen on visiting the shrine to offer prayers.The Punjab government on Saturday had issued guidelines for the opening of shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship.According to the guidelines, the management of religious places shall make adequate arrangements to ensure hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks.Places of worship or religious places will remain open between 5 am and 8 pm, as per the guidelines.The maximum number of persons at the time of worship shall not exceed 20 with social distancing in place. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/review-guidelines-regarding-langar-sgpc-chief-urges-punjab-govt-95852
07-06-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar dietician lays stress on food safety||Ridhi Khanna, a city-based dietician, has launched a campaign on creating awareness on food safety during the Covid-19 pandemic to mark World Food Safety Day (June 7). To create awareness regarding the importance of safe food for consumption, she will be interacting with farmers, home chefs, suppliers and all stakeholders that are responsible for food consumption from farm to table.“The raw food we eat is being disinfected through various methods. But what’s important is how to disinfect it in a correct way. The proper way to disinfect it without destroying its nutritional value is to wash it with baking soda and water. Those food products which cannot be washed or soaked in water should be kept in open for seven to eight hours,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dietician-lays-stress-on-food-safety-95653
07-06-2020||Amritsar||Police tighten vigil on roads, entry/exit points in Amritsar||In the wake of Covid- 19 pandemic and Operation Bluestar anniversary, the police have increased vigil on city roads in general and entry-exit points in particular.Barricades were erected on all leading roads and police personnel were seen checking documents. The police intensified patrols and checks on the GT road.Movement of vehicles and people was least on the weekend. Besides, negligible shops were opened. It was also seen as impact of the Operation Bluestar anniversary.Jagmohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, said the barricading of roads and checking of vehicles have been in place since the introduction of the lockdown. He ruled out that it was done due to the Operation Bluestar anniversary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-tighten-vigil-on-roads-entry-exit-points-in-amritsar-95624
07-06-2020||---||GNDU students say no to exams, seek High Court’s intervention||Amritsar, June 6Student bodies at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) have sought relief from examinations announced for exit classes. Quoting the example of Maharashtra, students have requested finalisation of results on the basis of their past academic performance in wake of the pandemic.We are conducting examinations only for students who are local or belong to other states but are in Punjab at present. Other students will appear for exams at a later date. The exams conducted later will not be counted as supplementary examinations. Under the current schedule, no student needs to travel or undergo quarantine. — Prof KS Kahlon, Registrar, Guru Nanak Dev UniversityIn a letter written to the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the students have stated that guidelines released the university regarding conduct of examination have created a sense of worry among parents as they don’t want to risk the lives of their wards. According to the guidelines, students travelling from other states to take the exams would have to undergo 14-day quarantine. The students have urged the court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and issue directions to the university to formulate a system of scoring and evaluation based on past performance of final-year students.“It will lead to a lot of hardships for students, especially those from other states. Apart from that, till the examinations are over, students will have to live under the fear of getting infected,” said a student who is a part of the body that has written to the court.However, Prof KS Kahlon, Registrar, GNDU, said the matter is being complicated by ‘misinformed’ students. “We are conducting examinations only for students who are local or belong to other states but are in Punjab at present. Other students will appear for exams at a later date. The exams conducted later will not be counted as supplementary examinations. Under the current schedule, no student needs to travel or undergo quarantine.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-say-no-to-exams-seek-high-courts-intervention-95627
07-06-2020||---||Specially-abled found dead in Nivi Abadi area||Amritsar, June 6A specially-abled person was allegedly killed and later burnt by unknown persons in the Nivi Abadi area here on Saturday evening.The Islamabad police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this connection. The police found a liquor bottle and blood stains from the spot. However, the motive behind the murder was yet to be investigated.DCP Jagmohan Singh reached the spot for investigation. The victim was identified as Ramesh Kumar, alias Raju. He used to live alone in the house. Anil Kumar, SHO, Islamabad police station, said the body was taken into custody and sent for postmortem. He said autopsy report would throw light on how Ramesh Kumar was murdered.As per initial probe, the accused might have consumed liquor with him before committing the crime. They set the house on fire to give it a shape of an accident.Saloni, a relative of the victim, said Ramesh was handicapped and used to live alone. She said she got a call from the neighbourhood that Ramesh’s house was engulfed in a fire. She said she rushed the spot and found her brother burning. She said the fire was doused and the police was informed.CASE REGISTEREDThe police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this connection. The police found a liquor bottle and blood stains from the spot. However, the motive behind the murder was yet to be investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/specially-abled-found-dead-in-nivi-abadi-area-95629
07-06-2020||---||Purpose of life is to be happy, says Pooja Bedi||Amritsar, June 6“Though we are going through challenging times, we can make it empowering for us by adopting a positive mindset. You can start with simple things such as adding some activity in your daily routine that interests you or by doing meditation,” said actor-turned life coach Pooja Bedi during a webinar conducted by FICCI FLO on Saturday.Quoting Dalai Lama, she said: “The purpose of our lives is to be happy.” The webinar was first of a series of interactive sessions called Happy Souls to be held by Meeta Mehra, chairperson, FLO, Amritsar.Bedi talked about the power of mind and positive affirmations and how one can become the best version of oneself by conditioning their minds. She also took questions from the members. Pooja, who has been working as life coach and motivational speaker for the past few years, said it was not difficult to understand the mind-body connect though not many paid attention to it.Meeta Mehra said the session was fun and filled with laughter, bonhomie and candid confessions. “We look forward to present other parts of the series soon,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/purpose-of-life-is-to-be-happy-says-pooja-bedi-95628
07-06-2020||---||Over 4,700 challaned  for not wearing mask in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 6City residents seem to care two hoots about containment measures against Covid-19 as, since the beginning of Lockdown 4.0, the police have challaned over 4,700 persons for not wearing mask. A total of 218 persons have been challaned for spitting in public.Besides, the police have also challaned 1,631 two-wheelers and 81 four-wheelers for violating the lockdown. Amid the pandemic, the police had banned travel of two persons on a bike and more than three persons in a car.The Health Department has advised the people to wear masks and maintain a safe and social distance while in public places to control the spread of coronavirus, which has claimed over 6,000 lives in the country. The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Jagmohan Singh, said people should understand that the purpose behind the guidelines is to protect them from the disease and they should abide by these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-4-700-challaned-for-not-wearing-mask-in-amritsar-95625
07-06-2020||---||ASI adopts poor family||Amritsar, June 6Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Daljit Singh posted at Division B police station here has adopted a poor family living in Dal village located on the Bhikhiwind-Khalra road in Tarn Taran.Daljit Singh said he came to know about the plight of the family through social media and immediately decided to help the family.Kuldeep Kaur, a widow, works as domestic help to make both ends meet. She has three children to look after. Her husband a labourer died of some disease last year, said Daljit Singh.After seeing the message on social media, next day I went to meet the family and provide essentials goods and some monetary help. “However, when I entered the house and saw the condition, I could not stop myself and became very emotional. The family was living in Katcha house,” he said.The three children—- Mandeep Kaur (12), Husn (8) and Sandeep Kaur (6) —- are government school students of class VI, IV and 1, respectively. “Though I gave essentials including ration and some monetary help to the family as immediate relief I wanted to do something for the family,” he said. He said he discussed with his children who encouraged me and I then decided to adopt the family. I provided books and stationary material to the children and decided to bear the expenditure of their education, he added.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill appreciated ASI Daljit Singh and said cops like Daljit Singh was changing the face of the Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-adopts-poor-family-95622
07-06-2020||---||2.53-km cycle track project inaugurated in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 6Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, MLA Sunil Dutti, Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi and MC Commissioner inaugurated work on a 2.53-km cycle track at Ranjit Avenue here on Saturday.The project is estimated to be completed in six months at an approximate cost of Rs1.93 crore and the track would cover the road stretch from MK Hotel T-point to Ranjit Avenue Police Station Chowk, Defence Colony Road, Beant Park and Old Jail Road, before culminating at MK Hotel T-point.The Mayor said under the Smart City project, LED lights were being installed in every ward at a cost of about Rs39 crore. He said foot-over-bridges (FOBs) on GT road were also being planned. He added the FOBs would be equipped with elevators. He said the area under elevated roads was being developed as green zone.MP Gurjit Singh Aujla said the cycle track would encourage people to use cycle, which is a healthy and environment-friendly mode of transportation. He said the track would be sort of pilot project and on the basis of response, more cycle tracks would be constructed in city.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said all the development works affected by the lockdown were again gaining momentum and would be completed on time. She footpaths, street vending zones, street furniture and parking lots would also be built around the cycle track at Ranjit Avenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-53-km-cycle-track-project-inaugurated-in-amritsar-95623
07-06-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Relief on school fee by state govt hit our education business hard’||The city's 62-year-old St Soldier Group has over 42,000 students enrolled in its educational institutions. It also owns malls, residential flats and hotels in Jalandhar. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, owner of the business group Anil Chopra discusses various financial issues that he is facing because of Covid-19. Excerpts:How has your businesses been affected by the lockdown?Our businesses have been affected badly. We are into the businesses of real estate, hospitality and education. Unfortunately, all three sectors have got affected. There are absolutely no buyers for flats. Our three hotels in the city have been lying shut for almost 70 days now. We have not got even 10 per cent fee from school students. So, we really do not know what to do.There is no point making any planning for hotels. The hotels are opening in the name only as practically, the business may not pick for another year or two. No one will come to us to dine. People are avoiding travel so there will be hardly any room booking. We have only 10 per cent staff with us now. We have relieved the rest of them as there was no work. They were mostly from Himachal Pradesh and have gone back. — Anil Chopra, owner of St Soldier GroupHow many educational institutions are you running and what is the status of their finances?We have 52 institutions — 33 schools and 19 colleges. We have a monthly salary expenditure of Rs4.5 crore. We have paid the salaries to the entire staff till April. For May, we paid them 20-day salary. We might not be able to continue ahead and we may have to relieve our entire staff in the coming months if we do not get the pending amount of the fee.How do you see college admissions and do you intend to start any new or short courses?The process to start fresh school enrolments has completely been washed out. We are expecting a large number of admissions because the youth are not able to go abroad. We will not start any new courses. For us, the main task is to handle all our existing courses well.What is your planning for reopening your hotels?There is no point making any planning for hotels. The hotels are opening in name only as practically, the business may not pick up for another year or two. No one will come to us to dine. People are avoiding travel so there will be hardly any room booking.Are you keeping your hotel employees intact?We have only 10 per cent staff with us now. We have relieved the rest as there was no work. They were mostly from Himachal Pradesh and have gone back.How is your real estate business going?We are neither selling flats nor renting out commercial properties. We have always sold flats, showrooms and office spaces in lump sum. So, there is no need to worry about pending EMIs or rents. For me, there is a bigger issue. My sales have become absolutely zero and it will remain like that for the time being. My new mall which was coming up near the existing PPR Mall will be slowly readied. But we will not open it for another two years.As president of the CBSE Affiliated Schools Association, how do you see the future of the education sector?There are 2.5 lakh teachers working in private schools and colleges of Punjab and there are 30 lakh students studying in these institutions. The state government has put the future of all students and teachers at stake by exempting parents from paying the fee. We feel like relieving everyone and locking all institutes until the lockdown is lifted. Let the government face the situation arising out of its orders.As chairman of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations, how do you see the current crisis?According to me, the crisis is only getting bigger. I can foresee worse happening. I even apprehend that the Indian currency may crash. The worst is yet to come. There is not much hope for the next two years.Is anything being done by your group as a relief measure these days?We paid Rs5 lakh to the Jalandhar DC for Covid-19 relief. This includes a small portion from the salaries of our staff. We also paid Rs2 lakh for ration distribution in Phagwara through Union MoS Som Parkash. We have also announced free education for wards of doctors, nurses or police personnel who passed away while doing duty during the Covid spread.What lessons have you learnt from the pandemic?The biggest lesson for everyone is to minimise expenses and keep reserves for such eventualities. Even nature has taught us a lesson not to fiddle with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relief-on-school-fee-by-state-govt-hit-our-education-business-hard-95618
07-06-2020||---||Hoshiarpur youth found dead in car||Amritsar, June 6A youth was found dead in a car near a bridge at Shukar Chak village here on Friday. Drug overdose is stated to be the reason behind his death.The deceased was identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur. The police have booked unknown persons on charges of culpable homicide and further investigation was under way to identify the suspects.Surinder Singh, father of the victim, told the police that Gurpreet was a drug addict and had been under treatment for the past one year. He said he had not consumed any drugs since his treatment started. However, around a month ago, he had started taking drugs again.He said on Friday, his son went to Jalandhar on Thursday. He got information that Gurpreet’s body was lying on the back seat of a car (PB-02-BP-0851), which was found parked near a bridge at Shukar Chak village. He suspected that unknown persons injected heroin into his son which led to his death.Verka police station SHO Nishan Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Section 304 of the IPC had been registered against unidentified persons.He said the car in which he was found dead belonged to his friend and the police were investigating whether he was involved in the crime. The police found a mobile phone with damaged screen and a syringe from the car. He said the body was handed over to the family after a postmortem here on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoshiarpur-youth-found-dead-in-car-95619
07-06-2020||---||2-hour rain exposes poor drainage system in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 6Heavy rain lashed the city and surrounding areas this morning. Rain, which lasted around two hours, exposed the poor drainage system in several parts of the city. Waterlogging was seen in most low-lying areas of the city.The Municipal Corporation had initiated desilting of the main sewer lines in several areas as the city had been facing the problem of waterlogging over the years. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said timely desilting would address the waterlogging problem.Mintu of the Chabaal Road area said, “The water was accumulated on the road leading to Gate Hakima. It is difficult to commute on roads and streets after rain. Waterlogging was visible, especially in the Putligarh and Islamabad areas.”Besides, residents got some respite as the day temperature dipped after rain. Dilraj Singh, a resident, said, “The mercury has dipped with rain. Residents, who prefer to stay indoors during hot weather, are enjoying the day.”“The weather was almost pleasant during May. In the first week of June, the temperatures started rising. I hope this year we would witness rainfall more than average,” said Anil, a resident of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-hour-rain-exposes-poor-drainage-system-in-amritsar-95620
07-06-2020||---||Rain comes as blessing for paddy farmers||Amritsar, June 6Rain, which lashed the city early this morning, has come as a boon for farmers as paddy transplantation is scheduled to start from June 10 in the state.Usually, farmers start irrigating the fields a few days before the start of paddy transplantation. However, rain has somewhat made their work easier.On the other hand, rain has delayed the direct seeding of rice as tractors would not be able to move in wet fields. A farmer of Chawinda said, “We are facing a huge labour crisis this year. Local labourers are demanding exorbitant rates.” “Local labour is still non-committal as they feel that desperate farmers would be ready to pay high labour charges,” he said.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said, “Of the total 1.80 lakh hectare area expected under paddy, we target to bring at least half under direct seeding and mechanical transplanting.” The department also planned to bring around 6,000 hectares under maize cultivation.Dr Bal said farmers going for manual transplantation should first make assessment of available labour. “It might create problems for farmers if they prepare more fields and the labour is not available.”The Chief Agriculture Officer said farmers, experimenting with direct seeding and mechanical transplantation for the first time, must do so only on a portion of land. “They should learn the technique before implementing it on their entire land,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-comes-as-blessing-for-paddy-farmers-95621
07-06-2020||---||Amritsar district sees 28 fresh cases, count reaches 468||Amritsar, June 6The district reported fresh 28 cases on Saturday, taking the total count to 468. Of the fresh cases, eight patients tested for the coronavirus after they reported influenza-like illness. Rest of the patients is contacts of positive cases.Health officials said seven patients are contacts of a positive case from Housing Board Colony Anand Avenue, three are contacts of a positive patient from Katra Sher Singh, others are contact of patients from Faizpur (Ranjit Avenue), Kesar Dhaba, E Block Ranjit Avenue, RB Estate, Katra Moti Ram and Chowk Phulawala.Besides, fresh cases reported from Chehratta, Katra Sant Singh, Tunda Talab, Jandiala, Bazar Jattan Wala, Kot Khalsa, Katra Charat Singh and Shastri Market.Meanwhile, Rakesh Kumar (60), a resident of Katra Sher Singh, who died of the coronavirus on June 4, was cremated on Saturday.Tehsildar Archana Sharma, who made arrangements for the cremation and ensured protocol, said, “The deceased’s daughter and wife performed the last rites. Deceased’s son has also tested positive for Covid-19 and is admitted to the hospital.”With the district reporting 63 cases from at least 25 new localities in the past three days, the community spread of Covid-19 is picking up pace with each passing day. The district health authorities stated that people should wear masks and ensure proper hand hygiene.With total 468 positive cases, the district has also witnessed 344 recoveries. Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said the district has a total of 116 active cases out of which two are on oxygen support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-28-fresh-cases-count-reaches-468-95617
07-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Two discharged in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 6Two of the four Covid-19 positive patients, who were under treatment at the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital, were discharged after recovery here on Saturday.Officials of the Health Department said the discharged patients were Gurjashandeep Singh (20) of Bagrian village and Jaswinder Singh (26) of Khadoor Sahib. Gurjashandeep Singh had returned from the US and Jaswinder Singh from Mumbai. The officials said a total of 165 Covid-19 patients had been discharged after recovery so far and two patients were still under treatment here.Meanwhile, 25 persons, who were under isolation at a hostel of Sri Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, were sent to their homes. They had returned from Dubai, including Gurmej Singh who tested positive, on Friday. Gurmej Singh had been kept in the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital on Friday.Baba Nirmal Singh of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, said they took care of those persons who were quarantined here. Officials of the SDM office, Khadoor Sahib, were present at the time of their departure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-discharged-in-tarn-taran-95648
07-06-2020||Amritsar||Seven booked for firing||One held for stealing rationTarn Taran: The Chabal police have arrested a person, Hardip Singh of Mannan village here, for stealing midday meal ration and an electric motor from a village school. The accused has been booked under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC. The accused committed the crime on Friday night by breaking the locks of the school rooms. Harinderpal Singh, head teacher of Government Elementary School, had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. The police said the accused stole 150 kg of wheat and 250 kg of rice from the ration meant for midday meal and the electric motor installed for drinking water. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-booked-for-firing-95651
07-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||As people hesitate to call outsiders to home, getting work is daily struggle for this plumber||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 6“Though markets are opening and shop timings are being extended, it would take time for things to go back to normal. People are hesitating in calling outsiders to their homes and are delaying their works. Customers' ability to spend has reduced. Moreover, the construction work has seen a dip. Now, everybody thinks twice before spending,” says Rakesh Kumar.I don't get work daily. It is my old customers who call me for some urgent work. The shopkeeper from whose shop I used to procure ration gave me essentials without asking for money. He even offered monetary help — Rakesh Kumar, PLUMBERLike other migrants, the 40-year-old plumber also wanted to go back to his native place in Amethi, Uttar Pradesh, but with the support of his regular customers and friends he survived the hardships faced during the lockdown.“I don't get work daily. It is my old customers who call me for some urgent work. The shopkeeper from whose shop I used to procure ration gave me essentials without asking for money. He even offered monetary help,” he adds.“I have never seen such difficult times in my life. It was unprecedented,” Rakesh says.Earlier, I used to earn around Rs15,000 per month. Now, it has come down one fourth. Similar is the case with shops selling sanitary material. “I have to pay rent, electricity bills or other expenditures. Nothing is left with me in the name of saving,” adds Kumar.Since, the easing of lockdown restrictions, we are taking every precaution. I cover my face with a protective mask whenever I go out of my house. Residents ask us to first wash hands before doing any work. We don't even take tea in our customer's house, says Kumar.“I am using Aarogya Setu app regularly and check before going at any area,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-people-hesitate-to-call-outsiders-to-home-getting-work-is-daily-struggle-for-this-plumber-95654
07-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pandemic has upset all her future plans||Tribune News ServiceDinanagar, June 6At 17, she has already charted out her course. She wants to follow in the footsteps of Mukesh Ambani and become a women entrepreneur.A Class XII commerce student of Shanti Devi Arya Mahila College, Dinanagar, Suhani Aggarwal has stars in her eyes. She nurtures a dream where she wants to start her own MNC but not before she joining one where she can learn the tricks of the trade.The most successful entrepreneurs I know are optimistic. It is a part of their job description. It is okay if my decision of earning a name as a businesswoman backfires. Failure is not the opposite of success, it is an inherent part of success. — Suhani Aggarwal, Class XII studentBut, the lockdown has upset all her plans. She had taken Class XII exams of five subjects before the Covid-19 outbreak. Now, no one knows when the remaining three exams — business, e-business and computers — will be conducted by the PSEB.“I had done well in five of my exams, but Covid-19 ensured that the remaining ones were put on hold. I had an intuition that the lockdown would be extended long. Then, I decided to watch video clips how Dhirajlal Hirachand Ambani, who later became popular throughout the world as Dhirubhai Ambani, made it big. It gave me an opportunity to study the way he took risks to get success out of every business he handled from textiles to petroleum refining,” she said.Hers is a case of a small town girl thinking big. But does not living in a non-descript town like Dinanagar put her in a disadvantageous position?“Even Neil Armstrong had to take his first steps at home before landing on the moon. It is a global village out there and living in a small town no longer matters. I am an eternal optimist. The most successful entrepreneurs I know are optimistic. It is a part of their job description. I do not see any problem even if my decision of earning a name as a businesswoman backfires. We need to accept that we do not always make the right decisions and it is sure we will mess up royally somewhere along the way. We should understand that failure is not the opposite of success, it is an inherent part of success,” she said.Her father Mohit Aggarwal and mother Shelika Aggarwal are teachers in the same school where she studies.She plans to do MBA in finance and marketing after which she wants to move to a big town.When it came to the crux, she rather honestly told her parents that she had no interest in following run-of-the-mill choices like becoming a doctor, engineer or an IT professional. She made it clear that “the unpredictability of business interests her like nothing else does.”“I am a bit of an introvert. Just because you do not fit the classical mould does not mean you cannot be a leader. You just need to follow your own style and let others follow you,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-has-upset-all-her-future-plans-95655
