11-06-2020||New Delhi||Vande Bharat Mission: Vistara to operate 2 repatriation flights on Singapore-Delhi-Amritsar route||Vistara will operate two repatriation flights—one each on June 14 and June 15—on the Singapore-Delhi-Amritsar route under the Vande Bharat Mission to bring back stranded Indians, the airline said on Thursday.In an e-mail to travel agents on Thursday, the full-service carrier said it will also take bookings for June 14 and June 15 on the two flights going to Singapore to ferry Indians back."We are happy to participate in the government's Vande Bharat Mission with our repatriation flights from Singapore to Delhi and onwards to Amritsar scheduled on 14 and 15 June 2020," said Vinod Kannan, Chief Commercial Officer, Vistara, in a press statement.While scheduled domestic passenger flight services in India resumed on May 25 after a gap of two months, scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country.The two aircraft Vistara will deploy under the mission will reach Singapore from Kolkata and Delhi and the airline has decided to sell their seats.The aircraft on June 14 will be going from Kolkata to Singapore, and the airline is selling seats on this outbound flight. Also, its aircraft on June 15 will be going from Delhi to Singapore, and the airline is taking bookings for this outbound flight too.However, bookings on outbound flights cannot be done on the airline's website.The passenger will have to send his or her details to the airline on a particular e-mail id and only when the carrier is satisfied that he or she is eligible to enter Singapore, a ticket will be booked on the outbound flight. The Singapore government had said on March 23 that it will only allow its citizens, permanent residents, work visa-holders, long-term visa holders and their dependents to enter the country in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Bookings on Vistara's Singapore-Delhi-Amritsar repatriation flights are being done through the Indian High Commission in Singapore, as per the procedures set under the Vande Bharat Mission.Under the mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express started operating international flights from May 7 onwards to repatriate stranded Indians from abroad. The first phase was from May 7 to May 16, following which the second phase began.Between May 7 and June 1, Air India group has operated a total 423 inbound international flights under the mission, bringing 58,867 Indian citizens back to the country.Air India and other private carriers will operate more than 300 flights to regions and countries like Europe, Australia, Canada, the USA, the UK and Africa between June 10 and July 1 during phase 3 of Vande Bharat Mission. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vande-bharat-mission-vistara-to-operate-2-repatriation-flights-on-singapore-delhi-amritsar-route-97769
11-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Minister accuses private lab of issuing false Covid reports||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 10Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni has accused a private lab of issuing ‘false positive’ reports of Covid-19 tests.According to a press note released by the district public relations office, the minister has issued a ‘warning’ to such private labs.However, neither the minister nor health officials have revealed the name of the lab. While city residents are in panic, the entire health administration, led by Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore, remains incommunicado.So far, the government has authorised only three private labs in the district to conduct tests for Covid-19.Of 527 positive cases till date, the district, which is the worst affected, has reported 122 in the last seven days. The district has reported the highest number of Covid causalities in the state.Kuljit Singh Malawali, a local resident, said, “If the private lab is issuing false positive reports, it not only amounts to malpractice, but is also a criminal offence under the Disaster Management Act.”He said if a person travelling alone in a car could be challaned and even booked for obstructing a public servant from performing his duty, then at least the name of the private lab could be revealed so that people should avoid going there.The Civil Surgeon could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-accuses-private-lab-of-issuing-false-covid-reports-97558
11-06-2020||GS Paul||At local shrines, no bar on prasad & langar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 10After the state government’s orders, langar and prasad distribution resumed at religious shrines across the state today. Although it was never prohibited at the Golden Temple, the shrine witnessed an increase in the footfall of devotees today.At Durgiana Mandir also, the priest resumed prasad distribution, though offering the same to the idols continues to remain suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 threat.Durgiana committee head Ramesh Sharma said the temple priest had been told to distribute prasad only after wearing gloves so as to avoid human touch. However, the Hindu ritual of offering parsad to the idols would not be allowed.Sharma said, “The parsad is being arranged by the management after taking all precautions. On the other hand, devotees who offer parsad buy it from shops, which can be a risky affair.” Langar has also been resumed at the shrine while adhering to social distancing norms.Sharma said the remaining restrictions would continue to remain in force. Since touching the idols was banned, devotees had been asked not to perform ‘tilak’ ceremony. The bells had been wrapped with cloth. A distance was being maintained among devotees at the time of ‘aarti’. “We have also removed floor mats to discourage the devotees from sitting for long,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-local-shrines-no-bar-on-prasad-langar-97559
11-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||‘Natwar Lal’ held again for fraud, dupes banker of Rs1.6L||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 10Parveen Kumar Sabharwal was yet again arrested by the police for allegedly duping a bank employee of Rs 1.60 lakh on the pretext of providing him a job of Inspector at the Intelligence Bureau here on Wednesday. This time Sabharwal posed himself as an IPS officer posted as ADGP (Central Crime) in the Ministry of Home Affairs in Delhi. Parveen Kumar is currently residing at Bhalla Colony, Chheharta.Victim Dilpreet Singh in his complaint to the Islamabad police said that he was working as deputy manager in Axis Bank branch at Khandwala. There was a bank account of Praveen Kumar’s wife in his branch and he used to visit the branch. Around one and half months back, Praveen Kumar came to his bank and introduced himself as ADGP (Central Crime) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. He also gave him his fake visiting card, which reads PK Khandelwal, IPS. During some regular meetings the accused lured Dilpreet Singh that he would provide him a job of inspector in the Intelligence Bureau. He demanded Rs 15 lakh for the recruitment. Dilpreet believed him and discussed with his father. They finalised the deal and Sabharwal took Rs 1,60,000 from Dilpreet.After sometime when Singh started calling him again and again but Parveen did not respond his phone calls. Later Dilpreet found out that Praveen Kumar is a conman and facing several cases.On the complaint of Dilpreet Singh, a case has been registered under Sections 420,468 and 471 of the IPC against Parveen Kumar Sabharwal, and was arrested with his car, mobile phone and fake visiting cards.Sabharwal is known as Amritsar’s Natwar Lal and around 20 cases were registered against him at various police stations. He was convicted in some cases.The past of Parveen Kumar SabharwalIn August 2017, Parveen Kumar Sabharwal was booked by the police for allegedly duping a cop of Rs 15,000 on the pretext of getting him deputed as the head munshi at the Vijay Nagar police chowki. He posed as an IPS officer posted as DIG, Defence, in the Ministry of Home Affairs in Delhi.In October 2013, Sabharwal was booked by the local police for duping a local resident of Rs 1.06 crore on the pretext of getting him a license of a gas agency of Indian Oil Corporation besides providing the job of an inspector in the CBI.In September 2013, he along with his family members was booked by the police for duping a local resident, Rohit Sethi, of Rs 1.20 crore by introducing himself as an SP-rank official in the CBI. He claimed that he had close links with top officials of the Central Government and the Police Department.Earlier, in April 2013, he was arrested by the Rambagh police for defrauding another local resident, Varinder Pal of Rs 1 crore, while he was arrested by the police on similar charges in 2002.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/natwar-lal-held-again-for-fraud-dupes-banker-of-rs1-6l-97560
11-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||No job, livelihood is at stake for them||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 10After serving for nine years as a Class IV employee at a leading public school, being run by a religious society, Sanjiv Kumar, 37, has been asked to put in his papers and withdraw the entire amount from his Provident Fund account.The introduction of the prolonged pan-India lockdown at the arrival of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country brought untold miseries and hassles to people from the marginal sections.Sanjiv had joined at Rs 3,500 monthly salary about nine years ago. About two months ago, he was drawing Rs 11,000 salary. A father of three school-going children, he is the sole bread winner of the family, in which he is supposed to look after his aged mother and wife. “In the given circumstances, I cannot get the job anywhere.” He claims that there are 17 other people like him who were issued pink slip by the school. He added that the school administration told them that they would be hired through agency.Rakesh Kumar, a body building trainer at a gym, lost his job. He used to earn Rs 15,000 per month. “I have not been paid salary for the past three months and there was a curt statement from the proprietor that they would consider him only after gym begins to operate.” He added that in all there were 12 employees at the gym.Married less than a year ago, his father working as an accountant at Rs 10,000 per month was the sole bread winner of the family. Sanjay Kumar, working in a hotel on a monthly wage of Rs 12,000, lost his job like many others. In tears, he said it had become difficult for him to meet his expenditure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-job-livelihood-is-at-stake-for-them-97561
11-06-2020||---||Migrants welcome Supreme Court directions to send them back home in 15 days||Amritsar, June 10Migrants and their associations have welcomed the Supreme Court’s directions to provincial governments to send them back to their native places in 15 days. A group of migrants danced to the tunes of dhols following the announcement. Among them one Rajkumar said many of them were still stuck here while it was difficult for them to make both ends meet. He recalled that the groceries were distributed in the early days of lockdown near the Focal Point. However, the practice was not persistently followed. He said a normal person required meals thrice a day and without work, it was not possible. Bharat, another migrant, said house owners were pestering them for rent and factory owners were unable to offer them work due to extremely low demand. Mahesh Verma of the UP Kalyan Board welcomed the announcement of the apex court and said it ensured that the migrants would return to their house within a fortnight after their registration with the government and it would take care of their meals as well. “Upon return to their native states, their governments would take care of their employment.” Sukhdev Pal, President of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad also welcomed the concern shown by the government for poor migrants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrants-welcome-supreme-court-directions-to-send-them-back-home-in-15-days-97562
11-06-2020||---||Chhina hit out at govt over school fee imbroglio||Amritsar, June 10Over the ongoing school fee mess, an educationist and senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina said the government was playing chronically truant on the significant issue and failing to provide solutions to the crisis-like situation.“Nothing concrete was the outcome of numerous meetings between Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Advocate General Atul Nanda. From the day one, since the lockdown was imposed and schools were closed down, the government had been dilly-dallying over the matter”, he said.Taking into account the financial dent to the parents due to lockdown crisis he said the government must take the responsibility to bear the fees of the lockdown period.“No school management can bear the cost of running schools for long period of time without getting the fees from parents. The government must furnish the fee to let the school operational. As per the High Court directions, 70 per cent school charges and 70 per cent salaries to the staff must be paid,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chhina-hit-out-at-govt-over-school-fee-imbroglio-97563
11-06-2020||---||SFS: Postpone exams, don’t  force students to vacate hostels||Amritsar, June 10Students For Society (SFS), a student organisation at Guru Nanak Dev University, has criticised the institute for holding the examinations from mid July. The SFS has also demanded from the university to not force students, who are still staying at hostels, to vacate their rooms. Vijay Jandiala, a student of social sciences department and president of the SFS claimed, “Around 100 students are still stuck at the campus. Earlier, they could not leave due to the lockdown and now as the infection is spreading it is not safe to travel.” He said the students be allowed to stay at the hostels and exams should be postponed until the situation becomes normal. The SFS leader claimed that they had written to the university authorities regarding their concern but did not get a response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sfs-postpone-exams-dont-force-students-to-vacate-hostels-97564
11-06-2020||---||Illegal constructions on in full swing in city||Amritsar, June 10Taking advantage of the civic bodies being engaged in Covid-19 duties, the land mafia and encroachers have been busy in illegal constructions and encroachments on government land in the city. There have been several cases of encroachment and illegal construction has also been reported in the past few days.Some unidentified persons constructed shops in a park at the Ranjit Avenue, overnight. Estate officer Sushant Bhatia reached the spot and demolished the illegal structure. Similarly, Amritsar Improvement Trust demolished a shop from the Green Belt in Ranjit Avenue, where encroached attempted to grab the prime land in front of four star hotel.Not only in Ranjit Avenue, taking the benefit of lockdown, Bansal Sweets on the Lawrence Road encroached the houses in front of the shop. The officials of the MC failed to take any action.Apart from this, there are several under construction illegal hotels where construction is on full swing. RTI activist and leader of the Punjab Ekta Party Suresh Sharma filed a complaint about the ongoing illegal construction of hotels. “Due to the negligence of MC officials, the construction of illegal hotels on the Queen’s road and Railway road is on full swing. If MC fails to take any action, takes action, I will stage a protest against the practice,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-constructions-on-in-full-swing-in-city-97565
11-06-2020||---||3 booked for teasing woman at gunpoint||Amritsar, June 10The police have booked three persons for harassing a woman at gunpoint and threatening her at Kabir Park here on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as Sandeep Singh, Mandeep Singh and Sukhchain Singh, all residents of Brar village.In her complaint to the police, the victim stated that she, along with her husband, was returning from her parental home. When they reached near Sarkar Patti of Kot Khalsa, three car-borne youths intercepted their motorcycle. The woman said they alighted from the car, held her hand and asked her to go with them. When she refused, they tore her cloths, alleged the woman.“Sukhchain Singh pointed a pistol at my husband and threatened to kill him. After he raised the alarm, one of his uncles reached on the spot, following which the suspects fled away from the spot,” she said.The victim has stated that Sandeep Singh had been teasing her before her marriage and a case in this regard has also been registered against him at the Lopoke police station.A case has been registered under Section 354, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-booked-for-teasing-woman-at-gunpoint-97566
11-06-2020||Strap||12 fresh cases take district's tally to 527||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 10  The district today reported 12 fresh cases, taking the Covid tally to 527. Of the new cases, six were reported from Bombay Wala Khoo, Maan Singh Gate, Katra Khazana, Katra Charat Singh, Lawrence Road and Chuchak village in the Lopoke block. Five others --- three from Garden Enclave and two from the Mohini park area, are contacts of two positive cases. A resident of Khasa, who returned from Mumbai recently, has also tested positive.   With a continuous rise in positive cases in the district, various social media platforms are flooded with demand for a complete curfew in the city to tackle the situation. Meanwhile, a family from the Rani Ka Bagh area today accused a private lab of issuing a false positive Covid report of a nine-month expectant mother. The family later approached Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni. A retest conducted at the Government Medical College lab came as negative, said family head Raj Kumar.    He said based on the information provided to the government, a rapid response team along with the police reached their home and shifted the woman to the hospital despite the fact that her delivery was expected anytime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-fresh-cases-take-districts-tally-to-527-97567
11-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Quarantined persons say  no to COVA Punjab app||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 10Despite efforts by the district administrations, city residents quarantined at homes are hesitating to install COVA Punjab mobile applications. Officials have also found that many of those who installed the app removed it later.According to officials, people have doubts that the application might breach their privacy. There is a feature of ‘geo fencing’ of home quarantined persons in the application, using which the officials can trace quarantined person in case they violate the home quarantine rules.MC Joint Commissioner Nitish Singla, who is the nodal officer for home quarantined, said: “There are more than 1,700 persons city residents who are in home quarantine. We have asked everyone to download the COVA Punjab in their phone. But a majority of them haven’t done it. The app is useful for both quarantined persons and the administration. Residents should voluntarily download it to get updates about Covid-19.”The application aims to sensitise people and share with them protective and preventive measures to be adopted against Covid. The application also informs citizens of government advisories and notifications related to the coronavirus.Recently, several new features have been added to the app. These include audio-video awareness, search of foreign-returned travellers, chat bot, reporting of mass gatherings, marking oneself as home quarantined and geo-fencing of home quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/quarantined-persons-say-no-to-cova-punjab-app-97568
11-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Paneer Wala struggles to stay afloat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 9On a usual day, there is hustle and bustle in the famous Heera Paneer wala shop located in the prime location of Novelty Chowk. People relish his dishes such as ‘paneer bhurji’ with bread and ‘paneer pakora’.But now, he is struggling to remain afloat in the current scenario after relaxation in curfew and imposition of lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Undoubtedly, the pandemic has hit the traders and shopkeepers very hard, the eatery joints are the worst affected, pointed out Heera Singh, owner of the shop.“Though shops are open now and people have been visiting as per their need, dining is yet to take off at the eatery joints,” he said. People, now, prefer home-cooked food, rather than going out for dining.In order to thrive, we have now started take away services and therefore packaging orders for customers, he adds.“I am 56 now, and have to start from the scratch. For years, I run my business from a kiosk and it was only five years ago that I got a shop at a prime location at the Nehru Shopping Complex on Novelty Chowk. People showered their love and my business started flourishing. However, these two months of curfew have brought us to our knees and our earnings have dwindled,” he said.However, today, the competition is hard as more eatery joints have come up in the vicinity, he pointed out.His two sons have been helping him in the business and he has been hoping these times to get over soon.The global health crisis has also brought new challenges to us especially in maintaining hygiene. People have become more health conscious and therefore maintaining hygiene is a must to survive these times. “Though, we cannot wear gloves all the time, we regularly wash our hands,” he said.Whenever the dining is allowed, we have also been planning to ensure social distancing near the shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paneer-wala-struggles-to-stay-afloat-97570
11-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Lockdown gives her time to prepare for NEET||Tribune News ServiceDinanagar, June 10On the surface, Shruti Sharma (17) looks like a girl next door who bubbles with the youthful exuberance one normally associates with teens of her age, and engages herself in vibrant discussions.Shruti is a Class XII (medical stream) student at the local Shanti Devi Arya Mahila College. She wants to be a doctor so that “she can mitigate the sufferings of people, particularly those with ailments such as muscular dystrophy, a disease that cut short his brother’s life at the tender age of 17.”There is a deep void inside her because of her brother’s untimely death a few years ago. The hollowness in her psychological being will be overcome only after she becomes a doctor, preferably in the Army. Her link with the disciplined forces is because of the fact that her father once served in the Army before her brother’s illness brought the family back to Dinanagar.The development has ever since then affected her profoundly. She breaks down while recounting how her brother, Nitin Vaid, fought a prolonged battle with the disease. “That is the reason why I want to become a doctor. I do not want to see others suffering like my brother had to,” Shruti says. After the lockdown was imposed, she made full use of the time at her hand by preparing for her the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET).“The shutdown came as a blessing in disguise for me. NEET is a pen & paper-based examination that has replaced the All India Pre Medical Test (AIPMT). Unlike the earlier paper that had 200 questions, NEET has 180 questions to be attempted in three hours. There is exactly one minute for each question, enough for students to think, reflect on options and pick the correct one. There is no anxiety and fear of missing out on questions,” she said.The convent-educated Shruti has her targets set out clearly. If at all she does not get to wear the white gown, she has decided she would change stream and try to become a scientist.During the lockdown, she devoted five hours daily to preparing for NEET. Talking elaborating about the new entrance exam system, she says: “Earlier, there were many instances of papers getting leaked. The scams from various state entrances and private medical institutes, wherein back office corruption and heavy donations was a common practice, have now been stymied with the introduction of NEET. Students can rest assured about the chances of equal opportunities being provided to them as getting a seat at top colleges is totally dependent on their performance in this examination.”She admits only doctors have the ability to turn somebody’s life around. “Too often we underestimate the power of touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn life around,” she maintains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-gives-her-time-to-prepare-for-neet-97572
11-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Property worth Rs 11 crore freezed||7 booked for molesting girlTarn Taran: The police have booked seven persons of Makhi Kalan village on the charge of molesting a girl of the same village. A case was registered on Tuesday, while the incident took place a week ago. The victim in her complaint to the Kacha Pakka police alleged Daler Singh, Mejor Singh and Gursahib Singh along with four unidentified persons entered their house and injured her mother and brother. The victim alleged the accused molested her when she came to the rescue to her family members. A heated exchange between both the sides took place a few days ago. No one has been arrested yet in the case. OCOne injured in firing, 10 bookedTarn Taran: The police booked 10 persons for allegedly opening fire on a resident of Patti town, 25 km from here, on Tuesday. The injured person has been identified as Dheera. Police did not rule out personal rivalry behind the incident. The suspects have been booked under Section 307 and the Arms Act. The suspects include Bheema, Sanni, Rajiv and their accomplices. Dheera in his complaint to the police said the suspects were annoyed with him over a local issue. He said the accused attacked on him with weapons. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-worth-rs-11-crore-freezed-97573
