14-06-2020||---||Recarpeting of Circular Road begins||Amritsar, June 13 Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with MLA Sunil Dutti and Commissioner Komal Mittal inaugurated the recarpeting work of Circular Road outside Trillium Mall here on Friday.  The Mayor said the development work, which was pending due to Covid-19 outbreak, has been started. In a similar vein, recarpeting of Circular Road from Majitha Road to Old Jail Road and Kachheri Chowk has been started. The government will spend Rs 2.40 crore on this project. Mayor Karamjit Singh stated that the road development work in different constituencies of the city would be completed at a cost of Rs 20 crore. These development works are being conducted in every constituency. He said no ward of the city would be left untouched for development. There is no shortage of funds for  development works. He appealed to the city residents that the roads were being recarpeted by the Municipal Corporation by spending crores of rupees but now it was their responsibility to maintain it. He appealed people to keep the city clean and green. Sameer Dutta, councilor; Dapinder Sandhu, Superintending Engineer, Sandeep Singh Executive Engineer and area residents were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recarpeting-of-circular-road-begins-98909
14-06-2020||Industrialists seek low interest rate for MSMEs---||Industrialists seek low interest rate for MSMEs||Amritsar, June 13 In a communiqué to the Prime Minister’s office, the Focal Point Industries’ Association has demanded an increase in the subsidised rate of interest from the present 2 to 4 per cent on loans to industries. Kamal Kishore Aggarwal, president of the association, said: “If the government infuses liquidity in the economy after circulation, it will eventually return to the government. The government should provide proper facilities to industry for the country’s growth and to boost the national income and employment.” Banks sanction loans to MSME units at the rate of 9 to 10 per cent per annum and the government grants 2 per cent interest subsidy. So, the MSME units were charging interest at the rate of 7 to 8 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industrialists-seek-low-interest-rate-for-msmes-98910
14-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Three booked for attack on couple||Farmers demand vet’s appointmentAmritsar: After four milch animals in Dhariwal Kaler village in Ajnala tehsil died of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), farmers have sought appointment a veterinary doctor. Harjinder Singh said his four animals — two buffaloes, one cow and a calf — died of FMD on Wednesday. Though the village has a veterinary dispensary, the post has been lying vacant for long. "If a doctor is appointed at the dispensary, it will be of great help to dairy farmers in the area. At present, farmers have to call in private doctors for immunisation as well as for other problems and they charge heavy fee," said Amrik Singh, another farmer. After the death of animals, a team of veterinary experts visited the village and gave medicines to farmers. As FMD is a contagious and fatal viral infection, the Veterinary Department immunises animals routinely. However, some farmers in the area said as the post of veterinary doctor had been lying vacant, animals had not been immunised. TNSTwo booked for violationsAmritsar: The police have booked two residents for violating home-quarantine instructions given to them by the Health Department. They were identified as Ajimoshaan and Madho Shankar of Faizpura and Medical Enclave, respectively. They were booked under Sections 188 and 271 of the IPC. The police said they got the information that the accused was advised home quarantine. However, they came out and started roaming in the area. Meanwhile, the police challaned 198 persons for not wearing face mask and 77 vehicles were challaned for violating lockdown restrictions. According to the police, five vehicles were impounded on Saturday as the people came out without any valid reasons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-attack-on-couple-98911
14-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Despite getting study visa, he couldn’t fly to Canada||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 13Four months ago on March 13, Gurbinder Singh, a resident of Jethunangal village, received his visa letter for study in Canada. On March 16, he submitted his passport for stamping and planned to buy an air ticket to pursue his study in May intake. “Everything was going on smoothly, but the outbreak of the pandemic put a hurdle in the way of my plans and goals. I got my passport after a delay of two months which was supposed to return within seven days after stamping. The college authorities postponed the batch. Now, I will join the batch in September.”Gurbinder Singh paid around Rs 15 lakh as various fee charges and funds for study in Canada. He opted postgraduation in Mobile Application Design and Development at Lambton College in Toronto. “Though my fee and funds are safe but the delay in study is disturbing. I have checked the guidelines of the Canada Government for a visit there. After reaching there, I have to stay in quarantine for 15 days. I hope the normal flights would be resumed by August and I would be able to fly,” said Gurbinder Singh.Though the Canadian colleges are offering online classes to international students, some of the courses need practical training, which is not possible online.“I have some friends, who took the admission in the May batch but are unable to go there. The colleges are offering online classes and two of my friends are attending them. But my college postponed my batch as my course need practical support of teachers. I hope the Covid-19 pandemic would have disappeared by August and I will be able to join the college on time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-getting-study-visa-he-couldnt-fly-to-canada-98912
14-06-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Earnings of this banana seller down to half||Tarn Taran, June 13After a gap of over two months, Gurdeep Singh of Bohru village in Amritsar district has started selling bananas on bicycle. But the earnings are not the same anymore, as these days, he saves Rs200 daily, only enough to make ends meet. Before the lockdown, he would earn Rs500 daily.Gurdeep has been into the business for the past over 30 years and is proud to have brought up his children on meagre earnings. He has four daughters and two sons. Gurdeep married off all his daughters and one son with his meagre income and is also taking care of other expenditures.At 60, he gets up early in the morning and heads to the market to procure bananas on his bicycle. On return, he sells bananas on road. With Pakistani salt sprinkled on them, the bananas, he says, are liked by his customers, who “have become addicted to their taste”. Singh has fixed a container on the rear seat of his bicycle to keep bananas.“Before the lockdown, I would sell over 1,500 bananas a day and save Rs500. It has come down to 800 bananas and the net income has reduced to less than half,” he said.Gurdeep says he pedals 65 km on bicycle daily and keeps standing the whole day while selling bananas. He has exhausted all his savings during the lockdown and has started his life from zero again. “It is easy to raise your income by reducing undue expenditures,” signs off Gurdeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/earnings-of-this-banana-seller-down-to-half-98915
14-06-2020||As the president of the Punjab Private Transport Association for the past 30 years||‘Allow private transporters to ply buses on stage carriage permit’||How is your transport business running amid the pandemic?Like all other private bus operators, we to have kept 60-odd buses off roads. We have six to seven trucks engaged in delivery of LPG cylinders. As the business falls in the category of essential services, the trucks have been plying during the lockdown.The state government allowed buses to operate from May 20. What is keeping you and other transporters off road?We cannot ply buses on conditions set by the government as it unviable. It is understandable to cap the occupancy at half the normal, but the government must allow us to run it on stage carriage permit under which our buses can halt at intermediate stops such as Phagwara, Goraya, Phillaur, Ludhiana, Doraha and Khanna on way to Patiala. Otherwise, no one would travel by buses. At present, if someone wants to go to Phagwara from Jalandhar, he would have to purchase a ticket for Patiala and pay charges accordingly. No one wants to pay the amount for a mere 22-km travel.Can you explain the economics of the business with reference to the present guidelines?Consider a bus going from Jalandhar to Hoshiarpur. The two-way travel to Hoshiarpur works out to be almost 100 km. Almost 25 litres of diesel gets consumed in one trip, costing the transporter from Rs1,600 to Rs1,700. If the bus has 40 seats, 20 persons can board it for one side, paying Rs1,200 as per the present ticket charge of Rs 60 for one person. For a two-way trip, operator will earn Rs2,400. If we take into account, wages of staff, sanitisation expenses and hefty road taxes, along with wear and tear, the transporter will end up incurring losses. Thus, it is better to keep the business shut for the time being and wait for favourable guidelines.How many private buses are off roads these days and what is the status of employees?There are about 7,000 to 8,000 private buses, including mini-buses. In all, nearly 1 lakh families, including those of drivers, conductors and cleaners, have been affected by stoppage of services. Most transporters have relieved their staff.Being a senior leader of the Congress and also the president of the Punjab Private Transport Association, what do you expect from the government?As I already said, we must be allowed to run on the stage carriage permit. This will make our business viable. Since it is only the poor who use non-AC buses, the government must waive off road taxes for six months so that they continue to enjoy cheap transport facilities. We will soon take up the matter with the CM. If the government feels it cannot give liberty to people to travel as has been done on weekends this time, we certainly need to be compensated for losses. Also, in the absence of buses, people in villages, especially farmers, have been facing problems in travelling. They want to go to cities to make purchases as they usually do after selling their wheat crop. As purchases by them contribute to the economic growth significantly, the travel facilities must be restored soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/allow-private-transporters-to-ply-buses-on-stage-carriage-permit-98916
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||ASI dies of infection; two new cases in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 13An official of the rank of ASI at the SSP office (Tarn Taran), who tested positive for Covid-19, died at Government Medical College in Amritsar on Friday night. He was 55.His body was cremated at the Mughalwal village cremation ground, his native village under the Kach Pakka police station, on Saturday with the set Covid-19 protocols under the supervision of DSP Sucha Singh Bal.The victim was admitted to the local Civil Hospital on June 11 after he showed symptoms of pneumonia and was referred to Government Medical College where he died. As the victim was deputed at the SSP office as in-charge of a branch, the district police had started screening all the policemen from today in the district. The samples were collected and would be sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar.The victim was deputed in Amritsar during the ‘Ghalughara Saptah’ from where he contracted the virus, said police sources. The victim stayed at a locality on the local Jandiala Road.Local Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said two more positive cases were reported in the district. They were admitted to the Isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital here on Saturday. The total number of positive cases has climbed to seven. Of the two who had been admitted, one was 45-year-old woman of Jhamke village and the other was a resident of Dinewal village under Khadoor Sahib. The woman had no travel or contact history while the man had returned from Maharashtra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-dies-of-infection-two-new-cases-in-tarn-taran-98903
14-06-2020||---||Dist breaches 600-mark, 3 more deaths reported||Amritsar, June 13With three more fatalities due to Covid-19 reported in the district on Saturday, the total count of deaths has increased to 19. The victims are: a 75-year-old Kamlesh of Jattanwali Gali in the Lahori gate area, 72-year-old Kawal Thakur of E Block Ranjit Avenue and 73-year-old Kamal Kishore of Chitta Katra.The death rate has suddenly increased in the last three days. Most of the victims are senior citizens except a 45-year-old man from Lahori Gate area. Besides, four more patients are put on oxygen support.The district reported nine new cases, taking the total count of Covid-19 cases to 601. Of the new cases, two are contacts of positive cases while seven have no contact or travel history. The district had on Friday reported a whopping number of 63 cases and three deaths.Meanwhile, to check the rush at sample collections centres, the Health Department has now decided to collect swab samples of cops at Naraingarh and Verka hospitals only.As police personnel are being tested for Covid-19, a huge rush was witnessed at the local Civil hospital’s sample collection centre. As pregnant women and general patients too come for giving samples at the Civil Hospital, social distancing norm violations are being witnessed in the last few days. Officials say the move would check overcrowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dist-breaches-600-mark-3-more-deaths-reported-98904
14-06-2020||---||Seeing rise in Covid cases, MC sanitises hotspots daily||Amritsar, June 13 With the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the municipal corporation is sanitizing hot spots, containment zones and walled city areas regularly. Officials of the health wing of the Municipal Corporation say that they follow the set procedure after some positive cases are reported in any locality. Dr Yogesh Arora, Municipal Health Officer, said, “We get report from the Health Department about the fresh positive cases every day. We immediately sanitise the houses of patients and nearby places. Then, we spray sodium hypochlorite solution in the containment zone.” Apart from this, the fire wing employees of the MC are sanitising city roads, markets, government offices and other commercial centres by using fire tenders. “We are using fire tenders for sanitization. The manual spray is also being conducted, especially in narrow streets of the walled city, where the fire tenders cannot reach. Soon after the outbreak of the pandemic, the MC had outsourced more than 170 persons for manual sanitisation with hand pumps,” said Arora. The MC has deployed two workers for hand pump spray in every ward. They are continuously sanitising the wards. “A number of localities have now turned into contentment zones. We are conducting sanitization in routine in these areas,” said an MC worker. MC officials claimed that separate staff had been deployed for taking care of the home-quarantined persons in the city. The sanitation employees wear PPE kits and pack the garbage from the home-quarantined persons. The garbage from these houses is being dumped separately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seeing-rise-in-covid-cases-mc-sanitises-hotspots-daily-98905
14-06-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Weekend lockdown: Confusion prevails among shopowners||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, June 13 The stricter lockdown remained ‘successful’ with no shop or commercial establishment was opened on Saturday.   With people did not have clarity over the orders, the suppliers of commercial goods, except medical stores, also preferred to shut their shops. Even many medical stores were also found closed in the Katra Sher Singh area known as medicine market.  However, liquor vends were allowed to open on day when everything else was closed. This came under severe criticism from the people side. They pointed out that if commercial activity was almost nil in view of ‘stricter’ lockdown announced in the state by the Punjab Government following rising cases of Covid-19, why the liquor vends are open.  “I don’t know what kind of message the government wants to give. Does liquor come under essential services? When people are not allowed to come out than why allowing liquor vends open?” said a local resident Saurabh Arora. Meanwhile, people remained indoors and cops were deputed at various chowks and roads of the city. The traffic was also very less compared with normal days of the week. There was complete lull in Hall Bazaar, Heritage Street and markets in the walled city. Lesser number of devotees came to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib, Durgiana Temple and other famous religious places. An official said as inter-district movement was also barred, the number of devotees was very less.  The police took out a flag march on the Lawrence Road area. Besides, it also issued challans to the violators who came out on roads without legitimate reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weekend-lockdown-confusion-prevails-among-shopowners-98906
14-06-2020|| ---||Officials tough on shops for not maintaining social distancing||Amritsar, June 13  In a joint operation with the local police, the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation seized goods of shopkeepers, who were not following the social distancing norms in the cantonment area and in the walled city on Friday evening.  Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, said they were getting regular complaints that after relaxation in the lockdown, shopkeepers again started displaying their goods on roads and allowed public gatherings around their shops.  “These restrictions are meant to prevent large gatherings of people so that the virus does not spread through human contact. We found that some shopkeepers in narrow streets posting hurdle to the traffic and violating the social distancing. In coordination with the local police, we seized the goods of shopkeepers, who illegally displayed on roadside”.  Various teams of the estate wing raided Putaligarh, Basat Avenue and the Telephone Exchange area. There are some areas in the walled city which are declared contentment zones. Ironically, the shopkeepers are not following the guidelines in these areas and violating the social distancing. “Though, the state government has imposed curfew on weekend but we will continue our drive from Monday onwards. No one will be allowed to violate the government guidelines to prevent the spread of pandemic. We will also take strict action against violators rather than seizing the goods”, added Bhatia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/officials-tough-on-shops-for-not-maintaining-social-distancing-98907
14-06-2020||---||Man commits suicide over land dispute with brother||Amritsar, June 13Davinder Singh (63), a resident of Singhoke village falling under the Ramdass police station here, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Friday evening. A land dispute with his brother Rajinder Singh of the same village was stated to be the reason behind the incident.Following the statement of deceased’s wife Karamjit Kaur, the police have registered a case.Karamjit Kaur, a retired teacher and the complainant in the case, stated to the police that Davinder Singh was adda in-charge of private buses at Nangal. They used to live on rent there. She said around 15 days ago her husband came to his native village. She said yesterday she got a call from her husband that his brother Rajinder Singh was harassing him. She had a dispute with his brother on the division of land. She said later she received a call that he had consumed some poisonuous substance and was being rushed to a hospital where he died.ASI Jugal Kishore said the couple was issueless and as per the complaint there was a dispute between the two brothers over the land. He said the body was handed over to family members. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-commits-suicide-over-land-dispute-with-brother-98908
