16-06-2020|| ---||Youth shot at in New Pawan Nagar||Amritsar, June 15  A youth, identified as Kashish Duggal, was shot at in the New Pawan Nagar area falling under the Mohkampura police station here on Sunday evening. He along with his mother and sister was standing outside his house when around five armed persons shot at him.  He was rushed to a private hospital in serious condition. The police have arrested one of the assailants, identified as Bhannu of Bharat Nagar, located on Batala road here while his four accomplices were still at large. An old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the incident.  Rupali Duggal, sister of the victim, said when they were standing outside the house and were chitchatting with neighbourers, a car arrived at the scene in which around six persons were travelling. He said the person driving the car had pistol in his hand. She said before they could understand, he fired several shots at his brother. He sustained two bullet injuries. She said they immediately pulled him inside the house and bolted the gate from inside.  She alleged the accused used abusive language and fled away while threatening that Vicky Nepali had arrived.  ASI Ranjit Singh, investigating officer, said, besides Bhannu, the police have booked Vicky Nepali, Sanju Nepali, Sunny Nepali and Ajay Nepali. He said the statement of the victim was yet to be recorded while raids were on to nab the suspects. He said an old enmity was stated to be the reason behind assault. He said a case of murder bid (307 IPC), criminal conspiracy (120-B IPC) and the Arms Act had been registered in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-at-in-new-pawan-nagar-99924
16-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar reports one more death, 20 fresh cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15As many as 20 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district today, taking the tally to 633. Besides, the death of an octogenarian due to the infection was also reported.The district has witnessed the doubling of cases in 25 days. A sudden spurt in the confirmed cases and fatalities has created panic among residents and administrative officials. The total Covid count as on May 21 was 315. With the mortality rate of 3.33 per cent, the district has reported a total of 21 deaths till date, with 10 in the last six days alone.Joginder Singh (85) of the Anngarh area, who died today, had co-morbidities.Of the new cases, 13 are suffering from ILI (influenza-like illness). It includes a policeman posted at the C division police station. Other cases were reported from Bhushanpura, Kangra Colony, Katra Sharifpura, Verka, Tungbala, Lawrence Road, Chabal road, Friends Colony, Gumtala and Gate Hakeema. Four contacts of Avtar Singh, who died of the virus yesterday, have also tested positive.Cop tests +ve in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: An ASI (50) of the district police has been detected with Covid-19 on Monday. He is a resident of Rataul village. He was admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital on Sunday. There are a total number of eight Covid-19 positive cases in the district.Dr Anoop Kumar, Civil Surgeon, said the department received the test reports of a total of 291 cases and only that of the ASI’s report was tested positive, while the remaining 290 were tested out to be negative.The said ASI was deputed in Amritsar during ‘Ghalughara Saptah’ from May 25 to June 8. He is said to have contracted the virus from there. The CS said the ASI was a case of mere symptom and was quite healthy but had been kept under vigil of the experts.The Health Department officials had to face an awkward situation recently when an ASI Sukhdial Singh of the district police was declared Covid-19 positive, but the department denied the reports the next day. Sukhdial died on June 12 at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. He was cremated with Covid-19 protocol on June 13 in Mugalwal village under Patti sub division, at his native village.16 BSF jawans found +veA total of 16 BSF jawans from 132 Battalion posted in Ajnala had tested positive for Covid-19, said an official. The Battalion had recently arrived here from Hyderabad. These jawans would be counted as positive cases from their native districts. Meanwhile, Ajnala residents, led by SAD councillor Jaspal Singh, met the SDM and BSF officials and demanded that the jawans who had been quarantined at the ITI be shifted to some other place. “The ITI ground is used by youths for playing and is in the residential area. The officials have assured us that in the future, all persons would be quarantined at Degree College, which is on the outskirts of the town,” said Jaspal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-one-more-death-20-fresh-cases-99925
16-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Admn likely to announce second containment zone||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15After getting approval from the Civil Surgeon and a survey conducted by the Health Department and an SDM-level official, the district administration is likely to announce the second containment zone in the city.It will be the second containment zone within a week.The new containment zone, like the previous one, will be in the walled city where a spike in positive cases was reported.As per the directions of the government, as 15 positive cases were reported in the past few days, hotspots must be identified and complete restrictions on the movement of people and vehicles, besides closing of shops, should be introduced.As per the previous guidelines, after 15 positive cases, the entire city was supposed to be closed. However, restrictions have been toned down to specific area only. Apparently, to allow the economy to move on as residents in the rest of the city carry out their chores as usual.Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC, said the Civil Surgeon had endorsed the recommendation and names of the localities would be disclosed once Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon signed the same.He said besides essential shops, all activities would be closed in areas falling under the containment zone.He said these localities would remained sealed for at least 14 days. After evaluating intensity of the pandemic, the decision will be taken.Now, besides cops, medical staff will carry out active surveillance of residents of these areas. Inhabitants of the walled city have an onerous task in maintaining social distance due to its narrow lanes and densely populated areas.Prof Balvinder Singh, conservation spatial planner and former head of the Guru Ramdas School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said residents need more precautions in the walled city due to its labyrinth street pattern.Citizens should not go out without any reasons to save themselves and fellow residents from the pandemic, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-likely-to-announce-second-containment-zone-99926
16-06-2020||GS Paul---||Self-isolation for mild, asymptomatic cases||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 15 The state Health Department has issued some relaxations for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms in the city.  As  per the latest notification issued by the Director, Health Services,  the patients in the above said categories will be allowed home isolation  as per the guidelines, subject to a verification by medical officials.  The patient will have to furnish an undertaking to ensure that he/she  will carefully monitor the health status for the prescribed period,  including temperature, cough and any breathing discomfort, on his own.  The isolation would be considered complete after 17 days, provided the  patient has no fever for 10 days.  On June 12, Dr Mandeep Singh  Sandhu and area councillor Mitanjali Sharma had a tough time persuading  residents of Ward No 49, a Covid hotspot, to come forward for the random testing, but in vain. There is a fear among residents that if their test reports come out to be  positive, they would be forced to stay in hospital and doctors would  seldom take care of them. With 12 active cases, the  sensitive ward has four  containment zones – Bombay Wala Khu, Katra Moti,  Ganj Di Mori, and  Katra Moti Ram.  Meanwhile, residents of the  sensitive areas have been violating all norms of social distancing. They  can be seen breaking police barriers for venturing out on their  vehicles for no reason.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-isolation-for-mild-asymptomatic-cases-99927
16-06-2020||Amritsar||Irregularities in property registration alleged||Baldev Singh Sirsa, a social  activist,  has alleged gross discrepancies in the registration of property at revenue offices.  Sirsa said he had taken up one such case of discrepancy with the Revenue Department. However, the department had been delaying a probe into it, he alleged. Sirsa said a property was sold at Rs 33 lakh per acre whereas the district collector rate was Rs 1.42 lakh per acre in 2016. He said the department had sought an affidavit from him, which he had also submitted. He said a thorough probe was required in the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/irregularities-in-property-registration-alleged-99928
16-06-2020||Teenaged boy injured in firing---||Teenaged boy injured in firing||Amritsar, June 15 A group of farmers on Monday allegedly fired upon a number of labourers following a dispute over rates of sowing paddy in Pandora village in Chogawan. A teenage boy was also injured in the firing.  A video of the incident has surfaced on the social media in which  a youth claimed that the labourers were demanding Rs 3,500 for sowing paddy while the farmers were Rs3,000.  In video people are seen firing which is retaliated by stone pelting by the laborers. The police have started investigation. – TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teenaged-boy-injured-in-firing-99929
16-06-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Farmers, labourers protest against Union Govt’s ‘anti-people’ policies||Tarn Taran, June 15 Farmers, labourers, employees  and activists of different political parties have expressed their resentment against policies of the state and the Central Government.  Farmers and labourers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, organised rallies in 20 villages, including Manochahal Kalan, Manochahal Khurad, Dalake, Khehra, Piddi and Mannan villages.  Tejinderpal Singh Raju of the KMSC said the organisation had been protesting against the ‘One Nation, One Market’ policy of the Central government for the last one week.  He said senior leaders of the organisation had condemned the Central and the state government for their communal agenda, anti-farmer and anti- people policies. The workers also burnt effigies of the government in villages.  Meanwhile, activists of the CPI and the RMPI in a rally organised in Tarn Taran had expressed resentment over the increasing fuel prices. Prithipal Singh Magimegha of the CPI and Pargat Singh Jamarai of the RMPI were among the others who addressed the gathering. The Left leaders condemned the communal policies of the BJP-led Central Government which had failed to provide jobs in the country.   District level workers under the Banner of All India Asha Workers and Asha Facilitators Union demonstrated outside the office of Civil Surgeon here on Monday in support of their demands. A deputation of the organisation led by Seema Sohal and Gurwant Kaur  presented a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon for Director, National Health Mission. The leaders said the organisation had been demanding for lump sum monthly payment, facilities at par with their Haryana state patron. Volunteers of the Aam Aadmi Party led by Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal resented the deletion of names of the blue card holders under the atta-dal scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-labourers-protest-against-union-govts-anti-people-policies-99930
16-06-2020||---||DC appreciates health workers’ efforts||Amritsar, June 15 Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon on Monday met officials of the Health Department and appreciated their efforts in the fight against Covid-19. The Deputy Commissioner gave them ‘Mission Fateh’ badges as a mark of appreciation. He said the administration had decided to conduct a door-to-door awareness campaign. As many as 1,859 anganwari workers had been roped in for the purpose.  Deputy Commissioner asked health officials to create awareness about the importance of wearing a mask and following social distancing and hand hygiene to prevent Covid.  In a separate event, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni handed over appointment letters to six persons whose cases for job on compassionate grounds had been pending for long.  He said in case of the death of a health worker, the government would provide job and other benefits to one of his family members within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-appreciates-health-workers-efforts-99931
16-06-2020||Amritsar||Dependence on China must end, say businessmen||Irked over the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed to restrict its spread, damaging their businesses and eroding their working capital, local entrepreneurs and their umbrella organisation Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) asked the Central Government to make the country self-sufficient to stop its dependence on  China. The PPBM has asked the Central Government to provide funds to start-ups and unicorn companies to check the growth of Chinese products in the domestic market. Piara Lal Seth, president, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said investment from China could only be stopped when the country become self-reliant in the digital revolution. “The government should provide new technology and working capital.” He said Chinese companies had invested some 1.4 billion US dollars in start-ups initiated under the digital India programme in 2014-15. China had entered the Indian economy from the back door under these companies. He said most of these firms were associated with e-commerce and they could steal Indian data. He demanded that the Centre must introduce some norms which make it impossible for firms to utilise and steal data of Indian citizens. Samir Jain, general secretary of the PPBM, sought that the Central Government must shortlist products to end dependence on China and should offer technology and capital to local companies to manufacture the same. He said there were 22 lakh looms for cloth manufacturing in the country which need to be upgraded to shuttle less, which would end dependence on fabric from China.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dependence-on-china-must-end-say-businessmen-99932
16-06-2020||---||Homage paid to Surinder Singh||Amritsar, June 15The SGPC on Monday conducted prayers in the Golden Temple complex to pay homage to the noted photoartist Surinder Singh who succumbed to a cardiac arrest recently.Besides his family members, including his son Harpreet Singh, daughter Kirandeep Kaur, brother Satpal Danish — a world famous Sikh artist — various other personalities attended the shardhanjli samaroh to pay tribute to the departed soul.Surinder Singh was the son of famous painter GS Sohan Singh and grandson of Gian Singh ‘Naqqash’ — the fresco painter who worked at the Darbar Sahib for over three decades. His uncle Sunder Singh was among those who were martyred in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 1919.Surinder Singh was the first manager of the SGPC’s Golden Offset Press. SGPC Chief Secretary Dr Roop Singh recalled that he was proficient in word composing and and block printing job. Meanwhile, Former Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh said that he had played a vital role in preserving the Sikh heritage and culture from the past.His shop, located near the Golden Temple complex, is a treasure trove of documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/homage-paid-to-surinder-singh-99933
16-06-2020||---||Diabetes major health problem in Punjab: Experts||Amritsar, June 15Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a major health problem in Punjab. The finding was result of extensive research published by the Department of Human Genetics of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) in reputed international journals.In a statement to the media here on Monday, GNDU authorities said the research was based on the data which had been collected in the past 20 years for assessing modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors that contribute to T2D and its major complications such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy and end stage renal disease in population of Punjab.The investigations carried out in various ethnic groups from Punjab revealed that prevalence of higher obesity profiles and poor glucose control along with physical inactivity in the population as major factors that gave higher susceptibility to T2D and accelerate progression to complications.Prof Vasudha Sambyal, coordinator of research, said the study was conducted on different endogamous groups like Banias, Brahmins and Jat Sikhs for susceptibility to diabetes had observed that ethnicity contributes differentially to development of T2D probably due to differences in the nature of work, diet and cultural practices. Complications owing to the sedentary lifestyle and high calorie diet mostly comprising fried and junk food consumption in the population of Punjab.Prof Badruddoza, Prof Bhanwer and Dr Kawaljit Kaur of the Human Genetics Department of the GNDU were among other contributors in this research.The department has pioneered the genetic research on diabetes complications especially on diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy in the population of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/diabetes-major-health-problem-in-punjab-experts-99934
16-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Kids’ online classes putting parents to test||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14With all educational institutions still shut due to the Covid pandemic outbreak, parents as well as students are struggling to come up to speed with syllabus through online classes.“Earlier, our wards would complete 70 per cent of the work in schools while the remaining was to be done at home. However, now most work is being done by parents, especially when they have additional responsibilities too to look after," said Balraj Kumar, a resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area.His son is a student of Class X while his daughter is in Class IV. “With Class X being board, keeping my son up to date with the syllabus has become a herculean task,” he said.He said in schools, students would cover 70 per cent of the syllabus and their queries would also be solved on the spot. However, now there was no other option than to teach them at home. “The difficulty is more for those who are unable to teach their children amid other engagements,” he said.He said the expenditure had also increased as for online classes, they needed smartphones and Internet connectivity.His wife Rashmi Kumar, who teaches the children, said although teachers were taking online classes, it was not possible to satisfy the queries of nearly 60 students in a 40-minute class. Teachers were doing their best, but a student learnt better during one-on-one interaction. Then there were many issues related to Wi-Fi or Internet connectivity.She said it had been almost three months now and it had become the biggest challenge for parents to make their wards sit and study at a time when they could not go out to play with their friends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kids-online-classes-putting-parents-to-test-99940
16-06-2020||THE recently elected vice-president of the National Federation of Urban Cooperative Banks and Credit Societies (NAFCUB)||‘Coercive methods for loan recovery not workable in times of pandemic’||How is the bank business running?Since the government wants no coercive methods to be adopted, recoveries of loans have become difficult. The willful defaulters are having a gala time. So, in a way banks have become one of the worst-hit sectors in this ongoing lockdown period. We were in the process of improving our recoveries around mid-March when the lockdown happened.How much is the outstanding loan?The outstanding loan amount is slightly more than Rs 300 crore. While 80 per cent of the loanees are repaying the amount, the remaining are defaulters. Thankfully, we are financially sound and have our own funds, so there is not much of a problem as of now.Do you think the moratorium offered by the government was a good step?It is nothing more than a good political statement. Ultimately, neither the loanee nor the loaner will benefit out of the three-month relief period announced by the government. Some regular Class IV government employees who are getting regular wages have also stopped paying their loan instalments.Who are your loanees? Which section is the biggest defaulter these days?Our loanees are those who seek loans of Rs 1,000 or upwards. Petty shopkeepers, agriculturists and MSMEs - all seek loans from us. Any individual wanting to buy vehicles, plots, etc, or even doing construction work can take a loan. As of now, our biggest defaulters are schools. Since the schools claim that they are not able to collect full fee, they are not in a position to return loans to us.Do you intend to adopt coercive methods for repayment of loans once the RBI lifts any such guideline?No, we won't take any harsh step against anyone at this stage. Anyone who is in dire need of finances and takes loans needs our sympathy. Also, even if we think of mortgaging his property that he pledged with us for making recovery, we will not be able to recover much. Further, even government officials, including those from the Revenue Department, who help us in recovering loans are busy these days with Covid-19 duties assigned by the administration.How many members does your bank have? What is the position of depositors?We have nearly 450 members of the bank. Since the rate of interest has been dropped by 2-2.5 per cent in sync with the policies for the nationalised banks, the depositors are somehow not approaching us these days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coercive-methods-for-loan-recovery-not-workable-in-times-of-pandemic-99941
16-06-2020||---||This painter switches trade, sells cold drinks to support a family of 6||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, June 15The lockdown has forced small workers to switch to other jobs to eke out a living. Jaspal Singh (40) of Shahabpur Dial village here was a painter by profession. However, he was aware of the fact that this job won’t help him earn livelihood anytime soon post the lockdown. He started selling cold drinks when relaxations were given in the lockdown 4.0 so that he could repay debt taken from his neighbours.Jaspal said it had become difficult to meet daily expenditures in the lockdown and he had to seek help from his neighbours. Even when relaxations were announced, there was hardly any painting work. With the family of six to support, it was a challenge to make both ends meet.“My wife Manjit Kaur suggested me to switch to some other work. In view of summer, I decided to sell cold drinks. I managed to erect a tent under a bridge in front of the District Administration complex. My wife also joined me. Now we sell sugarcane juice and cold drinks,” he said.He said since many offices were situated on the route, his new business was doing well. He has managed to pay back some of the borrowed amount within a few days. He said the job was little tough as he had to travel to Amritsar daily to procure sugarcane.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-painter-switches-trade-sells-cold-drinks-to-support-a-family-of-6-99942
