18-06-2020||---||Coop bank fraud: Probe handed over to SP (PBI)||Amritsar, June 17The probe in the Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank fraud case has been handed over to the SP, Punjab Bureau of Investigation (PBI) of the Amritsar rural police, Shailendra Singh Shelly, following the orders to the IG, Border Range. Earlier, the probe was being handled by DSP (crime against property) Ravinder Singh.The fraud pertains to bungling of around Rs 3 crore from the Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank, Tarsikka branch. The rural police had arrested branch manager Rakesh Kumar and cashier Ram Kishore in this connection while their accomplices Sukhddev Singh Sarai village and Sukhbir Singh Bhattike village, both secretaries, were also booked in the FIR registered under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC on February 19 this year.During the probe, the police also added Sections 419, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 477- A, IPC, and Sections 66 and 66 (D) of the IT Act.The three-month investigation so far revealed that senior officials of the bank and the Audit Department colluded to bungle a huge amount of the bank.Investigation found that money was bungled from five societies, Tarsikka, Saidoke Lehal, Bhattike, Chogwan Sadhpur and Kohala, which fall under the jurisdiction of Tarsikka Cooperative Bank.The police had submitted a challan in the local court on May 16 while admitting that a supplementary challan would be submitted after the completion of the probe.IG, Border Range, SPS Parmar said the president and other representatives of the Central Cooperative Bank Employees Union and a delegation from Tarsikka village submitted that the serious allegations regarding embezzlement of the funds needed to be investigated by a senior police officer.In view of the gravity of embezzlement of government funds, the SP (PBI), Amritsar rural, may be deputed to investigate the case. He would do in-depth investigation into the entire matter and complete the probe expeditiously, added SPS Parmar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coop-bank-fraud-probe-handed-over-to-sp-pbi-100568
18-06-2020||---||Another death, 12 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 17The death toll due to Covid-19 in the district mounted to 25 today after a 62-year-old woman from Sarai Sant Ram, near Lahori Gate, succumbed to the infection at Government Medical College here. She was admitted to the hospital on June 14 following respiratory problems and had diabetes mellitus and hypertension. She suffered a cardiac arrest this morning.Meanwhile, the district also reported 12 fresh positive cases. Of these, 10 patients are suffering from ILI (influenza-like illness) and two are the contacts of a positive patient.The ILI cases have been reported from Gurbax Nagar, Sarai Sant Ram (Lahori Gate), Loharka Road, Rambagh, Katra Sher Singh, Guru Har Rai Avenue, Janum Wali Gali (Lawrence Road), Vijay Nagar (Batala Road), Gumtala and Green Avenue. The other two cases are from Ajit Nagar and Vijay Nagar (Batala road).A total of 657 positive cases have been reported in the district till date. The active count stands at 157.Health officials inspect private labAfter a few days of Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni accusing a private lab (without naming it) of issuing false positive reports, a team of health officials on Wednesday inspected Tuli Diagnostic Lab. Senior Medical Officer, Civil hospital, Dr Arun Sharma, who led the team, said, “Three pathologists and a microbiologist visited the lab. We checked the process of testing and other technical issues. It is a preliminary investigation and we will be following it up.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-death-12-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-100569
18-06-2020||---||Field trial of DSR method for sowing of paddy conducted||Amritsar, June 17To tide over labour shortage amid paddy and basmati transplantation, the Department of Agriculture has initiated efforts to mechanise the process with the help of the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique.The Chief Agriculture Officer, Dr Gurdial Singh Bal, said the department had made available machines on subsidy to help in mechanisation.He said as a trial, the direct sowing of basmati was done at Khalsa College with the DSR machine, which came with the spray attachment.Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, said the new technique would be very useful for farmers in the future. He added that the sowing of paddy with this method saved both time and labour cost.Dr Ranbir Singh Randhawa, agriculture engineer, said before adopting this new technique, the farmers should prepare their fields with the laser land leveller. He said the DSR technique should be avoided in low nutrition, sandy and loamy soils.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/field-trial-of-dsr-method-for-sowing-of-paddy-conducted-100570
18-06-2020||---||Prices of PCs surge as institutions go online||Amritsar, June 17As schools and colleges have opted to go online amid the restrictions enforced due to the coronavirus pandemic, the demand and prices of computers and its accessories have escalated like never before.Bunty, an owner of a computer showroom, stated that prices of desktops and laptops, irrespective of their brands, have increased between Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per item. This surge in prices was denoted to the extraordinary rise in demand not only from the students but also from the office-going class.There was a 20 per cent rise in the demand of computers and laptops in the market in comparison to previous year. The import of computers from China scaled down due to Covid restrictions, causing a gap between demand and supply. Computer retailers did not suffer sale pangs as witnessed in other sectors like hospitality and gold ornaments after the lifting of curfew. —Vikas Narang, President of Punjab Association of Computer TradersMeanwhile, the students need the webcam to avail lectures, so its demand has also sky-rocketed in the markets. “Ultimately, we were out of stock,” said Bhavneet Singh, who also owns a computer showroom. He also revealed that the rate of webcam has doubled from its original price of Rs 1200.According to Vikas Narang, President of Punjab Association of Computer Traders, there was 20 per cent rise in the demand of computers and laptops in the market in comparison to previous year. “Similarly, import of computers scaled down due to Covid-19 restrictions from China, virtually causing the gap between demand and supply,” he added.He also revealed that the computer retailers did not suffer sale pangs as has been witnessed in other sectors like hospitality and gold ornaments after the lifting of curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prices-of-pcs-surge-as-institutions-go-online-100571
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Indian Medical Association submits memo to Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner||Tarn Taran, June 17A deputation of the local district unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) led by Dr Haripal Kaur Dhaliwal, district president, and Dr Dinesh Gupta, secretary, presented a memorandum to Kulwant Singh, Deputy Commissioner, here today, in the name of the state government, demanding withdrawal of the ‘Clinical Establishment Act’.Members of the organisation tore the Photostat copies of the Act in front of the DC office. The association said the said act would put an unbearable burden on the poor patients and it would become difficult for them to seek treatment from private hospitals. The leaders said it would also put workload on the management of the private hospitals. Dr Surinder Singh Kainth, Dr Mannohan Singh, Dr Karnail Kaur, Dr Kashmnir Singh Sohal, Dr Joginder Singh. Dr RD Singh were among others who were part of the deputation. The organisation also demanded for the rollback of the fee hike in medical courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indian-medical-association-submits-memo-to-tarn-taran-deputy-commissioner-100572
18-06-2020||---||Woman, son robbed of Rs 4k, jewellery||Amritsar, June 17A woman and her son were robbed of gold jewellery and cash by three unidentified miscreants in broad daylight at Behrwal village in the Lopoke area.In her complaint to the police, victim Balwinder Kaur has stated that she, along with her son Samsher Singh, was returning from Chogawan to their Sahoora village on a motorcycle. When they reached near the canal bridge at Behrwal, three unidentified youths intercepted their bike, she said.One of the suspects pointed a gun at her son, asking them give them all jewellery and money they had. The victim said the youths took her earrings and her son’s wallet that contained Rs4,000. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-son-robbed-of-rs-4k-jewellery-100573
18-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Restored, Chali Khuh  yet to open to public||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17Chali Khuh (forty wells), sunk in the east of the city in 1904 and later converted to tube wells for direct supply to the distribution system for tap water supply, initiated by the British government, had been restored under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY). The government has spent Rs 5 crore on the project with an objective to attract tourists.During a visit to the place, it has been learnt that the project is still incomplete and the work to restore the buildings on its premises was on.The Municipal Corporation had proposed to develop one of the main buildings as an interpretation centre in 2019.Sanjay Kanwar, Executive Engineer, MC, said: “The project is almost completed. Glasses are being installed. It would be completed within a month. As per the MC House decision, the building would be developed as an interpretation centre.” During the regime of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, there were 300 wells in the city. The Britishers sunk a large number of wells during their tenure. In the beginning, these were only source of drinking water as they could conveniently be sunk due to high-level of subsoil water.Historian Anand Gauba in her book ‘Amritsar: A study in urban History’ mentioned that the Amritsar Municipality got an advance loan from the Central Government in 1902 for the waterworks in the city. It was first time, when the city residents got tap water supply. The Chali Khuh project got functional in 1904 but the pressure of water was less and supply was scanty that it could not satisfy the need of half of the people. A lot of efforts were made to improve the supply. In 1918-19, some tube wells also added to improve the capacity.The Central Government restored several British-era monuments under the HRIDAY project two years ago but the government doesn’t seem to have any policy to keep open these monuments for tourists. After spending crores of rupees on the renovation of the monuments, a majority of them are yet to be opened for people. The MC renovated buildings, including Ram Bagh Deori, Chali Khoo, Old Deputy Commissioner’s Office, UBDC, Goal Bagh and Ram Bagh Gate, Panorama and old gates of the walled city. The work on most of these sites has been completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restored-chali-khuh-yet-to-open-to-public-100574
18-06-2020||Webinar on Covid challenges conducted||Webinar on Covid challenges conducted||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17To engage school students in productive activities during the lockdown, the Chemical Society and Science Students’ Club of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) organised an online idea-pitching competition titled “Combat Covid-19 Challenge”.Students from Class IX to Class XII were invited to propose strategies to deal with management, administration, examination and teaching-related issues being faced by schools in the times of Covid-19. In their responses, the students laid emphasis on social distancing and use of virtual learning platforms. The competition was organised by Yatin Batra, a student of BSc chemistry at GNDU, under the supervision of Hardeep Singh, Dean Student Welfare, Venus Singh Mithu and Bindiya Arora.In the final round, Sanya Arora of Bhavan’s SL Public School bagged first position, followed by Uday Thakur of DAV Public School and Aman Kumar of Army Public School, who shared the second rank. The third position was shared by Nitesh of Government Senior Secondary School, Gol Bagh, with Chahat Dhawan of DAV Public School. Satinderbir Singh, District Education Officer (DEO), congratulated the winners. Both winners and participants were awarded with certificates and cash prizes.In the preliminary round, students from 59 schools had submitted their ideas in written. Of them, 10 were shortlisted for the final round, in which ideas were presented online in front of a live audience using audio and visual tools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-covid-challenges-conducted-100575
18-06-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar Civil Hospital puts up tents for patients||In what has come as a major relief for patients coming to the Civil Hospital for swab samples, the authorities today put up tents to provide shade amid the scorching heat while they wait for their turn.A news item highlighting the plight of health staffers and patients waiting for their turn in the absence of any shade was highlighted in these columns on Wednesday.Visitors said it had come as a big relief as the temperature in the noon reached above 40 degrees Celsius. “It is a kind gesture and we are grateful to officials who took note of our grievances,” said a visitor.Health employees wearing PPE kits and gloves also feel uncomfortable. An employee said sample collection centres should be opened at more places in the city to minimise the rush. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civil-hospital-puts-up-tents-for-patients-100580
18-06-2020||---||‘Repatriate Punjabi migrants stranded in Gulf countries’||Amritsar, June 17FlyAmritsar Initiative (FAI) and the Amritsar Vikas Manch have called upon the government to help repatriate thousands of Punjabi migrant workers stuck in the Gulf countries. More than 3.50 lakh Indians have registered to return home from the Gulf region alone and the Indian consulate in the UAE has received more than 2,00,000 requests in the first week of May.In a joint press release, Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of the FlyAmritsar Initiative and Manmohan Singh, President Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) NGO urged the government to kick off more humanitarian flights to bring them home.As India had announced lockdown, thousands of migrant workers from Punjab and others parts of India got stuck in the Gulf countries, including the UAE, Kuwait and Qatar.They said, “We have been receiving many emails from the stranded workers in UAE. People are in grave medical and personal distress, worth mentioning is the case of a mother who had her miscarriage due to stress and strain. A young mother Varsha, along with her husband, is just one of the thousands of migrant workers stuck across the Gulf countries as Covid-19 dealt a blow to the UAE economy.”A request through tweet was posted by stranded migrants of Punjabi origin Varsha Sharma, requesting Indian Consulate in Dubai, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and many others to help them get a seat in repatriation flights.“We have been waiting for the past three months and still haven’t got any flight. I need medical treatment as I had a miscarriage. My husband came to see me on a visitor visa and we are currently residing in a bad condition, please help us,” she commented.Gumtala said, “When I talked to a few people in Dubai, many of them informed me that they registered with the Indian Consulate for flights under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). Since the beginning of the mission, government has operated many flights, but they haven’t received any message about the selection of their flight.”In a letter to Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, with copies sent to Minister of External Affairs Dr Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and other government officials, Manch and FlyAmritsar Initiative urged the government to extend help to thousands of Punjabi workers, by immediately scheduling more flights from Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi and other Gulf countries to Amritsar and Chandigarh.At least 30 flights are immediately needed from UAE to bring Punjabi workers registered with the Indian consulate in UAE. Many of the workers are running out of money now to purchase tickets for flights. More than 250 people from Dubai have called us and begging for more repatriation flights.To bring back those with no money, we request the External Affairs Minister to look into urgent dispatch of special Indian Air Force aircraft to fly these stranded workers back home to Punjab, said Yogesh Kamra, Convener (India) for the Initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repatriate-punjabi-migrants-stranded-in-gulf-countries-100582
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Cop tests +ve in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 17A policeman was tested positive for Covid here on Wednesday. He has been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital. Dr Inder Mohan Gupta, SMO of the hospital, said the number of patients in the ward had reached eight. Another policeman is undergoing treatment at the hospital. The policemen went to Amritsar on duty during the ‘Ghalughara Saptah’ where they got infected.The SMO said all eight patients in the isolation ward were healthy and would be discharged after negative report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-tests-ve-in-tarn-taran-100583
18-06-2020||Amritsar||Recarpeting work inaugurated||MLA appointed to GNDU syndicateGurdaspur: Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore has nominated Gurdaspur MLA Barindermeet Singh Pahra to the syndicate of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. The MLA is also a member of the university Senate. He thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa.“I will work for the betterment of the university,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recarpeting-work-inaugurated-100584
18-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Blended learning can help institutes continue education’||RUNNING a private university and 24 educational institutes, Apeejay Education Society (AES) has faced numerous challenges during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The chairman of the society and president of Apeejay Stya and Svran Groups, Sushma Paul Berlia, discusses with Deepkamal Kaur various innovative changes brought in by the group in its business to tide over the tough times. Excerpts:We used the present crisis as an opportunity to bring industry experts on board, organised virtual alumni meets and encouraged our students to engage in a gamut of creative pursuits, including dance, music and painting. One of our achievements was that in a few weeks or so, we successfully conducted most of our examinations online of over 10,000 students. —Sushma Paul Berlia, Chairman, Apeejay Education SocietyHow did your educational institutions face challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic?The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns are unprecedented events in the modern history. We are a diversified conglomerate with interests in various sectors. For AES that runs 24 institutions, including schools and higher education institutions, across the country and for Apeejay Stya University, the focus from Day 1 of the lockdown was on providing students with a safe and enriching virtual experience of learning that matched or exceeded classroom learning. It required a complete change of mindset. In a few days, we readied a timetable to complete the pending syllabus and shared it with students. There were mistakes made and several roadblocks faced, but we persisted in experimenting with new education techniques. Our long-term investments in technology and innovation helped us a lot. However, regular online learning was not something that everyone was comfortable with. In some cases, parents had to be counselled to let their wards study on a cell phone or computer. Activities like yoga, physical education, art and craft, music and dance had to be woven into a balanced time table. We also ensured that teachers and staff who worked relentlessly are paid on time. We also had to exercise control over spiralling costs due to technological upgrades.Did any of your institutions do differently in this period?At AES institutions, the focus is on adding value to everything we did. We used the present crisis as an opportunity to bring industry experts on board, organised virtual alumni meets and encouraged our students to engage in a gamut of creative pursuits, including dance, music, painting and photography. One of our achievements was that in a few weeks or so, we successfully conducted most of our examinations online with over 10,000 students logging on simultaneously. We are seeking to publish the best practices from all our institutions during the lockdown in the form of a monograph to help other institutions.How have your institutions helped the community in general?The Apeejay College of Fine Arts conducted a series of significant national and international webinars inviting experts, well-placed alumni and distinguished scholars from India and abroad to interact with the students and faculty. We have also been reaching out to villages to spread awareness about Covid-19. The institution has also garnered a lot of appreciation by offering free of cost skill development courses during the lockdown period. At Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering, many of the students have got lucrative summer internship offers even in these trying times.What is the group doing to ensure that there are good admissions in colleges this year?We are providing online counselling to our aspirants. The entire admission process has been made online and the online user experience has been enhanced. We have also circulated important information about various institutions through various communication channels and social media platforms.What lessons have you learnt from the current situation?The pandemic taught us a number of lessons. First, it reinforced the importance of human capital over any other resource. We retrained and nurtured our people to enhance their productivity. The second key learning was about the criticality of innovation and flexibility to change. Everyone adapted to the change organically. Third, the importance of virtual education is here to stay, perhaps even after Covid-19. Blended learning using both online and offline modes of learning appears to be gaining momentum. However, the role of the teacher cannot be replaced even in the online mode of learning. Also it is important to 'mine the knowledge' and relevant enrichment from a plausible information overload. In technology, the need for a mass device at an affordable price has become the need of the hour.Have you done any philanthropic work during the pandemic?We extended monetary and non-monetary help to people in the battle against Covid-19. As an organisation, we contributed to government agencies and also made donations through chambers of commerce and other platforms. Besides, our employees contributed voluntarily. We extended help to the migrant labourers, gave masks, safety kits and food to our frontline healthcare warriors, including doctors and other medical staff. Taking the concept of 'Vidya daan' to the next level, we extended the gift of knowledge to even those who were not our students through networks and associations, social media platforms and channels, including YouTube.Would you like to share as to how you got stuck abroad when the lockdown happened?When the Covid-19 outbreak occured, I was abroad. All flights were being cancelled. But one has to deal with the situation as it emerges. With the grace of God, everything went fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blended-learning-can-help-institutes-continue-education-100585
18-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pressing problem for this ‘dhobi’ as pandemic keeps his customers at bay||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 17Suresh Kumar (45), a migrant, has been ironing clothes for the past 35 years. Originally hailing from Gonda in Uttar Pradesh, he used to help his father in work at the same place in the Dilawari street area.Like everyone, this lockdown has hit the ‘Dhobi’ community as well. The scare among the public has been refraining them from visiting the washer men. “Over two months of curfew and lockdown, we have not been able to come out and work. After this period, people don't want to get their cloths ironed from outside. I come to my workplace in the morning and wait for customers till evening,” he told.“Though, the offices and shops have opened, people are choosing to iron their cloths on their own rather than visiting us for the same. Even our regular customers are also not coming. I cannot even think of returning home now. I returned to the holy city from my native place on March 19 and three days later, curfew was imposed. Though, I sent my brother home around one month ago, I stayed here,” he said.While ruing that he was now at the mercy of the others nowadays, he said, “I am not even able to pay the house rent ever since the curfew restrictions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pressing-problem-for-this-dhobi-as-pandemic-keeps-his-customers-at-bay-100586
18-06-2020||---||Covid puts her journalism dream on hold||Amritsar, June 17Bhawini Khanna, who is pursuing Masters in Journalism and Mass Communication at DAV College, could not do her internship due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“It was all set for the internship at a news channel in Chandigarh. On March 20, I also got a call from the channel. Meanwhile, the government imposed the lockdown. Everything seems uncertain now.”It was all set for the internship at a news channel in Chandigarh. On March 20, I also got a call from the channel. Meanwhile, the government imposed the lockdown. Everything seems uncertain now.  —Bhawini Khanna, StudentShe said her examinations, scheduled for May earlier, had also been delayed.“It is tough, especially when you don't have anything to do at home. Uncertainty over the conduct of examinations is more disturbing. We had completed our syllabus in March-mid. I wanted to do my internship with a news channel and join some media organisation in the city later on,” said Bhawini.“There seems bleak chances of semester examinations now. The university may upgrade the section on the basis of internal assessment. My plans to join some media house for training is unlikely to be fulfilled till November,” added Bhawini.Since the lockdown has cut jobs in most sectors, Bhawini is also worried over this trend.“The Covid-19 repercussions would be felt for long. Career opportunities have been affected due to the lockdown. Hopefully, things will be back on track once normalcy returns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-puts-her-journalism-dream-on-hold-100587
