19-06-2020||Tarn Taran||ASI consumes poison, dies||Five arrested with weaponsTarn Taran: The police have arrested five persons with illegal weapons and ammunitions. SSP Dhruv Dahiya told mediapersons on Thursday that the suspects had been identified as Nirmal Singh Nimma of Mundapind village, Shamsher Singh of Benwalipur, Manjit Singh Jhadoo Nangal in Amritsar and Jagroop Singh Rupa and Gurdev Singh of Jaura village. Five pistols and 29 cartridges had been recovered from them, the SSP said. He said the suspects were involved in robbery incidents in the area. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-consumes-poison-dies-101301
19-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Pandemic plays a spoilsport for this judoka’s dream||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 18The virus has meant different things for different people. For budding judoka Maheshinder Saini (17), it has played a spoilsport for his dreams of donning India colours in the Asia-Oceania and the World Cadet Championships slated to be held in Macau and Turkey, respectively, later this year.Despondency and pessimism are threatening to take over his life. The Class XII student of the local Dhan Devi DAV School has not only lost his chance to take part in the two world-class tournaments, his selection to the prestigious Centre of Excellence (CoE) run by the National Institute of Sports, Patiala, also hangs in balance.After a series of trials in February, Saini was selected to the CoE but Covid has wrought havoc on his future. For six years, the boy travelled to the JFI adopted centre in Gurdaspur from his home town of Sujanpur, which is at a distance of 100 km, come rain, sunshine or sleet, every day, including holidays. In 2015, his coach Amarjit Shastri managed to convince his father, who is barely able to make both ends meet, to let Saini stay in Gurdaspur, “if he had to fulfill his dream of representing the country.”Saini won a gold medal in the 66kg weight class in the SGFI national school games held in Bhavnagar in Gujarat last year. His performance was enough for selectors to push his name for the national squad for the Asia-Pacific Youth Games held in Vladivostok later that year.He surprised judokas from Russia and Japan, both strong contenders to win the gold, with a performance full of finesse in the 66kg category. PM Narendra Modi, who was on an official visit to Russia, visited the venue of the championship, along with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. Saini remembers both the premiers giving him a pat on the back.Hope is what is sustaining him in these dark days. “Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows. I know I am passing through moments of adversity. But I have not lost hope. To me, it is like a star not to be seen in the sunshine of prosperity but only to be discovered in the night of adversity and hardship,” says Saini.He dwells on the impact of social distancing on contact sports where players are in direct bodily contact with each other. “Contact sport games such as judo, wrestling, hockey, football and basketball may take a big hit while limited contact games such as cricket, volleyball, squash, badminton, lawn tennis and baseball may see a revival soon. But, as for now, nothing is sure. The future of every sport remains in the realms of speculation,” he quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-plays-a-spoilsport-for-this-judokas-dream-101300
19-06-2020||---||Youth shot in Jandiala Guru||Amritsar, June 18Balwinder Singh, a youth of Sheikhupura Mohalla in Jandiala Guru, was shot dead by unknown assailants here on Wednesday evening. The police have registered a case and started investigation.Upkar Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said around 10 pm, Balwinder Singh, who was riding a scooter, was intercepted by an armed youth who shot him dead. The police suspect monetary or dispute over drugs as the cause of the incident.“Balwinder has two cases of drug peddling registered against him at the Jandiala police station,” said the SHO.36-yr-old man found deadA 36-year-old man was found dead in a vacant plot on 88 Feet Road on Wednesday morning. The deceased, identified as Ravi Kumar of Majitha Road, worked as a waiter at a restaurant.The police suspect that Ravi was murdered somewhere else and his body was disposed of in a vacant plot on 88 Feet Road. The body had several injury marks. A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered.Gang of vehicle lifters busted, 2 arrestedThe police on Wednesday busted a gang which was involved in stealing vehicles and later selling them after forging documents.The police arrested two members of the gang, identified as Harjot Singh of Riyasat Avenue and Parminder Singh of Mahne village in Tarn Taran, here. Their two accomplices Avtar Singh of Chhina Bidhi Chand Tarn Taran and Gurdeep Singh of Ludhiana are still at large. The police have confiscated the car (HR-18-C-1244) they were travelling in and registered a case.Minor girl raped, 1 heldThe police arrested a youth for allegedly raping a minor girl here on Wednesday. The suspect was identified as Rajinder Singh, alias Rahul of Raj Avenue, Kale Road, Chheharta, here.The complainant told the police that on Tuesday she had gone to a friend’s house. She said while returning, the accused intercepted her and asked her for friendship. She said she refused to talk to him and then he forced to sit with him and have a conversation.She said the accused then lured her and took her to a house and bolted the doors. She said she opposed him and tried to raise the alarm. But the accused threatened to kill her and forcibly established physical relation with her and fled. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-in-jandiala-guru-101299
19-06-2020||---||Metro bus staff await salaries||Amritsar, June 18Over 300 employees of the metro bus being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) in the city have not been paid salaries for the past two months. The bus service has been suspended in view of the pandemic.To operate the metro bus, the Punjab Metro Bus Society had outsourced a transport company, which has hired drivers and other staff. Office-bearers of the BRTS Employees Welfare Association said despite repeated promises, the company had not paid the salaries.“We have submitted a memorandum to the office of the Deputy Commissioner. We will intensify our struggle if our salaries aren’t released,” said a member of the association.“Since March 22, we have been sitting at home. After this, we were given a salary of only 11 days. The salaries for April and May have not been credited. It has become difficult for us support families. If the company doesn’t pay us, we will block road as a mark of protest,” said Jagir Singh, senior vice-president of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-bus-staff-await-salaries-101298
19-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Photographer sees no earnings, thinks of switching profession||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 1853-yr-old Arun Madaan, who has been into the wedding photography business for the past 32 years, is now contemplating to change profession as Covid-19 has turned his life upside down.“With a few weddings taking place amid the restrictions on the number of guests and the Covid scare, wedding photographers are no longer in demand,” said Madaan.“I started learning the art of photography at the age of 15 and set up Shiv Shakti Photo Studio in the Putlighar area in 1988 when I was 20 years old. For the most part of my life, I worked with camera. As I do not expect the things to normalise soon, I am thinking of switching profession, but I don’t know any business to switch to,” said the photographer.For a start, Madaan has already started selling gift items. “But this is again not turning out good for me. People give gifts when the times are happier,” he said.Madaan said even in summer, when people refrain from organising weddings because of high temperatures, he would get three to four bookings. “I have not received a single booking in the past two and a half months,” he said, adding that with the increased penetration of mobile phone, the studio business had started declining a decade ago. “Now nobody comes to the studio to get even a passport-size photo clicked. People already have it in their mobile phones and get it printed from a stationary shop. Our business depended on marriages and other parties. The earnings were good as people are willing to pay hefty amounts,” said Madaan.The seasoned wedding photographer said big fat Punjabi weddings had already been postponed. “People are having simple weddings these days due to the restrictions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/photographer-sees-no-earnings-thinks-of-switching-profession-101297
19-06-2020||RAVINDER Singh||‘Printing industry needs stimulus, not loans, to sail through crisis’||How has the lockdown impacted the industry?The printing industry has suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. The schools, colleges and universities have been closed since March. It was the peak time of the publishing industry. New books, notebooks, prospectus, stationery are not in demand as educational institutions adopted online modes of education. We are paying the power bills, bank loans, instalments of machines and salaries of workers, though the printing work has come to almost on a halt. There are around 200 workers in our unit. Earlier, they have to work overtime to meet the demand of educational institutions from March to May. The unit has been closed since March when the curfew was imposed. Now we have resumed the operation, but we are not getting much work.Do you expect the resumption of your business in the near future?We have to face the after-effects of Covid-19. Online education would definitely affect the printing industry. The educational institutes may adopt the online system permanently. There is uncertainty about the resumption of business. Only government aid and industry-friendly policies can save the business.Have you paid salaries to your workers during the lockdown?We have some migrant workers from UP, Bihar and Himachal, but no one returned to their home states. We have paid salaries to all the workers, irrespective of whether they worked or not in March and April. It was the entrepreneur's liability to pay salary to the worker in this hour of crisis. It is your responsibility to take care of persons who have been working for you for the last 15 years. Even our workers have cooperated with us during these testing times.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the Covid lockdown period?We have all branded machines and printing technology needs upgradation regularly. We bought a major machine at a cost of Rs 5.30 crore recently. Though it has been lying unused for two months, we would have to pay instalments as our bankers are not going to waive interest on loan.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is a big challenge for the printing industry. Now there is uncertainty about the future of this industry. Everyone is shifting from hard paper to online. It is now a matter of survival.What are your expectations from the government?The government announced Rs 3 lakh crore to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) but they are only offering bank loans. The small entrepreneurs do not need more loans as he cannot repay the loan in these circumstances. The industry needs aid from the government. The banks should waive off the interest of loans. We need interest free loans. These are genuine demands and the government should hear the entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/printing-industry-needs-stimulus-not-loans-to-sail-through-crisis-101296
19-06-2020||---||SAD-BJP leaders protest over govt policies, submit memo||Amritsar, June 18Despite the social distancing norm mandatory to curb the spread of Covid-19, leaders of the SAD-BJP combine on Thursday assembled at the Deputy Commissioner’s office to stage a protest and submit a memorandum against the alleged ill-conceived policies of the state government.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh got furious over the crowd of leaders that entered his office. Later, he came out and accepted the memorandum only after a few leaders went ahead to hand it over to him. However, the leaders also expressed grief over the death of Army personnel during the Indo-China face-off in eastern Ladakh border before addressing mediapersons.BJP leader and former minister Anil Joshi and some other leaders chose to stay away from the crowd. When asked, Joshi admitted that social distancing should have been maintained and there was no need of gathering such a huge rush of party workers. “That’s why, I preferred to stay away. Only a handful of prominent leaders should have come to hold the protest and the rush could have been avoided,” he said.Nonetheless, Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik said it was the SAD-BJP’s joint campaign to protest the state government for its anti-people policies. From the SAD’s side, former MLAs Veer Singh Lopoke and Gulzar Singh Ranike along with their supporters were present in a large number.“The blue card initiated by the SAD-BJP regime was discontinued by the Congress government due to political reasons. But, this has put the underprivileged families at the receiving end. The blue card holders were eligible to get ration and essential items at subsidised rates. I am grateful to the high court which had directed the state government to resume those cards and distribute ration and relief material to needy persons. Also, the agrarian crisis was the outcome of the state government’s wrong policies,” he said.Joshi said land, sand and liquor mafias had prospered under Congress rule in the state. “I demand a CBI probe into illegal liquor smuggling which was going on without any fear during the lockdown period. Similarly, the spurious seed scam ought to be probed. Only 1 per cent of the Centre’s relief could reach the needy in the state whereas the other relief material was siphoned off. The power bills should be waived for at least three months to give relief to the industrialists.”Tarn Taran leaders demand probe in ‘scams’A joint delegation of the SAD-BJP organised a protest at the District Administrative Complex here on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh to be further submitted to the Governor. It was against the state government. Virsa Singh Valtoha, former MLA, district president of SAD, and Sarabjit Kaur, district president of the BJP-led delegation. Former SAD MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu was among those who were present on the occasion. Virsa Singh Valtoha said the parties demanded a high-level probe into alleged scams in the fake seed, sand, transport, wine and others. The parties, too, demanded the re-induction of the names of beneficiaries whose names had been deleted from the lists of the blue cards who were given wheat and pulses by the Union Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-bjp-leaders-protest-over-govt-policies-submit-memo-101295
19-06-2020||Tarn Taran||9 fresh cases in Tarn Taran||Dr Inder Mohan, SMO, Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran, said the other five persons had been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital. He said three positive cases were from Rana Sugar Mills, Lauhuka, which is run by Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh. These mill workers had come from Ghaziabad and were working at other places too.An aged couple from Bhikhiwind was among the nine cases. This couple was under treatment at Dhawan Nursing Hospital, Bhikhiwind, whose caretaker is a Covid-19 patient and is under treatment at the local Civil Hospital for the last few days.The SMO said of the four Patti sub-jail inmates, three were residents of Amritsar and one was a resident of Tarn Taran, but all the four had been sent to Amritsar for treatment due to some security reasons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-fresh-cases-in-tarn-taran-101294
19-06-2020||---||Amritsar MC cracks down on traders violating distancing norms||Amritsar, June 18On the directions of the Local Government Department, the estate office of the MC initiated action against commercial establishments and shopkeepers for violating the government directions concerning Covid-19.Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Punjab, gave the directions to urban bodies to crack down on shops and commercial establishments violating the prescribe norms for the success of the Mission Fateh campaign of the state government. Officials have to send daily report about actions taken against violators.Sushant Bhatia, Estate officer, MC, said: "We have initiated the drive. We seized goods from various shops and commercial establishments, which were illegally displayed. Shopkeepers, especially those who are not taking government guidelines seriously, will face the music. The shopkeepers and owners of commercial establishments have to follow the social distancing norms."Today, the estate wing of the MC removed some vends where people seen violating the social distancing norms. Action has been taken at Lawrence Road, Mall Road and Gumtala Chowk.The Municipal authorities have to display Mission Fateh posters in all MC offices and fee collection centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-cracks-down-on-traders-violating-distancing-norms-101293
19-06-2020||---||62-yr-old Amritsar man loses Covid battle||Amritsar, June 18With the death of a 62-year-old man due to Covid-19, the total count of casualties has increased to 26 in the district on Thursday. The district also reported 34 fresh cases.The deceased has been identified as Santokh Singh of Jaspal Nagar on the Sultanwind road. The authorities said he was admitted to Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital where he died.Of the 34 positive cases, 26 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and eight are contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each has been reported from Dhoolka village, Singhpura village (Baba Bakala), Kotli Hamza, Chucakwal (Lopoke), Gujjarpura (Ramdas), Katra Sher Singh, Ghannupur Kale, Katra Dullo, Anngarh, Chowk Moni, Partap Nagar, Police Lines, Verka Police Station, Lawrence Road, Shariffpura, Jaspal Nagar, Bhawani Nagar (Majitha Road), Nbs Colony, Dashmesh Nagar, Model Town, Ajit Nagar, Jujhar Singh Avenue, Gurman Nagar and Haripura. Besides, two ILI cases have been reported from Majitha town.Of the eight cases with contact history, two cases have been reported from Katra Sher Singh, three from Ghannupur Kale and one each from Katra Dullo, Katra Khajana and Model Town.The total count of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 691 so far. Besides, the district has witnessed 478 recoveries so far. Health authorities said at present the district had 188 active cases admitted to hospitals.With a mortality rate of 3.76 per cent and two patients on oxygen support, the situation has turned grim in the district. The authorities have already declared two areas with more than 15 cases each as containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/62-yr-old-amritsar-man-loses-covid-battle-101292
