22-06-2020||---||Employees demand old pension scheme||Amritsar, June 21 Employees of Government Medical College took out a rally to garner support for the demand of revival of the old pension scheme for government employees. The old pension scheme was replaced with National Pension Scheme in 2004. The government discontinued the old pension system for employees recruited after January 1, 2004. “As per the new scheme, it is totally dependent on the stock market, there is no guaranteed benefit in this deposit,” said Dr Santsevak Singh Sarkaria, convener of the committee formed to lead the movement for reintroducing the old pension scheme. Prem Kumar, an employees’ leader at GMC, said, “The pension is a kind of social security for the government. With no pension, the employees would face difficulty in their old age.” He said they organised the rally to mobilise employees and garner public support on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-demand-old-pension-scheme-102471
22-06-2020||---||Gold worth Rs 2.5L looted from shop||Amritsar, June 21Armed persons decamped with gold jewellery worth around Rs 2.5 lakh from goldsmith Aman Yadav from the Guru Bazaar area here on Sunday.The victim, Aman Yadav, along with his two other workers, was working in the shop located on the third floor of 32-hatta market in Guru Bazaar in the walled city area. The four suspects, who had their faces covered, came on a scooter and a bike. They were armed with sharp-edged weapon and a pistol.Though there was a complete lockdown, the shop was open and the victim, along with two workers, was working there. The accused pointed a pistol at the victim and asked him to hand over gold ornaments. The accused fled with the gold.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) Parvesh Chopra said investigation was under progress and the police were scrutinising CCTV footage of nearby areas to identify the suspects. He said the exact amount of the loss was being ascertained.It is evident to mention here that Guru Bazaar area in the walled city is famous for gold, silver ornaments and artificial jewellery, so it is an easy target for robbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gold-worth-rs-2-5l-looted-from-shop-102472
22-06-2020||---||Eight booked for attempt to murder||Amritsar, June 21The police have booked eight persons on the charge of attempt to murder after two persons were injured in an assault and firing case at Raipur Khurd village falling under the Ajnala police station here on Friday evening.An old enmity is said to be the reason behind the attack while no arrest has been made so far.The complainant, Heera Singh, a resident of Raipur Khurd village, told the police that on Friday evening, his son Rajbir Singh and Gurbir Singh were working in the fields when the accused armed with sharp-edged weapons and pistols reached the spot and attacked them. He said they shot at Rajbir and Gurbir, who ran away from the spot to save themselves. They were later rushed to the Civil Hospital in Ajnala for treatment.Satish Kumar, SHO, Ajnala police station, said a case under Sections 307, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered in this connection. The accused had been at large since the incident. He said raids were being conducted to nab the suspects while further investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-102473
22-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Men in khaki bear the brunt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 21Cops are living under constant fear of contracting coronavirus disease as more and more policemen are testing positive. Two more cops with the city police were found infected with Covid-19 in the past two days, taking the total tally of cops infected with virus to 16. A cop with the rural police was also found to be positive.Amritsar Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the infected cops were kept in isolation, while their acquaintances and colleagues, who were in close physical contact with them, were also being examined.He, however, said though these were challenging times, there was no panic among the police force. He said challenges were a part and parcel of the job and we were fighting upfront. He said all cops were being examined and tested for coronavirus. “If anyone will be found infected with Covid-19, he would be isolated as per government guidelines,” he said.A senior official said the policemen were on the frontline in this unprecedented global health crisis. The police officials have maximum public dealing along with doctors and health workers who were working in hospitals. Cops are in the field and have to deal with different situations. They are enforcing restrictions imposed by the Punjab Government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, people do not understand this. They are not maintaining necessary social distance and thereby leading to its spread.“We don’t know who the carrier of the virus is, but you have to deal with it. Though proper precautions are being taken, you still get infected,” he pointed out, while adding that there was certainly a panic situation in the field.Virkam Jeet Singh, SSP Amritsar, rural, said the only cop found positive of the virus was still asymptomatic. He said he was kept in isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/men-in-khaki-bear-the-brunt-102476
22-06-2020||---||GNDU, Amritsar urged to postpone exams of exit semesters||Amritsar, June 21HS Walia, the state head of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU), has written to the vice chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University, urging him to reconsider the decision to hold exams for exit classes. Walia said as Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city, the environment is not conducive for conduct of examinations.“It will be wise to postpone the exams till further orders and to take decision after receiving the fresh guidelines of the MHRD/UGC that are expected after June 30, when the 'Unlock 1.0' ends,” he said.“The public transport facilities are woefully lacking in carrying students from rural areas to exam centres, especially for the first shift which will begin at 8 am,” Walia wrote in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-amritsar-urged-to-postpone-exams-of-exit-semesters-102477
22-06-2020||---||GMC, Amritsar, gets nod for plasma therapy to treat Covid hit||Amritsar, June 21Residents Support Stricter LockdownWith 21 more persons tested positive for Covid-19, the total count of positive cases has reached to 773 in the district on Sunday. Of the new patients, 16 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and five are contacts of positive cases.The localities like Gilwali Gate, Guru Amardas Colony, Katra Bhai Sant Singh, Rayya, Baba Bakala, Shakti Nagar, Beas, Judge Nagar, Gali Dar Wali, Anand Vihar, Lahori Gate, Gate Khajana, Haripura and Saheed Basant Singh Nagar each have reported one ILI case. The Gate Hakeema area has reported two ILI cases.Officials of the Health Department reported that one contact of a positive case from Katra Bhai Sant Singh and two contact cases each from Medical Enclave and Judge Nagar also tested positive.A total of 518 patients have been discharged after recovery so far. At present, the district has 224 active cases under treatment in hospital, out of which two are on oxygen support. The district has also reported 31 deaths due to the disease so far.Meanwhile, Government Medical College here has received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting plasma therapy on Covid-19 patients.Cabinet minister OP Soni said GMC had already made necessary arrangements in this regard and it would be able to start using the technique in the next few days. The college has the necessary infrastructure, manpower and plasma donors, claimed Soni.Soni said earlier Government Medical College, Faridkot, had received the approval for use of plasma therapy and its preliminary results were very encouraging.In plasma therapy, the plasma of a recovered patient is used to treat an infected patient. The minister said, “If any patient, 14 days after his test (RT-PCR) gets negative, can donate plasma and anti-bodies in his blood can help cure an infected patient.”1 fresh case in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: One more person tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. The patient had been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital. Dr Inder Mohan Gupta, SMO, informed that the count of positive cases had reached to 18. The patient was a migrant labourer from Bihar and was living at Piddi village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gmc-amritsar-gets-nod-for-plasma-therapy-to-treat-covid-hit-102478
22-06-2020||---||Soni gives aid to shopkeepers||Amritsar, June 21The Minister for Medical Education and Research, OP Soni, gave the financial assistance of Rs20,000 to shopkeepers affected by fire in the old vegetable market near Hall Gate here on November 22.A total of nine shops and 20 vends were gutted in fire. On Sunday, cheques were given to Darshan Lal, Kasturi Lal, Ratan Lal, Bhupinder Singh, Yogesh Kumar, Rajinder Kumar, Pawan Sehgal, Sandeep Kumar and Tirath Ram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soni-gives-aid-to-shopkeepers-102479
22-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Hotel industry limps back to normal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 21After lifting of the lockdown restrictions, Taj Swarna, one of the most luxurious hotels in the holy city, is looking forward to various options to generate business and gain resilience.Sumeet Taneja, General Manager of Taj Swarna, Amritsar, with a career spanning over 33 years, said: “The hospitality industry is looking forward to various options to generate revenues. We have launched an Urban Getaways offer, which is getting a good response. People have been cooped up in their homes for months and they have been looking forward to a change.”Throughout his association with the Taj, Sumeet has held numerous positions across hotels and countries as General Manager of the Vivanta by Taj – Gurgaon, NCR, NCR from Vivanta by Taj – Ambassador, New Delhi. He said post lockdown, the charm of moving out to end boredom could not be better than Taj Swarna.Though the hotel was opened throughout the lockdown for essential services and quarantine facilities, it has now geared up by opening its door for all reservations during unlock 1.0, while adhering to the directives of the government and guidelines of the local authority.Sumit said, “We are looking forward to assure the comfort for our guests and the well-being of our associates,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hotel-industry-limps-back-to-normal-102483
22-06-2020||Tarn Taran||One arrested with heroin||Thieves strike at garment shopTarn Taran: Unidentified persons struck at a readymade garment shop at Bohri Chaunk on Saturday and took away material worth lakhs of rupees. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC and booked two persons, identified as Gagan Sharma of Nehru Gate Wali Gali, and Vikas Sharma of Jandiala Guru town, in this connection. Karan Kumar of the SK Collections Shop in his complaint to the police said the suspects by cutting a hole through roof of the shop took away garments worth lakhs of rupees. Inspector Prabhjit Singh, SHO, said there was a dispute over the ownership of the shop and the police were verifying the facts. OCRoad recarpeting work startedAmritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh, MLA Raj Kumar Verka and Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi on Saturday inaugurated the recarpeting work of new roads at Main Bazar Chheharta here. The Mayor said the construction of major roads in the Amritsar West Assembly constituency was started on Saturday. The estimated cost of the work is Rs1.95 crore, he said, adding that an amount of Rs20 crore would be spent on recarpeting of roads in the city. Councillors Sakatar Singh Babbu, Raman Kumar Rammi, Satish Ballu and Lakhan Pal were also present. TNSAnti-China protest heldNakodar: BJP and Hindu Jagriti Manch activists on Saturday staged a protest here against the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, and called for a boycott of Chinese products. They burnt the effigy of President Xi Jinping. As many as 20 soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in clashes with Chinese troops on Monday night. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-with-heroin-102484
22-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||A month after lifting curbs, biz yet to pick up pace||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 21A month after lifting the restrictions on the manufacturing industry, most of businesses have not yet gained their full potential as seen before the lockdown.Mukesh Nanda, a brick-kiln operator, says the duration of production at brick-kilns always remains short which begins in the middle of February and ends in July.But owing to the lockdown, production is further reduced by almost 50 per cent. Poor sale means poor income which creates more problems as production at brick-kilns requires a huge labour cost and working capital. Moreover, returning of labourers to their home states has added to the problem of shortage of labour for the industry.Raman Gupta, herbal medicine manufacturer, says the production has come down to one third of the previous sales figures. Reasons are poor demand, products losing competitiveness for the time being due to high cost of production, high fuel prices and international air freight of goods has got four times costlier than the earlier ones.Gupta adds demand from the domestic as well as international markets is very low as Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown have reduced the consumption pattern across the world.Ajay Mehra, proprietor of a warp knitting unit, says as main markets like Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai are not fully operational and customers are not buying for any festivities or weddings there is no demand for our fabric. Warp knitting units are almost closed.Kamal Dalmia, a leading yarn manufacturer, says yarn units are working for four days a week and that too at 50 per cent capacity. Buyers of yarn are not paying previous dues. The availability of labour is hardly 50 per cent but it hardly pinches as there are not enough orders to meet. Bankers are offering loans as per the Union Government schemes but the moot question is after taking loans how would they repay it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-month-after-lifting-curbs-biz-yet-to-pick-up-pace-102485
22-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Economy can be revived by offering stimulus to MSMEs’||SUNDEEP Khosla, Director of Khosla Rubbers Private Limited, feels that the economy can be revived by the government by offering stimulus to the MSMEs and with increased purchasing power of people. A commerce graduate, he passed out of DAV College, Amritsar. Besides, he is the chief patron of the Balkalan Industrial Welfare Association and a member of the state-level advisory board. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Sundeep says the lockdown has badly affected his business. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?The lockdown has badly affected my business. During the lockdown period, our entire plant remained locked while expenses continued. Now, the government has allowed industrial units to restart but my unit is running at 25 per cent capacity.When do you expect the resumption of your business?Considering the present situation we are in, I have decided not to start any new business.Have you released the salaries of your staff?I have given salaries to all my workers. Despite facing hurdles like no sales and no profit, I have given salaries during the lockdown period from working capital.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading is very low in my profession. The lockdown has taught us that online trading is very important. So, I am getting prepared a website to enter the online trading.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?As a businessman, I think one should diversify into other sector too because if one business of yours is not doing well, you can earn from others. One should start also the business of essential goods or services as essential goods always keep running no matter how is the situation.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?I take it as a challenge. During this period, many items associated with Covid-19 have been invented. For example, we prepared foot-operated hand sanitizer dispenser machines and now many industrial units have started making such machines.What are your expectations from the government?The government should help the industry at this critical juncture. First of all, interest should not be charged on working capital and loans as these are a huge burden on industrialists. The government should give direct benefits to industrialists. Postponing the EMIs is not beneficial if banks will charge interest on it. Interest should not be charged on the deferred EMIs. Industrialists need financial help from the government. So, it should give free electricity to industry for at least six months and also give relief in GST payments. On top of that, these fixed charges and interest on CC limits and term loans is a big problem for them. So, the government should not charge these from industrialists. These steps can help industrialists to recover their losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/economy-can-be-revived-by-offering-stimulus-to-msmes-102486
22-06-2020||---||His hopes of studying abroad dashed||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 21The sudden lockdown has cost this 22-year-old lad Chamkaur Singh dear, who had high hopes to reach Montreal (Canada) after May 10.Chamkaur Singh cleared his Class XII in 2019 and without taking any coaching, cleared his IELTS with six bands in the mid of last year.He applied for an offer letter from a Canada-based college to pursue business management. He had also applied for the study permit known as Certificate of Acceptance of Quebec which he had received shortly. He was to depart for Canada on May 10. But due to the lockdown, the flights were suspended and all his hopes were dashed.I had applied for an offer letter from a Canada-based college to pursue business management. I had also received the study permit. I was to depart for Canada on May 10. But due to the lockdown, flights were suspended and all my hopes were dashed. —Chamkaur SinghHe said he spent more than Rs 12 lakh for the college fees and the ‘Guaranteed Investment Certificate (GIC) with Rs 56,000 for the air ticket.He said he felt insecure for his future and now he would have to rent a single room for which he would have to shell out more money.Chamkaur said he kept himself busy in the agriculture works or in repaired agricultural inputs in which his father got him trained. This kept him mentally engaged.Fateh Singh, father of Chamkaur Singh, said his son was going through an uncertain phase. He said he was ready to depart for Canada, but the uncertainty had put a break on his plans. He said he had handed over all the agricultural work to Chamkaur so as to keep him busy.He was given an offer letter in the Business Management Diploma by a college in Montreal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-hopes-of-studying-abroad-dashed-102487
22-06-2020||Open House||Weekend curbs may help check spiralling graph||Step in the right directionThe decision of the state government to impose restrictions on weekends to contain the spread of the lethal virus is a step in the right direction. According to the experts, every single day spent indoors is going to count in the ongoing battle against the dreaded infection. Ours is a densely populated country. It is difficult to maintain social distancing in markets and public places. Secondly, in spite of repeated appeals by the government, people neither wear masks nor maintain social distancing. Therefore, when the administration decides to impose weekend restrictions to break the chain and in turn slow down the infection rate, we must cooperate with the authorities to tame the virulent disease. A relatively calm weekend also gives the administration a chance to sanitise public places without hindrance, take stock of the situation and plan accordingly. Every time restrictions are imposed on the citizens, the government incurs a heavy loss of revenue. Therefore, we must understand that by limiting our movement to minimum, we will be helping ourselves, our city and our country.Rajiv SharmaJust an out-of-the-box experimentA stricter lockdown on the weekend announced by the Punjab Government is yet another out-of-box-experiment to contain the spiralling cases of Covid-19 in the state. The weekend restrictions would not help check the rising number of cases until people are sensitised to strictly follow the dos and don’ts related to the virus. Easing of restrictions on weekdays would nullify the little gains, if any, achieved. Moreover, the matter needs serious introspection as the hike in positive cases has no contact or travel history but pertains to community transmission. The need of the hour is to launch mass awareness campaigns through media and public address system. Medical facilities need to be strengthened since the present infrastructure is inadequate to deal with the rising number of Covid cases.Anil VinayakA good decision to check spread of virusThe purpose of imposing a stricter lockdown on the weekend in the state is to check the rapid spread of Covid-19. Currently, most of the lockdown restrictions have been withdrawn with the result that a large number of people can be seen moving aimlessly everywhere. On weekdays, people find it difficult to take time off their work and travel for fun and entertainment. But on the weekend, crowds of people can be seen visiting malls or other spots. They hardly follow the social distancing norms. In my opinion, the government is doing right by imposing a stricter lockdown on the weekend.Tanveen KaurGovt should take more stepsPunjab has done well to impose a stricter lockdown on the weekend to check community spread of Covid-19, but the lockdown is not the solution. The government should sensitise the people, double the testing, give money to needy persons, create more jobs and distribute sanitisers and masks in slum areas. Shops selling non-essential items must be allowed to open only twice a week. An ambulance and a police vehicle must be stationed in every colony of the city. Anyone roaming in streets without any reason should be fined.Rohit Kumar SehdevIt will slow the spread of virusAmid apprehensions of community spread of Covid-19 and projection that the peak of the pandemic in the state is still two months away, the Punjab Government has introduced a stricter lockdown on the weekend to keep rising graph of cases in check. The rationale is that a large number of people tend to come out in streets, visit worship places and travel more on the weekend than on weekdays, which may result in the faster spread of the virus. Restrictions can help slow the spread but cannot end it. The situation demands stringent compliance of the norms. The inter-district movement during the stricter lockdown should be banned. Testing should be made mandatory for those coming from Delhi which has become a hot spot of coronavirus.Amarjit KalsiNot wise to close shops on weekendThe closure of shops on Saturdays, Sundays and on gazetted holidays is not a wise idea. People are questioning why the government has allowed liquor vends to open on all days of the week. And malls have been allowed to function on Saturdays and Sundays. One fails to understand how the people would reach malls if they are not allowed to leave their homes. Rather allowing shops to open all days of the week would help boost the country’s economy.Izleen QUESTIONThere has been a sudden surge in Covid cases across the country over the past few weeks. Do you think that in current scenario it will be safe to take pending examinations and entrance tests of school and college students?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 25).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weekend-curbs-may-help-check-spiralling-graph-102488
22-06-2020||---||‘Take holy dip with caution’||Amritsar, June 21Call it religious sentiments or negligence, majority of the devotees, have been taking a dip in sarovar during their visit to the Golden Temple in Amritsar.Experts believe that a dip in a common water pool should be avoided under the prevailing circumstances as Amritsar has seen a spurt of Covid-19 cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said though there was no harm if the devotees took a bath in the sarovar with caution. It’s mandatory to maintain a distance of at least six foot from each other while taking a holy dip. The authorities should ensure adequate chlorination and regular circulation of water, he said.“If six-foot distance is not maintained in water, it can prove fatal. Covid-19 pandemic spreads mainly through human contact, spitting or droplets of infected person. That’s why distance has to be maintained. Otherwise, the pandemic does not spread in water or air. Water should be cleaned and circulated regularly as it will minimise the chances of infection,” said Dr Kishore.Today, the devotees took bath in the sarovar at a very close distance and frequently, while water circulation could never match that frequency.As per the ICMR guidelines, bathing in the same pool can result in spread of infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/take-holy-dip-with-caution-102440
