25-06-2020||Amritsar||‘Centre ignoring interests of middle class’||Members of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), an entrepreneurs' organisation, have accused the Narendra Modi government of ignoring interests of the middle class in policymaking.Piara Lal Seth, the president of the PPBM, said: “There are around seven crore entrepreneurs from the middle class. Around 30 crore jobs were dependent on businesses run by them. Their units contribute to around half of the country GDP.”The president accused the government of ignoring the needs of the middle class while doling out incentives to the top and the economically-weaker section.Samir Jain, the general secretary of the PPBM, said the continuous hike in prices of fossil fuels was hard to bear for the middle class and would cause rise in inflation, which “would hit the middle class the most”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-ignoring-interests-of-middle-class-103998
25-06-2020||Amritsar||‘CKD continues imparting quality online education’||Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh held a meeting with members of the executive committee through video conferencing with Bhag Singh Ankhi, chairman, CKD schools; secretaries Swinder Singh Kathunangal and Surinder Singh Rumalianwale and dharam prachar committee members.The meeting agenda was to discuss the need of adding and boosting quality of online education being provided to the students of all CKD schools in the wake of Covid-19 epidemic. Nirmal Singh said in order to further raise the standard of education in the CKD schools, director education, joint directors’ education, principals and CKD officials would conduct online meetings from time to time.He said school teachers were connected online with children. In addition to ensure students' attendance, homework is being sent to students daily, regular written and oral tests are also being taken.He said CKD students were participating in various online competitions at state and national level. “Moreover, the Chief Khalsa Diwan is regularly conducting online seminars for teacher training programme to further improve the teaching skills,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-continues-imparting-quality-online-education-104001
25-06-2020||Amritsar||GNDU scientists research on genetic diversity in Punjab||The Department of Human genetics of Guru Nanak Dev University on Tuesday conducted a research on the subject of “genetic diversity in Punjab’s population and susceptibility of cancer and other diseases due to exposure to agriculture chemicals”.The research was overseen by Prof (Dr) AJS Bhanwer and Dr Kawaljit Kaur. The findings of the study revealed genetic proximity among different endogamous groups of the state. The origination of an ancestral state Y-HG Q (Y-chromosomal haplogroup) was suggested to originate only in Asia. The scientists claimed that the studies of these ethnic groups showed some markers from MHC class 1 genomic region linked with immune response systems that were non-existent in other Indian population.Apart from this, in a study by Prof Vasudha Sambyal and Dr Kamlesh Guleria, an association with increased and decreased risk of “breast and esophagel cancer” of 42 inherited variants in 16 cancer susceptibility genes involved in hypoxia, angiogenesis, DNA repair and inflammatory pathways, was reported. Five novel variants in VEGFA gene (Vascular endothelial growth factor is a signal protein produced by cells that stimulates the formation of blood vessels), reported for first time in India, have been included in the international data base of NCBI, National Institutes of Health (NIH), USA. — TNSKey findings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-scientists-research-on-genetic-diversity-in-punjab-104002
25-06-2020||---||Guru Nanak’s message is universal: Pak anthropologist||Amritsar, June 24To commemorate the 551st Parkash Purb of the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak Dev, the Department of History and Centre on Studies in Sri Guru Granth Sahib at Guru Nanak Dev University here have started a series of online history lectures.The first lecture on “Baba Nanak and Bhagti Lehar” was conducted by Prof Gurinder Singh Mann, a scholar of Sikh studies. Prof Mann is an alumnus of the first batch of Guru Nanak Dev University. He is a former professor of the University of California in the US and, at present, is the director of the Global Institute of Sikh Studies. Prof Mann said we must keep Guru Nanak Dev out of the ‘sant tradition’. “We can understand him better if we see how he viewed himself. Guru Nanak called himself a poet, a bard, who sang in the praise of the Supreme Lord. He strongly denounced asceticism and advocated the life of a householder,” he said.The second lecture of the series was conducted by a Pakistan-based anthropologist, Harun Khalid, who is a travel writer and freelance journalist. Khalid has been studying religious minorities in Pakistan and is the author of “Walking with Nanak”. He spoke on Guru Nanak’s legacy in Pakistan, saying “Baba Nanak and his message are universal”.“Guru Nanak should not be seen as the Guru of Sikhs only. People who worship Baba Nanak in Pakistan have their own way of doing it,” Khalid said, adding that he has, through his books, studied and documented the religious practices and heritage of Pakistan’s non-Muslim minorities.Prof Amandeep Bal, the Head of the Department of History, and Prof Amarjit Singh, director of the Centre On Studies in Sri Guru Granth Sahib, led the session. Dr Harneet Kaur, assistant professor, moderated the discussion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanaks-message-is-universal-pak-anthropologist-103995
25-06-2020||---||Drug addict youth shoots himself in Butar Sevian village||Amritsar, June 24A drug addict, Gurjant Singh, a resident of Butar Sevian village, shot himself with the licensed weapon of his foster father Gurmej Singh here on Wednesday. He was perturbed after his in-laws took back his second wife following often quarrel due to his drug problem.Gurmej Singh said Gurjant was married around eight years ago. But due to his drug problem, the couple got divorced. He said around one year ago, he was again married to Gurjit Kaur of Nikke Saran village. However, again due to his drug habits, there was often quarrel between the couple. He said on Tuesday, his in-laws came and took back the girl.Gurjant got enraged over this and stole his licensed revolver and 12 live rounds after breaking locks of the almirah and fled away with the weapon. A case was registered under Sections 380 and 506 of the IPC on Tuesday.Udham Singh, investigating officer, said on Wednesday Gurjant returned and shot several fires at the gate and later shot himself with the same revolver. The police have booked Gurmej Singh, his wife Jasbir Kaur, their daughter Jaspal Kaur, her husband Manjinder Singh and an aunt Balwinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-addict-youth-shoots-himself-in-butar-sevian-village-103996
25-06-2020||---||Master Tara Singh’s memorial  to be erected at Kartarpur: DC||Amritsar, June 24“The contribution of Master Tara Singh, be it religious or political, cannot ever be ignored,” said Deputy Commissioner (DC) Shivdular Singh Dhillon on Wednesday. He was speaking at a state-level function organised by the district administration at Government Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, to commemorate his birth anniversary. “The state government has decided to erect a memorial of Master ji at Jang-e-Azaadi Museum in Kartarpur, where his memorabilia will be kept to inspire the youth to follow in his footsteps. A discussion in this regard has been held with members of his family,” said the DC.Master Tara Singh’s granddaughter Kiranjot Kaur, who is a member of the SGPC, said “Master ji lived a selfless life, dedicated solely to the nation and the Sikh religion.” She recounted many untold memories of the freedom struggle and the Gurdwara Reform Movement.On the occasion, kin of Master Tara Singh were honoured by Assistant Commissioner Alka Kalia, Additional DC (Development) Rajinder Singh Mudhal, Social Welfare Officer Narinderjit Pannu and District Education Officer Satinderbir Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/master-tara-singhs-memorial-to-be-erected-at-kartarpur-dc-103999
25-06-2020||---||Celebrated writer Dhamija shares thrills of crime writing||Amritsar, June 24With nine crime novels to his credit, one of the best Indian crime fiction writers — Vish Dhamija — need no introduction. The UK-based author was in conversation with traveller and writer Kishore Thukral on Majha House online platform. He gave insights into creating one of the most popular crime fighting characters in literary world — the badass cop — Rita Ferreira.Vish, whose books Bhendi Bazaar and others will soon be developed as a franchise of web series, said his journey as a crime writer began right from childhood. “You know we read crime writing right from our childhood without even realising it. Tintin and those by Enid Blyton, Phantom etc. are all about solving crimes. And slowly, you realise that this is the kind of genre you like the most,” he said.Originally from Jaipur, he has travelled a lot while he was in India and even after he came to the UK to pursue his education. Vish said although his parents were both Punjabis, he never picked up the language. Although a polyglot, Punjabi still remains elusive to him.As a crime writer, Vish said: “I think it is more about the narrative rather than the genre of crime. As long as a writer is able to tell a story in a compelling and relatable manner, readers will read and believe in his/her books.”The conversation, focused on the tropes of crime writing, also touched the issue of role-playing faced by the author. “It depends upon the point of view chosen by the author. If the book is about a cop, I view the situation from the cop’s point of view, but if my main character is a thief, I will think about the story and develop it from that perspective. Even crime has several genres such as psychological thrillers, financial thrillers etc. Novels such as Girl on a Train or Gone Girl are psychological thrillers as the action is located in the psychology of the characters. The study is more of deviant psychology than the action as we understand it.”Vish also shared that in some of his books, he has used real incidents, facts which fascinated him as a writer. He said: “Investigations have changed dramatically over the decades. In the times of Sherlock Holmes when technology wasn’t advanced, the writer and the detective had to rely on the acumen of either of them. But now, we have all these facilities at our disposal and the narration changes accordingly. Even criminals are aware of the traps of technology and they have to be smart to be able to handle it.”He said he had been asked why he chose to make his main character a female instead of a male. He said he had once been appreciated by a retired police officer for making the cop a woman, as he felt that women were much better at detecting and decoding information as compared to their male counterparts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrated-writer-dhamija-shares-thrills-of-crime-writing-104005
25-06-2020||Amritsar||Man held for murder bid||No headway in gold robberyAmritsar: The police have started questioning history-sheeters in a case of robbery, in which armed persons took away gold worth Rs2.5 lakh from a jewellery shop on Sunday. Parvesh Chopra, Assistant Commissioner of Police, said the police were examining footage of CCTV cameras near the crime spot. Aman Yadav, the jeweller, along with his two other workers, was at the shop located on the third floor of a building in Guru Bazaar in the walled city. Four persons armed with sharp weapons and a pistol arrived on a bike. They had their faces covered and entered the shop on the pretext of getting a gold ring repaired. Pointing a pistol at Aman, they told him to hand over them gold ornaments and fled with the looted gold. TNSMC acts to curb Chinese stringAmritsar: The Municipal Corporation has appointed a nodal officer to curb manufacturing and sale of Chinese string in the city. The decision has been taken pursuant to the ban imposed on plastic string by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Khalid Ashraf vs Union of India case. The NGT had instructed the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to ensure compliance of the order. On the direction of the PPCB, the Department of Local Government instructed the local civic body to implement the order. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-murder-bid-104004
25-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Five hurt in firing at Khakh village||Tarn Taran, June 24Five persons were injured in a firing incident at Khakh village, 35 km from here, on Tuesday. The Verowal police have booked 13 persons in this connection.Sucha Singh Bal, DSP, said a case under Section 307 of the IPC and the Arms Act had been registered against the suspects. He said 13 of the 10 suspects had been identified as Gursewak Singh, Gurlal Singh, Harman Singh, Heera Singh, Amrit Singh, Malkit Singh, Aju, Jyoti, Chandan Singh and Gopi, all residents of Khakh village, while three are unidentified.The DSP said the injured were Balwinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Harbhinder Singh, Yuvraj Singh, all residents of Khakh village and Pargat Singh of Jahangir village.He said the suspects had been raising objection over the sitting of a divyang person near their house, who was a relative of the victims. On Tuesday, a verbal duel took place between the two groups. In a fit of anger, the suspects armed with weapons attacked victims when they were returning their homes and injured five of them. The injured were admitted to the Mianwind Community Health Centre and later they were shifted to the Civil Hospital. Pargat Singh, who was in a serious condition, was shifted to a private hospital in Amritsar. The incident has created a terror in the village while policemen have been deployed to avoid any untoward incident. The DSP said efforts were on to apprehend the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-hurt-in-firing-at-khakh-village-103997
25-06-2020||Neha Saini||Amritsar hotels, restaurants adopt new set of safety measures||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 24As the Punjab Government has allowed hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces to open with 50 per cent capacity, industry insiders gear up to adapt to the new normal post lockdown, hoping to get hospitality business back on track. While complying with standard operating procedures and offering regular food services, managements of hotels and restaurants will now be ensuring that the services provided do not lack in safety and health standards.Those into the hospitality business in the city have already suffered a lot due to the lockdown, so the industry will have to remodel itself with measures that reduce the risk of community transmission as it gears up to open. “It’s a big challenge for both hotel owners and customers but this is something we all have to do now,” says Surinder Singh, president, Federation of Hotel and Guest House Association, Amritsar.“Hospitality businesses of the city are in limbo and some of the small businesses are on the verge of collapse. If we have to start the chain of economics, we need to adopt the basic safety measures as required to check the spread of Covid-19,” he says.The new normal for the industry includes use of face masks, face shield and gloves mandatory for the service staff, daily sanitisation of the premises and ensuring safe and hygienic food. Digital menus, disposable cutlery, reduced food menu and limited customers are some of the changes that the industry will have witness.“These are desperate times and with the government now allowing dine-in facility and restaurants to open with 50 per cent capacity, places that are big enough to follow social distancing easily might start operations and also get customers. The big hotel chains that did not shut down completely during the lockdown or did not let go their staff, have put in all safety checks in place already. But any further progress will only be observed if and when customers decide to come in,” says Gurjinder Singh, owner, Best Western Merrion, Amritsar.Meanwhile, despite the limitations, hospitality industry people are hopeful of the revival of their businesses.Speaking outWe have a spacious premises, so our overhead expenses prevent us from not opening immediately under the current situation. But in future, we plan to adopt a digital menu, minimum contact service and safe food as our priority. We will be allowing only 25-30 customers at a time to ensure social distancing. Prabal Talwar, Owner, ClubhouseNow we need to ensure that we have a safe kitchen, minimal staff and limited food menu. Disposable menu charts and cutlery will also reduce the risk of the spread of the virus. We will be shifting to cashless mode of payment and one person will supervise and ensure that safety measures are followed. Surinder Singh, President, Federation of Hotel and Guest House AssociationWith a marginal number of tourists and guests visiting the city, we find ourselves in a tough financial position. But to follow the new set of protocols is the only way ahead. We carry out daily sanitisation of our hotel and the staff, especially the service staff, has been instructed to wear face shield, masks and gloves. Gurjinder Singh, Owner, Best Western MerrionHealth is our priority now. The staff is being screened every day. A sanitisation tunnel has been created in the premises. Face shields, masks and gloves are mandatory to be worn in the kitchen as well. Guests are being screened and sanitised and vehicles, too, are being sanitised. Our party halls are sanitised after every party. Shikha Sareen, Owner, Festym Era & Royale||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-hotels-restaurants-adopt-new-set-of-safety-measures-103991
25-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Monsoon is here but internal roads still in bad shape in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 24Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) has sanctioned Rs20 crore for recarpeting major roads, several internal roads, it seems, may not get the required attention of the civic body. The roads have been crying for repairs.Residents of various neglected areas have been complaining about the poor condition of roads for long. As the monsoon is nearing, residents are worried that the Municipal Corporation might not be able to complete the recarpeting work announced by it.Karamjit Singh Rintu, MayorWe have started recarpeting of several roads in the past two weeks. The Covid-19 outbreak had delayed the tendering process. Several roads have also been completed in the past few days. After spending an amount of Rs20 crore on recarpeting main roads, we will focus on link roads and other roads in localities in city.The road from Gate Hakima to Central Jail Fathapur is badly damaged. When it rains, potholes get filled with water. Devotees visiting Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib Jhabal have to face a lot of inconvenience. Similarly, Jhabal Road is also in a bad state. A road from Ajnala Road to Gumtala via Tabowali and Malawali villages also needs repair. It was last recarpeted 22 year ago, in 1998. After waiting for years, residents of Malawali village last year recarpeted the road from the village to Gumtala out of their own pockets.Residents of Kot Khalsa have also been awaiting recarpeting of the road from Main Chowk Kot Khalsa to Gurdwara Bohri Sahib. Mangal Singh, a resident of Kot Khalsa, said, “The road got damaged some years ago. Earlier, there were large potholes on the road. These would get filled with water after rain, making them invisible to commuters and thus, resulting in accidents. Now the authorities have put stones on the road but there is no deadline for its recarpeting.”Sukhjit Singh, another Kot Khalsa resident, said: “Representatives of our area have met several politicians and officials of the MC and demanded recarpeting of the road, but to no avail.”Manmohan Singh, a resident of Nanakpura, said: “The Municipal Corporation does patchwork of roads before the monsoon. After the rain, it gets damaged again. One of my relatives met with an accident due to potholes on a road in the Wadali area.”Jagdish Singh, a resident, said: “The Municipal Corporation announced recarpeting of roads before the monsoon. But the work did not get started. A large number of roads have not been recarpeted for the past few years. The work should have started in February so that it is complete before the onset of the monsoon.Ward No. 78 councillor Sukhbir Singh said: “A repair estimate of the Bohri Sahib road has been prepared and the work would start soon.”Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said: “We have started recarpeting of several roads in the past two weeks. The Covid-19 outbreak had delayed the tendering process. Several roads have also been completed in the past few days. After spending an amount of Rs20 crore on recarpeting main roads, we will focus on link roads and other roads in localities in the city. We have set a target to recarpet all city roads this year. There is no scarcity of funds for infrastructural development.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/monsoon-is-here-but-internal-roads-still-in-bad-shape-in-amritsar-103992
25-06-2020||---||Kin of doctor who ended her life protest police ‘inaction’ in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 24The family members and relatives of Dr Simran Kaur, who had ended her life on May 20, sat on a dharna at Guru Gobind Singh Chowk on Majitha Road here on Wednesday. They were protesting against alleged police inaction in the case.They alleged the cops investigating the case were hand in glove with the victim’s husband and his relatives for destroying the evidence. They claimed to have videos of the same. They demanded action against the cops. Braving the searing heat during the day, the family members started the agitation in the morning.The victim’s brother Pardeep Singh said there were videos which showed that the cops took the money and allowed the relatives of the victim’s husband to remove certain things from her room, including ornaments and a diary in which she used to write daily. The police were trying to shelter the suspects from day one.Simran Kaur (28) allegedly ended her life here on May 20. Her family had alleged that poison was injected into her body by her husband, Dr Dilbagh Singh, who was booked by the police on the charge of dowry death.They alleged the accused had illicit relations with his colleague working in the same hospital. The police allegedly tried to shelter the accused when they approached them. They did not name other suspects in the FIR even as we had filed a written complaint naming them, including the woman with whom the accused had illicit relations, Pardeep added. Dr Dilbagh was arrested by the police after the registration of a case.Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh said the police had arrested Dr Dilbagh and his father Sarabjit Singh in the case while a majority of recoveries of dowry items had been made. He said the allegations of taking money were being looked into.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik was already supervising the case. He said efforts were on to nab Dr Dilbagh’s mother who was also booked in the dowry death case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-of-doctor-who-ended-her-life-protest-police-inaction-in-amritsar-103993
25-06-2020||---||One more death, 13 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 24The district reported one more death due to the Covid-19 pandemic, taking the death toll to 33 on Wednesday. On the other hand, the count of positive cases climbed to 844 after 13 fresh cases were reported.The deceased has been identified as 79-year-old Daulat Ram, a resident of Gali Dai Wali in the Katra Khazana area. The Katra Khazana area was already declared a containment zone. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension.Of the new cases, 10 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and the remaining three are contacts of positive patients.One ILI patient each from Mohan Nagar in Verka block, Beas, Gurbax Nagar, Anand Avenue, Sharifpura, New Pratap Nagar, Chamrang Road, Wadala Johal, Majitha Road and Paris town on the Batala road were reported.Three contacts of positive cases were detected from Gurnam Nagar, Shingar Avenue and Gali Number two of Sultanwind. Meanwhile, with Vrindavan colony and Dhapai declared as micro-containment zones on Wednesday, the number of such zones has risen to five. Three of them were declared at Dayanand Nagar (on the Lawrence Road), Medical Enclave and Pandori Mehma village. There are already two containment zones in the district — Bombay Wala Khoo and Gate Khazana.19 NRIs quarantined in Khadoor SahibTarn Taran: Nineteen NRIs, who returned from the US and Dubai on Wednesday, were quarantined at the isolation centre in Khadoor Sahib here. Besides, two Covid-19 patients were discharged after recovery from the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital. The Kar Sewa sect working under the patronship of Baba Sewa Singh had been providing food to those quarantined here.Bhai Nirmal Singh of the sect said seven of them returned from the US and 12 from Dubai. A person returned from the US said they moved to the US illegally and lost a large amount of money. They also demanded help from the Punjab Government to be resettled here. The other one who returned from Dubai said they were lucky to get the support of Khalsa motorcycle in Dubai. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-death-13-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-103994
25-06-2020||Amritsar||GMC Amritsar conducts plasma therapy on two patients||In a first, Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, today started a trial to treat Covid patients with the convalescent plasma therapy.Under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) certified yet unproven treatment, the antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid is preserved for transfusion into moderately-ill patients.Hhow it worksUnder the treatment, the antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid is preserved for transfusion into moderately-ill patients.Dr Sujata Sharma, MS (Principal), GMC, Amritsar, said two recipients — one from Pathankot and the other from Amritsar — were administered the treatment during the early hours today. A recovered patient hailing from the Chheharta area had volunteered to donate the plasma.She said: “A follow-up on the patients’ condition will be done. Since the GMC is also enrolled by the ICMR under its pan-India project, a cumulative report will be submitted. The therapy is basically a randomised control trial to limit Covid-associated complications through plasma which is administered under strictly laid down conditions on moderately-ill patients only.” Dr Sharma said an injection, which cost around Rs 50,000 in the market, was also being tried on patients. “The government has provided the injection free of cost to us. We are observing the results,” she said.Ironically, in Amritsar, which has close to 800 Covid-positive cases and at least 500 recoveries, the authorities of the GMC are struggling to find plasma donors.It is learnt that the hospital has on its list over 20 persons who could donate their plasma, but despite repeated calls, only a few responded. Dr Sharma said efforts were on to convince the donors. “We have been motivating the identified patients who successfully recovered from Covid,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gmc-amritsar-conducts-plasma-therapy-on-two-patients-103988
