28-06-2020||---||Mayor inaugurates development works worth Rs 35 L on Majitha Road||Amritsar, June 27Mayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated the development work for the construction of roads and streets with cement concrete in Ward No. 12, Green Field and Ward No. 13 Royal Street on Majitha Road on Saturday evening.These development works are estimated to cost around Rs35 lakh.Mayor Karamjit Singh in his address said the development works in every corner of the city are in full swing at present and the face of the entire city is being changed. He said there would be no shortage of funds in the development work of the city.Priyanka Sharma, councillor; Riteish Sharma, president Mahakali Mandir; Rajesh Sharma, Lovely Sharma, Visakha Singh, Amar Lal Julka, Dr Harinder Singh, Jampi Kumar, Jaswant Singh Randhawa, Dr Kulwant Singh, Sahib Singh, SB Sareen, Inderjit Singh and Arun Gupta were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-inaugurates-development-works-worth-rs-35-l-on-majitha-road-105380
28-06-2020||---||Armed persons attack Congress councillor’s house||Amritsar, June 27Around 50 armed persons attacked the residence of Congress councillor Gurmeet Kaur in Fatahpur village here hours after the attack on her son and his friends late Thursday evening. They fired several gunshots at the family who climbed on the rooftop to save themselves.However, several suspects also climbed on the rooftop of the neighbouring house and shot at them while remaining threw bricks at them. Gurmeet Kaur and his family had a narrow escape in the incident.Lakhwinder Singh, a transporter and husband of Gurmeet Kaur, stated to the police that around 50 persons from the village headed by some criminal elements came outside his residence and started abusive language. One of the accused, Yodhbir Singh, challenged and shouted that they would teach him a lesson and he would have to pay for quarrelling with him. He said he along with his family closed the door and went on the rooftop.He said Gurinder Singh, alias Ginni, Kallo and Jagga Singh who were accompanying the accused climbed on the rooftop of the neighbouring house and opened fire at them while their remaining accomplices threw bricks and stones at them. The accused later fled away while threatening of dire consequences.When asked about the reason, he said a few days ago they had a quarrel with his son Captain Singh and abused him.Lakhwinder Singh alleged that earlier in the afternoon, three unknown persons attacked his son Captain Singh and his two friends Shamsher Singh and Harmanpreet Singh, alias Gopi. They were going to bank for withdrawing cash. He said, however, he asked his son to return home. He said when they were coming back three unidentified persons with covered faces fired at his son. A bullet hit Harmanpreet on his leg. He fell down and got unconscious. Captain and Shamsher hid themselves in the fields while the accused fled the spot. Harmanpreet was admitted to hospital for treatment.Anil Kumar, SHO, Islamabad police station, said while the police had registered a case of attempt to murder and the arms act in this regard.Besides Yodhbir, Ginni, Kallo and Jagga, the police have booked Nishan Singh, Robin Samra, Jagdeep Singh, Vikramjit Singh, Sukhbir Singh, Shera, Nitin, Sehajpal, Shamsher Singh, all residents of Fatahpur, Ballu of Anngarh and 35 unknown persons. The SHO said one suspect had been arrested while raids were on to nab the remaining persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-persons-attack-congress-councillors-house-105381
28-06-2020||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu resolves dispute between two factions||Amritsar, June 27A dispute between two warring factions of Verka area was on Saturday amicably resolved following the intervention of Navjot Singh Sidhu.A faction made a sit-in in front of the residence of the Congress leader, following which, two members of the group were called to resolve the matter.Verka is a suburb, which falls in the East Assembly constituency, being represented by the Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu.Sham Singh, a protester, said they had gone to procure liquor from a street in the area. However, some persons, including one claiming to be an ASI, objected to their coming there to buy the liquor and even thrashed them.He said now, they were being threatened with a police case by the opposite group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-resolves-dispute-between-two-factions-105383
28-06-2020||Amritsar||Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi to host series of online talks||The Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi is organising a series of creative experiences and talks on theater, music and folk dances online. The series has been curated and conceived by Kewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, and aims to keep focus on the creative activities that came to a screeching halt due to the lockdown.The series began on June 21 and will run till June 30. It has already featured stalwarts like Bansi Kaul and Surjit Patar addressing the revival of art and cultural activities, while the world tries to adapt to post covid-19 life. “We will now be hosting a session on the Lok Dhadi and other folk traditions of Punjab. This session will feature Navjot Singh Mandair, a researcher and a Dhadi performer, who will give insights into how things have been shaping up for the art form and artists over the years,” informed Dhaliwal.Another session revolves around the discussion of the relevance of Nachar, a folk genre of giddha. “We have been inviting prominent artists and experts to discuss the revival of these folk arts forms. There are many folk art communities who have been severely hit by the lockdown. They need audience, live performances and a stage to earn money and keep their art alive,”said Dhaliwal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-sangeet-natak-akademi-to-host-series-of-online-talks-105386
28-06-2020||GS Paul||627 Indians return, 121 on waiting list||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27In a jolt to the remaining 121 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan, it has been learnt that they are to return after obtaining special permission later. As of now, out of a total of 748 Indians residing there due to the Covid-induced lockdown, only 627 could return during the 3-phase repatriation drive launched with the understanding between the New Delhi and Islamabad authorities.On Saturday, 208 persons hailing from Punjab, Haryana, New Dehi, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu came back through Attari-Wagah border. Out of these, 151 were quarantined in various hotels and government certified centres whereas 51 were dispatched to their native places.They were received by SDM-2 Shiv Raj Singh Bal, Naib Tehsildar Jagsir Siongh, Sukhdev Singh, Land Ports Authority of India manager, and nodal officer Dr Preeti Sharma with BSF personnel.Those who arrived through Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post were medically screened and were ferried under heavy security through special buses. As far as Punjab is concerned, they were also sent to the districts they belonged to. Apart from locals, others were from Moga, Ludhiana, Kadian and Sangrur.Rafiq Ahmad, hailing from Kadian, was upset as his Pakistan-origin wife Umera Rafiq and 1-year-old daughter Aysha could not accompany him. “We three went to Pakistan to meet Aysha’s parents and got stuck due to the lockdown on either side of the border. Now, when the Pakistan authorities allowed repatriation, me and my daughter were included in the list and my wife was denied permission. I failed to understand this logic. How can a child live without mother? I had no option but to leave my daughter with my wife who stayed back”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/627-indians-return-121-on-waiting-list-105387
28-06-2020||---||Online classes: Parent files petition in High Court, seeks guidelines||Amritsar, June 27Alleging absence of any standard operating guidelines by the NCERT, CBSE and the MHRD for conducting online classes by the schools, Anup Maini, a parent from Amritsar, had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking directives on digital classrooms. The HC has granted time to the NCERT, the Department of School Education and the MHRD to file replies by July 13.A majority of parents are concerned about the health issues kids are facing in the wake of online education. There is no yardstick to measure teachers using online platform to impart education to students are trained enough to use the digital medium as an effective tool of learning. — Varun Khanna, Member, Amritsar Parents’ AssociationSeeking relief in two matters, Maini said the motive to file the petition was to highlight the adverse impact of online classes on children’s health. “The matter is of serious concern as children’s health problems are on the rise due to inconsistent and inadequate online education being imparted during lockdown. We want to urge the concerned authorities, including the NCERT, CBSE and the MHRD, to state proper guidelines regarding the conduct of online education by the schools. Students are facing serious health issues due to the stress as online classes do not follow a consistent pattern,” said Maini.Maini’s counsel Sharad Mehra said, “ The court took notice of our argument that the government-aided and private schools are conducting online classes and collecting fee for the same but there are no guidelines on standard operating procedure for the schools to conduct these classes. Also, the duration of these classes are very long and do not consider safety of a child’s health.” The petition also seeks details of expenses being incurred by schools.The petition has got support from several parent associations and groups in city. Varun Khanna of the Amritsar Parents’ Association said: “A majority of parents are concerned about the health issues kids are facing in the wake of online education. There is no yardstick to measure teachers using online platform to impart education to students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-classes-parent-files-petition-in-high-court-seeks-guidelines-105384
28-06-2020||Amritsar||Work on installation of LED lights resumes in Amritsar||The Municipal Corporation (MC) on Saturday resumed the installation work of LED lights under the Smart City project in the remaining wards.The work of installing LED lights remained suspended for the last three months due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. As per the contract with a private firm, the LED lights installation project was supposed to be completed on February 29, but the company failed to complete the task on the given time. Then the MC had extended its deadline to compete the work.The firm had installed LED lights in 50 wards of the municipal corporation. The work was being conducted in the remaining wards when the project had to be put on hold due to Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the company has all the equipment and the work has resumed in the remaining wards.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said LED lights would be installed in the remaining 27 wards soon. The work has been resumed in eight wards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-installation-of-led-lights-resumes-in-amritsar-105385
28-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Kairon Govt School girls clear NMMS||Tarn Taran, June 27Seven students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Kairon, have cleared the National Means-Cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) organised recently by the Education Department. Principal Rajpal Kaur Bal said Navneet Kaur and Gurjit Kaur of the school bagged the first and the third position, respectively, in the district.The girls were honoured in school on Saturday. The other students who cleared the test were Pawanpreet Kaur, Sukhmandeep Kaur, Kawaljit Kaur, Sunita Kaur and Simaranjit Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kairon-govt-school-girls-clear-nmms-105382
28-06-2020||INDUSTRY AND LOCKDOWN||‘People’s faith in ayurvedic medicines has increased’||Dr JP Singh, a qualified ayurvedic doctor, is the Managing Director of Shree Dhanwantri Herbals, which was established by his late father Vaidya Deen Dyal Singh here in 1952. He did his BAMS from Dayanand Ayurvedic College, Jalandhar, in 1963. The factory is situated in the industrial zone at Nag Kalan village. Besides, he set up another unit in Baddi (Himachal Pradesh) in 2005. His two sons, Dr Uma Shankar Singh and Dr Ravi Shankar Singh, both qualified ayurvedic doctors, assist him in running the units. His firm supplies ayurvedic medicines to government hospitals. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Dr JP Singh shares that they have witnessed a surge in the sale of ayurvedic medicines.How has the lockdown impacted your business?Except the initial one-week shutdown, our two factories have been working as it falls under essential services. As per the instructions of the state government, we have taken all safety measures so that our employees are not infected with the virus. However, our marketing suffered a lot due to a break and hiccups in supply chains.We are taking this pandemic as an opportunity. The crisis once again renewed the concept of ayurvedic medicines among people, resulting in a 25 per cent spike in the sale during the lockdown period. Immune boosters such as Chavanprash, Giloyghan Vatti and Ayush Kwaph were bought in a large quantity by people. — Dr JP Singh, an ayurvedic doctorHow is your business going?People's faith has increased in ayurvedic medicines, especially immunity-boosting medicines. As we have seen a surge in the sales of ayurvedic medicines, we are going to expand the present unit at Nag Kalan with another state-of-the-art unit adjoining it. We will install touch-free and online functioning manufacturing machines in it.Have you paid salaries to your employees during the lockdown period?We have paid full salaries to all our employees on time and there was no delay. All of them have been given social welfare benefits like ESI and Employees' Provident Fund.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading is very little. Professionally, we have an extensive marketing network across 18 states.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?An entrepreneur should always be ready for such crisis and challengesDo you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?We take it as an opportunity and are guiding our marketing staff accordingly. The crisis once again renewed the concept of ayurvedic medicines among people resulting in a 25 per cent spike in the sale during the lockdown period. Immune boosters like Chavanprash, Giloyghan Vatti and Ayush Kwaph were bought in a large quantity by people.What are your expectations from the government?The government must offer advances on low interest to the MSME sector and waive interest on already paid loans during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/peoples-faith-in-ayurvedic-medicines-has-increased-105392
28-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Lawyers at home, so hearings go virtual||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27The district court complex here wears a deserted look ever since the lockdown began in the country due Covid-19 spread.Deserted corridors, locked chambers of advocates and hearing through mobile video calling have become the new normal at the district courts complex here these days. Prior to Covid-19 pandemic, the district courts, with around 1,500 advocates, used to be full of hustle-bustle all through the day. Finding a vacant parking spot inside the complex was a herculean task and most visitors had to park on roads outsideThe litigants can approach the court with complaints but the hearing of these cases would begin only after the Covid threat subsides. The cases of urgent nature, both civil and criminal can be filed on any day. The advocates stated that the matters as simple as a bail in a petty matter take months in the present scenario.The ongoing restrictions have forbidden advocates from entering the judicial offices building and they have to present their agreement through video WhatsApp calling. “Sometimes the voice is inaudible, other time the network is low. The advocates cannot properly represent their council in such conditions,” said an advocate. He said at best, the advocates can seek the next date of hearing, as they want to represent the case to the benefit of their client.As the witnesses cannot be presented in the courts, it is also delaying outcome of ongoing cases. The delivery of summons which earlier was done by employees is now being done through postal department.Chunni, a tea seller at complex said, “Everything has changed with this disease. Initially, over by over 20,000 people daily.” He said even the advocates have stopped coming.The advocates revealed that as they had to represent the facts through video calling, there is no point coming to courts daily. They added that even a drop in number of new litigation cases has been witnessed.Speaking outThe present situation will add up to the burden of pending cases. Cases already linger on for years and litigants have to wait for long for getting justice. A little more relaxation should be given while keeping in view the safety aspects. Adv Parminder Singh Advocates aren’t coming to courts as there’s no work. All they have to is file a case and get the next date. People whose cases are in final stage are the worst hit. Now, people have to wait anxiously. Adv Kuljit SinghMeetings with clients, too, have gone down. The pandemic has changed everything and clients, too, prefer a telephonic conversation instead of driving down to the courts complex. Advocate Shashiveer SharmaThe silver lining about the pandemic is that litigants file a case when it is highly necessary. Not only this, a drop in violent clashes among people visiting the court has been witnessed. Advocate Shamsher Singh Sandhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lawyers-at-home-so-hearings-go-virtual-105393
28-06-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Poor civic amenities bane of Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 27Residents of Sachkhand Road in Tarn Taran are perturbed over the local administration’s apathy who has failed to provide civic amenities to the residents.The cremation ground and other commercial establishments like banks branches, hospitals, Baba Basta Singh locality, Guru Amar Das Colony and other residential localities are situated along the road.The road leading to the cremation ground is not in good shape. Encroachments and lack of development in residential colonies are other issues being faced by the residents. Besides, a garbage dump, drain passing near the locality and abolition of Shaheed Udham Singh Park are the main issues plaguing the residents.Om Parkash said the residents had been fighting against illegal dumping of garbage on the roadside since long. Foul smell emanating from the garbage dump has made the life of residents literally unbearable and relatives hesitate to visit the area, he said.Subash Chander, a resident of the area, said the drain flowing quite in the middle of the locality was adding to their woes. It had made ground water polluted and several residents were suffering from hepatitis and cancer like diseases. He said five persons had died in the locality due to these diseases. The State Human Right Commission and other authorities concerned had instructed the local authorities to redress the issues, but nothing had been done so far. He said the demand of residents to clean and cover the open drains had not even been met.Jang Bahadur Singh, a resident of the locality, said in the year 1996 the then local administration under the Central Government scheme of Integrated Development of Small and Medium Towns (IDSMT) sanctioned Shaheed Udham Singh Park for the residents. He said the present administration had converted the park into a building wastage dump. The park is not more than a garbage dump and crores of rupees spent on the construction of this park this park had gone down the drain.Kuldeep Kumar, a potter, said the roads leading to the locality were not in good shape and these were encroached upon too. The grief-stricken people who came to the cremation ground at the time of need often had to face harassment due to the poor condition of the road. He said the localities of the area lacked development as no new development work had been started for the last three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poor-civic-amenities-bane-of-tarn-taran-105388
28-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Cop discharged from Hospital||Intoxicants, mobile seizedAmritsar: Amritsar central jail staff confiscated 63 intoxicant tablets and capsules from two jail inmates here on Friday. They also seized an unclaimed mobile phone from the jail complex. Following their complaint, the police have booked the prisoners Sukhdev singh of Budha Theh village in Beas and Jaspal Singh of Dhotian village, who were behind the offence. Davinder Singh, ASI police, said that during the checking of room No. 6 of barrack No. 6 the police confiscated 40 sedative pills from Sukhdev, while rest 23 were recovered from Jaspal Singh who was lodged in the same barrack. Meanwhile, an unclaimed mobile was found from the bathroom. A fresh case against them has been registered under relevant sections of the NDPS act and Prisons Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-discharged-from-hospital-105390
28-06-2020||---||Lukewarm response to one-time property tax settlement scheme||Amritsar, June 27Only three days are left to deposit property tax and water and sewerage bills under the one-time settlement policy of the state government and the Municipal Corporation has received a lukewarm response to the scheme so far.Residents are advised to avail the benefit of the government's scheme. We are aware of the financial condition of the public, so our field staff is not visiting the commercial establishments for the recovery of tax — Pardeep Rajput, Nodal Officer (Property Tax)The lockdown imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19, existing for over the last three months, has led to a heavy financial loss to the MC as various departments have failed to get any recovery of taxes and bills during this period.The civic body has recovered only Rs72.87 lakh as property tax during the last three months as only 6,326 property holders have deposited tax so far. The amount was collected when the government gave a 10 per cent rebate on one-time settlement of the property tax. During the last fiscal, the MC had recovered Rs26.71 crore in tax.Officials of the MC said they got a marginal recovery of water and sewerage bills. Only Rs40 lakh had been recovered till date. The water supply and sewerage wing of the MC was expecting a recovery of Rs4 crore with the announcement of one-time settlement policy through which the state government had decided to waive penalty and interest on the pending bills.The property tax wing of the MC has asked city residents to pay their pending property tax by June 30 and avail themselves of the benefit of one-time settlement scheme. Tax payers will get a 10 per cent rebate if they pay by Tuesday, after which, they will have to pay a penalty on the pending amount. The government had exempted penalty and interest on the tax amount during the last fiscal but extended it up to June 30 after the outbreak of Covid-19.Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer (property tax), said: “Residents are advised to avail the benefit of the government’s scheme. We are aware of the financial condition of the public, so our field staff is not visiting the commercial establishments for the recovery of tax.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lukewarm-response-to-one-time-property-tax-settlement-scheme-105377
28-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Cops to keep an eagle eye on restaurants, eateries flouting norms in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27With the state government allowing hotels, restaurants and marriage halls to operate with 50 per cent capacity by following strict adherence to social distancing norms and other health protocols, the Police Commissioner has directed the Station House Officers to keep an eye on them.Sukhchain Singh Gill, Police CommissionerThe idea is to ensure proper following of government guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus that has claimed hundreds of lives. As citizens of the country, we have collective responsibility to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and that would be achieved only after we follow government guidelines in letter and in spirit.According to information, police officials were directed to randomly check restaurants and eating joints to check violations, if any.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said: “The idea is to ensure proper following of government guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus that has claimed hundreds of lives.”The holy city is known for its eating joints. Many of them were famous among tourists. During the curfew and later on lockdown restrictions, these remained out of business and hoped the government would soon allow them the operations.People are also fond of enjoying snacks at rehris on roadsides. The police said they were also supposed to follow norms and ensure social distancing.On Tuesday, Capt Amarinder Singh had issued fresh guidelines while allowing dine-in facility till 8pm with 50 per cent occupancy or 50 guests, whichever was less. However, the government asked them to strictly adhere to social distancing and other health hygiene and precautions.The Police Commissioner pointed out that these eating joints should ensure compliance while serving clients. They could run their operations smoothly, but only condition was to ensure compliance of norms in letter and spirit.“As citizen of the country, we have collective responsibility to curb the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and that would be achieved only after we follow government guidelines in letter and spirit,” said Dr Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-to-keep-an-eagle-eye-on-restaurants-eateries-flouting-norms-in-amritsar-105378
28-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar district reports two more deaths, 14 new cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 27With two more deaths due to Covid-19 here on Saturday, the toll has increased to 39 in the district. The district health authorities have also reported 14 new positive cases with which the total count has reached 910.The deceased include a 65-year-old male, Sudhir Kumar from Prem Nagar on Daburji Road and 65-year-old female Sudesh Sharma from Rayya. The health authorities said Sudhir Kumar was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Sudesh Sharma was also a cancer (gall bladder) patient.Of the new positive patients, nine are ILI (influenza like illness) cases while five are contacts of positive patients. The localities including Shastri Nagar, Vallah, Chowk Passion, SBI Bank Kotwali, Ajnala Road, Gulab Village (Ajnala), Prem Nagar, Gopal Nagar and Subham Green apartments, have reported one ILI case each. A contact case from Civil Hospital, one from A-division police station and three from Vigilance Bureau have also been reported.Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the district has nearly doubled within the last 21 days. The district had reported a count of 468 positive cases on June 6, which reached 910 on June 27. Astonishingly, the casualties due to Covid-19 have increased by nearly five times in the last 21 days. The death count in the district on June 4 was merely eight, which has now increased to 39. The spurt in casualties has already worried the authorities and they claimed that a review was being conducted to know the reason behind the high mortality rate.No outcome of inquiry into poor PPE kits Even after two months of the allegations of poor quality PPE kits and masks being supplied to the medical staff at Government Medical College, no outcome of the inquiry initiated in the matter has came to light. Apart from the medical staff, local MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, who had issued a grant of approximately Rs1crore for the equipment from his MPLADS fund, had also written a letter to the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation demanding an inquiry. As the college had failed to complete the inquiry, Aujla had written a fresh letter on June 16 alleging deliberate delay in completion of probe. The ministry in its response has asked the Principal Secretary, Punjab State Planning Board, to take necessary action in a time-bound manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-two-more-deaths-14-new-cases-105379
