30-06-2020||Attari (Amritsar)||143 Pakistan officials along with families return home through Attari-Wagah||As many as 143 Pakistani officials, posted at the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi, and their family members on Tuesday returned to their country through the Attari-Wagah border, officials said.Similarly, 38 Indian officials posted at Indian High Commission in Pakistan and their family members would cross over to India on Tuesday evening, officials further said.On June 23, India had asked Pakistan to reduce the staff in its high commission in New Delhi by half and also announced a reciprocal reduction in Indian strength in Islamabad.The Ministry of External Affairs had said that the reasons behind the decision were alleged involvement of Pakistan High Commission officials in "acts of espionage" and maintaining dealings with terrorist organisations.Earlier, on June 22, five officials of the Indian High Commission including two who were arrested there and later released, had returned to India through the Attari-Wagah border. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/143-pakistan-officials-along-with-families-return-home-through-attari-wagah-106654
30-06-2020||---||2 more lose Covid battle in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 29Probe Into Substandard PPE Kits Gathers PaceWith two more casualties due to Covid-19 reported on Monday, the toll has increased to 41 in the district. The health authorities also reported 22 new positive cases. With this, the total count of positive patients has reached 945 in the district.The first victim has been identified as 55-year-old Bharat Bhushan of Chowk Passian in the old walled city. He was admitted to Government Medical College. The other victim is 71-year-old Davinder Singh of Sariffpura area. He was admitted to Amandeep Hospital.Of the new patients, 18 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and four are contacts of positive patients. Sandhu Colony reported two ILI cases while Green Avenue, Shivala Bhayyian, 100 Feet Road, Batala Road, Bhagtanwala, Sultanwind Road, Makhanwindi, Katra Jaimal Singh, Varindavan Garden, Batala Road, Tarn Taran Road, Shariffpura, Majitha Road, Katra Bhaggian, Baba Deep Singh Avenue and Katar Nagar reported one each case. Besides, three contacts of a patient from Chheharta and one from the Vigilance tested positive.So far, the district has discharged 740 patients after complete recovery. Out of the 164 active cases, 116 patients are admitted to hospitals and 48 are home-quarantined.As the Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city, the administration has converted a bus into a mobile sample collection vehicle which would be sent to affected areas to collect samples. The bus fitted with a glass partition would enable medical staff to collect samples of suspected patients without getting exposed. Officials stated that now the suspected patients from the affected areas would not require visiting hospitals for giving samples. The bus would start its operations from Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-lose-covid-battle-in-amritsar-district-106268
30-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Vigilance scrutinising hospital records as more plaints pour in||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 29With more complaints pouring in, the Vigilance Bureau has started scrutinising hospital records to verify the statements of complainants.Meanwhile, the suspects in the case have applied for bail in local court, which has issued notice to the Vigilance seeking their reply.According to information, several more persons have submitted their complaints to the Vigilance claiming that they were also fleeced by the hospital and the lab authorities in the name of Covid-19 treatment. They suspect that the lab people prepared fake reports.SSP Vigilance Parampal Singh confirmed that they have received several more complaints, which have been attached with the current first information report and further investigations were on to verify the facts.Sources in the Vigilance revealed that a man from the walled city area approached the Vigilance claiming that the hospital and lab people fleeced him. He told the Vigilance that the lab report confirming him Covid positive did not have any signature of doctors. Further, he said the hospital authorities fixed the package at Rs2.5 lakh for his treatment, but later took over Rs3 lakh. He suspected that he did not even have the disease.Meanwhile, Vigilance sleuths are preparing a reply to the notice issued by the court on bail application filed by the suspects.It has also been learnt that the Enforcement Directorate has started a probe into the scam whether money changed hands through illegal means. Sources confirmed that ED asked for the records and FIR in this connection. Vigilance had booked five doctors and a hospital owner on charges of murder bid, criminal conspiracy, fraud, forgery and corrupt practices on June 23.The lab authorities had also approached the HC demanding that the Vigilance Bureau be restrained from conducting raids and release the machine and records seized ‘illegally’. The court has fixed June 3 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vigilance-scrutinising-hospital-records-as-more-plaints-pour-in-106269
30-06-2020||Neha Saini||Performing arts get a new lease of life||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 29Creating digital space for live performances, discussions and finding audience amid all the challenges that pandemic has thrown at us, city-based artistes have come together to continue recognising andcelebrating the creative talent. In a first, an eight-day online international theatre festival was organised where solo acts from celebrated artistes featured along with standup comedy acts and audience interactions.Jalandhar-based theatre artist Gurinder Singh has created an online platform V Manch which has been organising this international online theatre. Amritsar based artist Gurinder Makana performed a solo play ‘Lacchan’ based on Hindi playwright Kamtanath’s story Sankraman.“It’s a novel way of offering theatre activities to the audience keeping in mind the Covid-19 limitations. The play got appreciation globally. It also got us opportunity to get back to active theatre after the lockdown. It’s a beginning of adopting new ways to keep theatre alive. We also featured comedy artist Jatinder Suri and a panel of experts for a live interaction,” said Makana. The half an hour performance was live streamed and also updated on the Facebook platform of V Manch. Makana said that Dubai based artist Harvinder Babali, an alumnus of NSD also featured on the platform.Another initiation towards creating digital space for folk artistes during the pandemic has been taken by Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi. Kewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, hosted a live session with folklorist and performer Zoraver Singh. An eminent folk artist, Zoraver is known as ‘Noorzora’, and talked about the unique folk art form of ‘Nachar’. “It’s a folk art performance where men dressed up as women perform giddha and other folk dances. It was once a popular folk form but it got sidelined with changing times,” said Kewal.Sharing his own journey as an artist, Zoraver said, “I belong to Jhari village in Fatehgarh Saheb and we used to watch many folk artists perform as kids in our village during weddings and festivals. My first tryst with the art form was at a friend’s brother’s wedding while I was studying for my graduation. Me and my friend decided to dress up in women’s finery and performed at the jaago. But I hesitated initially to dress up as I thought I could not do it given my educational background. But later, when we were appreciated for our performance, I shun my inhibitions,” he said.Zoraver has his own group now and has been part of several prominent folk festivals and international stage. He also talked about the future of this folk art form that has transgender artists. “There are so many young artistes who want to take up this art form that you will be surprised. The only roadblock is the mindset that you have to fight. Sometimes, our own family and society does not recognise us as artistes, but the respect we earn due to our talent and passion is what makes it so much rewarding,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/performing-arts-get-a-new-lease-of-life-106270
30-06-2020||---||Not many passengers ready to take the risk||Amritsar, June 28The government’s decision to allow buses to run at their full capacity received a tepid response on Monday.A moderate footfall of passengers was found at the Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal. Conductors and drivers were seen waiting for passengers.Mahinder Singh, a driver of a bus leaving for Fatehgarh Churriyan, said: “Before lockdown, it used to take just 10 minutes to fill the bus to its full capacity. But now, less than 10 passengers occupied the seats even after more than 20 minutes of waiting.”A conductor said: “People are only moving out of their towns and homes if they have some important work.”Gurbaaj Singh, driver of a bus heading to Ludhiana, said: “Despite the government allowing us to run buses at full capacity, we managed to get only 30 passengers. In present circumstances, a majority of people are avoiding travelling in buses."Parminder Kaur, a passenger, said: “I boarded the bus to reach Kathunangal village, which falls on the road from Amritsar to Batala, where my parents live. Since there was some unavoidable work and aged parents had problem travelling, I am going there.”Earlier, the government had resumed inter-district bus service on select routes after easing of the lockdown on May 20. From June 2, more routes were opened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-many-passengers-ready-to-take-the-risk-106272
30-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Six +ve cases in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 29Six more Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Tarn Taran on Monday, while three were discharged from the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital as their test reports came out negative.SMO Dr Inder Mohan Gupta confirmed that six positive cases were admitted to the Civil Hospital. Hence, the count of positive cases admitted to the Civil Hospital has reached 11. The SMO said: “Total 9,388 Covid-19 samples have been tested so far, of which 205 reports were detected as positive and 182 patients were discharged after their reports came out negative. Three Covid-19 patients have died in the district.”According to another report, nine persons who were isolated at the hostel of Sri Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, were found corona negative and sent back to their homes after providing certificates of their well-being by local health and administrative officials on Monday. Bhai Nirmal Singh of Khadoor Sahib Kar Sewa sect, which was taking care of the quarantined persons, said five of them returned from Canada, three from Australia and the ninth returned from Malaysia. Shelter, food and all other essential services were provided by Kar Sewa Khadur Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-ve-cases-in-tarn-taran-106274
30-06-2020||Rural pharmacists burn their certificates||A day of demonstrations in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 29Members of the AAP held protests in all five assembly segments of the city to protest against the SAD for endorsing the Central Government’s three ordinances pertaining to agriculture. They burnt the effigies of Sukhbir Singh Badal, President of SAD.Ashok Talwar, President of AAP (Urban), said these ordinances had provisions to end the MSP and current market structure. He said Sukhbir Badal had opposed the all party meeting called by the state government to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue. He claimed that MP Bhagwant Mann would bring private members’ bill against these ordinances in the next session of the Lok Sabha.Rural pharmacists working under the Department of Panchayats burnt copies of their educational certificates as a mark of protest against the state government for not regularising their services.They complained that they had been working on contractual basis for the past 14 years and were being paid paltry pay. Dheeraj Kalia, a rural pharmacist said, “We have been assigned Covid duties and have also been working as a part of the Rapid Response teams and for screening suspected patients at airports and others places. But we are astonished to know that we are not covered under the Rs 50 lakh insurance cover announced by state government to cover employees performing Covid-related duties.”The employees stated that they enquired from senior officials of the administration and they have stated that the said insurance scheme does not cover rural pharmacists.Rural Pharmacy Officers association leader Kamaljit Singh said most of the employees had not left their job despite their pay being very low. He said the rural pharmacists were being paid around Rs 10,000 per month.Congress protests fuel price hikeCongress workers staged a protest against the Union Government for constantly raising prices of fossil fuels and burdening the common man.Jatinder Sonia, president of the District Congress Committee (Urban), said the Modi Government was bent upon raising the prices of petrol and diesel daily in small proportion. She said this was being done despite there being no price escalation in crude in the international market. Members of the District Congress Committee raised slogans against the government and demanded withdrawal of hike. They said common people were the worst victims of the lockdown and instead of holding their hand in distress they were being burdened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-day-of-demonstrations-in-amritsar-106278
30-06-2020||---||1 booked for forging documents to get job||Amritsar, June 29The rural police have booked a man for allegedly getting a job the Army on the basis of fake documents. He was identified as Partap Singh, a resident of Butar Sevian village here.He was booked following investigation carried out by the DSP, Jandiala. The probe revealed that he got recruited in the Army on the basis of duplicate certificates in the name of Gopal Singh. He had been employed in the Army for the past nine years. Gopal Singh was currently in Malaysia and he could not clear the test and physical trials.A case under Sections 419, 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was registered on the complaint submitted by Baldev Singh, who is a resident of Mehta. ASI Udham Singh, who is investigating the case, said Gopal and Partap Singh were known to each other as they both used to attend trials. However, Partap was overage and could not appear for the examination and therefore he forged the documents of Gopal Singh and got recruited in the Army. He said they were writing to the Army in this connection and would issue a notice to him for joining the probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-booked-for-forging-documents-to-get-job-106279
30-06-2020||Neha Saini||Fashion labels reinventing business in post Covid set-up||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 29Reinventing itself, fashion enterprises in the city have embraced the call for ‘vocal for local’ as they work towards establishing a market catering to post-Covid realities. Most popular fashion labels in the city have reopened, with limited footfall and possibility of sustainable, co-dependent business.The new normal for fashion fraternity being masks, social distancing and catering to clients keeping in mind safety measures, a majority of designers are taking orders online or through video-conferencing.“The business was not as bad once we opened after the lockdown as walk-in clients were coming in gradually. But with rising number of cases now, business has become dependent on digital platform as customers prefer to call in or get clothes home delivered,” says Sargun Seth, a designer from her label Closet.Post lockdown, business has also become cost-effective. Cutting down on expenditure and moving towards affordable couture, most designer studios are looking towards casual wear, in the absence of extravagant weddings.“Due to recession and Covid-19 outbreak, weddings are not happening. So, bulk orders for clothes are not coming. The next best option is to create casual wear collection, clothes that are simple yet appealing and affordable,” she says.Himani Arora, a prominent designer from the city, too, feels that the new mantra for business means working with lesser staff and taking bulk orders online.Sadhvi Arora, who runs label Omana along with Chinu Arora and Palak Arora, too, says the future business depends on cost-cutting and adopting safety norms such as zero trials and avoiding crowd. “We tell our walk-in clients that there will be no trials, fittings. Also, we conduct regular sanitisation of workshop and studio, but most of the clients are ordering through digital platforms to maintain social-distancing norms.” Most fashion houses are supporting their artisans and karigars despite the limited orders.SPEAKING OUTThermal screening of walk-in clients is being done, sanitisation of workshop and studio, maintaining social distancing by taking only one client at a time and wearing masks are some of the new practices we have adopted. The footfall is not dismal, but online orders have become a preferred way of business. —Himani Arora, DesignerWe are getting two types of customers, one who prefer video-conferencing or online mode for orders and the other who walks in, maintaining the new safety norms. We ensure we sanitise bags and final set of clothes before delivering these to our clients. Our staff is working at 50% capacity in shifts and we hope the business will revive soon. —Sargun Seth, designerWhile all safety norms are being followed, designing masks have become a new potential genre of fashion and styling industry. While wearing them is a mandatory safety practice, a number of clients are demanding masks along with the designed outfits. Also, fashion has to now become responsible and cost-effective. —Mehak Gupta, owner of LaajWe are thinking of creating cost-effective subtle attires that are easy to wear and easy on pocket. Also, doing business with local suppliers and working with local artisans will also support the community and in turn create opportunities for all. Also, the industry has to function as per new normal and this will create trust and demand among clients. —Bhawna Sajdeh, Kasbah label||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fashion-labels-reinventing-business-in-post-covid-set-up-106280
30-06-2020||---||Goldsmith among two nabbed for gold robbery||Amritsar, June 29With the arrest of two persons, including a goldsmith, the police on Monday claimed to have cracked the gold robbery case in which a goldsmith was looted by four armed persons from the Guru Bazaar area on June 21.They have been identified as Inderjit Singh of Tarn Taran Road and Gurmeet Singh (goldsmith) of New Gurnam Nagar area. Two of their accomplices, identified as Sahil and Tinku, were still at large and raids were on to nab them, said ADCP Sartaj Singh Chahal.The police have confiscated an air pistol, a sharp-edged weapon and a motorcycle used in the crime, besides the gold ornaments looted from the jewellery shop.The victim, Aman Yadav, along with his two workers, was working in the shop located on the third floor of a shop at Guru Bazaar in the walled city area. The four suspects, who had covered their faces, came on a scooter and a bike. They were armed with a sharp-edged weapon and a pistol. They entered the shop on the pretext of repairing a gold ring.However, Aman refused to attend them saying that due to the lockdown they were not allowed to work. One of the accused slapped a worker and then pointed a pistol at him and demanded to give gold ornaments to them. The accused decamped with gold worth Rs 2.50 lakh from the spot.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) Parvesh Chopra said following a preliminary probe they got to know that some goldsmith would be involved in the robbery. It was a total blind case. They somehow zeroed in on Gurmeet Singh and Inderjit Singh. During interrogation, they confessed to have committed the robbery with the help of Sahil and Tinku. He said the antecedents of the two were being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goldsmith-among-two-nabbed-for-gold-robbery-106281
30-06-2020||Amritsar||Admn installs dividers along Heritage road||The city police in collaboration with the State Bank of India (SBI) installed 100 plastic and iron-made beautiful dividers on the Heritage road, leading to the Golden Temple.Parminder Singh, ADCP (Traffic) said the SBI funded the project, which would realise two objectives. Apart from enhancing the beauty of the heritage street, it will facilitate maintenance of social distancing for the devotees visiting the Sikh shrine. Now, devotees, e-rickshaws and other vehicular traffic will be in separate lanes. So there will be no bumping into one another. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-installs-dividers-along-heritage-road-106283
30-06-2020||---||Road near 22-number Phatak cries for care||Amritsar, June 29The bumpy road near the city’s 22-number Phatak is causing trouble to commuters, especially two-wheelers, many of whom have skidded due to pebbles scattered all over the place.Residents of the area also complain that the broken road turns into a virtual lake every monsoon resulting in inconvenience not only to commuters but also them as it becomes a breeding-ground for mosquitoes.Avinash Kumar, an area resident, said, “The problem is not new. This bad patch has been the same for the past few years. As and when the road is repaired, it relapses into a bad condition soon due to accumulation of rainwater here. It is a low-lying area and water accumulates here.”He said unless a storm sewerage line was laid, recarpeting the road would not solve the problem. The crossing is one of the busiest railway crossings in the city where long queues of vehicles are seen every time it is closed to pass a train. It is mostly used by commuters coming from the Jhabal side to enter the city. With no train running on this route since the Covid-induced lockdown, the crossing remains open all the time to vehicular traffic these days.Residents say even as the road on both sides of the railway crossing is wide enough, traffic snarls can be seen here. The garbage thrown along the railway tracks is another problem being faced by the residents.They say that fish sellers encroach upon the roadside area and dump leftovers by the roadside. “Dogs can be seen roaming here in search of leftover meat in the garbage. Stalls have come up on the roadside and the place gets converted into a virtual fish market as people, mostly booze lovers, swarm the place,” said another resident Sawinder Singh.Apart from the bumpy ride near the railway crossing, commuters have to face the same problem near petrol pump as they move towards the Islamabad flyover. They say that due to restrictions on travel, traffic on the stretch is comparatively very less and the time could be used to improve the infrastructure and remove the bottlenecks so that when the normalcy returns, they do not have to face the same old issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-near-22-number-phatak-cries-for-care-106284
30-06-2020||Amritsar||SGPC ex-staffer seeks police probe into missing saroops||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s (SGPC’s) former employee Kanwaljit Singh, who has been at the loggerheads with the management over 267 missing “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib has approached Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill to conduct a thorough probe.It has been learnt that an enquiry has been marked to the Deputy Commissioner of Police. The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), headed by Justice Ajit Singh Bains (retd), has already sought intervention of the Chief Secretary in this matter.Kanwaljit had retired from the post of assistant supervisor (publication wing) in May.“I complained to the police as I am being mentally harassed by the SGPC’s officials. All the records are in possession of the SGPC. I fear that they may tamper with the records,” he said.Kanwaljit said he was forced to give in writing that he was solely responsible for the missing “saroops” and pay the damages.“I am ready to pay Rs 5.6 lakh ‘bheta’ against the missing ‘saroops’, but those responsible for it should be taken to task. On numerous occasions, the SGPC officials got ‘saroops’ dispatched without updating the records. They should be held responsible,” he said.He claimed that 80 ‘saroops’ were damaged due to short-circuit on May 19, 2016 at gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-ex-staffer-seeks-police-probe-into-missing-saroops-106293
30-06-2020||Bathinda||Price hike fuels protest in Bathinda and Amritsar||Arun Wadhawan, president, DCC, Bathinda, said it was a peaceful demonstration with minimum workers in attendance to avoid large gathering. “Fuel prices have seen an unprecedented increase recently, which should be rolled back,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/price-hike-fuels-protest-in-bathinda-and-amritsar-106332
