01-01-2021||Calcutta||Colours of Anniversary||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta molest victim ‘tried to break car glass to seek help’||The 21-year-old woman who was allegedly molested inside a moving car late on Tuesday had tried breaking open some of the windows in a desperate bid to raise the alarm and force the driver to stop, police said. The woman was returning home to Maheshtala, in South 24-Parganas, with two men and another woman after attending a birthday party in Jadavpur when she was allegedly molested. The accused could not be arrested till late on Thursday. The police had on Wednesday traced the car to a spot in the Lake police station area. The left side glasses of the car — black Jeep Compass — had marks of damage. “We have sought details of the owner of the car from the public vehicles department,” said an officer. The woman is said to have told the police that she didn’t know the two men, one of whom was at the wheel. They were friends of the other woman in the car, the police said. The complainant has told the police that the two youths had molested her and refused to stop the car while doing rounds across south Calcutta. She tried breaking open the glass so she could alert passers-by. She said she texted some of her friends and even sent the GPS location to a few so that they could help her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Winter’s first fair||Your prayers have been answered and fairs are back despite the looming threat of Covid. Saras Mela is on at New Town fairgrounds till January 3, from noon to 7.30pm. The fair sells all from clothes to carpets, pithes to perfume. An attractive selfie zone and games corner have come up too, although only women and children are eligible for the games. Get your names enrolled at around 1pm daily and have a go at hit-the-wicket, basket-the-ball etc. All children are getting consolation prizes but the first and second woman winner is getting gift vouchers of Rs 1,000 and 500 respectively, to be redeemed at the fair itself. Here’s a glimpse of what’s on offer at the ground: Where: On the ground opposite Stall K-12 What: Khuku Rani Chitrakar has taken aluminium vessels and transformed them into art. “Customers would complain of terracotta vases being too fragile so this is the way out,” she said. Price: Rs 1,300 Where: Stall 199 What: A wall clock shaped like a wrist-watch, a wooden piggy bank, shaped like a gas  cylinder.... Amina Dewan of the Sundarbans has brought innovative items. “Twenty five of the clocks have already got sold,” she said. Price: Rs 1,400 for the clock, Rs 450 for the gas cylinder. Where: Stall 16 What: These little round chillies look more like candies but Ramila Rai of Kalimpong warns: “One of these chillies is equivalent to 10 of the long ones you get in Calcutta. Many are buying them but we are asking them to be careful eating them.” Price: Rs 150 for a 150g bottle Where: Stall 153 What: Saheli Putatunda Mukherjee has brought uncommon jewellery, be it earrings made of cloth, pendants made of coconut shells or square-shaped fibre bracelets wrapped in cloth and embellished with shells and pompoms. Price: Rs 100 for the bangles Where: On the ground opposite stall K 95 What: A hissing, coiled up dragon has been created out of jute. “Most of the body is made of jute ropes while the scales are from sharpened, raw jute,” says Shefali Naskar. Price: Rs 5,000 Where: Opposite C 75 What: Kamala Baishya has carved out an imposing blue mask out of a taal trunk and a Shiva face out of bamboo root. “When I saw the uprooted bamboo root growing wild it reminded me of Shiva’s matted hair. I decided to bring the idea to life,” says the artisan from South Dinajpur. Price: Rs 7,000 for the blue mask and Rs 3,500 for the Shiva face. Where: Stall 146 What: Papiya Ganguly has given terracotta lanterns and lampshades a wooden finish and painted them in bright, cheerful colours. “They are all fitted with bulbs and will light up too,” she says. Price: Rs 300 to 400 Where: Stall 110 What: Suchitra Neto has brought ties that can be worn as well as hung on the wall as showpieces. “My uncle wore these ties for 40 years,” said the lady who is creating them out of bamboo, mahogany and sonajhuri wood. The ties are a set of several small panels which curve to give it effect. They can be fastned behind one’s collar with velcro. Price: Rs 1,200 Where: Opposite stall 83 What: The fair has its share of masks in kalamkari, kantha and warli designs, depending on the store you visit. Madhumita Chitrakar is selling masks with patachitra designs on them. Price: Rs 70 Where: Stall 42 What: Kamal Sharma has come from Rajasthan with handmade paper and diaries. “We have them in various sizes as well shapes such as hearts. We have top quality art paper and even leather finish paper,” she says. Price: Rs 100||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Music video to spread awareness about cyber bullying||The state commission for child rights and Unicef have made a music video to spread awareness about cyber bullying amongst children and parents at a time when the use of the Internet has become almost indispensable for students. The video, in Bengali, features actors Prosenjit Chatterjee, Mimi Chakraborty and Aryann Bhowmik and has been written by writer-lyricist Chandril Bhattacharya with “net e thakbo nishchoi kintu jaal e porbo na (we will be on the Net but we won’t get trapped)” as its tagline. The video will be launched on social media platforms on January 4. The idea is to tell children about the dangers of the Internet and how to stay safe by being “informed” users. “Many are not Internet savvy, they know how to use it but not the pitfalls of it. We feel they should be made aware and there should be informed usage of the Internet,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Internet usage has increased during the Covid pandemic because of online classes. Children of all ages now have to be on the net. The video has been done in rap style to make it appealing to children, said special consultant of the commission Sudeshna Roy. “Children do not like sermonising and so, we decided to make it child-friendly,” said Roy. The actors tell them that they will be on the Internet — play and study but not get trapped in it. “Internet e khelbo, porbo tobu faad e porbo na (We will play, study online but not be trapped)” goes one of the lines. “We want to tell them not to give out personal details. They should interact with a limited number of known friends on the Internet,” said Roy. Around 26 children from theatre group Nandikar and an NGO in South 24-Parganas feature in the video. The music has been composed by Upal Sengupta and on the vocals are Anindya Chatterjee, Somlata Acharyya Chowdhury, Arka Ashish, Aruna and Upal. One of the versions also has actor Ditipriya Roy. The video tells children to talk to their parents if they sense any danger. Helpline numbers, 9836513000 (Calcutta police), 1098 and 9836300300 (state commission), have also been provided in it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Mask up, Covid is still out there ||2020 is gone, Covid-19 is not.Vaccine or no vaccine, the mask is imperative. A group comprising doctors, public health experts and people from various other walks of life came together on the last day of the year to warn Calcuttans against any complacency in the fight against the pandemic. The group undertook tram rides and organised street play to convey their message. The first meeting point was the Esplanade tram depot. The programme was flagged off with a street play. The participants then boarded a tram, decked out with posters and images of masked faces and sanitisers. A similar drive will be organised on Friday as well. “We are going to end this year with Covid, and probably we are going to start the new year with clouds of Covid again. We need to keep hammering the message that wearing a mask is the most important and effective tool against the virus,” said Parthasarathi Mukherjee, a public health researcher and part of the Covid Care Network that organised the programme. The network comprises health department officials, doctors and Covid survivors. On Thursday, the tram stopped at Shyambazar before coming back to Esplanade and heading to Gariahat. The street play emphasised the need to maintain Covid-19 protocols and stand by those affected by the virus and their family members. Metro had earlier this month reported how Covid patients and their families across the city are still pariahs to a section of neighbours. “The buzz around Covid-19 vaccines has made many people complacent. With new Covid cases going down and 2020 coming to an end, many people are thinking the virus has been defeated. Many have stopped wearing masks and following other Covid-19 protocols,” said Sayantan Chakraborty, a doctor and part of the Covid Care Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Notification for five universities formal launch||The state higher education department has issued a notification mentioning the appointed day, which marks the formal launch, of five universities — Biswa Bangla University, Birbhum; Kanyashree University, Nadia; Mahatma Gandhi University, East Midnapore; Hindi University, Howrah; and Rani Rashmoni Green University, Hooghly. “In the absence of the appointed day, a university cannot seek recognition from the UGC. So the notification was issued,” said an official of the higher education department. An official of Kanyashree University, an all-women institution, said the UGC had told the institution that the recognition could not be granted in the absence of an appointed day. The university had sought recognition following the appointment of its first vice-chancellor, Mita Banerjee, in September. The appointed day of Biswa Bangla University, coming up in Shibpur, around 4km from Santiniketan, is December 10, 2020. The university received online applications for postgraduate courses in Bengali, history and English till December 30 and classes would soon start on digital platforms. The appointed day of Kanyashree University, operating from Krishnagar Women’s College, is November 10. VC Banerjee said they had started postgraduate courses on digital platforms in Bengali, English, history and education on December 16. The appointed day for Mahatma Gandhi University is December 10 and that of Hindi University is January 1, 2021. The land for setting up Mahatma Gandhi University has been designated — a plot of 20 acres on national highway 41 in Kapaseria mouza, in Mahishadal. “At a time the new universities have started offering or are about to launch courses, it is crucial that the recognition comes from the UGC,” the education department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||What we are looking forward to in 2021||A Covid-19 vaccine is the best thing that can happen in 2021. Until that shot is jabbed in, there are some other things that Calcuttans can look forward to in the year ahead New Garia-Dakshineswar Metro Metro trains should start running up to Dakshineswar by the end of February, officials have said. A trial run has already taken place on the Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch of the north-south Metro line. Once operational, the new Metro link will benefit thousands from the north of the city, places like Baranagar, Bonhooghly, Dunlop, Belghoria and further north. Ever since the Tallah bridge was closed to traffic in the second half of 2019 (it has since been demolished to make way for a new one), a large section of these commuters have had a harrowing time commuting. Sealdah Metro station The Sealdah Metro station, midpoint of the upcoming East-West Metro corridor that connects Howrah and Salt Lake, should be ready for use in 2021. A service of little use now, with trains running between Sector V and Phoolbagan, should suddenly be a real commute option when the local train hub of Sealdah is connected with the office district in Salt Lake. Cricket 402 days (on January 1) since the last international match was played at Eden Gardens — the Day-Night Test Match between India and Bangladesh, won by the hosts by an innings and 46 runs. Breaking the lull, 2021 should have plenty of limited-over action at the stadium. Eden is set to be the venue of multiple matches as India hosts the T20 World Cup in October and November. Before that, IPL beckons in summer. Hospitality Taj will add one more property to its name in Calcutta in 2021 when a hotel, next to City Centre II in New Town, becomes operational in a new avatar. The hotel had so far been operated by French hotel group Accor under Swisstotel brand. In the hills, a boutique resort called Chia Kutir by Taj, will be fully operational at Makaibari tea estate in Darjeeling. Information technology IT giant Infosys Technology may start work on the long awaited New Town campus, raising hope of resurgence in the Bengal IT sector and brightening job prospects for educated professionals of the state. Tallah bridge Construction of five piers on the Shyambazar-end and two on the Dunlop-end will be over by March 2021, the state government has decided after a recent review of the pace of work of one Calcutta’s biggest infrastructure projects in the north. The foundation for construction of two of the six piers that will come up between railway tracks will also be over by March-end, officials said. By August, roughly 40 per cent of the construction of the bridge should be complete. If things are on track, the new bridge should be ready by early 2022, said engineers. Tale of two other bridges The Kalighat and Baghajatin bridges will be thoroughly strengthened by 2021. These two bridges, in south Calcutta and on EM Bypass, respectively, remain vital links for the city. Both these structures have been damaged and have been crying for repairs for a long time now. The urban development department has decided that the two structures would be strengthened first by injecting concrete in the hairline cracks and then using props to hold the underbelly. Victoria at 100 Victoria Memorial will turn 100 on December 28, 2021. The authorities have lined up a series of programmes to celebrate the centenary. “The museum is a microcosm of what we want the Indian democracy to be,” said Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of the Victoria Memorial. Eye on the sky 2021 will be notable because of the number of supermoons, a full moon that is a shade brighter and bigger than the average full moon. The supermoons on April 27, May 26 and June 24 will be visible from the city, said Debiprosad Duari, director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium. Iron-free water Most areas under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation can expect to get iron-free water by the end of 2021. The New Town water treatment plant supplies treated Hooghly water to many wards but some — including several areas in Sector III and Rajarhat — are still dependant on groundwater through handpumps. The pipe laying work in these areas, delayed by the pandemic, has picked up again and should be completed by 2021, said officials. And not to forget The battle lines are drawn. In many ways, Bengal is for the BJP what India was for a marauding Australian cricket team in 2001 — the final frontier. The party is eying the state with all its organisational might. But the BJP is up against a formidable opponent in Mamata Banerjee, who has shown she is ready to take the saffron bull by its horns. A state election should not be the litmus test for a sitting Prime Minister. But that is what the Bengal polls have become. If Mamata manages to halt the chariot and retain Bengal like Sourav’s India did against the Aussies, it is expected to be a shot in the arm for the Opposition across the country. A warm-up round of civic polls will be held ahead of the Assembly elections. Modi or Didi, 2021 will tell.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta celebrates a relatively quiet and cautious Eve||Calcutta celebrated a relatively quiet and cautious New Year Eve and most public places that traditionally attract large crowds on year-ends and festivals reported fewer footfall. New Year Eve may have been easier to manage, but January 1 could bring with it a greater challenge when families come out to celebrate and the overall mood is of picnic, driven by the desire to spend time outdoors. “The 31st night celebrations are limited to small pockets and duration. The January 1 festivity is a day-long affair and involves more people coming out in public places,” a senior police officer said. Although the number of revellers increased on Park Street close to midnight, police said the number was way less than other years. At least 1,500 police personnel had been posted in Park Street alone to keep the crowd moving. As the clock struck 12, parts of south Calcutta were rocked by incessant sound of crackers, the kind even Diwali had not seen. Many families traditionally visit the zoo, Maidan, Victoria Memorial, Eco Park and Nicco Park, among other places, and eat together in the open on the first day of the year. Thousands of people spill on the roads causing traffic congestions across the city and the fringes. These are the places Calcutta High Court has advised police to keep a watch on. The order asked the state chief secretary to ensure that “effective protocols are maintained in the year-end festivities. The protocol should include measures taken by the police authorities to control congestion in public places particularly in the popular spots of the city where such crowding has been frequently noticed in recent times.” A police officer posted on Park Street on New Year's Eve said: “We have arrangements for crowd management on January 1, too.” Park Street — the 1.5km stretch that attracts a large number of people who go there to see the festive lights — was unlike any other year in recent memory on Thursday night. The police said they had taken lessons from what happened on Christmas evening, when a sudden crowd surge forced the police to close the road to traffic. The police set up check-points on Park Street and used loudhailers to make announcements from the morning to encourage people to wear masks and frequently sanitise their hands. Officers said the majority of the revellers who turned up in the evening were abiding by the Covid-19 protocol. “We had made arrangements to distribute masks and hand sanitisers in large quantities, if required. But the majority of the people who came to enjoy the festivities were wearing masks. We gave masks to those who were not wearing them,” an officer said. The high court had said there should be “sufficient number of check-points for providing masks, sanitisers and medical aid to the revellers”. The Alipore zoo, which recorded a footfall of 18,000 on Wednesday, had around 11,000 visitors on the last day of the year. The footfall goes as high as 45,000 or even more on winter holidays or festivals. The Victoria Memorial, too, had 9,500 visitors on Thursday, far less than the usual year-end crowd. Nicco Park had 16,000 visitors on New Year’s Eve 2019. In 2020, the number was around 9,000. Besides the court’s intervention, uncertainties swirling around a mutated new strain of the coronavirus, which is believed to be much more transmissible than the other variants, may have played a part in keeping many indoors, restricting festivities to gatherings among family members and close friends. “The condition of Park Street on Christmas evening was scary. We would rather celebrate New Year at home this time,” said Sampriti Kundu, who went to Park Street on Christmas evening. Senior officers at Lalbazar said they were apprehending a larger turnout at the public places on Thursday, especially after the high turnout on Park Street on Christmas. An officer said there were special arrangements to handle crowds if revellers from the zoo or Victoria Memorial turned up on Park Street after the two places closed for the day, as it happened on Christmas. But the turnout at all these places was relatively less and that helped. The police will have extra deployment of force at public places, which are traditional crowd pullers, on January 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Tanter Haat on at Central Park||The annual handloom fair — Banglar Tanter Haat — is back at the Central Park Fairgrounds till January 5, 1pm to 9pm. The fair was inaugurated on Christmas by Swapan Debnath, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises and textiles department along with other dignitaries. “Singers, elocutionists, painters are called artistes but sadly, those employed with creating the clothes we wear have always been denied this respect. Handloom is a massive cottage industry in our state, employing about 7 lakh people and our government is providing them recognition and support.” The minister cited various scheme they have undertaken to help artisans. “The pandemic hit them hard but the government kept purchasing lungis, dhotis and saris from them as disaster relief material. It kept them afloat,” said Rajesh Pandey, principal secretary, micro, small and medium enterprises and textiles department. The fair has brought together stalls selling Baluchari, Dhonekhali, Tangail, jamdani, muslin, Santipuri and garod saris. There are also men’s wear like kurtas and Modi jackets. In 2019 there were 298 stalls comprising primary weavers co-operative societies, self help groups, custers, khadi sectors and individuals with cumulative sales of more than Rs 6 crore. Banglar Tanter Haat is in its 14th year now but due to Covid-19, got postponed from its usual pre-Puja dates to winter. This year in an attempt to maintain Covid protocols the number of stalls has been capped at 200. Government units like Tantuja and Manjusha have set shop, there theme pavilions besides a handful of jewellery and food stalls. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||No Bidhannagar Mela this season||One of the most popular fairs in Salt Lake, the Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) will not be held this winter. The fair is organised every year at Central Park but an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, that organises the fair, said they had postponed it indefinitely due to the Covid-19 situation. The decision was taken at a meeting on Tuesday. Krishna Chakraborty, the head of the fair-organising committee, said they took the decision to safeguard the health of the visitors who come from Salt Lake as well as places afar. “Covid-19 is still around and the vaccines too have not been administered. We don’t want to take any risk,” said Chakraborty. Whether the stall-owners would get adequate response was another consideration. The corporation had originally booked the Central Park fairgrounds from January 7 to February 8 but has cancelled the booking. Rajesh Chirimar, who was the secretary of the fair organising committee this year, said they had taken several factors into consideration before deciding to pull out. According to Chirimar, enquiries for setting up stalls had come from as far as Kashmir and Bangladesh but given the fact that the fair would attract many senior citizens, it was a gathering best avoided. “A fair is where people let their hair down and have fun. This year it would have been risky and we did not want Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav) to turn out to be a super spreader,” said Chirimar. On the other hand, he said they were also apprehensive about the possibility of low footfall, due to which the stall owners would have suffered. “It has been a difficult year and we did not want to risk stall owners facing further losses,” said Chirimar. The fair used to attract stalls from several countries like Turkey, Bangladesh, Nigeria and Pakistan. Another official said that since most fairs were recording low footfall anyway, it would be better to give the fair a miss this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-188
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Poor sales at fair follow pandemic for artisans||The two fairs in our vicinity have breathed fresh life into the fates of artisans, many of whom have been out of work since the lockdown. Saras Mela at New Town and Banglar Tanter Haat at Central Park are a chance for artisans to earn a decent income after months of living on government doles. “We are completely dependent on fairs and used to attend seven or eight big ones round the year across the country. Delhi and Mumbai used to be our biggest markets,” says Jaggaram Pannu who has come to Saras Mela from Rajasthan with bed linen in ajrakh, applique, patchwork, embroidery. “We’d never come to Calcutta before but pounced on the offer  this time as this was the only fair happening.” Biswajit Basak of Burdwan says they have some 300 artisans working for them but with their workshops shut many have turned to selling vegetables, tea or become farm labourers. “The workshops have still not reopened as we have to clear old stock first,” says the seller at the taant fair. Tapan Kumar Palit used to take part in over 100 fairs across the state selling hair clips and the like. “Everything from rath-er mela to the fair outside Sreebhumi during the pujas. Fairs would make me a good living and I even managed to fund my son’s education with it. He shall graduate from medical college next year,” says the proud father who this year was making ends meet selling vegetables. “But it pays peanuts. If I earned Rs 10 from a fair, I earn Rs 2 selling vegetables.” Shefali Begum and her husband, both artisans, have eaten out of their savings and were living on doles till Saras Mela was announced. “We didn’t know if customers would come to shop in the midst of the pandemic but then we figured it couldn’t have been worse than the situation we were already in,” sighed the lady who had made marginal sales over WhatsApp during the lockdown. Mantu Pal of Chinsurah was somewhat better off than weavers as her self-help group (SHG) deals with spices, a commodity people needed even if locked down. “But then transport was a problem. Lorries were not available and we had to change several buses to reach Burrabazar and carry items back ourselves,” she says. Some were not spared even by Amphan. “The cyclone broke my asbestos roof and all the cotton we had stored got drenched,” says Suparna Pramanik of Serampore. “Artisans couldn’t come to work, we couldn’t deliver the saris on time and our payment got stuck.” Ila Basak usually sells her tussar, matka and khadi saris at Park Street and Gariahat but this year the shops are taking very few as demand as plummeted, says the Phulia resident. Partha Pratim Das explains that no matter how many times a year they sell saris to stores in the city, they are paid 80 per cent upfront. “The balance is cleared after the pujas. This year stores haven’t even been able to pay half that amount so how do we pay artisans? Those who toiled to weave the saris others wore for the pujas couldn’t afford to buy their own children anything this year,” says the owner of Das Sari Centre of Santipur. Das also blames the rise of WhatsApp sari sales during the pandemic for diluting quality. “Firstly, laymen cannot differentiate between handloom and machine-made saris and more so when seeing their pictures over WhatsApp. Many fraudulent traders have sold machine-made saris as handloom at cheap rates and now customers are not believing us when we quote the real prices of handloom saris. If this goes on artisans will quit the business and the art will be lost,” he says. Response, especially at the tant fair, is no great shakes. In the first five days of business, Basak only made sales on two days. “Customers are coming, asking prices and walking off. Else they are seeking discounts but we are in no position to make allowances this year,” she says. Others feel the winter is a terrible time for a tant fair. “Saris sell before the pujas. Who will buy them now,” asks Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Karate class in CC Block||CC Block in New Town has announced a karate coaching centre for children and classes should commence this weekend. “The idea germinated when during the lockdown we would go door-to -door to raise funds for charity,” said secretary of Newtown CC Block Residents’ Welfare Association Atanu Mahapatra. “Their parents would mention how fatigued and irritable kids were getting from round-the-clock online classes. They asked us for a solution.” Meanwhile, Mahapatra’s son Arhan and his friend Barnak Samaddar had been learning karate on the ground floor of their co-operative building for years. “Other parents passing by would notice them and ask us to arrange classes for all,” said Barnak’s father Biman Samaddar, who is also vice-president of the association. So now an arrangement has been set up with World Modern Shotokan Karate Association of West Bengal, and its president and chief instructor Anil Kumar Ram will be teaching the kids. “During the pandemic, most children have only been watching TV, fiddling with their phones and eating junk food. They need physical exercise and this will be good for them,” said the sixth dan black belt. There was a karate demonstration by students at the inauguration too. Details of the classes are yet to be finalised but they should begin this weekend at CC Block puja ground. “We don’t have a playground and have written to the authorities to build us one. Once that happens, we can start cricket and football coaching too,” said Mahapatra. “For now, karate is a sport that will require limited space but provide the kids high intensity workout.” The fees should be around Rs 500 and the classes are open to those living outside the block too. The minimum age of enrolment is three years. Ten boys and girls have already signed up. “I have been learning for six years and have already got a black belt,” said 10-year-old Barnak excitedly. “The shihan (instructor) has said that I shall be an assistant teacher now and help him teach the juniors.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||New Town highrise opens public library ||Despite all the smart and digital libraries coming up, a traditional brick-and-mortar library was inaugurated recently at Utsa Condoville and it already has about 100 people waiting to enrol. Also, membership, for now, is free. “New Town has many senior citizens who are not comfortable with technology. They prefer hard copies of books and it’s for them that we took this initiative,” said Basudev Mosel, co-founder New Town Utsa Bandhob Pathaghar, that has come up near the Reliance Fresh outlet. The event had several eminent guests such as minister of mass education extension and library services Siddiqullah Chowdhury. “It is commendable to have started this library but now go door to door and inform people about it. Get them to join, donate books and be involved. Even we are now introducing measures to make government libraries user-friendly. Global members can, for instance, visit any of our libraries and avail services,” he said. Also present were former political science professor of Surendranath College, Kumaresh Chakraborty, and Nitish Biswas, former joint registrar of Calcutta University. “The Bengali language, culture and heritage are in danger but the knowledge of books can protect it,” said Biswas, a resident of Salt Lake’s DL Block. Aveek Majumder, professor of comparative literature at Jadavpur University and chairman, expert committee of the state school education (syllabus committee) felt libraries were once the greatest inventions of human civilisation. “It gives readers a world view, sitting within four walls. It teaches us to be open-minded and about the depth of human relationships. Books help develop a critical outlook in readers and make them question others instead of blindly following them,” he said. Hidco chief Debashis Sen mentioned how over 300 members had enrolled at their smart library since it opened in Nazrul Tirtha in November 2019. “We also have a library at the senior citizens’ park Swapno Bhor, although newspaper and magazines are more popular than books there,” said Sen, recounting however, how Mosel had, for years, been trying to start a traditional library. Mosel explained that neither are senior citizens savvy enough to read books digitally nor can they afford the Rs 1,000 membership at Nazrul Tirtha. “We have made membership free for the first six months and already have 100 people lined up for enrolment,” said the resident of Eastern Grove who is also a researcher in the Bengali language. Co-founder of the library is Saikat Ali Molla, the secretary of the Utsa Condoville residents’ body. He has been instrumental in getting the space for the library free of cost. “This room, attached to our auditorium, used to be a storehouse of electrical supplies. We cleared it out and will be very happy to host readers. So many have donated their own books to the library and some, like Shibaprasad Bhattacharya, have donated funds to buy titles,” he said. The library will have novels as well as books on religion, research, for children etc. While the mainstay will be books in Bengali, there will be English and Hindi books too. “There are several non-Bengalis who have lived in the city for long and can speak but not read the language. We shall hold Bengali classes for them,” said Mosel, who released his own book Boier Pathak o Pathaghar on the day. The library will be open from 5pm to 8pm six days a week. The off day will be finalised soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Green bench seeks wetland damage report||The National Green Tribunal has asked an expert committee being set up by it to complete the assessment of environment damage within the East Calcutta Wetlands due to the “unauthorised and indiscriminate disposal of solid waste” by Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, within another two months. The direction, passed by the bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Saibal Dasgupta on December 22, was given in response to a public interest litigation filed by environmentalist Subhas Datta in May 2019. The petition claimed that the municipal corporation had been dumping solid waste illegally in Mollar Bheri, polluting the water bodies of the internationally acclaimed East Calcutta Wetlands, violating the order of the Calcutta high court. State PCB lawyer Dipanjan Ghosh submitted during the hearing that the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) had asked for four months to complete the environmental damage assessment for illegal dumping. The bench reminded that there is a CPCB guideline to make such assessment and directed to complete the assessment jointly by the agencies “within a period of two months” from the date of hearing. The tribunal had set up an expert committee, including NEERI, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB), to assess the environment damage due to waste dumping within the Ramsar-listed wetland area during a hearing on September 19, 2020. The state PCB was nominated as the nodal agency in the expert committee. During the last hearing, whose order has been recently uploaded, the bench pointed out that neither the fencing around the waste dumping zone had yet been completed, nor had the damage been ascertained so far. The bench referred to the civic body’s submission that “fencing work around Mollar Bheri had actually not been carried out” and asked its lawyer to submit a comprehensive ‘action taken’ report by the next hearing scheduled on February 3. In 2019 itself, the bench had directed the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to fence the entire waste dumping area to stop contamination of the wetland area; and also fined the civic body Rs 10 lakh for non-compliance of its order. Municipal commissioner of Bidhannagar Debasish Ghosh had earlier pointed out to The Telegraph Salt Lake that the municipal corporation was not using Mollar Bheri any more and was instead dumping waste in Dhapa, as per the urban development department’s clearance. Earlier, Krishna Chakraborty, chairperson, board of administrators of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, had told The Telegraph Salt Lake that they should not be blamed alone as New Town and Sector V also used to dump their waste in Mollar Bheri. “It’s like moving from the fire to the frying pan. How come Salt Lake and other civic bodies have been allowed to dump waste in Dhapa when it is quickly running out of space even for Calcutta Municipal Corporation,” asked Datta. “We have already submitted the affidavit. However, as per the tribunal’s latest order we will re-submit it including recent updates within the scheduled time,” said Paushali Banerjee, one of the lawyers representing Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||On all fours, decked as they like||A fancy dress competition for pets. That’s where animal lovers spent their Christmas Eve this year. Pet Pleasure, a pet shop in DL Block, had hosted the event and pet owners paraded their loved ones in frocks, hoodies, jackets and even a PPE! There were Scooby and Dooby, the handsome Golden Retriever brothers who came in colourful sweaters, tomboy Cleo, the Beagle, who came in a jacket and dainty Zoe, the Spitz, who came in a floral dress. Honey, the youngest participant, was a three-month old Pomeranian. So tiny was she that she kept sliding out of her dress and cap! “We were very lucky to have found a pet boutique, where we took Honey for measurements. We asked them for an outfit in Christmas colours and she’s looking very bright in her red dress today,” smiled Seema Agarwal of FD Block. There were several outstation dogs too, like Bella, a two-year-old “Indie” who was adopted from a shelter by Bangalore-based Siddharth Mitra six months ago. “I got her to Calcutta by train and she adjusted quite well,” said Siddharth, who’s put up at Kankurgachhi. Bella had come dressed as a “cool girl” in a florescent orange hoodie. But she spent most of the evening sitting on the cashier’s chair, watching the show unravel. In a year when Covid dominated every conversation, there even came a dog dressed as a Covid doctor. Chicaboo, the BE Block Rottweiler, came strapped in a makeshift PPE suit, face shield and stethoscope. He walked around sniffing the other dogs, as if doing rounds at a hospital. Perhaps no one enjoyed the event as much as 10-year-old Teerna Dutta of Karunamoyee. Not only did she pet and click snaps with every participant, but when Chicaboo came in, she excitedly took his stethoscope and placed it on her own Pomeranian Gingloo’s chest. The two dogs complied curiously. “I have always wanted a dog but was finally allowed to get Gingloo a few months back. I chose a Pom as she would fit my flat and chose a brown colour Pom as that’s the colour of the walls in my house! Now Gingloo gets camouflaged half the time,” laughed Teerna. A Christmas party had to have cake but in this case, it was a dog cake made of  carrot, egg, flour and a dash of olive oil. “My food tester was my Beagle Cleo,” said Sulagna Das, who had baked the cake for everyone. She and her mom Jhuma Bagchi run the pet store. “Cleo loves food and will eat anything that stays put long enough. Why, he even ate up my dad’s dentures once!” Cleo’s tastebuds lived up to their reputation and the dogs enjoyed their treat. The first prize for the fancy dress went to Dr Chicaboo and his owner Souvik Chakravarti had a good laugh over it. “We created his PPE out of tarpaulin material from a hardware store. But four tailors refused to stitch it as they had neither made a PPE nor a dog’s outfit before. Finally, a friend’s mom who used to run a tailoring boutique — Snigdha Mitra of AE Block — did the needful,” he said. Bagchi, who runs Pet Pleasure, was delighted with the turnout. “Having opened up during the pandemic, there hasn’t been  much chance of socialising with our clients but this occasion proved to be a good excuse,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||New plex for New Town||A five-screen multiplex is waiting to throw open its doors in New Town this year. In fact, one can already see the name “Miraj Cinemas” glowing atop Terminus Building, half of which is occupied by Pride Hotel. “We are nearly ready with the interiors but are holding back because of the government order to fill no more than 50 per cent seats during the pandemic. That will be loss-making. We shall start even if the limit is raised to 75 per cent,” says Priyanka Biswas Singh, cinema manager. Miraj Cinemas is a Rajasthan-based chain that has nearly 50 cinema halls across the country. In Bengal, it has a two-screen hall at Aurobindo Mall in Howrah but this New Town one shall be the big draw. “This will be Miraj Cinemas’ 140th hall and will house its 135th to 140th screens,” says Biswas Singh. The 36,000sq ft interiors, on the third floor of Terminus Building, is already looking swanky. It has a 100ft long lobby with seating area, huge screens and LCD displays to screen trailers, promotions, information as well as the food counter. “We’ll have a live kitchen to prepare sandwiches, burgers, pizzas, kathi rolls etc,” Biswas Singh says. The kitchen will be vegetarian. The smallest hall will have 156 seats and the largest 290. There will be a total of 1,078 seats and all the screens will be 3D-enabled. The state-of-the-art sound system is by Pulz and projectors are by Barco. Tickets will be priced between Rs 130 and 300, although recliner seats will be priced between Rs 200 and 400. The first and last shows should begin at 9am and 10pm respectively. The USP of the hall is a large play area for kids. “Parents with young kids always face a problem at the movies. If the child gets cranky, either parent has to take him out to pacify him and in the process misses chunks of the film,” says Biswas Singh. To address the issue is the play room, where parents can leave their wards for the duration of the film. The colourful room will have climbing and rolling equipment, soft toys and balls. The walls will be plastered with posters of characters from superhero films like Spiderman and Thor, and nannies will be around to watch over the kids. “This play house will be chargeable  and, in fact, someone not watching a film is also welcome to bring their kids over for a good time,” she says. “We are eager to open up and are expecting great response, especially from residents of New Town and Salt Lake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Calcutta||Gifts from 2021||Solar dome A dome-shaped exhibition hall-cum-auditorium that has been under construction since February 2017 over 3.3acres near gate 6, next to the herbal garden, in Eco Park has “about 10 per cent work left”, according to sources. Fitted with solar panels on the outside, the dome is expected to generate 180 KW of electricity for itself. It was supposed to have been complete last year itself, but got delayed by the lockdown. Space was allocated here after the Renewable Energy Park opposite Science City on the Bypass had to make way for the Airport-New Garia Metro. There will be provisions for a laser show, an overhead aquarium and a food court in the upper levels. A viewing gallery will be there at a height of about 16m from the ground, offering visitors a panoramic view of the park and the lake. A spiral ramp would connect the three levels besides two lifts with 15-person capacity each. The project is helmed by the power department and work is expected to complete by the end of 2021. Community centres For long, New Town residents have sensed the lack of a public space to hold community programmes in. That lack will be redressed in 2021. Two community centres are being built by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). These would be three-storeyed structures with the first and second floors to be let out as utility banquet halls for social functions like wedding and annaprasan. These floors will be equipped with toilet, pantry, and a small room for the baby or the bride to take rest in. The ground floor, about 20ft high, is spread across 7,000sq ft. It opens out to a 10,000sq ft garden in front. It is ideally suited for big gatherings like Durga puja or for organising cultural programmes where the audience can be seated in the lawn. Even the roof can be used for banquets. The elevator goes up directly to the roof. The first of the two community centres is coming up between Unbox Park and Fairfield by Marriott, on the Major Arterial Road, in Action Area 1. Designed by the Salt Lake-based Ayan Sen Architects Urban Designers and Planners, it is expected to be ready by June. The second community centre, which started being built about three months after the first, is coming up in Action Area IIB on Street 651, near Hiland Woods and Akankha. Both will be owned and operated by NKDA. Smart street A 400m long road in front of the New Town Mela Ground, parallel to the Major Arterial Road, will boast a host of smart features as a showcase for a convergence of various interventions being done under the Smart City project in the township. Two solar trees, styled after palm trees but with solar panels as leaves, have come up. LED lights have been installed, a plastic road has been laid using waste plastic fibre with bituminous mixture and a barrier-free cycle track has been paved along the sidewalk. A ramp helps wheelchairs slide down to the carriageway and reach the Mela Ground pavement. Three smart benches have been installed with solar panel on their roofs and sensors on the bench. The solar lights get turned on and off automatically depending on when people sit on the benches or get up. The solar panel provides shade to the bench and power to the light. One can even charge one’s phone using the USB ports in each bench. A mosquito magnet has been placed to protect people resting on the benches from the bite of the winged pests. The device releases a mix of propane and carbon dioxide at fixed intervals to attract female mosquitoes and trap them. Female mosquitoes get drawn by the smell of carbon dioxide and head towards the device, which has a concealed net attachment. Once they fall inside the net attachment, they die. An electric vehicle charger is also supposed to come up on the road. It will be lined with aesthetically pleasing balustrade. Smart Street signage Over the past few months, street signs have been coming up in blocks across Action Area 1B and C. They are backlit and hence easy to spot at night as well. But these street signs, about 6.5ft high, will eventually do much more than indicate the block and street number. Each post will have a closed-circuit TV camera to keep a watch on the surroundings. There will also be a pinhole camera and a help button placed above child height. These will be connected to the control room, which one can call and talk to in emergency. The control room will take another three months or so to start functioning. About 600 will be installed in densely inhabited areas, with half already in place. The authorities will monitor usage for a couple of years before setting up more in the rest of New Town. Urban work cocoon Remote working spaces are coming up in three places in New Town where people can take a break from the monotony of being within the four walls at home both during and after office hours. Charges will be according to the time spent. Separated seats will be provided with laptop charging ports and wi-fi connection. There will be toilets and a coffee vending machine as well, with provision to buy light snacks. Some light reading material will be there too for those wanting to bide time. Seating arrangements will be there on the terrace too. Designed by Abin Design Studio, the first of three cocoons is nearing completion next to NKDA Bhavan. The authorities hope to get it ready by March. It will take some more time to get it operational as it will be run by a franchisee. Two more will follow on the same side of the road, one next to Sankalpa 4 and another across the MAR from the statue of Christ the Redeemer in Eco Park. Smart water meter To detect water loss, meters will be installed by mid-2021 across New Town’s distribution pipeline from the water treatment plant to the overhead tanks and booster stations. The water quality, flow and pressure of the water supply will be monitored at intervals. While it is normal to expect a gradual dip in pressure with increasing distance from the source, if there is a sudden dip it can be attributed to leakage in the section. A dip in chlorine content can also similarly indicate inflow of pollutants. The smart meters will collect data from the meter output and submit in the central computer, which will analyse and check for deviations in readings. This will lead to faster rectification measures. Sector V to Sealdah Metro services Commercial operations of Metro at the Sealdah station are expected to start by the later half of 2021 and trains will run from Sector V to Sealdah. Now commuters are able to travel till only Phoolbagan from Salt Lake and Sector V and the line is largely used for joy rides. Most trains that travel from Sector V to Phoolbagan have a handful of passengers. App-controlled battery-operated bike With app cycles launched in 2020 becoming popular, residents of and visitors to New Town will now get to experience the comfort of battery-operated cycles. Chartered Bike, the company that runs the current app-based cycle service, is preparing to roll out 400 e-cycles in the coming months. These are cycle that run on batteries that can be recharged like mobile phones. In case the charge runs out midway through a ride, the rider can pedal the remaining distance. Their top speed is 25km per hour and riders do not need a licence to ride it. The e-cycles can be parked and picked up from docking stations around New Town. Six such stations are already up and 15 more will come up in 2021, including one at the Coffee House. E-vehicle charging station A fast charging station should come up early this year next to the convention centre. Called Powerbunk, the station would charge 25 electric four-wheelers simultaneously. This is being touted as the largest public station of its kind in the country. The project is being undertaken by a group called Shuchi, that received the letter of intent from Hidco in September 2020. Pedestrian subway complex at Biswa Bangla Gate A network of underpasses equipped with escalators is being constructed in New Town at the Rabindra Tirtha crossing, below the Biswa Bangla Gate, to enable pedestrians to cross the six-lane Major Arterial Road safely that cuts through the township. All of them will be functional in 2021. All four underpasses will have escalators moving in both directions. Gouranga nagar small vehicle- enabled bridge A long-standing demand of residents of Gauranga Nagar for a direct connection to New Town is set to be fulfiled this year with the construction of a bridge over Bagjola Canal near Sunrise Greens. This would come up at a distance of 1.5km across the MAR from the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. It will be 45m long and will be modelled on the existing bridge on the canal next to the convention centre. It can support small vehicles but not goods vehicles. Currently people use a hanging bamboo bridge to cross the canal. Smart garden The open-air space under the Biswa Bangla Gate ahead of New Town Mela Ground will have free wi-fi and laptop charging points. With manicured lawns all around and vertical gardens on the Airport-New Garia Metro pillars, the idea is to marry technology with nature. Bridge for service road across canal A two-lane bridge is being constructed over Bagjola Canal to allow the service road along the MAR to continue uninterrupted. While the side adjacent to the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre is almost ready, the other side will also be built. Parking plaza in Sector V The parking plaza in AQ Block in Sector V is almost ready. The lot is set on a one-acre plot and the G+7 plaza has come up behind Technopolis opposite the Positional Astronomy Centre in Sector V. The plaza can accommodate 648 cars and will have pre-booking facility. The ground floor will also house a food court where stalls will be let out to hawkers who now operate from the pavements of Sector V. Subhas Bose Park A park will be opened on January 23 in front of New Town Business Club. This will be in commemoration of the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The park will present a panorama of Bose’s life through his political struggle, during his Azad Hind Fauj days and through the films that have saluted him. Container toilets Abandoned containers at docks which had carried shipments but have no further use have been picked up and are being refashioned as toilets across New Town. They will be thrown open to public in course of the year. Filtered surface water in all Salt Lake blocks All blocks of Salt Lake will start getting water from the New Town water treatment plant. Now 4MGD of water is being flown in from the New Town water treatment plant and is being supplied to wards 29 to 34 and 37 in Salt Lake. Apart from these the water is also being supplied to wards 22, 25, 26 that comprise areas falling under the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality. Two new reservoirs have been built next to Tank 13. The second one has a capacity of four million gallons. Two other overhead reservoirs are there in Rajarhat’s ward 26. A fourth underground reservoir, capable of storing three million gallons, has come up beside Tank 5. Treated water from New Town can be stored in the new reservoirs, which can pipe 11 million gallons to Salt Lake for now. The pipe laying work has been delayed due to the pandemic and once all the pipes are laid all 41 wards will receive the treated water from the New Town plant. Sector V Town Hall A community hall cum game centre is coming up in Sector V beside Godrej Waterside. The facility will overlook the Sector V waterbodies and will have a banquet hall, seminar room and games room for recreation. The idea is to provide a place to host meetings and community programmes in the tech township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-189
01-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale new highs on New Year's Day||The BSE Sensex soared to record highs while the NSE Nifty closed above the 14,000-mark for the first time on Friday as markets continued their record run in the new year amid robust buying in IT, auto and FMCG stocks. Extending its record-setting streak for the fifth day, the 30-share BSE Sensex rose by 117.65 points or 0.25 per cent to close at a fresh lifetime high of 47,868.98. This is the eighth consecutive day of gains for the barometer and it has climbed by around 5 per cent since December 22. The broader Nifty closed at an all-time high of 14,018.50, showing gains of 36.75 points or 0.26 per cent over its previous close. Intra-day, the Nifty touched a record high of 14,049.85 while Sensex scaled a new peak of 47,980.36. Among major Sensex gainers, ITC rose the most by 2.32 per cent, followed by TCS, M&M and SBI. TCS rose by 2.02 per cent after the IT major said its board will meet on January 8 to approve financial results and a proposal for declaring the third interim dividend to shareholders. Among other IT stocks, Tech Mahindra rose 0.23 per cent, Infosys by 0.36 per cent and HCL Tech by 0.43 per cent. Dr Reddy's, L&T, Sun Pharma, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, Nestle and Ultratech Cement also advanced. Auto stocks advanced on better sales numbers for December month. Market leader Maruti, which posted a 20 per cent increase in vehicle sales in December, rose by 0.53 per cent while Bajaj Auto closed up by 1.03 per cent. Mahindra & Mahindra rose by 1.62 per cent even as it posted a 10.3 per cent decline in total sales at 35,187 units in December 2020. The company also announced its decision to scrap a previously announced automotive joint venture with Ford citing fundamental changes in global economic conditions. Banking giant ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank, however dropped 1.36 per cent and 0.83 per cent respectively due to profit booking. Meanwhile, GST collections touched a record high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, reflecting festive demand and reflating economy. The Sensex and Nifty finished the year 2020 with overall gains of around 15 per cent. The Sensex gained 15.7 per cent while the Nifty jumped 14.9 per cent in the year. FPIs have been a major driver of the rally in Indian stock markets. According to exchange data, FPIs bought shares worth Rs 1,135.59 crore on a net basis on Thursday. US markets also closed the pandemic-hit year at record highs on Thursday. The S&P 500 index finished with a gain of 16.3 per cent for the year, the Nasdaq composite soared 43.6 per cent and the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 7.2 per cent. Most of the global markets were closed on Friday for the New Year's holiday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||GST collections crosses all-time high in December||GST collections touched a record high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, reflecting festive demand and reflating economy. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of December 2020 is Rs 1,15,174 crore and is the highest since the introduction of Goods and Services Tax from July 1, 2017, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. "This is the highest growth in monthly revenues for the last 21 months. This has been due to combined effect of the rapid economic recovery post-pandemic and the nation-wide drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently, which have led to improved compliance," the Finance Ministry said in a statement. The total number of GSTR-3B Returns filed for the month of November up to 31st December 2020 is 87 lakh. During the month, revenues from import of goods were 27 per cent higher and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 8 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. In line with the recent trend of recovery in the GST revenues, the mop-up in December crossed Rs 1 lakh crore mark for the third month in a row and was 12 per cent higher than over Rs 1.03 lakh crore collected in December 2019. During December Central GST mop-up is Rs 21,365 crore, State GST is Rs 27,804 crore, Integrated GST is Rs 57,426 crore (including Rs 27,050 crore collected on import of goods) and Cess is Rs 8,579 crore (including Rs 971 crore collected on import of goods). The government has settled Rs 23,276 crore to CGST and Rs 17,681 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement. The total revenue earned by the Central Government and the State Governments after regular settlement in the month of December is Rs 44,641 crore for CGST and Rs 45,485 crore for the SGST.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||Stock markets open New Year on high note||Key stock indices Sensex and Nifty opened the New Year on a positive note with investors betting on IT, auto and select banking and financial stocks. The benchmark BSE Sensex rose by 119.98 points or 0.25 per cent to 47,871.31 in early trade. The broad-based NSE Nifty breached the 14,000 level by rising 38.60 points or 0.28 per cent to 14,020.35 in opening trade. Led by Mahindra & Mahindra, auto stocks gained ahead of their monthly sales data. M&M rose the most among Sensex stocks by 2.3 per cent. SBI, TCS, Infosys, Reliance, Larsen & Toubro and Bajaj Finance were among the major gainers. Titan, ICICI Bank and Sun Pharma dropped due to profit booking. FPIs have been a major driver of the rally in Indian stock markets. According to exchange data, FPIs bought shares worth Rs 1,135.59 crore on a net basis on Thursday. The indices finished the year 2020 with overall gains of around 15 per cent. The Sensex gained 15.7 per cent while the Nifty jumped 14.9 per cent in the year. US markets also closed the Covid-19 pandemic-hit year with record highs on Thursday. The S&P 500 index finished with a gain of 16.3 per cent for the year, the Nasdaq composite soared 43.6 per cent, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 7.2 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||Britain's suspension of US tariff bears fruit||Britain said on Thursday its decision to suspend retaliatory tariffs against the United States was already bearing fruit after it was spared in a new round of US tariff increases which hit French and German produce. Britain said earlier this month it would use its new-found freedom outside the European Union to diverge from a common EU trade policy towards the United States, deciding to unilaterally suspend tariffs relating to a 16-year dispute on aircraft subsidies. The US government on Wednesday said it would raise tariffs on certain EU products, including aircraft components and wines from France and Germany, arguing that the EU had unfairly calculated its own tariffs. “The UK wasn’t hit because we suspended tariffs and brought the US to the negotiating table,” a British official said. “(This) shows we are making the right strategic decisions,” he added. The United States and the EU have already imposed tariffs on billions of dollars of each others’ goods over a row about state subsidies provided to civil aviation firms Boeing and Airbus. Those tariffs remain in place. British trade minister Liz Truss has repeatedly spoken out against the measures, earlier rounds of which have hit British exports such as Scotch whisky. Germany has also recently called for a quick resolution to the dispute. The British decision to suspend tariffs on US goods from January 1, once Britain fully leaves the EU, upset European planemaker Airbus and exposed a growing rift between the UK and Europe over aerospace investment, industry sources and analysts said. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||Jubilant Foodworks to invest Rs 92 cr in BBQ Nation||Food service firm Jubilant Foodworks Ltd (JFL) is investing Rs 92 crore in Barbeque-Nation Hospitality Ltd (BNHL) for a 10.76 per cent equity stake as it looks to diversify into different cuisines. JFL, which operates fastfood chains Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts in India, had only recently announced its foray into the biryani business. “The company has entered into a share subscription agreement to acquire equity shares and a restated shareholders’ agreement to regulate the rights and obligations of BNHL’s key shareholders,” Jubilant Foodworks said in a regulatory filing on Thursday. BNHL operates Barbeque Nation (BBQ), an Indian cuisine casual dining brand, which introduced the concept of live grilling of kebabs to the Indian market. It owns and operates 138 Barbeque Nation restaurants across 73 cities in India and seven international Barbeque Nation restaurants as on November 30, 2019. It also has a presence in the Italian cuisine segment under the brand Toscano. Jubilant Foodworks chairman Shyam S Bhartia and its co-chairman Hari S. Bhartia said the proposed investment will create value for the company’s shareholders. Shares of Jubilant Foodworks on Thursday ended at Rs 2,790.05, a gain of Rs 108.35 or 4.04 per cent over its previous close. Its shares have risen 144 per cent from its 52-week low struck in March. The food service company had recently said that it will sell biryani under the brand Ekdum!, with prices starting from Rs 99. In order to drive convenience and ease of ordering, it plans to offer an easy-to-use app, mobile website and desktop website. JFL has a network of 1,264 Domino’s Pizza restaurants across 281 cities and also has the exclusive rights to develop and operate Domino’s Pizza brand in India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. It also has exclusive rights for developing and operating Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants in India and has 26 Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants across 8 cities in the country. The company had earlier entered into the Chinese cuisine segment with its first owned restaurant brand “Hong’s Kitchen” and has also forayed into the ready-to-cook segment with a range of sauces, gravies and pastes under the recently launched brand “ChefBoss”. It will initially start with three restaurants in Gurgaon for delivery, takeaway and dine-in, with more restaurants planned to open in the national capital region over the next few months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||EPFO interest credited||Retirement fund body EPFO on Thursday started crediting the 8.5 per cent rate of interest on employees’ provident fund (EPF) for 2019-20 for its over six crore members, a senior official said. A large number of members of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) would be able to see their updated EPF accounts with credit of 8.5 per cent rate of interest for 2019-20, a senior official told PTI. The official further informed that the labour ministry has already sent the direction to credit the 8.5 per cent interest on EPF for 2019-20 to the EPFO and the body has already started crediting interest into members account for the last fiscal. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar said, “We had said that it would be our endeavour to provide an -/8.5 per cent rate of interest on EPF for 2019-20. We have issued a notification to provide 8.5 per cent rate of interest on EPF for 2019-20. We have also began the process to credit the said rate of interest into subscribers account.” The minister also said that he has asked to ensure that all those members who are retiring on December 31 must get an 8.5 per cent rate of interest (for 2019-20). The process for capital gains for payment of 0.35 per cent interest for 2019-20 has also been completed, he added. “It (8.5 per cent interest) would comprise 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs (exchange traded funds) subject to their redemption by December 31, 2020,” he said. Earlier in the day, Gangwar had approved the 8.5 per cent rate for the last fiscal after receiving the finance ministry’s concurrence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||Eight core infrastructure sectors' output drops 2.6% in November||Contracting for the ninth consecutive month, the output of eight core infrastructure sectors dropped 2.6 per cent in November, mainly because of a decline in the production of natural gas, refinery products, steel and cement. The production of the eight core sectors had recorded a growth of 0.7 per cent in November 2019, data released by the commerce and industry ministry showed on Thursday. Barring coal, fertiliser and electricity, all sectors — crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, steel and cement — recorded a decline in growth in November 2020. During April-November, the sectors’ output dropped 11.4 per cent compared with a growth of 0.3 per cent in the same period of the previous year. The output of crude oil declined (-) 4.9 per cent, while natural gas production fell (-) 9.3 per cent. The output of refinery products was down (-) 4.8 per cent, steel fell (-) 4.4 per cent and cement production was lower by (-) 7.1 per cent in November this year. On the other hand, coal and electricity sector output grew 2.9 per cent and 2.2 per cent, repectively, during the month under review. Fertiliser sector growth stood at 1.6 per cent against 13.6 per cent in the same month last year.The core industries account for 40.27 per cent of the index of industrial production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||Gem dealers to maintain records of cash transactions worth Rs 10 lakh||Dealers of precious metals and stones will henceforth have to maintain records of cash transactions worth Rs 10 lakh or more cumulatively with a single customer. The finance ministry has notified such dealers in precious metals and stones and also real estate agents with over Rs 20 lakh turnover under the ambit of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Nangia & Co LLP director Mayank Arora said the amendment notifying dealers in precious metals and stones aims to plug the loophole wherein cash transactions up to Rs 2 lakh without KYC — PAN and Aadhaar —  were allowed in the gems and jewellery sector. “This amendment classifies such dealers as reporting entities and such dealers would have to maintain records of all cash transactions cumulatively in excess of Rs 10 lakh with a customer,” Arora said. He said real estate agents are considered as a reporting entity under the PMLA, 2002. “Recent amendment to the Prevention of Money Laundering Rules, 2005 has appointed the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs as the Regulator, responsible for specifying procedure and manner of maintaining records by real estate agents,” Arora added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||Govt liabilities increase 5.6% to Rs 107.04 lakh crore at the end of September 2020||The total liabilities of the government increased 5.6 per cent to Rs 107.04 lakh crore at the end of September 2020, according to official data on public debt. At the end of the first quarter, the outstanding total debt of the government stood at Rs 101.3 lakh crore. The 5.6 per cent quarter-on-quarter increase reflects pressure on revenue collection and rising expenditure because of the Covid-19 crisis. Public debt accounted for 91.1 per cent of total outstanding liabilities at end-September 2020, according to the latest quarterly report on public debt management. The weighted average yield on primary issuances of dated securities showed further moderation to 5.80 per cent in the second quarter of 2020-21 from 5.85 per cent in the first quarter, it said. During the second quarter, 13 tranches of auctions were held for the issuance of dated securities aggregating to Rs 4,20,000 crore, which was slightly more than the pre-announced calendar because of exercising of greenshoe option. The Union government’s fiscal deficit soared to Rs 10.75 lakh crore, or 135.1 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimates (BE), at the end of November 2020, mainly on account of low realisation of revenue due to disruption in business activities amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
01-01-2021||Business||ITAT absolves Cyrus Mistry in Tata Trust case||The Mumbai bench of the income tax appellate tribunal (ITAT) has retracted the critical remarks it made on Cyrus Mistry in its recent order that had restored the tax-exempt status of three key Tata Trusts. The tribunal issued a corrigendum on Wednesday to its December 28 order saying “the critical remarks were due to a typo”. The corrigendum issued by president of the tribunal P. P. Bhatt and vice-president Pramod Kumar clarified the first order made certain “inadvertent references to Mistry because of a few typo errors’’. In its observations on Mistry, the tribunal said one fact that it had inadvertently missed out was that the information furnished by the former chairman of Tata Sons was in response to a notice from the assessing officer. “The above corrections will have no impact on the outcome of the appeal and the outcome of the appeal remains the same,” the tribunal added. The Mistry family has welcomed the suo motu retraction. “We note that the income tax appellate tribunal has issued a corrigendum on its own, to correct the wild personal allegations made against Mistry that formed part of its December 28 order, in a proceeding where Mistry was not even a party,” the Mistry family said in a statement. The ITAT had on December 28 upheld the tax-exempt status of Ratan Tata Trust, JRD Tata Trust and Dorabji Tata Trust, which owns 66 per cent of Tata Sons. It had said that the March 2019 I-T revision order cancelling tax exemption to these trusts was “devoid of any legally sustainable merits”. The ITAT had said in its order that Mistry had sent material against the trusts to the tax department within eight weeks of his removal as Tata Sons chairman. “The inputs from those engaged in a rivalry with an assessee should be taken with a reasonable degree of circumspection and should not be placed on such a high pedestal so as to relegate all other material facts and accepted past assessment history of the case into insignificance,” the tribunal had said in its order. In its corrigendum the tribunal said “some inadvertent errors have crept in the order dated December 28… At page 60-61, certain observations were made about Mistry. One fact, which was inadvertently missed out was that the information furnished by Mistry was in response to a notice from assessing officer’’. “The inputs from those engaged in a rivalry with an assessee ought to have been considered by the department with a reasonable degree of circumspection and should not be placed on such a high pedestal so as to relegate all other material facts and accepted past assessment history into insignificance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
01-01-2021||Business||Reliance Jio makes all calls free from January 1, 2021||Reliance Jio, the country’s largest telecom operator, has announced that all domestic voice calls from its network to others will be free from January 1, 2021. This comes as the interconnect usage charges (IUC) regime for domestic voice calls will come to an end. According to the telecom regulator’s directions, a ‘Bill and Keep’ regime is being implemented in the country from January 1, 2021, thereby ending IUC charges for all domestic voice calls, it said in a statement. The telco added that the latest announcement follows its commitment to revert off-net domestic voice-call charges to zero as soon as the IUC charges are abolished. Off-net calls refer to calls that terminate in other operators’ networks “Jio will once again make all off-net domestic voice calls free, starting January 1 2021. On-net domestic voice calls have always been free on the Jio network,” it added. Call termination charges, or interconnect usage charge (IUC), is a fee paid by one operator to another when its customers make outgoing calls to the other operator’s customers. Jio, which had stormed the market with its free voice calls and cheap data tariffs, had in October last year said it will be charging customers 6 paise per minute for voice calls made to rival networks and that it took this step because of “regulatory uncertainty” over call termination charges to the network of its rivals that were supposed to end in January 2020. The company added that when Trai extended the timeline for implementation of the ‘Bill & Keep’ regime beyond January 1, it was left with no option but to start charging its customers for offnet voice calls at a rate exactly equivalent to the applicable IUC charge. Its announcement comes at a time the ongoing farmers protest has seen it receiving several port-out requests. The latest step could lead to some moderation in the number of customers opting out from its network. In a recent letter to Trai, Jio, however, alleged that industry peers Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) were running “vicious and divisive campaign” against it and making claims that migrating Jio mobile numbers to their networks would be an act of support to farmers’ protests. In October, it added 2.22 million mobile customers, taking its total subscriber base to 406.35 million. The addition number was, however, lower than that of Airtel, which added 3.67 million new customers in that month. Jio had an average revenue per user (ARPU) of Rs 145 per subscriber per month during the second quarter ended September 30, 2020 as compared to Rs 140.3 in the preceding quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
01-01-2021||Business||Stocks sign off 2020 with Nifty briefly crossing the 14000-level for the first time||Stocks signed off 2020 on a quiet note with the Nifty briefly crossing the 14000-level for the first time. Though the benchmark indices ended on a flat note, the New Year mood remained ebullient on the hopes of a global economic recovery and the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine. Investors are also expecting strong growth in earnings, favourable policies in the budget and more importantly central banks continuing to pursue accommodative policies, which could see liquidity chasing riskier assets. The Sensex ended with gains of 15.7 per cent and the Nifty 14.9 per cent for the year — much less than the 43 per cent gain of Nasdaq and 43 per cent of Korea’s Kospi though they did rise 60 per cent from their March lows. Analyst said the year had an important lesson for investors —  equities may be volatile, but they remain a rewarding asset class. The Covid-19 pandemic lorded over market sentiments even as it led to major changes in which companies conducted their business, while it floored several sectors such as aviation and hospitality. However, with the unlocking of economies worldwide and incremental number of cases coming down, the economy began to recover from a record contraction in the first quarter. Though the pandemic affected various sectors, it brought good tidings to  pharmaceuticals, IT and telecom. Pharma and tech stocks emerged as investors’ favourite with the Nifty Pharma gaining almost 61 per cent and the Nifty IT almost 55 per cent. Some stocks were in rarefied territory such as Tanla Platforms which rose 2,281 per cent or Adani Green trading almost 834 per cent higher than its 52-week low in March. In 2021, the focus will be on the economy and how inflation pans out. Attention will also be on the budget which reports indicate will boost spending. However, with several segments of the market having seen a sharp upmove, the next area of interest could be industries that could benefit from the economic recovery. “After a tumultuous 2020, we expect 2021 to look markedly different on the growth front. We remain constructive on the GDP growth trend. We expect a still accommodative monetary policy stance to support the recovery and structural reforms to lift medium-term growth prospects,” a note from Axis Mutual Fund has said. The Sensex opened modestly higher on Thursday at 47753.11 and witnessed volatility to hit the day’s high of 47896.97 and a low of 47602.12. It later closed 5.11 points higher or 0.01 per cent to its new closing record of 47751.33. The broader NSE Nifty crossed the 14000 level for the first time, touching a record intra-day peak of 14024.85. The 50-issue index pared gains to close at 13981.75, down just 0.20 points. HDFC was the leading gainer among the Sensex stocks on Thursday, rising 1.65 per cent. TCS was the biggest loser, shedding 1.33 per cent. “As we enter 2021, the market is sitting on an all-time high and is showing resilience on the back of abundant liquidity, positive developments on the vaccine front and signs of economic recovery,” Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research, Motilal Oswal, said. “We expect Nifty earnings to remain flattish in 2020-21 while expecting a sharp rebound in 2021-22. Thus, the overall structure of the market remains positive. With the economic activity continuing its recovery, it could lead to start of earnings upgrade cycle,” Khemka said. However, intermittent corrections cannot be ruled out as there is a risk of a second wave of Covid-19 and thus sustenance of economic recovery holds the key, he said. "From next 12 months perspective, we are positive on IT, BFSI, Healthcare, Telecom, Auto and Consumer” Khemka said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-185
01-01-2021||India||CDSCO panel recommends grant of permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine||An expert panel on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Friday recommended grant of permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in India, subject to certain regulatory provisions, official sources said. As for Bharat Biotech, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the CDSCO asked the firm to expedite volunteer recruitment for the ongoing clinical trial and said it may conduct interim efficacy analysis for further consideration of restricted emergency use approval for its vaccine Covaxin, they stated. The SEC, which earlier had sought additional safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from SII and Bharat Biotech, deliberated on their applications seeking emergency use authorisation (EUA) for their shots on Wednesday, and met again on Friday to review the matter. While granting emergency use approval for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, the panel imposed certain regulatory provisions, including that the shot is indicated for active immunisation in individuals of 18 years or more to prevent the disease and that it should be administered intramuscularly in two doses at an interval of 4 to 6 weeks. Further, the SII should submit safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trials in the country and across the globe for review at the earliest. Also, the Pune-based firm should submit the safety data including the data on adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) and adverse event of special interest (AESI) with due analysis every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter till the completion of the ongoing clinical trial in the country. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. While considering Bharat Biotech's application, the SEC noted that the ongoing clinical trial is a large one with 25,800 subjects of which 22,000 have been enrolled, including subjects with comorbid conditions, which has demonstrated safety till date but efficacy is yet to be demonstrated. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should try to expedite the recruitment and may perform interim efficacy analysis for further consideration of restricted emergency use approval," an official source said. Pfizer's application was not deliberated, sources said. The UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on Wednesday had approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by scientists at Oxford University and produced by AstraZeneca for human use. "In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated with respect to solicited adverse events...majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae. "Therefore, Covishield is safe and can be used effectively for prevention of Covid-19 in the targeted population. Thus, the benefit to risk ratio strongly supports the widespread use of Covishield," the EUA application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), had stated. SII had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for EUA for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine on December 6, while the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had sought the nod for its indigenously developed Covaxin on December 7. Pfizer had applied for regulatory approval for its vaccine on December 4. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Government set to launch Alexa-like chatbot||In a move to develop itself technologically, the government on Friday invited bids to build a voice assistant or chatbot application similar to  Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant to deliver e-governance services to the public. The artificial intelligence-based chat platform is expected to converse with the public in multiple languages, analyse sentiments and intent, collect and analyse data to give personalised experience to users. The National E-Governance Division of the Ministry of Electronics and IT has invited proposals to build the conversational platform that can be deployed on the UMANG platform, which hosts various apps that provide government services to citizens. “The platform should be able to provide assistance with general tasks, including but not limited to availing services of government and available on the UMANG platform such as registration, login, reset password, department service relation information, event, (and) new launch...etc,” the request on the proposal document reads. The chatbot should be able to turn speech into a textual input and turn text into speech. “Platforms should also have other deep learning capabilities, which can be used by platforms for discovery and recommendation of eligible schemes and services to the users of bots/applications,” it adds. “Users should be recommended best-fit schemes and services available in government domain based on his/her profile,” the document says. The term of the project will be four years from the date it goes live. NeGD has fixed January 12 for pre-bid conference and January 25 for the last date of bid submission. Bids will open on January 27, evaluation will be done by February 5 and work order is scheduled for the second week of February, according to the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||India to resume flight operations to UK from Jan. 8||Flights between India and the United Kingdom are set to resume from January 8, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday, adding that only 30 of them will operate per week for now. The arrangement will continue till January 23, Puri added. Indian and UK carriers will each be operating 15 flights per week during the aforementioned period to and from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad only, he said. Until December, over 60 passenger flights were operating between the two countries before the UK detected the emergence of a mutant strain of the coronavirus, which is supposed to be more infectious. Thereafter, the aviation ministry suspended all passenger flights connecting the two countries from December 23 onwards. Puri had announced on Wednesday that passenger flights between the UK and India would remain suspended till January 7 and they will resume in a "strictly regulated" manner thereafter. The earlier suspension period was from December 23 to December 31. “It has been decided that flights between India and UK will resume from 8 Jan 2021,” Puri tweeted on Friday. “Operations till 23 Jan will be restricted to 15 flights per week each for carriers of the two countries to & from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru & Hyderabad only,” he added. The Health Ministry had announced on Tuesday that samples of all international passengers who arrived in India from December 9-22 and tested positive for COVID-19 will be subjected to genome sequencing, which helps in understanding how the new virus variant spreads and evolves. The presence of the new UK variant of the virus has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 24 countries, including the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Farmers vow to step up stir if govt doesn’t agree to key demands||Farmers’ unions threatened to step up their stir in Haryana on Friday if the government did not agree to their primary demands of repealing the three new farm laws and a guaranteed MSP for crops in the January 4 talks while the Union agriculture minister  Narendra Singh Tomar maintained he was hopeful of a “positive outcome” at Monday’s scheduled discussions. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border protest site, farmer leaders warned of multiple actions if their main demands were not met. They said that only five per cent of the issues raised by them had so far been discussed in meetings with the government. "If the January 4 meeting with the government fails to end the deadlock, we will announce dates for shutting all malls, petrol pumps in Haryana," farmer leader Vikas told reporters. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border would also move towards the national capital, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said. Another leader Yudhveer Singh said that a tractor march would be held on January 6 if no concrete decision was arrived at in the next round of talks. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. On Friday, agriculture minister Tomar said he was hopeful of a “positive outcome” on January 4, but refrained from predicting whether the seventh round of talks would  be the last one, saying he was not an astrologer. Speaking to PTI, the minister said that the last meeting held on December 30, 2020, happened in a cordial atmosphere and there was a possibility of positive results in the interest of farmers and of the country's farm sector at the next meeting. On farmer unions sticking to their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and rejecting the government's proposal to suggest alternatives, Tomar said: "We will see." Asked whether he expected the January 4 meeting to be the last one, the minister said: "I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers. (Ekdam to abhi kuch kah nahi sakta. Bavishyavakta to main hoon nahi. Lekin mujhe asha hai ki jo bhi faisla hoga, desh ke aur kisan ke hit mein hoga).” After the last talks between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of the thousands protesting on Delhi borders, Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution had been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4 at 2 PM. Some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble burning and continuation of power subsidies -- but no breakthrough has been reached so far on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of MSP procurement system. Protesting farmer unions have, however, upped the ante ahead of the meeting by threatening to intensify their agitation if the government did not agree to their main demands for the repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee to MSP. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said, "Farmers have one demand, that is, repeal of three laws. ...Acceptance of two minor issues is a cover of rigidness on repeal." The agitation by thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh has been on across Delhi’s borders for over a month now. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Farmers stay put at Delhi's border despite bitter cold||Thousands of farmers stayed put at their protest venues near Delhi's border on Friday, braving a severe chill as the mercury dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius on the New Year's Day, the lowest in 15 years, as talks with the government made little headway. The government and the farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve the protesting farmers' concerns over rising in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4. Security remained tight at the national capital's borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping for more than a month now. The protests have also led to traffic congestions, forcing the police to divert vehicular movement. Taking to Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads. "Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," it tweeted. "The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders. "Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said in a series of tweets. "Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Govt allows import/export of Covid vaccine without any value limitation||The government has allowed import and export of Covid-19 vaccines without any value limitation, in order to ensure speedy clearance and distribution. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the regulations to facilitate the import/export of Covid-19 vaccines through courier, at locations where the Express Cargo Clearance System (ECCS) is operational. "Imports of and exports of vaccines in relation to Covid-19 has been allowed without any value limitation," said the amended Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and Processing) Amendment Regulations, 2020. The CBIC said that Covid-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to Customs and other administrations the world over and efficient clearance and distribution of vaccines would be a critical requirement in the collective fight against the pandemic. "The challenges in doing so is heightened by the fact that the vaccines need to be stored and transported under controlled temperatures and there are multiple stakeholders involved in this process. This necessitates putting in place efficient cross-border procedures for speedy evacuation of the vaccines," the CBIC said. The regulation further states that since the vaccines will be imported in durable containers equipped with the requisite temperature monitoring and tracking devices, the export of the durable container including accessories thereof, imported in relation to Covid-19 vaccines has also been permitted. "Importers may be advised to indicate the unique identifier of the container and the accessories during import in the Courier Bill of Entry (CBE-V) and also at the time of re-export in the Courier Shipping Bill (CSB IV) for facilitating clearance," it added. The CBIC, in a letter to field offices, said since multiple stakeholders will be involved in the process of clearance of the vaccines, effective coordination among the stakeholders would be necessary. It also asked for setting up of a task force, headed by a Joint/ Additional Commissioner of Customs rank officer and comprising relevant stakeholders, for a coordinated approach for efficient clearance of vaccines relating to Covid-19. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said global pharmaceutical companies are in advanced stages of bulk deployment of Covid-19 vaccines. "Eyeing global logistics and custom clearance challenges, the government has made some changes in Courier Imports and Exports Regulations, which includes permission to import and export of COVID-19 vaccines without any value limitation," Mohan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||India welcomes 2021 with renewed hope||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||New Covid cases below 30,000 for 19th consecutive day||The daily new coronavirus infections in India remained below 30,000 for the 19th consecutive day taking the Covid-19 caseload to 1,02,86,709, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.83 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 20,035 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,48,994 with 256 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,83,461 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.08 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 11th consecutive day. There are 2,54,254 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.47 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,31,11,694 samples have been tested up to December 31 with 10,62,420 samples being tested on Thursday. The 256 new fatalities include 58 from Maharashtra, 30 from Kerala, 29 from West Bengal and 21 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,48,994 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,521 from Maharashtra followed by 12,122 from Tamil Nadu, 12,090 from Karnataka, 10,536 from Delhi, 9,712 from West Bengal, 8,364 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,108from Andhra Pradesh and 5,341 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 1.1 degree Celsius, the lowest in 15 years||A severe cold wave swept Delhi on New Year's Day as the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres, affecting traffic movement. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres at Safdarjung and Palam at 6 am. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in January in 14 years. Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, the city recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" western disturbance which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 8 degrees Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the western disturbance from January 3 to January 5. The western disturbance will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees. The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years. Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degrees Celsius. It was 7.6 degrees Celsius last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Raghu Rai covers Dakha Singhu and Tikri Kalan blockade||Celebrated photojournalist Raghu Rai spent a better part of last week covering the farmers’ blockade at the Dakha Singhu and Tikri Kalan borders between Delhi and Haryana. Despite the enhanced coronavirus risk at the age of 78, Rai told The Telegraph, he could not keep himself from covering this “new awakening” spurred by the Punjab peasantry’s resistance to three farm laws. Rai, revered for his coverage of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, the repression that preceded the Emergency of 1975 and the aftermath of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, said he rued the defamation of the protesting farmers. “The government should see what is happening in its own truth and space,” Rai said. “When you go there with a political mind, your eyes are coloured and you can’t see the truth,” he added. “So the government  should deal with it in honesty and directly rather than politicians making up their own stories about their (farmers’) loyalties or funding, and the unnecessary politicisation of the protests...,” Rai added. Some Union ministers have given credence to the barrage of unsubstantiated online allegations against the farmers. A segment of the media has been speculating about the influence of Maoists and the “tukde tukde gang” on the protests. Haryana’s BJP chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, has linked the protesters to Khalistani separatists. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others have alleged the agitation is backed by Opposition parties  and does therefore not count as a genuine farmers’ movement. Rai said: “The government should send someone to directly speak to them (farmers) and not blame the Opposition. Why will the Opposition not take this up as a cause?” “That is the purpose of the Opposition, of newspapers and magazines — to report honestly and talk about it.... This may not get resolved if the BJP begins to blame them with untruths.” The farmers have blockaded some of Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, as well as a highway to Delhi on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for more than a month now. Rai said the agitation was greater in scale than the Mahendra Tikait-led six-day sit-in near Delhi’s Boat Club in 1988 against the impoverishment of sugarcane farmers, or the weeks of protest in Delhi against corruption across several legs in 2011. “My understanding was that in the 30 years of globalisation we had lost that identity and culture, because our way of living and fashion changed. We ceased to be the people we were. Our identity was spoiled,” the Padmashree awardee said. “But at these protest sites, it amazes me that our ancient culture, warmth and hospitality are kept alive by them and offered to anyone who turns up from anywhere. No questions asked. But they are not fond of the media because they think the media has let them down more than the government by misrepresenting them.” He added: “It’s more of a celebration. It is not morose. There is joy that ‘We are here to stay, to make a difference’.... Also, not only are there langars here but also kirtans, readings of the Guru Granth Sahib, Sikh discourses. It’s not just a protest (but) also an experience of their cultural and religious ethos.” Rai sees a new unity between Sikhs and others in a city where they suffered the worst killings after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh guards in 1984. “Sikhs, Muslims and Jats (Hindus) are protesting together today. Jats (traditionally) smoke hookahs. (I saw) eight Jats sitting together sharing a hookah in Covid times, and Sikhs sitting just next to them, and they are not objecting, which means they accept you culturally as you are.” Tobacco is taboo for most Sikhs. “I have not witnessed such a prolonged and very simply organised rural protest in my career.... They talk about demonetisation, GST, and say they did not raise their voice. They talk about the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) and say, ‘Who knows, you may start doing it to us’,” Rai said. “They are digging up everything negative. It’s not just about the prices of their products, it’s everything now. In six years it was becoming too heavy for anybody to take all of these changes.” Rai added: “I’m not shooting for anybody. But how can I stay away when there is a new awakening in the people, which is very important for a nation.... My family gets very upset (about him going into crowds during the pandemic), but after 55 years as a photojournalist documenting the visual history of this country, it is essential for me to see, understand and connect to what is going on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Vaccinator dry run in state capitals tomorrow||Medical officers and other health staff tasked with vaccinating people against Covid-19 will on Saturday conduct a “dry run” in state capitals across India to bolster preparedness and identify the challenges the planned immunisation campaign might encounter. The Union health ministry said on Thursday that the dry run — designed to test all the major steps in the vaccination process except inviting beneficiaries and actual vaccination — will be conducted in at least three sites in each state capital. The medical officers designated for the exercise in each capital will identify 25 healthcare workers as mock beneficiaries at each site and upload their details into Co-Win, an application software designed for the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. Some states have decided to include districts located in difficult terrain with poor logistical support, while Kerala and Maharashtra have announced plans to schedule the dry run in several additional cities along with their capitals. The health ministry has asked the states to ensure enough space, logistical arrangements, Internet connectivity and electricity and ensure that each site has a “three-room set-up” with a separate entry and exit. The dry run will also equip the state and Union territory administrations in the management of the vaccine supply, storage and logistics, including the maintenance of low-temperature storage. Around 96,000 vaccinators have been trained to administer the vaccines. A key focus during the dry run will be on managing any possible adverse events after the immunisation. Medical experts have underlined that during mass immunisation campaigns, a few recipients can experience adverse events, including potentially serious allergic reactions such as an anaphylactic shock. The operational guidelines for the vaccination campaign require that medical officers at each site ensure the availability of anaphylactic kits with adrenaline injections that would need to be administered to any recipient who experiences this allergic reaction. The dry run will also provide an opportunity to health staff to implement infection-control measures at the vaccination sites to prevent them turning into sources of the infection. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab had conducted dry runs at five sites each earlier this week. The health ministry has said that no major issues were observed during those dry runs. A national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines has recommended that healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50, and those below 50 with underlying chronic health disorders be prioritised for the vaccination. The group has estimated that around 300 million people from these four groups would need to be vaccinated – 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people from the other two categories. A regulatory expert panel examining applications for emergency-use authorisation of Covid-19 vaccines from three companies has called a meeting on Friday. Health experts tracking the vaccine development efforts believe the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute, is likely to be the first Covid-19 vaccine approved for use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||No option but repeal, say farmers ||The farmer unions on Thursday said there was no alternative to repeal of the new farm laws, responding to the government’s call to come up with an option short of complete withdrawal. Simultaneously, upset with the “repression” of farmers in BJP-ruled states, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) decided to counter this with a bigger mobilisation. “The Government of India’s appeal to the farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the three acts is an impossibility as the central government itself has thrust these laws over the people undemocratically,” the AIKSCC’s working group said a day after 40 farmer unions and collectives had met government interlocutors. Further, it said, the government should stop being rigid and indulging in semantics as all the processes were in its hands. “Unless these (laws) are repealed there is no scope to discuss pro-farmer changes in mandis (wholesale markets) and farm processes for ensuring ‘doubling farmers income’,” the AIKSCC said in a statement while the mobilisation continued uninterrupted. New Year’s Eve brought in more people from Punjab, in particular, to the protest sites at Tikri and Singhu. Some of the protesters at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border forced their way past the barricades, prompting Haryana police to use teargas to hold them back. The AIKSCC said it stood vindicated by the manner in which 22 farmers in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh had been swindled out of Rs 2 crore when they “parted with 2,581 quintals of lentils to two traders of Harda” under the Farmers’ Produce Trading and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws the protesters want repealed. The two traders had approached the farmers directly citing the FPTC Act, offered them more than the mandi rate and paid by cheque, which bounced. The two traders are untraceable and a probe is on. Also, the AIKSCC said, the government’s assurance that the minimum support price regime would continue under the new farm laws was nothing but a “pretentious promise”. It said the Telangana government had stopped procuring paddy on the ground that the Centre had refused help and told it to stop procurement. “Senior central ministers’ emotional appeals for faith in Modi’s promises are now exposed for being hollow,” the AIKSCC said. Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch told The Telegraph the government had painted itself into a corner by escalating the defence of the three laws, under the Prime Minister’s leadership, and through the parallel attempts to discredit the farmers’ movement. “By its own actions, the government has made it difficult for itself to concede (the farmers’ main demands). It’s not as if we have changed our goalposts — for the past six months the farmers have been demanding repeal,” she said. True to the feistiness of Punjab’s people, — farmers from the state are leading the protests that have now spread to other parts of India — the agitators have not let the government’s stubbornness or the bitter cold dampen their spirits on New Year’s Eve. Large numbers of people from back home have joined them with the slogan “Nava saal, kisana de naal (New Year with farmers)”. The agitators are looking forward to welcoming people from Delhi and nearby areas to the protest sites on Friday to share a meal at the langars of the “annadatas” (food providers or farmers).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Kashmir: families question militant claim ||Police head constable Maqbool Ahmad Ganai lost his son and constable Irfan Ahmad Lone his brother in Wednesday’s purported gunfight in Srinagar, but a question both policemen are asking is how their kin went on to become militants, procure weapons, reach Srinagar and plan an attack in a matter of a few hours. The army on Wednesday said they had killed three militants — Aijaz Ahmad, Zubair Ahmad and Athar Mushtaq — in an overnight operation on the outskirts of Srinagar in Hokersar. The killings have triggered a political storm after their families claimed the three were innocent and killed in a staged gunfight. They are not listed as militants in police records. Aijaz, 21, and Zubair, 24, belonged to police families. Athar, the youngest of the three and a Class XI student, was the only son of his businessman father. Aijaz and Athar, who lived in Pulwama, knew each other but their families said they did not know Shopian resident Zubair or his family. While Aijaz’s father Maqbool is a head constable, Zubair’s two elder brothers, including Irfan, are in the police, one a constable and another a mason. The families questioned the security forces’ claim and said it did not have a leg to stand on. “My son left home at 1pm on Tuesday for Pulwama Degree College in connection with his final-year exams, which is to start on January 8. He was to apply for university after that. Around 2.30pm, he was seen by eyewitnesses in company of Athar at a tea shop in the town (Pulwama),” Aijaz’s father Maqbool told The Telegraph. “The encounter started at 5pm. How can it happen that they got weapons from somewhere, passed 50 nakas (checkpoints) to reach Srinagar and were not stopped anywhere? All this so fast? What was the army doing all this while?” Zubair’s brother Irfan had strikingly a similar question. “My brother was in the shuttering business. He left home like usual and in the evening when he did not return, we called him but his mobile phone was switched off. Some acquaintances told us they saw him near the bus stand (at Shopian) around 2-2.30 during the day,” the police constable said. “Ask anybody, how is it possible that in the next two hours, he became a militant, got training to use weapons and reached the place (of the alleged gunfight in Srinagar 70km away)?” Irfan asked. The families said they were shocked when the police called them up directly or through indirect means to inform them that their children were militants and had been killed in a gunfight. “I was wondering how it could happen but when I reached the police control room in Srinagar yesterday (Wednesday), I found three bodies lying on stretchers. My son’s body was third in the row. I was devastated,” head constable Maqbool said. Maqbool said what pained him more was that his son had been on 35 days’ bed rest on doctor’s advice following a surgery. “On Sundays, I would accompany him to the doctor for follow-up. He left home for the first time on his own on Tuesday,” Maqbool said. The three bodies were buried in far-off Sonamarg, as part of a new strategy to deny families the bodies of alleged militants, lest it attract crowds and give new recruits to militancy. Director-general of police Dilbag Singh on Thursday said he had no reason to dispute the army’s claim that the three youths were militants, but said they would still investigate the matter. He said families were at times not aware of the involvement of their wards in militant activities. “It is not important that every militant is listed with the police. When a person leaves his home to join (militancy), he doesn’t tell his parents,” Singh said. The army maintains that a joint operation involving men from different forces was launched at 5.30pm on Tuesday, leading to the death of three militants on Wednesday morning. A police statement on Wednesday evening, however, said the cordon-and-search operation was conducted by 2 Rashtriya Rifles, which was fired upon and thereafter a police component and a CRPF quick action team rushed to the spot. No top police officer was present at the media conference on Wednesday to give details of the purported encounter. It was addressed by counter-insurgency Kilo Force Major General H.S. Sahi. Usually, the DGP or IGP addresses such conferences. “Although the three killed terrorists in the encounter were not mentioned in our list of terrorists, yet two of them are hardcore associates of terrorists. Pertinently, one of the two is a relative of top HM (Hizb-ul-Mujahideen) commander Rayees Kachroo who was killed in 2017,” a spokesman said. The police did not say who among the three was Kachroo’s relative. The families of Aijaz and Zubair said they were not related to Kachroo or any other militant. This newspaper could not contact Athar’s relatives. The families are seeking justice and want the bodies of their kin to be returned to them so that they can give them a proper burial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Kerala BJP lawmaker goes back and forth in supporting farm laws resolution||A special session of the Kerala Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution seeking withdrawal of the contentious new farm laws, with its lone BJP member first objecting, then expressing support for the move and finally opposing it again. As the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition United Democratic Front supported the resolution, BJP member O. Rajagopal aired his objections in a brief statement in the House but did not press for a division. He, however, shortly called a news conference where, asked why he had not sought a vote in the House, he expressed support for the resolution. He also appeared to suggest that his objections to the resolution in the House owed to differences over technicalities. When the perplexed reporters asked again whether he indeed backed the resolution, Rajagopal responded: “I support the resolution.” He, however, went on to add a hint of ambiguity to his position by suggesting he might be supporting the resolution to honour the “democratic” traditions of “consensus” and “compromise”. Asked whether his support for the resolution wasn’t unnatural from a BJP member, Rajagopal said: “This is the opinion of the Kerala Assembly.” He added: “Some (in the BJP) may not like it. But in a democratic system we might have to reach a compromise on certain things. There is no need to be stubborn by sticking to a stand. We should move forward based on a consensus. But before reaching the consensus we can present our opinions before the people.” On whether his adopting such a position might not trigger problems with his party, he said: “I don’t see any issue in that.” He added: “I have differences with certain arguments (in the resolution), which I pointed out in the House.” Within hours, however, Rajagopal had changed his position through a media statement issued on Facebook. “The statements that I am opposed to the central government (on the farm laws) is against the facts,” he said. He seemed to blame his failure to call for a division in the House on the Speaker. “The Speaker did not ask who were supporting the resolution and who were opposing it. This is a violation of precedent,” he wrote. State BJP president K. Surendran said the party would examine what Rajagopal had said at the news conference. “I will respond after speaking to him,” he said. In the House, Rajagopal had said the farm bills were meant to “empower farmers to sell their produce anywhere by avoiding middlemen and commission agents”. “Those who oppose these laws are those who are opposed to farmers’ interests,” he had added. Exactly a year ago -- on December 31, 2019 -- the Kerala Assembly had sat to pass a resolution seeking withdrawal of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. On Thursday, responding to suggestions from members, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the House his government was examining the UDF demand for an ordinance to bypass the new farm laws. Agriculture, fairs and markets figure on the state list. The state government had endured several days of anxiety after governor Arif Mohammed Khan rejected an earlier recommendation to convene the Assembly on December 23. But the governor yielded when the government issued another recommendation. Vijayan said the governor had been reminded that he didn’t enjoy discretionary powers to stop an elected government from convening a session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||2,500 villagers seek rehabilitation in camps||About 2,500 people from two forest villages in upper Assam will be spending their New Year in makeshift camps near the Tinsukia DC’s office seeking permanent and proper rehabilitation. Men, women and children are from Laika village in Tinsukia district and Dodhia village in Dibrugarh district, about 6km apart, have been living in these tarpaulin camps  at Lezaihola Borguri near Tinsukia DC office, about 22km away from their homes, for the past ten days and have vowed to continue living and protesting this way till they are rehabilitated. This has been their stand a day after chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal met representatives of the villagers falling under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and directing the state forest department to “permanently rehabilitate” the affected families by January 31. “We welcome the chief minister’s initiative but it has not been able to reassure our people. In the past two, we were given written assurances but nothing happened. We have been demanding rehabilitation for the past 21 years. That is why even in this cold (9° Celsius) and away from home we will continue to protest peacefully till we are properly and permanently rehabilitated,” Minturaj Morang, 38, told The Telegraph from the protest site, about 490km east of Guwahati. Morang is one of the affected and chief convener of the Laika-Dodhia Rehabilitation Committee. He had also represented the affected in the talks with Sonowal on Wednesday. About 10,000 people from 1,480 families have been affected. They were settled in these two  villages dominated by the Mising community after the massive 1950 earthquake. But problem started when the forest reserves under which the two villages fall was declared Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in 1999. With access getting restricted and development coming to a standstill, they started seeking rehabilitation elsewhere through peaceful protests and representations. They were assured rehabilitation within eight months in July, 2017 by then forest minister Pramila Rani Brahma but nothing materialised. This year, too, their rehabilitation at Owguri under Digboi forest division fell through following reservation by a senior forest official on December 3 because the exercise will lead to the cutting of 8,000 trees, compelling the villagers to stage the indefinite protest on December 21 but they shifted to near the DC on December 22. “We cannot build anything permanent because we are inside a national park. Government schemes have stopped because of strict rules. The forest department should have rehabilitated us before declaring Dibru-Saikhowa a national park. Under the circumstances we have no option but to continue our protest so that the government fulfils its promise. We have fought all these years, with flood, with erosion and government indifference. We will struggle for a few more days,” he said. He also made it clear that their protest may appear similar to the farmers’ protest on the border of Delhi but it has not been inspired by it. “It was spontaneous, it was about our survival. We have been demanding rehabilitation for 21 years now,” Morung said. The 2,500-odd villagers have been divided into 16 groups so that it is easier to maintain smaller groups with food and accommodation. “Today the DC, SP, the local MLA visited us and inspected the camps for the first time. We also had a meeting with the DC and sought his help to maintain the camp because our people are going nowhere till our rehabilitation issue is settled,” Morung said. Besides setting a January 31 deadline to settle the villagers, Sonowal on Wednesday also formed a ten-member committee to look into the issue. He also asked the forest department to conduct a survey within a week so that rehabilitation process can be started promptly. The rehabilitation package would include drinking water, electricity, immediate medical support. The area of rehabilitation should not be flood-prone and erosion-prone, an official  statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest galvanises Modi-wary poor||If Prime Minister Narendra Modi has triggered a farmer revolt with his new farm laws, a general sense of frustration at his policies and failed promises has attracted a wider segment of the poor to the protests at Delhi’s borders. While the better-off farmers sitting on their tractor trolleys dissected the farm bills and the danger they posed, the landless labourers and daily wage earners gathered at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border with them complained of being duped with the promise of “achchhe din (good days)” six years ago. “Sirf dhokha (Nothing but fraud),” said an indignant Khyali Ram, who had come from Ramuwala Ganesh village in Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, about Modi’s electoral rhetoric. “What kind of policies enable the rich to double and triple their incomes in a few years while generations of the poor struggle for survival?” he wondered. Balkar Singh, a younger man who had come from the same village, cut in to say: “He promised achchhe din, Rs 15 lakh in bank accounts and what not. He said farmers’ incomes would double.... “We have to sell paddy for Rs 1,100 against the MSP (minimum support price) of Rs 1,885. Our sugarcane dues are pending. Now he brings in laws that will ruin our lives; our land will be grabbed by corporate groups.” Rohtas Sharma, a landless labourer who too has come from Moradabad and sleeps in the same trolley with 20 others, complained: “Modi did nothing for us; our plight has worsened. I have been barely getting Rs 100 as a day’s wages. My children don’t go to school. There’s no teaching in government schools and the private schools seek Rs 2,000 for admission.” Rohtas, who is happy being at the agitation site because everything from toothpaste to food and warm clothes is free, has vowed not to go back unless the new farm laws are withdrawn. He knows little about the intricacies of these bills but realises that the farmers are genuinely upset. Asked whether he gets work under the rural job scheme MGNREGA at his village, he said: “Nobody gives us work. The MGNREGA is a fraud.” Farmer Dharampal, the banner on his trolley indicating a communist link, explained why. “Asardar logon ka kabja hai MGNREGA par (Influential people have captured the MGNREGA),” he said. “They get job cards issued for themselves and their lackeys, and the money gets transferred to their accounts without their having to do any work. I can say from experience that barely 20 per cent of MGNREGA work is genuine. Things have deteriorated in the last few years.” Balkar, asked whether he had received the latest instalment of Rs 2,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, said he had not. “I got nothing, not a single rupee. But I don’t need it. I own a tractor, have a pucca house, cattle and enough money to host a feast for the villagers on occasion. I can arrange for music too,” he said. “We had no problems as such, except schools and hospitals that the government should focus on. But the government is bringing in destructive laws.... We are not going away from here, come what may.” Dharampal, who is fiercely opposed to the new farm laws, went on to launch a political broadside against Modi. “Can you imagine statues worth thousands of crores being built in a country where children don’t have food and clothes? For how long will you rule by inciting passions, by fooling people on temples and nationalism?” he said. “The fire is lit now. The poor have woken up. Now the government will realise that the poor will no longer be happy with crumbs.” What if the movement were somehow quelled and the farmers had to return home unsuccessful? “There are other ways of protesting: sitting on the road is just one way. Haven’t you seen how the boycott call jolted (Reliance’s) Jio?” Dharampal said. “We, the people, hold the key in a democracy. The government’s lifeblood is in our hand. The flow will be interrupted whenever the farmers and workers unite. And you will see this time how the BJP and Modi get undone by us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||India||Odisha steps  to avert second Covid-19 wave||The fear of the second wave of Covid-19 continues to haunt the Odisha government even though the mutated strain of Sars Covid-2 has not been detected in UK returnees to the state. In order to ensure that Odisha does not lose its grip on Covid management, the Naveen Patnaik government has declared a ban on night celebrations this New Year eve. In order to strictly implement the ban the government has clamped night curfew across the state to avoid congregations and celebrations. “The night curfew will be imposed from 10pm tonight to 5am on Friday. All are requested to cooperate,” Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena said. The administration announced that the 12th Century Shree Jagannath temple would remain closed on January 1 and January 2 to avoid congregations. The temple will be thrown open to the public on January 3. But those having Covid negative certificates only will be allowed to enter the shrine. On the other hand, commissioner of police Sudhansu Sarangi on Thursday announced to impose prohibitory orders under Section  144 of CrPc in the twin cities — Cuttack and Bhubaneswar to curb zero night celebrations. He urged the people not to venture out of their homes after 9pm. “Except for emergency requirements, those who are found to be roaming on the streets will be taken to task by the police,” warned the police commissioner. The Odisha government has asked it’s official to exchange greetings through virtual mode and not to gather to exchange new year’s greetings. However, cinema halls and theatres will reopen from January 1 with 50 per cent capacity. All these complexes have been closed since the outbreak of corona pandemic in March. Meanwhile, another 315 people tested Covid positive in the state in the last 24 hours. However, there was relief for the people of Odisha as the state government on Thursday announced that not a single person returning to the state from Britain has been found carrying the mutated strain of new variant of coronavirus. “The mutated strain of Sars Covid 2 has not been detected in any sample in the state,” said additional chief secretary and head of the health and family welfare department P.K. Mohapatra. As per the government officials, Odisha had sent six samples of UK returnees to Pune and Delhi for genome sequencing. However, the test report pointed out no presence of the mutated strain of new variant coronavirus. “We will be getting reports of the three more samples sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. It will be reaching to us soon,” the officials said. As many as 188 people have returned to the state from Britain. So far the state government officials have been able to trace 179 of these returnees and get them tested for Covid-19. Only seven have tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||India||Delhi High Court stays eviction notice to Birju ||Delhi High Court has stayed the eviction notice issued by the Centre to Kathak exponent Pandit Birju Maharaj asking him to vacate the government accommodation allotted to him here. A vacation bench of Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued a notice and sought the Centre’s response on a plea by the Kathak artiste challenging the government’s decision of cancelling allotment of his accommodation and asking him to vacate by December 31. “In view of the above, the impugned notice dated October 9, 2020 is stayed till the next date of hearing,” the high court said in its order passed on Wednesday and made available on Thursday. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on January 22, 2021, before the roster bench concerned along with another similar petition by Padma Shri awardee Mohiniyattam dancer Bharati Shivaji, who was also served with an eviction notice. The court, in its order, noted that petitioner Birju Maharaj is a renowned Kathak artist and was allotted a government accommodation on account of his accomplishments and by virtue of the impugned notices, he has been communicated that the allotment stands cancelled and he has been asked to vacate the premises by December 31. Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for Birju Maharaj, submitted that similar notices were issued to other prominent personalities who were allotted government accommodations and are subject matter of petitions filed before this court. He also referred to a December 23 order passed by the high court in Bharati Shivaji’s case in which a similar eviction notice has been stayed. In October this year, 27 eminent personalities most in the age group of 50 to 90, including artists, dancers and musicians were sent notices by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, to vacate their government allotted accommodations across Delhi by December 31, “failing which eviction proceeding will be initiated as per Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act”. Other prominent personalities who have been sent these notices are artist Jatin Das, Pandit Bhajan Sopori, Rita Ganguly, Dhrupad singer Ustad F. Wasifuddin Dagar, Kathak expert Geetanjali Lal and Kuchipudi dancer Guru Jayarama Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||India||Mob, cops clash near Taj Mahal over police inaction||A mob ransacked a police station, set over six vehicles on fire and fought a pitched battle with cops barely 1km from the Taj Mahal after the law-enforcers were accused of inaction over an accident death on Thursday. The angry residents damaged files and computers in the Taura police outpost in Agra and set ablaze over half a dozen vehicles, including four motorcycles, parked outside.    Television cameras showed cops lathicharging the mob and hurling tear smoke canisters. Policemen were also seen beating photojournalists covering the incident. The protesters and the police hurled stones at each other. Satish Ganesh, the inspector-general of Agra, said: “It was an unfortunate incident. People angry over the death of a youth in a road accident turned violent. Our priority is to convince the people that the police will not spare the guilty.” “We are collecting CCTV footage to identify those who damaged public property. Action will be taken against them,” he added. A protester said a tractor-trolley had hit a local youth, Pawan Yadav, on Fatehabad Road. “Two policemen of Taura outpost came there on a motorcycle but turned away without saying anything even after seeing the youth lying in a pool of blood and the tractor-trolley standing a little distance away. This angered bystanders, who ran towards the tractor-trolley. The vehicle fell into a ditch while trying to get away and the driver fled. We took the injured to hospital, where he died within a few minutes,” the protester said, requesting anonymity. “The youth lay injured on the road for about 45 minutes and could have been saved had the police rushed him to hospital. We were confused at that time and couldn’t decide whether we should wait for the police or not,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||India||Mulayam’s brother sees signs of secular alliance||Shivpal Yadav, the younger brother of Mulayam Singh Yadav who had warmed up to the BJP after his ouster from the Samajwadi Party, has said many “secular parties” have resolved this New Year to forge an alliance to defeat the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh elections in 2022. Shivpal, the president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday evening: “The secular parties, which believe in the same ideology of social harmony, have already started coming together. The talk and the process is on to build a big alliance so that the BJP can be thrown out of power in the Assembly elections to be held in 2022.” Asaduddin Owaisi, Hyderabad MP and leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), had met Shivpal and Om Prakash Rajbhar, the chief of the Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party, in Lucknow separately on December 16. Later, Rajbhar, whose SBSP was a part of the Yogi Adityanath government till May 2019, had also met Shivpal and said: “The idea is to bring on one platform the smaller parties. Even the BJP is trying to woo the smaller parties. It was in this situation that we resolved to take the lead in forming an alliance of smaller, anti-BJP parties.” The SBSP has four MLAs in Uttar Pradesh and Shivpal is the only MLA from his party. Owaisi’s party has yet to win a seat in the state. Mohammed Ayub, president of the Peace Party, has also expressed his wish to be a part of the proposed alliance. “The idea is to consolidate our presence in the state’s politics and marginalise those who are doing divisive politics,” Ayub said. Shivpal said he was not averse to bringing outfits like the Samajwadi Party onto the proposed platform but added that all the smaller parties would remain independent entities. “Some bigger non-BJP parties including the SP want smaller parties to merge with them. The idea floated by some SP leaders of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia)’s merger with their party is impractical. I have formed my party to sustain it and will continue to maintain its independent identity,” Shivpal said. “But the SP or any other big party can be a part of the alliance if it believes in secular politics. The talk for an alliance of the smaller parties is in the final stages and they all have the single aim of defeating the BJP,” he added. Shivpal’s nephew and Mulayam’s son, Akhilesh Yadav, removed Shivpal from the SP in 2017. Shivpal had then got close to the BJP. The Adityanath government had allotted him a palatial bungalow and provided him Z-category security in 2018, both of which he continues to enjoy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||India||CBSE exams in May-June, results set for July 15||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold the examinations for Classes X and XII students in May-June, almost two months behind the usual schedule. According to a notification issued by the CBSE, the board exams for Classes X and XII will begin on May 4. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said the exams would be over on June 10 and the results declared by July 15. The practical, project and internal assessment segments will be held from March 1 and can continue till the theory papers are over. The CBSE said alternative ways of conducting practical exams would be explored this year in view of the pandemic. It, however, did not elaborate. Educationist Usha Ram said the idea of practical exams was to assess the learning outcome and competency of a student in a particular subject. “Apart from demonstrating practical experiments, the students can also be assessed through oral questioning and multiple answer-type questions. The CBSE can explore such possibilities too,” she said. More than 30 lakh students had appeared in the exams last year. This year, a similar number of students are expected to take the tests, a CBSE official said. Last year, the Class X exams had been held at 5,376 centres while the Class XII exams were held at 4,983 centres. This year, the number centres may increase three times because of adherence to Covid protocol. Some educationists and parents demanded that competitive exams like the JEE Advanced and the NEET be deferred. The JEE Advanced, held to select students for BTech courses in IITs, and the NEET, for MBBS and BDS courses, are usually held in May. The JEE Main, which is the national entrance test for admission to BTech courses in institutions other than IITs, will be held four times, once each in February, March, April and May. “I think the students preparing for competitive exams may face stress if the NEET and the JEE Advanced are conducted immediately after the board exams. They should get about a month’s time,” said Kiran Mehta, director (academics) of Mother Mary School in New Delhi. Ameeta Mullah Wattal, the principal of Springdales School, said students had not done any practical classes this year. The school could invite them in small batches now to attend practical classes so that they don’t face difficulty in taking the board’s practical exams. Students said they were happy with the deferred exam schedule. “Now, we will get four months to prepare. This was required. We have very less number of classes in the online mode. All the subjects have not been covered,” a student said. The CBSE has reduced the syllabus by 30 per cent for board exams. Ashok Agrawal, the president of the All India Parents’ Association (AIPA), said the syllabus should be pruned by 50 per cent. “There are lakhs of students who could not attend any class because of lack of digital devices. The board should reduce the syllabus by 50 per cent to ensure that poor students are not victimised,” Agrawal said. Ashok Pandey, the director of the Ahlcon Group of Schools, said state governments should allow the reopening of schools. “Interactions between students and teachers are very important. The next two-three months should be utilised for this purpose. This will help students prepare for the exams, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Soumendu Adhikari, 15 other TMC councillors join BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday made its front even stronger ahead of the Bengal assembly polls when 15 TMC councillors in the 20-member Contai Municipality, including its former administrator Soumendu Adhikari, quit the state's ruling party and joined the saffron camp. Suvendu Adhikari, a senior BJP leader and Soumendu's brother, handed over party flags to the councillors at a programme here. Soumendu was recently removed from the administrator's post at the civic body by the Mamata Banerjee government. Adhikari, who had quit the TMC and joined the BJP last month, said Soumendu's removal was a "vindictive move" on the part of the state government. "Soumendu has a long political career ahead of him. He has worked hard all these years... and the same goes for the other councillors. The Adhikari family is no longer with the party of Pishi-Bhaipo (TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and nephew Abhisek Banerjee)," he said. The former state minister also said that the Mamata Banerjee government had been delaying municipal polls, as it was scared of its "imminent defeat". "People will vote in favour of the BJP, be it the civic polls or the assembly elections. The BJP will be the frontrunner in Contai South and other places where it had been trailing in the last Lok Sabha polls," he asserted. Earlier in the day, Soumendu had told reporters that his “family had been enduring many unsavoury attacks. But we believe in giving a befitting reply on the battlefield".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva Bharati stopped from building wall along crucial road||The administration in Bengal's Birbhum district on Friday issued an order, asking Visva Bharati authorities to immediately stop the construction of a wall along a road - which connects the twin towns of Santiniketan and Sriniketan. District Magistrate Vijay Bharti, who inspected the area on Thursday, said the wall, if built, could hinder people's movement along the route. Locals had long been using the route, and no restriction can be imposed all of a sudden, he said, adding that problems need to be solved amicably through discussions. Visva-Bharati authorities, however, refused to comment on the matter. The administration has also taken over another road -- connecting Upasana Griho to Kalisayar More -- from Visva- Bharati, which was inaugurated in 2017. Several heritage buildings, including the Rabindra Bhavan museum, and monumental sculptures -- the ones built by artist Ramkinkar Baij -- dot the 2.9-km road. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during her recent visit to Bolpur, had said that the Public Works Department would take back the possession of the road from the varsity. Authorities of the central university had recently drawn the ire of Banerjee after media reports suggested that vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty accused Nobel laureate Amartya Sen of illegally occupying the land. Last year, the state had locked horns with Visva- Bharati officials over the erection of a wall around the Poush Mela ground, in the vicinity of the varsity campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Brother Soumendu along with other TMC workers to join BJP, confirms Suvendu||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday said his disgruntled brother and TMC leader Soumendu -- recently removed from the post of administrator at Contai Municipality -- will join the saffron camp along with a host of other activists from the state's ruling party. Asserting that the TMC, of which he was a part till about a month ago, will "disintegrate" soon, Adhikari, during a meeting here in Purba Medinipur, claimed that Soumendu, together with a few councillors and 5,000 TMC workers, will switch over to the saffron party later in the day. "My younger brother Soumendu will join the BJP in Contai today. He will be accompanied by several councillors and 5,000 TMC grassroot workers. The TMC will steadily disintegrate," Adhikari said here on the occasion of the Mamata Banerjee-led party's Foundation Day. Soumendu had on Thursday said lotus will bloom in every home, hinting that he would join the saffron party, following in his brother's footsteps. The Adhikari household has two other members in the TMC camp -- MPs Dibyendu and Sisir. Contending that at least one lakh people will attend his rally in Nandigram on January 8, Adhikari told his supporters, "If any of you face blockade on the way to the meeting, just give me a call." "TMC miscreants had carried out an attack on pilgrims when they were en route to a religious programme on December 29. Their vehicle carried flags of Sanatan Hindu Dharma organisation. The attackers will be taught a befitting lesson," the newly inducted BJP leader stated. Talking about CBI raids on Thursday at two Kolkata residences of businessman Binay Mishra, reportedly close to the TMC, in connection with cattle smuggling along India- Bangladesh border, and the arrest of alleged kingpin Enamul Haque in November, Adhikari said, "The agency would soon knock the doors of a heavyweight involved in the case. Just wait..." The BJP leader, following his rally, told reporters that he will ensure that the saffron party takes lead in all assembly segments in Purba Medinipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC celebrates foundation day across Bengal||The Trinamool Congress on Friday celebrated its 23rd Foundation Day across West Bengal with Chief Minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee asserting that she will fight and work for the people. Senior TMC leaders hoisted the party flag at its state headquarters and congratulated workers for their tireless efforts in serving people. "As Trinamool turns 23 today, I look back at the journey we began on January 1st, 1998. Our years have been of immense struggle, but throughout this time, we have continued to achieve our objective of being committed to the cause of only the people." Banerjee said on Twitter. As Bengal steps into the election year and the party is set to complete a decade in power, Banerjee vowed to carry on her fight to make the state better. "On #TMCFoundationDay, I extend my sincere gratitude to our Maa-Mati-Manush and all our workers who continue to fight with us in making Bengal better and stronger each day. The Trinamool family will carry on with this resolve for times to come!" she said on the microblogging site. The TMC had issued instructions to its workers to conduct various programmes across the state to mark the occasion. The TMC leaders in districts have arranged for various functions and street-corner meetings to discuss and highlight the party's achievements in the last ten years. Banerjee broke away from the Congress and formed the TMC on January 1, 1998 with an objective to oust the then Left Front regime from power. The party achieved its goal in May 2011 after forging an alliance with the Congress. The party faces a challenge in the next assembly elections, as the resurgent BJP has pulled out all the stops to defeat the TMC dispensation in the polls, slated to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Fire destroys textbooks worth Rs 15 lakh||School textbooks worth around Rs 15 lakh were gutted in a blaze that broke out at a circle office of the state primary education department at Islampur in North Dinajpur district on Thursday morning. Furniture and documents at the office were also reduced to ashes in the blaze owing to suspected short-circuit. Two fire engines doused the flames in over two hours, till over 11am, on Thursday. Sources said that from January 2, schoolbooks provided free of cost by the state government would be distributed among students of state-run and state-aided primary schools for the new academic year. “Accordingly, new books have all been sent to districts. For North Dinajpur's Islampur subdivision, those were kept at a godown in the Islampur sadar circle office of the department,” said a source. Residents around 8.30am spotted smoke coming out of the closed office and godown. They informed firemen who rushed to the spot. A police team and officials from the subdivision also arrived. “We suspect an electrical short circuit caused the blaze. An inquiry would be held,” said an officer of Islampur fire station. The police, he said, are doing a separate investigation. Belal Hossain, sub-inspector of schools (primary) of Islampur sadar circle, said they had sent most books to schools. “Whatever was there in stock got damaged in the fire. So it would take some time to distribute books in some primary schools (which have not yet received the consignment). We have told our superiors and hope to get new books soon from the state,” Hossain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Prod on Assembly session||Leaders of the Left Front and the Congress in the Assembly jointly wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urging her to convene the legislative house to facilitate a discussion on and a resolution against the Centre’s contentious farm laws. “Several states have called Assembly sessions and passed resolutions declaring that the contentious farm bills will not be implemented in those states. There are other important issues that need to be debated upon as well,” Left legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty said. Along with him, the letter was signed by leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan. “In spite of writing repeatedly to the CM, the Assembly has not been convened,” Chakraborty said. Sources said since September, the Left parties and the Congress had written seven letters to Mamata urging her to convene the Assembly. However, there has been no positive response from the government, which has prompted the Opposition to question Trinamul’s stand on the farm bills, the sources added. The letter to Mamata says Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Kerala, along with many other states, have passed resolutions in their respective Assemblies not to implement “the anti-people legislations of the central government”. The Opposition leaders also said the farm bill passed by the Bengal government in 2014 echoed the central laws and they, too, should be repealed in the interests of farmers. On the other hand, both Mannan and Chakraborty asked Mamata if she was not convening the session because she was wary of her majority in the House following the recent defections from the ruling party to the BJP. “We believe her own party legislators don’t have faith in the government anymore. Let her call a session and check for herself if she has the numbers to stay in power,” Chakraborty later said in a video message. The BJP construed the letter by the Left parties and the Congress as an attempt to help Trinamul. “The Left and the Congress are playing from the sidelines these days. They are demanding a trust vote so that they can make Trinamul win and send a message to the people that the BJP will not win the ensuing polls,” BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. “I’m sure the people of Bengal will reject such a conspiracy,” he added. Trinamul leader Tapas Roy said if the Left Front and the Congress wanted to prove their anti-BJP credentials, they should not take such steps that benefit the saffron camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Job for wife of dead BJP worker||The state government on Thursday handed over a government job letter to the wife of deceased BJP booth committee president Saikat Bhawal, who was allegedly lynched by suspected Trinamul supporters at Halisahar in North 24-Parganas on December 12 during an outreach programme of the saffron party. On Thursday, Trinamul’s Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik visited Saikat’s home and handed Nabaparna Bhawal the appointment letter, asking her to report for duty at the fire services department in Calcutta immediately. Trinamul leader Trinangkur Bhattacharya later took her to Calcutta, where she joined duty in the fire services department. On December 12, Saikat was allegedly lynched by suspected Trinamul supporters during the BJP’s Griha Sampark Abhiyan. Six other BJP activists had been injured. Based on an FIR, police had arrested three accused on the same night. Two days later, Trinamul leaders called on Nabaparna and she said the murder was “apolitical”. Saikat, a contract worker at Halisahar Municipality, married Nabaparna in March 2019. Trinamul sources said when chief minister Mamata Banerjee came to know about Saikat’s family, she took the initiative to arrange a job for Nabaparna. Mamata advised a job for Saikat’s brother as well, a Trinamul leader said. MLA Bhowmik said again that the murder was not political. BJP leader Subhranshu Roy welcomed the government’s gesture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Cops find 1,000 bombs in lavatory||Around 1,000 crude bombs were seized from a lavatory in Jalalpur area of Chanchal by the police on Thursday. The police raided the area after a woman collecting vegetables in a field got injured when one of the bombs exploded. Sources said homemaker Beradun Khatun went to the field for vegetables when the bomb burst. The sound and her yells made others rush to the spot. Beradun is hospitalised. A police team found seven containers at a newly constructed and unused lavatory of a villager, with 150 to 200 small crude bombs in each container. “In all around 1,000 bombs” said a senior policeman. “If all burst together, damage would have been major.” The CID was asked to defuse them. The police did not reveal the villager’s name but locals said he was a quack. SP Alok Rajoria said probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Two held with fake notes, MLA leads BJP protest||BJP workers led by party MLA Swadhin Sarkar demonstrated in front of Baishnabnagar police station on Thursday against the arrest of two persons suspected to be fake Indian currency note (FICN) peddlers. Both of them are BJP party supporters implicated in false charges, the protesters said. On Thursday morning, a special team of Baishnabnagar police station and special task force jointly raided the house of Dhananjay Mandal, a member of Bakhrabad panchayat. They found fake notes of Rs 3.26 lakh in denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 from his house. Dhananjay and his brother Amrit were arrested. Later, as police officers were preparing to take the duo to court, around 100 BJP supporters, along with MLA Sarkar, reached the police station and demanded the immediate release of the brothers. “Both of them joined BJP on December 26 and Trinamul is being vindictive and implicating them in false cases,” said MLA Sarkar. During the protests, some BJP workers tried to stop the police from taking the duo to court, standing in front of a police vehicle carrying the brothers. Policemen used their batons to disperse the BJP supporters, BJP supporters alleged. Sarkar said some of their supporters suffered baton injuries. Senior police officers, however, denied the charge. “Some people were trying to deter our men from taking two the FICN peddlers to court. They were merely pushed away. We did not use batons,” said Malda SP Alok Rajoria. Trinamul scoffed at the saffron camp. “On one hand, BJP leaders are claiming that the Centre is taking steps against cattle and coal smuggling. On the other hand, a BJP MLA and his party workers are trying to prevent police from taking steps against FICN peddlers. This shows the double-faced nature of the BJP,” said Subhamay Bose, a district spokesman of Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Scan on poll preparation||Administrative officials in the districts of Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar have been asked to ready the infrastructure at polling booths and identify additional voting centres if required to conduct Assembly elections during the Covid-19 pandemic. Aariz Aftab, the chief electoral officer (CEO) of the state who held a meeting here on Thursday, asked the district magistrates and other officials to check out whether there were proper roads to, and electricity and drinking water supply and cellphone connectivity at the booths. “The CEO has specifically mentioned that infrastructure at all booths should be examined and if any work is needed, it should be done immediately. He has also pointed out that additional booths should be readied in view of the pandemic,” said a source. In the course of the three-hour-long meeting, Aftab also mentioned that in all those districts, the officials should try to come up with an error-free electoral roll that would be published on January 15. “He said steps should be taken to remove names of duplicate voters or voters who have names at more than one place. The voter has to be assured his name will be in the electoral roll but not at multiple locations,” said the source. After the meeting, Aftab said: “We have discussed preparations for the Assembly elections and publication of the final voter list. The electoral roll will have photos of all the voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Amartya Sen’s lawyers ask Visva-Bharati VC to withdraw land-related allegations ||Lawyers for economist Amartya Sen have asked the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor to immediately withdraw land-related allegations against the Nobel laureate. “Our Client has learnt from newspapers that you and your officers have made statements, among other false statements, to press/news agencies/journalists that a plot of land owned by Visva Bharati is unlawfully occupied by our Client. However, no communication in this regard has ever been received by our Client. Nor is this allegation correct. In fact, your allegations are completely false. Our Client hereby calls upon you to produce to our Client documentary evidence to justify your aforesaid statements,” the solicitors said in a communication to Bidyut Chakrabarty, vice-chancellor of the central varsity. “We, on behalf of the Client, reserving our Client’s legal recourse against you, call upon you to immediately withdraw the allegations made by you against our Client and refrain yourself from making any further false allegation,” added the communication, dated December 29. Visva-Bharati officials could not be contacted for comment because this newspaper came across the information late at night. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had rubbished the allegations, attributed to a section of varsity officials, and offered full support to Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP supporters beaten up, three in hospital||A group of people allegedly attacked the houses of seven families of BJP supporters at Dakshin Goalpara village on the outskirts of Raiganj town on Wednesday night, assaulted family members and took away valuables. Three persons, including a woman, who suffered serious injuries, were admitted to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. Police started a probe and arrested one person. The targeted families have accused a local Trinamul leader of orchestrating the attack. Trinamul leaders, however, denied the charges and said those families had indulged in illegal activities and faced spontaneous protests by villagers. “All of us are BJP supporters. For past few days, Bappa Adhikary, a local Trinamul leader, had been mounting pressure on us to defect to Trinamul. A few days back, they beat up a woman supporter. On Wednesday night, they organised an attack on us,” alleged Usha Roy, a member of one of the seven families. The attackers, she said, barged into their houses, damaged the furniture, beat up every family member and left with valuables. “We have been threatened with dire consequences if we do not listen to them,” she added. BJP supporters Rina Roy, Badal Roy and Bijoy Roy are hospitalised at the RGMCH. A police team from Raiganj reached Dakshin Goalpara and arrested a person who locals said is a Trinamul supporter. Police confirmed the arrest but did not specify the political leanings of the person. Bappa Adhikary, accused of the attack, brushed aside the charges. “These families were running illegal hooch dens and selling drugs too.  Other villagers were aggrieved with them for their activities. On Wednesday night, some villagers ransacked their homes. It was a spontaneous outburst of people,” he said. “Our party has nothing to do with the incident,” Adhikary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata  visits tribals in Santiniketan’s Ballavpur Danga village||A host of government officials on Thursday descended on Ballabhpur Danga, the tribal hamlet in Santiniketan’s Sonajhuri forest where Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday made a surprise detour on her way back to Calcutta to meet villagers and even wield the ladle at a roadside food stall. The hamlet buzzed with activities on Thursday when officials came to look into the issues that villagers had raised with the chief minister on Wednesday. When Mamata walked down the hamlet’s dusty tracks — stopping by a food stall to help cook vegetable curry — many residents told her about the lack of toilets and disability pensions, and the continuing water crisis, among others. Taking their complaints seriously, Mamata had immediately turned to Birbhum district magistrate Vijay Bharati and said: “You (district magistrate) will construct 130 toilets here from my Duare Sarkar camps and work should start from tomorrow (Thursday). Vijay (DM), you are doing very little. I am telling you and this is my instruction.” On Thursday, villagers woke up to a flurry of activities as SUV after another with “Government of West Bengal” stickers drove into the village to list grievances and demands. “We had no idea that work on our complaints would start so fast,” said villager Matal Mardi as a government vehicle zoomed past him. District magistrate Vijay Bharti on Thursday said he sent “six sets of officials” to study complaints and find out those left out of government schemes. “We started work in the village from today (Thursday). The survey is over and we instructed the electricity department to ensure power supply to a few shops and households. We will sanction extra funds to construct toilets. Everything will be done as soon as possible according to the chief minister’s directives,” Bharti said. Shops to get electricity by Monday include the now-famous food stall, said sources. Its owner, Babu Bagdi, said: “Today (Thursday) electricity department officials told me that my shop will get power connection very soon. It happened as Didi had come to my shop.” A team from the Bolpur-Sriniketan block headed by BDO Sekhar Sain and additional district magistrate (zilla parishad) Sabyasachi Sarkar looked into toilets and other benefits that could be given to villagers. Four dusty tracks would be turned into concrete stretches, said an official. An official who visited the hamlet said many homes had toilets that were however too small to use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||UK returnees on test alert||The Mamata Banerjee government directed all district health units to map and test all those who returned to Bengal from the UK in the past month after the state reported its first case of the mutant Covid strain. The new strain is a cause for worry as Bengal and the UK have considerable two-way traffic, sources said. The state detected one of at least six cases found in India with the new strain — the VUI-202012/01, which includes a genetic mutation in the “spike” protein. State government sources said that after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the new strain might be up to 70 per cent more transmissible than the original, Bengal went on high alert trying to track, trace and test all UK-returnees in December and people they have come in contact with. A source close to Mamata Banerjee said the chief minister got worried after a youth — the son of a senior official in the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital — was detected with the mutant strain after he returned to Bengal from the UK around 10 days ago. “We achieved a major turnaround since Durga Puja in Covid-19 management. But UK returnees infected with this new strain could potentially lead to a public health hazard,” the source said. The state health department of which Mamata is the minister-in-charge outlined new guidelines in its order for the UK returnees, asking to keep them under observation for 28 days since their arrival. The order said that all who arrived over the past month from the UK must be tested by the RT-PCR method after sample collection at home. District surveillance officers must ensure follow-ups daily for those crucial 28 days. Also, the persons concerned would be requested to self-monitor symptoms such as fever, cough and breathing problems for those 28 days. “If they develop symptoms, they have to put on a mask, isolate themselves at home and inform the district surveillance officer or state helpline,” the order reads. “All the community contacts (without any exception) of those travellers who have tested positive will be subjected to institutional quarantine in a separate quarantine centre….” it added. On Thursday — the last day of 2020 — Bengal reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 66th consecutive day (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26), as it fell from 37,190 to 11,985. The recovery rate is 96.07, surpassing the national rate of 96.05 per cent. The state also logged 1,537 recoveries, 1,170 new infections, and 29 deaths, including five from Calcutta, on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||CBI at 3 homes of TMC youth leader||The CBI carried out raids and searches on Thursday at three Calcutta homes of businessman and Trinamul Congress youth wing leader Vinay Mishra in connection with the cattle smuggling scam that the central agency has been probing for a while. Mishra was not at any of his three residences — at Rakhal Das Auddy Road in Alipore, Rashbehari and Patipukur in Lake Town — but pen drives, laptops and documents were seized, said a CBI officer. He is believed to be in the Gulf, the CBI officer said. “His family was given a notice asking for his appearance at the CBI headquarters in Calcutta on January 4,” said a source, adding a lookout notice was issued in his name and hence the CBI would be alerted by immigration authorities the moment Mishra tries to enter or exit India. CBI sources also said the home ministry “activated” its channels in the Gulf for news of his whereabouts. Trinamul dubbed the raids politically motivated. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya in one of his tweets on Thursday called Mishra a “power broker” and sought to link the CBI raids to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-252
01-01-2021||West Bengal||EC for warrant execution ||The Election Commission (EC) has asked district authorities to execute nearly 50,000 pending non-bailable warrants (NBW) at the earliest, the move considered unusual as the poll panel usually lays stress on such a measure after the model code of conduct comes into effect. The deputy election commissioner, Sudip Jain, had visited Bengal recently to observe the poll preparedness. During his five-day visit, Jain held several meetings with government officials. He also visited some districts to assess the ground situation. “During the meetings with district and state government officials, Jain came to know that nearly 50,000 NBWs were pending. He said the figure was very high and the authorities should lay stress on executing those at the earliest,” said a senior official. According to sources, the deputy election commissioner has made it clear the EC would keep a tab on the execution of the NBWs from now on. “We have been asked to send reports on execution of the NBWs on a regular basis. We will have to mention how many pending NBWs were executed in every 14 days,” said a district magistrate. The EC had earlier asked the district officials to file daily reports on law and order across the state. This was unusual, too, as the poll panel usually keeps a tab on law and order once the model code of conduct is put in place. “It is clear the poll panel is attaching special importance to Bengal. This is apparently because of the state’s history of poll-related violence,” said a source. Sources in the state administration said the district authorities had swung into action after the EC had given the directive. Police superintendents have asked police stations under their respective jurisdiction to prepare lists of pending NBWs. “The police stations have been asked to get into the act to execute all the pending NBWs once the list is prepared. Primarily, a target has been set to execute the pending NBWs by February next year,” said an official. It was found in the past that people who were involved in poll-related violence had NBWs pending against them. The NBWs are executed ahead of the polls to ensure the elections are conducted peacefully by putting all trouble-mongers behind the bars. As the EC has decided to exercise the initiative even before the model code of conduct comes into effect, it is clear the poll panel is trying to make campaigning by political parties in the run-up to polls incident-free, said sources. “The political atmosphere in the state has already heated up. The attack on BJP nation national president, J. P. Nadda and some other violent incidents in districts like East Midnapore clearly indicate the situation is very charged. The EC is perhaps trying to initiate some precautionary measures,” said a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal lays claim to ‘original’ Morcha flag ||A unique confusion is likely to become a part of politics in Darjeeling hills with Bimal Gurung deciding to use Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s “original flag” from Friday, January 1, 2021. Till the last day of 2020, the Gurung camp of the Morcha was using a flag with Gurung’s image. The Morcha headed by their rivals Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa was using the “original flag.” “From New Year’s Day we will use the original flag that we have been using since the birth of the party in 2007,” said Gurung. “We were using this flag (with Gurung’s picture) because of elections.” A court had earlier ordered the two Morcha factions to fight the Darjeeling Assembly bypoll separately and thus two variants of the flag represented these two factions. “Now with supporters of both the factions being directed to use the same flag, there will definitely be some confusion,” said a hill resident. Both the factions are now allies of Trinamul — the Tamang faction since 2017 and the Gurung faction since October 2020 after leaving long-time allies BJP — but bitter rivals too. The confusion over the flag will add to the animosity between the two factions of the Morcha, which are at odds against each other. On Wednesday evening, there were allegations that Bimal Gurung camp tried to capture Binay Tamang’s party office at Lebong. Leaders and supporters of Tamang camp said that they managed to take “control” of the party office within hours. The animosity between the two factions can be felt through the speeches of leaders from both the parties. The Binay Tamang camp has decided to hold a public meeting of the youth wing at Tukvar, considered a bastion of Gurung. Gurung, too, will be going to Kalimpong on January 7. This is not the first instance of Gurung making changes to the original flag. He changed the way Gorkha is spelt in Nepali in the flag in 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Fabulous views back as ropeway resumes operations||The services of the Darjeeling Rangeet Valley (DRV) Ropeway resumed in Darjeeling on Thursday after almost 10 months. The ropeway — a major tourist attraction of the queen of the hills — was shut in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Rachana Muherjee, the director of Conveyor & Ropeway Services Private Limited (CRSPL) which runs the ropeway, said they were forced to put on hold this major tourist attraction because of the pandemic. “However, from Thursday, the ropeway has started operating and tourists have once again lined up for the ride,” Mukherjee added. “A lot of associated businesses and livelihoods of the hill people are dependent on the ropeway. It is great that the service has resumed. All the standard operating protocols would be maintained for passengers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Nandigram TMC workers block road to protest police raids||Trinamul Congress workers staged a five-hour-long blockade of the Nandigram-Sonachura highway early on Thursday to protest against police raids on the homes of over a dozen party workers at Bhutamore in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Wednesday night. The police raids were carried out a day after 17 ruling party workers were named in an FIR for allegedly attacking 25 BJP workers while they were on their way to join a procession led by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday. Trinamul leaders claimed that the police had “buckled” under Central pressure and carried out the raids on party supporters. “This is a textbook case of police brutality, backed by BJP forces at the Centre. We demand justice for the affected families,” said one protester, among a group of at least 100 who had blocked the highway on Thursday morning. The protesters claimed women were “pushed around and insulted” at some of the homes which belonged to some of the accused. “The police resorted to unnecessary tactics of force by breaking down our doors and shoving our family members around,” said Ayub Shah, a Garchakraberia gram panchayat member who was named in the FIR connected to the Tuesday incident. Trinamul leaders in Nandigram wondered what had prompted the state police “to turn against the ruling party”. “Trinamul is still in power and the police are already behaving in this manner. They can investigate and arrest but not assault innocent people,” said zilla parishad chief and Trinamul leader Sheikh Sufian. Local sources admitted, however, that most of the accused were absconding after the Bhutamore incident, and the police had made two arrests on Thursday but none of them had been named in the FIR. BJP workers on Thursday said they would “bring Nandigram to a standstill” if the accused were not brought to justice. “Trinamul is in a panic mode and they are expecting us to believe that this is staged incident. Our demand of arresting the accused stands firm,” said state BJP vice-president Pralay Pal. Nandigram police officer-in-charge Ajit Jha termed the allegations of police brutality as “baseless”. Soumendu plea Soumendu Adhikari, who is the younger brother of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, filed a petition in Calcutta High Court on Thursday, claiming he had been removed as the administrator of the Contai municipality on invalid grounds. “The termination was a blind act of revenge on the chief minister’s part and so Soumendu da has challenged it,” said a source close to Soumendu, who did not answer calls on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||West Bengal||Eight on plane with mutant virus patient isolated||Eight tourists from Chinsurah of Hooghly district were isolated at a resort run by the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation (WBFDC) at Rajabhatkhawa of Alipurduar district after it was found that three of them had travelled from the UK in the flight with the youth who tested positive for the mutant Covid strain around 10 days back. Paramedics of the district health department collected their samples — as well as those of five resort employees — for tests. While reports of the rapid antigen tests came back negative, those of the RT-PCR tests are awaited, said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. Sources said the trio, after reaching their Chinsurah home from the UK, left for the Dooars on December 28 with five others. The group comprises three men, four women and a six-year-old. On December 29, they checked into the WBFDC resort in Rajabhatkhawa of the Buxa Tiger Reserve. After the youth tested positive for the new SARS-CoV-2 variant, state health department officials started getting details of his co-passengers. “On Wednesday, they came to know that three such co-passengers reached Rajabhatkhawa. They immediately alerted the district health department here,” said the source. Alipurduar health officials acted promptly and reached the resort on Thursday morning to collect samples from the group and from five resort employees. “The property has been sealed and all 13 have been asked to stay in.  A team has been posted at the entrance to ensure no one enters or gets out of the property,” the source added. As the news spread, tourism stakeholders sounded worried. Biswajit Saha, president of Alipurduar District Tourism Association, said they asked lodge owners to check the travel history of guests and follow health safety protocols. “The tourism industry has just started getting back on track and we have to ensure that we do not get exposed to risks like these,” said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-253
01-01-2021||Opinion||High price: growing numbers in jails during Covid||The rule is bail, jail is the exception. This is a principle reiterated through the years by the Supreme Court — even in 2020 when the managing director of a television channel was being granted interim bail — yet it seems to have had little effect in practice. The evidence for the Indian justice system’s preference for detention lies in the percentage of undertrial prisoners. The latest National Crime Records Bureau report shows that 67.7 per cent of 4.33 lakh prisoners in the country are waiting for trial, some for years. Of these, around 65 per cent are Dalit, adivasi and marginalized people, often barely literate or illiterate, and too poor to afford the bail fee. This last factor has been underlined by a recent study of pandemic policing in Madhya Pradesh by the Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project. Although the study focuses on one state, the practices it reveals are common to subsidiary courts across the country. The growing numbers in jails during the pandemic reveal the police’s tendency to arrest people for minor offences, and also show that many find the bail fee unaffordable. In lower courts, bail for those arrested for petty offences is usually Rs 10,000 in a country where 57 per cent of people earn less than Rs 10,000 a month. In higher courts, bail amounts exceed Rs 30,000. This system reflects India’s culture of heartlessness towards the underprivileged. Yet Indian jurisprudence considers everyone innocent till proven guilty, while for the Constitution the right to freedom is fundamental. It has been suggested that the socio-economic situation of the accused should be considered before fixing bail — it is at the discretion of the judge, after all — and that compliance with the investigation and attendance during hearing should be ensured by means other than money or imprisonment, unless the last is necessitated by the gravity of the crime. Noticeably, many given bail are powerful enough to threaten complainants or witnesses, while numerous others spend years inside till trials find them innocent. This attitude prompts the prolonging of detention under laws such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, with their mandated six months-to-one year incarceration without trial. Bail reform requires, first, a return to the principles of jurisprudence and the Constitution, and a revival of respect for human dignity and fair treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Opinion||Make a wish for the new year||If wishes were horses, goes the old Scottish proverb, then beggars would ride. The inherent cynicism of the adage notwithstanding, human beings remain wishful creatures at heart and the New Year is considered to be a perfect occasion to make new wishes or renew old resolutions. Apparently, 60 per cent of adults around the world believe that the dawn of a mint-new year is a propitious time for making wishes. Yet — depressingly — honouring these resolutions is a different matter altogether. Global data suggest that 80 per cent of the New Year resolutions are to be found in metaphorical trash bins by the second week of February. Even though mankind has the morality and the means to fulfil only 8 per cent of these pledges, the pitiful success rate cannot take away anything from the importance of New Year resolutions. That is because they represent a residual altruism in cultures that needs to be recognized and nurtured. The nurturing is especially important given the nature of the year that has ended. In the annals of modern history, 2020 will undoubtedly be remembered as annus horribilis. The year that was remains a testament to disasters. An invisible virus claimed almost two million lives globally. Nations suffered as much as their citizens with the pandemic and mitigatory responses — prolonged periods of lockdown were a common strategy — devastating economies. A joint statement by the World Health Organization and several other global bodies issued in October last year predicted, among other things, that millions of people were at risk of sliding into extreme poverty; the figure of undernourished people was expected to touch 132 million; and nearly half of the world’s 3.3 billion workforce were threatened with unemployment. India, meanwhile, demonstrated that it was vulnerable to a different kind of contagion. An elected government not only proved to be markedly incompetent in addressing the sufferings of migrant workers but was also complicit in the vilification of a minority community as a willing carrier of the disease. Vaccines have turned despair to hope but the virus, or another pandemic, cannot be wished away. This makes it important for the world to wish for the resurrection of empathy and kindness this New Year. These vanishing human traits could prove to be the vaccine that is needed to vanquish the germs of hate and discrimination that plague the global body politic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Opinion||MGNREGA: rural welfare on crutches||Headline: Byline: Debmalya Nandy The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act tracker released by the People’s Action for Employment Guarantee as well as a research report presented by LibTech India reveal why the rural job programme has not been able to cater to the needs of the poorest during this steep rural job crisis. Earlier, a survey by the Azim Premji University had shown that 6 out of 10 rural workers had lost their jobs during the lockdown. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy also stated that about 1.1 crore daily wage workers were unemployed. Corroborating these claims, the Right to Food Campaign survey has shown that about 43 per cent of its respondents had no work in the month of April and May and that 62 per cent of the workers are now earning considerably less than pre-Covid times. These are adequate evidence of the crisis of employment in India during and after the lockdown. The MGNREGA, the biggest rural flagship job programme, was expected to rise to the occasion and ensure people earned a dignified income and coped with income losses. However, the PAEG report suggests that while 1.3 crore new job cards were issued and about 1 crore more households have worked under the scheme compared to last year as of November 30, the average employment per household remains as low as 41 days as of now as compared to 48 days in 2019. Also, 17 lakh households had completed 100 days of employment as of November 30 against 40.6 lakh households last year. In a crisis year, it is expected that a higher number of households would go for full employment under the MGNREGA. But the data show that while demand for work has been very high, the implementation has been shoddy. The MGNREGA’s limited efficacy can be attributed to three factors. The lack of funds and their slow release have an adverse impact. The PAEG report shows that till the end of November, the persondays generated were 43 per cent higher than that achieved during the same period last year. This means that the Centre should have allocated 380 crore persondays for 2020-21 in the labour budget. However, it has only allocated 324 crore persondays as of November 30 as per the official website. This is restricting opportunities for additional employment. The ministry is left with less than 20 per cent funds. This is worrying since the remaining months would be peak working time given that the harvest season is over. The inadequate sanctioning of schemes across gram panchayats hinders operations, thereby reducing employment opportunities. The block administration does not sanction schemes in bulk on account of the lack of competency. Consequently, workers do not get access to work at their convenience. Currently, the sanctioning processes are conducted through a software-based system called SECURE that is controlled by a handful of block and district officials. Even in states where gram panchayats are entrusted with sanctioning finances, the software-based system has taken control away from them. Lack of awareness among workers and the supply-driven nature of MGNREGA result in workers not even knowing that they can demand work and earn additional cash in times of crisis. The MGNREGA has been in force for 14 years, but many people across rural India do not even know about its existence. The report is also suggestive of inadequate administrative reciprocation against the surge in demand for work. It says that about 13 per cent of demands remained unmet. However, a recent survey conducted by Gaon Connection and CSDS-Lokniti has shown that only 20 per cent of the willing households got work. About 45.6 lakh households were not issued cards and the demands of 97 lakh households were not met during the year, as per the PAEG findings. There is no respite for workers even after the payment is made by the Centre. LibTech India released a report describing the problems of last-mile delivery — 45 per cent of workers had to visit banks multiple times and an estimated 40 per cent of banking correspondents users made multiple trips due to biometric failures;  the average cost incurred while visiting  a bank to withdraw wages was Rs 31. Workers paid about Rs 11 while accessing their wages from banking correspondents and Rs 67 when they visited an ATM; 57 per cent of the respondents reported that their passbooks don’t get updated; an estimated 42 per cent of workers in Jharkhand and 38 per cent in Rajasthan took more than four hours to access wages from banks, while an estimated 18 per cent of bank users were denied wages and asked to visit the banking correspondents instead. This survey, conducted among 1947 workers in Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand, also found that according to official figures, as of July 2020, in the last five years, about Rs 4,800 crore worth of payments had been rejected and payments worth about Rs 1,274 crore are still pending. A large number of the workers have lost trust in the MGNREGA because of the uncertainties involved in accessing work and payments. Last mile delivery problems have worsened the situation. It is a pity that we have lost an opportunity to strengthen the rural job programme in spite of the Centre moving away from the earlier stance of rubbishing the MGNREGA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Opinion||A tour de force||Many people, not just soccer fans, know about the outcome of one of the most famous ‘football’ matches in history. It was played between Greece and Germany, with the Greeks scoring the winning goal through Socrates, against a German team led by Hegel. It seems that philosophers like sports — or is it the other way round? The philosophers’ football match is revisited in a French book titled Socrates on a Bike (Socrate à vélo). There, the Greeks (no great cyclists usually) have been allowed to compete in the most celebrated cycling race, the Tour de France. Their team is led by Socrates, with Plato and Aristotle as his teammates. But while the football match is one of Monty Python’s most celebrated sketches, the book about cycling is authored by a professional cyclist, Guillaume Martin, currently the leader of the Cofidis cycling team, and a recent finisher in the 11th position in the Tour de France, the world’s most famous race. Martin, who studied philosophy at university while training as a professional cyclist, is out to prove that sportspersons do have interests other than physical exercise. Such clichés are constant in sports, especially in cycling, which is wrongly seen as being all about pedalling (perhaps on steroids). In the 1980s, another French champion — he won the Tour on two occasions — was nicknamed “the intellectual” because he wore glasses. The Tour itself was a rather strange affair in this Covid year. Its success depends on a couple of factors. It is staged in the summer, when people have more time to gather on the sides of the roads to catch a glimpse of the speeding pack of riders (the peloton). It also relies on the stories told by journalists, originally by the sports publication, L’Auto, which launched the competition in 1903. Live television has now taken over as the favoured mode of engagement with the race. This year, it was moved from July to September. Spectators were sometimes allowed on the roads, but scarcely around the finishing line — this was damaging to the town councils who paid a significant amount of money to host the Tour. But television ensured the success of the show — everyone could share the drama of the penultimate stage when the yellow jersey and favourite, Primož Roglic, lost the competition to his younger compatriot from Slovenia, Tadej Pogacar. Stories are a big part of any sport, perhaps none more so than cycling. So it was appropriate to turn to Martin’s book on cycling to relive some of the excitement of watching the race. In his philosophical tale, Martin weaves together, in a whimsical but engrossing way, stories about the author as a cyclist and as a philosopher, stories about the Tour de France, as well as philosophical reflections. Genuine cycling references can be detected in the middle of portraits of the Greeks on their bikes and philosophical allusions pepper the stories of cyclists training for the competition. The book recreates the preliminaries of the Tour before describing a fictional race with recognizable stages. While the introduction offers a pre-Tour press conference in which the Greek philosophers have to field questions such as “what is it like to think on a bike?” the aim is to bring together sportive and intellectual matters. The posture of the philosopher-cyclist is defended by Martin with a healthy dose of self-irony. The irony extends to journalists who have approached him with interest, but whom he finds are forever repeating the same questions, voicing the same prejudices about sports, and lacking in an intellectual dimension. All the clichés peddled by journalists are exposed by Martin, who ascribes them to the economic interests surrounding mega-events such as the Tour de France and to the commercialization of the sport during the summer month in which it usually takes place. In turn, cyclists feel obliged to conform to the same clichés. Martin makes an interesting argument about sports. He argues that there are two types of intelligence involved in physical activities. Theoretical intelligence, which is of reflexive nature, dealing with tactics, knowledge of the rules and so on. Then there is practical intelligence, which is largely instinctual, proceeds from the body, and from the training of the body. Rather than perpetuate the Western separation between the physical and the intellectual (and, indeed, the superiority of the intellectual over the physical), we have to remember that both go hand in hand. This is why Martin wants to pursue the connections between sports and philosophy; both activities deal with what humans can or cannot achieve. Martin brings to the debate his experience as a professional cyclist. Being a champion is a full-time job, which requires work. A champion thinks first and foremost about winning, not just about taking part or about fair-play. Competition is about opposition, about asserting yourself against others, not about bringing people together. But Martin is a playful character who retains a healthy sense of distance. He knows that cycling, all sports in fact, are, first and foremost, games. They tell stories which, in turn, people like to watch on television or, health situation permitting, in a stadium or along the roads. They tell stories which people read about, and which then circulate. And so, from the idea of the intellectual cyclist, from the cliché of the philosopher cyclist, emerges the fanciful tale of philosophers on their bikes, running the Tour de France. Following poor results, the German team is now managed by Alfred Einstein who tries to inculcate into his team the principles of hard-pedalling based on the idea that space shrinks with speed. According to Einstein, if the Greeks are such good cyclists, it is thanks to philosophy. Hence, he tries to enroll a few philosophers. Before getting to the Tour, the cyclists have to train to get into the spirit and the team managers have to recruit and select the best players. Martin applies this principle to his teams of philosophers. Einstein finds it difficult to assemble a suitable group: Kant drops out; Schopenhauer is not good enough; Nietzsche, the most gifted, is too individualistic (although he ends up winning the king of the mountains competition). Marx and Freud stay on, joined by Habermas. As for the Greeks, the tensions in the team initially lead Socrates to leave the outfit. They do not perform very well in the early races, nor do the Germans, who have also lost their coach. But just before the start of the Tour, Socrates rejoins the team, the leader is reinstated, the team has found its composure and unity. Even the French field a team, with Pascal, Bergson, Sartre among the riders. After the preparations, the race. While the book follows all the stages of a fictional Tour de France, the aficionado may recognize famous landmarks of past Tours as well as specific types of stages (time trials, mountains, sprint finish). Cycling tactics (when to launch a breakaway) are revisited in philosophical terms. The technical, tactical, and physical efforts involved in the stages are approached through the lens of philosophy. The perception of time in cycling, as experienced by spectators, is transformed through a pastiche of the French philosopher, Henri Bergson, famous for his writings on time. The anonymity of the peloton is shaken by the French philosopher, Jean-Paul Sartre, who exhorts the cyclists to free themselves from predefined race tactics. The author himself finds in the Greek concept of Kairos a way to analyse that irrational moment in a race when a champion abandons perfect control in favour of risk, excess, and inspiration. He also finds in the ancient philosophy of stoicism a model on how to handle the pain involved in such a race. Martin’s book is an invitation to think about sports, to disregard the oppositions between mind and body, between the intellectual and the physical. It gestures towards the freedom of the cyclist and the freedom of the writer, finding a form of fulfilment in the conjoining of both. The author is professor of English Literature at Sorbonne University, Paris||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||State greets 2021 with prayers, hope and fun||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: state to conduct dry runs in three-four districts on Saturday||Medical officers and other staff of Jharkhand engaged with vaccinating people against Covid-19 will on Saturday conduct dry runs in Ranchi and four or five more districts on Saturday to gauge preparedness and fix loopholes ahead of the nationwide immunisation campaign. While the Union health ministry has called for dry runs across all state capitals, the Jharkhand health department has decided to conduct independent dry runs in more districts. Besides Ranchi, health department sources said, dry runs have been planned in Pakur, Palamau, East Singhbum and Chatra. “Deliberations are still on and the number of districts may increase or decrease by one. At each chosen site, a team of four officials will conduct dry runs in two-hour windows. Besides vaccination, we shall also be evaluating crowd handling capabilities at specific sites,” said an official. In Ranchi district, dry runs are expected to be conducted in five places, including Sadar Hospital and health centres in Bundu and Ratu and a few rural blocks. “Each vaccination booth will have three rooms—one for registration, the second for vaccination and the third for monitoring the patient for 30 minutes to an hour,” said an official of the district administration. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the purpose of the drive was to test the operational feasibility of Co-Win, a software application designed for the Ccovid-19 vaccination campaign, identify grey areas if any and plug gaps. “Once the Covid-19 vaccine is out, it will be a Herculean task to undertake safe immunisation. At the same time, it is equally important to adhere to all protocols and meet specified targets in a proper time frame. Hence, the government is initiating the drive to test the preparedness of all those tasked with vaccination work,” he said. The state health department has identified about a dozen areas for monitoring capabilities, including planning for vaccination, usage of Co-Win application, mapping of sites, uploading of data, deployment of vaccinators, mobilisation of logistics from the storage site to the designated centre. The state health department is understood to have prepared a panel of 7,000 vaccinators who have been provided training. This apart, the state has readied 275 cold chain points, while a state-level vaccine warehouse has been set up at  Namkum (Ranchi) in addition to existing  regional warehouses in Palamau and Deoghar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel thanks workers, doctors on New Year   ||Tata Steel welcomed the New Year on Friday with celebrations held across various locations in Jamshedpur. The steel major thanked front-line employees who have been at their workstations during the ongoing Covid crisis and to all doctors and health care workers who not only took care of the company but also served the community selflessly. “The collective response to the global health and economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 has only strengthened the company’s core values in building a stronger Tata Steel that will serve the nation and communities at large better in the coming years,” said managing director of Tata Steel T.V. Narendran. New Year cake cutting functions organised at the general office lawns of the Jamshedpur works and Tata Main Hospital were graced by the MD, Tata Workers’ Union president R Ravi Prasad and other senior company officials. Some dignitaries joined the session virtually. All safety protocols were followed. “One year back we did not realise what an eventful year we had ahead of us, and in the last 12 months all of us, as corporates and individuals, have had to recalibrate ourselves to the new realities and reflect on what is really important in our professional and personal lives,” said Narendran in his new year message. On Day One of the New Year, temples across steel city witnessed a huge rush since early morning. Picnic spots Dimna Lake, Palna dam and Chandil dam witnessed a rush of picnickers as parks are yet to re-open. The district health department carried out rapid antigen tests at Dimna. Police were deployed in strategic locations and in picnic spots to keep a check on eve-teasing and petty crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia group pushes anti-pollution drive on New Year’s Day||A group of Jharia youth, led by speech therapist Aklaque Ahmad launched an awareness campaign on Friday to draw the attention of authorities regarding air pollution resulting from coal dust air due to various practices like open cast mining. The group, named Youth Concept, has been working on environmental issues since long. On Friday, it installed more than 25 flags, bearing messages from local residents to conserve the environment. A signature campaign was also carried out during the programme, which began at the heart of Jharia town at Katras More. Owner of Deshbandhu Talkies, Dhanbad’s oldest single-screen cinema hall, Gopal Agarwal, and president of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti Murari Sharma were present during the campaign. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ahmad said, “The basic aim behind the programme was to highlight the urgency for taking steps to contain pollution in Dhanbad. It has been named among the 102 cities and towns of the country under the national clean air programme, where air pollution is to be reduced by 35 per cent within three years.” “The BCCL or the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation have taken no significant step despite promises of installing water sprinklers, green walling of the residential areas, ensuring coal transportation in covered vehicles among others,” Ahmad said. The speech therapist added that the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has not even utilised the Rs 3 crore fund to purchase dust sweeping machines. “We organised the programme to draw the attention of the concerned authorities towards the plight of Jharia residents and wrote their messages on flags,” Ahmad said. Messages like: “Jharia is most polluted town in the country, please take action about it” ; “pradushan ke karan logon ka swashya buri tarah prabhavit ho raha hai (pollution is causing ill-effect on our health)” ; “pradushan failakar BCCL hamare swasthya ke saath khilwad kar rahi hai (BCCL is playing with our health by polluting the environment)” ; “swagatam 2021 akhir  hamen kab milegi pradushan se mukti (Welcome 2021, but when will we get rid of pollution)” ; “Hemant uncle hamen pradushan se naye saal me mukti dilaiye (Hemant [Soren] uncle, get us rid of pollution this new year)” were displayed on flags to highlight the condition of the town. Meanwhile, over 50 people under the leadership of private tutor cum social worker Pinaki Roy took part in an oath-taking programme organised on the new year at Sabzi Bagan Primary School under the banner of Institution for national amity. It was done as part of their annual programme, during which they resolved to work throughout the year for the promotion amity among the people. Highlighting the aim of the programme, Roy said, “At a time when the nation is making progress, there should also be an effort to inculcate the feeling of patriotism among the masses so that they contribute to the progress of the nation.” “Holding such programmes like taking an oath in the name of the nation provides an opportunity for the propagation of nationalist values for which our forefathers have sacrificed their life,” added Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nurse found murdered, body partially burnt||The partially burnt body of a middle-aged nurse was found at her home in Kadma on Thursday night with police detaining a close acquaintance who visited her regularly as the prime suspect. The deceased, Anita Sharma (43), was working at Brahmananda Narayanan Multispeciality Hospital in Tamulia. She was staying on the first floor of Jayanti Apartment on Road No 3 in Ramnagar. Police said there were injury marks on her head, neck and face. Moreover, the body was partially burnt. "Someone murdered the nurse by hitting her head, neck and mouth. Later, the assailant tried to get the body burnt at the victim's flat,” said OC of Kadma police station Ranjit Kumar Singh. The OC said police were informed about the incident around 10.30pm on Thursday by a man who identified himself as Arvind Singh, a resident of Baghbera locality. “Later, we came to know that Arvind Singh (50) was in a live-in relationship with the deceased for the past six years," Singh told The Telegraph Online. The OC said police had detained Arvind Kumar Singh as he was a prime suspect. "We have detained Arvind because he is the person who used to keep visiting the victim's residence regularly. His replies to our queries are not satisfactory. He will remain in police custody for another day," the OC said. According to police, Anita divorced her husband, Sunil Singh, in 2002. She was living with Arvind Singh in her flat since 2014. Police have deployed finger-print experts at the scene of the crime. Anita’s body has been sent to MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem. "Let the suspect remain in police custody for another 24 hours.  We anticipate he will eventually divulge everything.  Moreover, the autopsy and finger-print reports are expected to come in a week. These will help us prove the case,” the OC added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Liquor truck mishap results in free alcohol for villagers on New Year's-eve||A liquor truck enroute to the Selatuwa government wine shop under the Chainpur Police Station of the Palamau district met with an accident on Thursday at the Semra village, when it hit an elderly man and toppled down right after that. Assistant Superintendent of Police, Palamau, K. Vijay Shankar, while talking about the incident, said as a result of the accident, packs of government wine got scattered on the road. While several bottles got destroyed, a good number of them remained intact and this gave the local villagers a chance to steal the alcohol lying on the road. Sources said a huge number of villagers gathered at the site and began collecting the bottles for New Year festivities, having never dreamt of such an opportunity. Ram Pukar, a passerby who was crossing the area, said there was sort of a competition among the villagers as to who could collect more numbers of bottles, with some villagers even asking their children to pick them up. Talking about the accident, Chainpur Police Station officer-in-charge Uday Kr. Gupta said that the man who was hit by the van was taken to a hospital. The driver and other members on board fled the scene, leaving the van abandoned there, he said. The liquor was lifted from Daltonganj to ship to the Salatuwa government wine shop, the OC said Gupta further informed that the police has registered a road accident case, while adding that the villagers were in a hurry to collect the free alcohol. Shankar said that the  invoice for the consignment of the wine was worth Rs 1.70 lakhs and the van was carrying 90 crates of alcohol. He explained that it was not illicit liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant appeals to PM, seeks more funds of homes of the poor  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren appealed for an increase in the central funding for the Light Houses Project, a Union government-aided scheme to provide homes for the economically weaker sections launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an online ceremony on New Year’s Day. Modi laid the foundation stone for the project in Ranchi and five other cities in the first phase on Friday. As many as 1,008 houses, some of them built using prefabricated structures, will come up in Ranchi’s Dhurwa area on about seven acres with an estimated budget of Rs 133.99 crore. The other cities where similar houses will be built are Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow. As per the modalities of this scheme, besides the Centre’s and state's contribution, each beneficiary will have to pay about Rs 7 lakh to avail of the homes. Hemant believes the amount earmarked for individuals is beyond the reach of the poor. "PM sir, you are aware about the poverty in this state. Unlike the situation in other states, the poor in Jharkhand find it difficult to manage a day's meal. I am of the view that many won't be able to spend Rs 7 lakh. Considering the condition of Jharkhand, it is my humble appeal to increase the central share so that individual's investment amount can come down," he said in his address at the function. The Prime Minister, however, did not make any immediate commitment. State urban development department officials said that anyone earning up to Rs 3 lakh per annum would be eligible for this scheme. On Thursday, director of municipal administration under the department Vijaya Jadhav said the idea behind the Light House Project was to provide state-of-the-art houses, built in record time using latest technology, at affordable rates. "In Ranchi, the houses will be built using prefabricated structures, most of which will first be constructed in workstations and brought here to customise as houses. The technology will make it easy to install houses also reduce environmental hazards,” she said. Jadhav said each house would be of 315sqfeet with a bedroom, kitchen, balcony and toilet. “There will also be water and power facilities, lifts, parks and other amenitie in the complex,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Revellers celebrate New Year on wasteland-turned-garden||More than a thousand people, out to celebrate new year, marked the day by visiting a mine wasteland situated 170 feet above the ground at Gondudih Colliery of Kusunda area of BCCL, on Friday. The celebrations at Brindavan Eco Park of the Colliery began at around 10 am, as revellers took selfies amid a wide variety of flowers, cooked meals on site, and playing badminton and other games. Talking to The Telegraph Online at the Venue, Sakshi Kumari, a private school teacher who came with her family to celebrate, said, “I have heard about the site from my relatives at Bhuli (Dhanbad) several times. Fortunately this year I am staying in Bhuli during this time and did not miss the opportunity and came here to celebrate the new year.” “The view of the site is really good and anybody who has not visited the place will not be able to believe that a wasteland situated on a great height can be developed into a beautiful park” said Kumari. Puja Kumari, a Bhuli resident who is pursuing her education in Ranchi, said, “As classroom teaching like other institutes is suspended at our institute and we are locked at our homes we decided to celebrate new year at the nearest place. So we arrived here this morning for the first time and found the place beautiful.” Puja said she and her close ones have been carrying masks and sanitisers, and were enjoying their time while following all the Covid-related guidelines. Ramayan Prasad, the in-charge of the Brindavan Eco Park and a BCCL Foreman, said that the ground is situated on 11.2 acres of land and is home to over 25,000 varieties of plants -- from flower trees, fruit trees, to medicinal plants. “We have a workforce of 12 BCCL staff to look after the upkeep. People start to come here from 6 am and the crowd remains till 7 pm,” Prasad said. He added that the development of the eco park began in 2014 when BCCL offered 2.5 acres of land, and the area increased gradually over time. “We have sufficient seating arrangement at the site, with benches made of bamboo,” he said, adding that people can stand at the top of the park to get a beautiful view of the adjoining Gondudih Colliery. Talking about safety protocols, the in-charge said, “We are not allowing entry of people without masks and sanitisers. For those who forget to bring the items from home, we are providing them with the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Modi lays foundation stone of Light House Projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday laid the foundation stone of Light House Projects under the Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) at six sites across six states, a programme that seeks to build over 1,000 houses each in these cities in 12 months. Speaking at the event organised virtually, Modi said housing for the poor and the middle class has been a priority for his government. The LHPs are being constructed at Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Rajkot (Gujarat), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Ranchi (Jharkhand), Agartala (Tripura) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh). He said various measures taken by his government in the last six years has restored the confidence of the common man that he can own a house. Earlier, he said, people's dream of having a house of their own was shaken as despite spending money they would often not get the promised home in time and were not sure of legal support, if needed. High interest rate was also a dampener, he added. Construction sector acts as a force multiplier for the economy, he noted and added that his government has taken a number of steps to boost the real estate sector and will continue to do so. Speaking of the Light House Projects, he said they are driven by modern technology and innovative process. Houses being built under it will take less time to build and will be resilient, affordable and comfortable, he said, noting that modern construction practices from countries like France, Germany and Canada will be put into practice. They will serve as incubation centres, he said, urging architects, planners, engineers and students to visit these projects. The prime minister also announced winners under the Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators - India (ASHA-India) and gave out annual awards for excellence in implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) Mission. During the event, he also released a certificate course on innovative construction technologies named 'NAVARITIH' (New, Affordable, Validated, Research Innovation Technologies for Indian Housing) and a compendium of 54 innovative housing construction technologies identified through GHTC-India. Besides the prime minister, the housing and urban affairs minister, chief ministers of Tripura, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh were present on the occasion. The Light House Projects (LHPs) showcase the best of new-age alternative global technologies, materials and processes in the construction sector for the first time in the country at such a large scale, the government has said. They are being constructed under GHTC-India which envisages providing an ecosystem for the adoption of innovative technologies in the housing construction sector in a holistic manner. They comprise about 1,000 houses at each location along with allied infrastructure facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||New Covid cases above 200 for third consecutive day||The number of Covid-19 infections continued to hover over the 200 mark for the third consecutive day with Jharkhand registering 240 new cases in the last 24 hours along with three deaths on Thursday night, as per the health department's bulletin. One death each surfaced from Ranchi, Khunti and Bokaro. Day's overall recovery figures in the state stood at 218. With 110 new cases, Ranchi's active cases have reached 775, almost half that of 1659 live cases which exist in the state currently. Other districts with double-digit spikes included Bokaro (13), Dhanbad (26) and East Singhbhum (31). As many as five districts, including Covid free Pakur, remained free of any new infections. So far the state has tested 47,99,240 samples since the outbreak of the virus in March 2020 out of which 1,15,113 turned positive. Of them, 1,12,425 have been cured while 1030 deaths have taken place. State's seven-day growth rate now stands at 0.14 per cent compared to the national average of 0.17 per cent. The seven-day doubling rate is 479.47 days that of 413.35 days pan-India. Recovery in the state 97.66 per cent, seven notches above the national average whereas the mortality rate in the state 0.89 percentage than that of 1.40 per cent in the country. On New Year day today, state disaster management department has appealed picnickers to enforce restrain from going to crowded places, use masks mandatorily and adopt all prescribed safety protocols to curb any chances of infection. Simultaneously, the different district has also announced random covid testing at public hotspots in view of an expected surge of the crowd to in new year revelry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Cash support for Jharkhand sportspersons ||The Jharkhand government has given financial assistance to meritorious sportsperson, majority of them archers, plagued with monetary problems under sports welfare fund. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday gave away financial assistance to two players who were present at the programme held to mark first anniversary of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand at Morabadi ground in Ranchi while five others would receive the amount in their bank’s account. The players who received the cash physically from the chief minister included national level archer Jagarnath Gagrai from West Singhbhum district and karate champion Bimla Munda (Kanke Ranchi). While Jagarnath, a double gold medallist at Cuttack Senior National Archery championship, was not able to purchase the expensive recurve archery kits and had to practice with traditional Indian archery kits was given Rs 2.5 lakh, Bimla Munda a gold medallist in national karate championship 2019 was not able to pursue his career in sports due to financial constraints was given an amount of Rs 1 lakh. The other beneficiaries of the Rs 2.5 lakh fund included Krishna Pingua, Asmita Biruly and Gunaram Purty, all national level players who are unable to compete in international competitions owing to fund crunch. “It is a morale booster for us as we can now compete in international level with modern equipment. One day we will bring home medals from the Olympics,” said Krishna Pingua, who won bronze at the Khelo India Archery Championship in 2017 and gold at the 64th National School Championship Archery Championship in 2019. The government also announced assistance of Rs 2.7 lakh to 18-year-old Komolika Bari, who won a gold medal in the World Youth Archery Championship, 2018. She has also been selected for the next Olympic games and is currently training in Pune, Maharashtra. Her father Ghanshyam Bari, who came to Morabadi Ground to take the cheque, said her daughter could get a bow only with help from the locals, hoped that his daughter would also get a job. Hockey coach, Pratibha Barwa also got a financial grant of Rs 1.5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
01-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid vigil at Jharkhand picnic spots ||Picnickers and revellers have to face action if they don’t abide by the Covid-19 protocols during the New Year celebrations at the scenic spots in Jharkhand. State chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has directed all the 24 deputy commissioners on Wednesday to ensure the compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid out for Covid-19 at all the popular picnic and tourist spots that are likely to witness a huge turnout during New Year celebrations. “The chief secretary has asked all the deputy commissioners to ensure compliance of the SOPs laid out in the directive sent earlier this month at the popular picnic spots. They would have to take steps to ensure social distancing, wear masks and also see that people use hand sanitisers at those spots. “This apart, there should be no consumption of tobacco products at the spot. The deputy commissioners would also have to ensure proper Covid-19 testing wherever they feel necessary,” principal health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. Meanwhile, authorities in Ranchi and Jamshedpur (in East Singhbhum district) have increased vigilance at the popular tourist and picnic spots and also arranged for Covid testing facilities. “Directive has been given to officials for random Covid test at popular spots such as Jonha, Hundru Falls, Dassam Falls and Kanke Lake. Those found without masks or not maintaining social distance will be slapped with cases under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. Even the state tourism department has pulled up its socks to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed at the spots maintained by them. “Even though we have not issued any SOPs for tourists, we have installed hoardings and banners highlighting Covid-19 protocols,” said state tourism director A. Dodde. State tourism deputy director Vidyanand Sharma Pankaj said over 1,600 paryatak mitras (appointed by tourism department on contractual basis for the maintenance of tourist spots) have been issued the necessary directives. “They will be in constant touch with the respective local thanas and if any individual or group does not follow Covid protocols, they will first try to persuade them and if they do not relent, they will inform the local thana for necessary action,” Sharma said. The paryatak mitras, who mainly monitor major waterfalls at tourist spots, have also been asked to ensure that visitors do not go near the danger spots. Tourists in large numbers from Bengal, Odisha and Chhattisgarh flock to the tourist spots in Jharkhand for picnics between December-end and February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-188
