02-01-2021||Calcutta||Sikh langar feeds hundreds who did not have a New Year||A Sikh langar fed hundreds of people who did not have a New Year brunch to look forward to on Friday. A team of volunteers of Langar on Wheels, which was instrumental in feeding tens of thousands of people during the lockdown, went to government hospitals, railway stations and shelter homes around the city on New Year Day. Children were given milk and bananas and adults were given khichdi, blankets and other warm clothes. At the hospitals, the recipients comprised relatives and friends of patients. Many of them had come from outside Calcutta. They had camped on the outdoor premises of the hospitals. Rickshaw-pullers, mutiyas (people who ferry load on vans or on their backs), porters, rag-pickers, beggars and many out-of-work labourers were among the recipients at most other stops. “We have initiated a special New Year drive keeping in mind that while some are staying back in the warmth of their homes, many may not be able to keep themselves warm this New Year,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman of the IHA foundation that organised the drive. Pictures by Gautam Bose and Sanat Kr Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Sister held in Salt Lake skeleton case||Police have arrested 20-year-old Vaidehi Mahensariya in connection with a suspected murder in Salt Lake’s AJ block, where partially burnt skeletal remains of a man was found on the roof of a two-storey house in December. The body is suspected to be of 25-year-old Arjun Mahensariya, Vaidehi’s brother and the eldest son of the family. The police had earlier arrested his mother Geeta and younger brother Vidur, 22. The preliminary post-mortem report of the remains has listed ante-mortem burns and a traumatic head injury as the cause of death. Vaidehi, who is pursuing an undergraduate course in management from Bangalore, was picked up from a relative's house in Ranchi, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. She had come back to the city after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced and was staying in the Salt Lake house with her two brothers and mother, another officer said. The cops had been trying to establish contact with Vaidehi for nearly a month but they could not as her phone was switched off, said another officer. The skeletal remains were found by a team of policemen from Bidhannagar East police station, who went to the house following a complaint by the siblings’ father, Anil Mahensariya, who lives separately. Geeta and Vidur have allegedly told investigating officers that they killed Arjun by hitting him on the head using a grinding stone used to pound spices. “They burnt his body using a combination of ghee and camphor so that the smell did not alert neighbours,” an officer said. Vaidehi, brought here on transit remand from Ranchi, was produced in a Salt Lake court on Friday. She has been remanded in police custody till January 7. “Vaidehi went to Ranchi with her mother and her brother from their house in Salt Lake but their relatives there have said Arjun did not visit them. When Geeta and Vidur returned, they did not enter the Salt Lake house. Instead, they checked into a hotel. Vaidehi did not return. She needs to be questioned and taken to the house for reconstruction of the crime,” special public prosecutor Bivas Chatterjee told the court. Defence lawyer Zakir Hussain, who prayed for her bail, told the court that Vaidehi was in Ranchi because she had no relatives she could live within the city after the cops arrested her mother and brother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||New Year's day: 1,200 booked for disorderly conduct ||More than 1,500 motorists were prosecuted for traffic rule violations and over 1,200 more for disorderly conduct across the city on New Year Eve. The prosecution of motorists went down on the last day of 2020 compared with to the December 31 night in 2019, when the figure had crossed 2,000. Police said one reason for the fewer number of prosecutions on Thursday night could be that there were fewer people on the roads compared with other years because of the Covid pandemic. “At one point of time last night, there were more policemen on Park Street than revellers,” said an officer, who was posted on Park Street on New Year Eve. More than 170 people were prosecuted for drink driving on Thursday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans step out to celebrate New Year’s Day||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Students click for school calendar||A city school’s digital calendar this year is a collection of photographs taken by its students. Indus Valley World School asked students of Classes VIII and IX to click pictures on the theme books/reading. And each photograph has captured the theme image, whether a man reading a newspaper on the Maidan or a collection of books by Ruskin Bond. Most of the photographs have been shot at home. The idea behind choosing books as a theme was to encourage students to pick up something to read or at least get them involved with some reading material. The director of the school said the school calendar was to give them a platform to express their creativity, but the “underlying motive” was to push them to handle books that many of them have at home and yet do not read. “There are so many distractions and reading has become a casualty. There are some who read but a large majority of them do not and as educators we have to constantly devise programmes and projects to encourage reading,” said Amita Prasad, the director of the school. “For clicking they would have to pick up books and newspapers and that would get at least some of them interested in those books.” Distractions have gone up with the easy availability of smartphones and now more so because such devices have become indispensable during online classes, said a teacher. Prasad introduced the idea of a school calendar by photographs clicked by students last year. And the calendar was distributed to all students once the school reopened. “This year, I did not want to stop it and so changed it to a digital version,” said Prasad. The school has made the calendar available to all parents by uploading it on the school app. The project was open to all students of Classes VIII and IX. “Being human has many blessings. And the ability to derive pleasure from a good book, or a fine piece of writing, is definitely one of them. When we read, we perhaps experience multiple creative expressions of art between the covers of a book, as we see, hear, enact and ‘live’ the words,” reads the cover page of the calendar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Firecrackers shatter prudence on New Year||Calcutta rang in 2021 with incessant bursting of firecrackers. The noise pollution data of the Central Pollution Control Board confirms the noise spike post-midnight in most parts of the city. According to the data, accessed by The Telegraph, the noise levels had shot up in eight out of the 10 monitoring stations between midnight and 1am, compared with the average noise level measured from 11am to midnight. The spike reflects the extent of bursting of firecrackers post-midnight, after the city rang in the New Year. The opposite happens under normal circumstances — the ambient noise level plummets as the night progresses. Post-midnight, the sound spike was the highest in the RG Kar hospital area, where the ambient noise level jumped from 52.4 decibel (dB) to 64.4. Birati, in the northern fringe of the city, saw an increase of 9.7dB (from 60 to 69.7), Bagbazar 4.1dB (73 to 77.1) and SSKM Hospital 3.7dB (47.5 to 51.2). According to experts, an increase of 10 dB leads to doubling of pressure on eardrums. The maximum national permissible limit of ambient noise after 10pm is 55dB in commercial areas, 45dB in residential areas and 40dB in areas with hospitals. A senior pollution control board official admitted to The Telegraph that there were violations for some time post-midnight but said the responsibility of enforcing noise rules lay with police. “We wrote to all senior police officers about the norms and judicial pronouncements. What else can we do?” the official said. The noise act and a Supreme Court order ban bursting of all fireworks after 10pm. Calcutta High Court, before Diwali, had ordered a blanket ban on bursting of fireworks during the festive season. The order followed repeated warnings from doctors that pollution caused by fireworks would impact Covid patients and those who had recovered from the disease. “We have received a number of complaints about bursting of fireworks and playing of high-pitch DJ music till late at night. As a matter of fact we had to lodge a complaint with Lalbazar as DJ music continued till late at night just behind the BC Roy hospital for children in Phoolbagan,” said Naba Dutta, the secretary of the environment platform Sabuj Mancha. He alleged that both police and the state pollution control board officials were at fault. “While the main onus of controlling noise pollution is on the police, the board is required to play a much active role in controlling fireworks, microphones and the DJ menace. We had written to the PCB some time back urging them to take action to prevent such violations, but nothing happened on the ground,” Dutta said. Biswajit Mukherjee, a former chief law officer of the PCB, said the board could have hit the roads on December 31 night along with the police. Mukherjee pointed out that the state government’s decision to not impose night curfew on New Year’s Eve and chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s recent observation that the situation was not conducive to imposing night curfew, might have emboldened the violators. Dutta and Mukherjee both pointed out that the PCB should take up the issue with the police, especially because they have provided costly noise measuring machines to the police to enable them to catch noise violators. A PCB official had earlier stated that the agency had given more than 1,000 such machines to various police stations, including in the Calcutta police area. “I am looking into the allegations”, said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint commissioner of police (headquarters).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Fewer people step out on New Year’s Day||Covid-19 made New Year’s Day celebrations a muted affair across the city's hotspots as many preferred not to step out. The crowd was thin at the main entrance of Nicco Park on Friday afternoon, nothing like the usual New Year's Day. However, those who had turned up at the Salt Lake amusement park were in colourful outfits. Inside, too, there were no queues to board the rides. While revellers at the park were happy that boarding the rides was a breeze, park officials said they could not recall a year when the park had been this empty on a New Year's Day. Nicco Park recorded a footfall of 5,000 on January 1, 2021, down from 12,000 on January 1, 2020. “We had expected bigger crowds here. It was a nice surprise to see that the park was not that crowded,” said Amiya Pal, a Salt Lake resident who had gone to the park with her six-year-old daughter and husband. On the Maidan, far fewer people turned up compared with previous years for picnic and other activities. People were out on the greens but the rush to find empty spots to lay down bed sheets was not there. Similar scenes played out on the grounds of the Victoria Memorial with small groups of people streaming in all day. Queues had formed in front of the South gate, but unlike previous years they were not quite long. The effect of muted New Year’s Day celebrations was felt by phaeton drivers in front of the Victoria Memorial, too. “Although there were people on the streets, the number of people opting for joy rides has come down. Many asked us to wipe the seats with sanitisers before boarding,” said Mohammed Shamim, who barely managed to complete 10 trips on Friday till evening, compared with around 25 on January 1 in previous years. Fewer people visited the Alipore zoo, although maintaining social distancing was impossible on the pedestrian overbridge in front of the zoo. Around 51,000 people visited the zoo on Friday, compared with 80,000 on January 1 last year. There were small crowds of people in front of the tiger enclosure and Babu the chimpanzee stole the show with his antics. “We drew a decent number of people,” said zoo director Ashish Samanta. “We had installed hand sanitiser dispensers at strategic locations.” The only exception in terms of footfall was the 480-acre Eco Park in New Town, which was visited by around 90,000 people. Last year’s turnout was 1,13,000. The New Town park, which has large open spaces with a 112-acre water body in the middle, seemed its usual self on New Year’s Day, with crowds savouring the afternoon sun, eating at the restaurants and enjoying boat rides. Debashis Sen, the chairman of Hidco, which runs the park, said they tried to implement the social distancing protocol, made repeated announcements and even distributed masks to visitors. “We also constructed additional toilets and made provisions for washing hands,” he said.  Victoria Memorial Footfall on Jan 1, 2021:  15,451 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020: 38,000 Nicco Park Footfall on Jan 1, 2021: 5,000 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020: 12,000 Alipore Zoo Footfall on Jan 1, 2021: 51,000 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020:  80,000 Eco Park Footfall on Jan 1, 2021: 89,834 Footfall on Jan 1, 2020: 1,13,000||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Two deaths at New Year parties||Two men who were partying on New Year Eve died in separate incidents early on Friday. Apu Mullick, 35, who was at a rooftop gathering at a relative’s home on Parui Das Para Road in Parnasree, slumped over the parapet of the single-storey building around 2.30 am on Friday. Mullick’s friends said he was feeling unwell and had leaned over the parapet to throw up when he fell down. Mullick was declared dead at Vidyasagar State General Hospital. Some of his friends alleged negligence against the hospital staff in attending to the patient. However, there they did not lodge any complaint. The police have started an unnatural death case. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Mullick, originally from Siliguri, was staying with his sister and brother-in-law at their Parnasree home. The other death was reported from Haltu, in the Garfa police station area. Subrata Biswas, 34, from Nadia and a Sanskrit teacher at a Murshidabad school, had gone to a friend’s flat on Sarat Para Road in Haltu, along with two other friends, to party. Around 4.15am, his friends found him lying unconscious on one of the beds. When they failed to wake him up, they took Biswas to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. Officers of Garfa police station said they did not find any injury marks on the body. The friend in whose flat the party was held is a researcher in the metallurgy department of Jadavpur University, the police said. “The exact cause of death could be ascertained only after we get the post-mortem report,” a senior officer said. An unnatural death case has been started. No complaint was lodged till Friday evening. A preliminary inquiry did not suggest any foul play, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Ward clinics to host Covid-19 vaccination sites||The ward health clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be used as sites to administer Covid vaccines in Calcutta, officials of the civic body have said. The CMC’s experience in administering vaccines under the universal immunisation programme is the reason why it has been chosen to distribute and administer Covid vaccines in the Calcutta municipal area, the officials said. Vaccines against diseases like tetanus, measles, diphtheria and diarrhoea — which are available under the universal immunisation programme - are administered in each of the 144 ward health clinics of the CMC. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will act as the nodal agency to distribute and administer Covid vaccines in Calcutta. They have a ready cold chain storage network, which will be of help,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services of the state government. Sources in the CMC said that the majority of the health clinics have cold chain storage for vaccines. “All the vaccines available under the universal immunisation programme are kept in our cold chain storage, which is available in most ward clinics. We have deep freezers and ice lined refrigerators (ILR), where the vaccines and ice packs, which are required to keep vaccines in proper condition when they are taken out of refrigerators, are both stored,” said an official. According to the official, ILRs are used to keep the vaccines and deep freezers are used to prepare ice packs. An official of the CMC said the temperature range in ILRs is 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius. The temperature in deep freezers can be as low as zero degrees. Cold storage temperature for routine immunisation vaccines is typically 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. “The two vaccines that have the greatest possibility to get approval from the Drugs Controller General of India can be stored in the existing cold storage facility. If any other vaccine, which may require very low temperatures for storage, is approved later, new storage facilities have to be created,” said a CMC official. “Each ward has three or four vaccinators who administer vaccines to children. The health department is training them in administering Covid vaccines. We are also trying to increase the number of vaccinators in each ward so there is no shortage of vaccinators,” said an official of the CMC. Chakraborty said there would not be any need to increase cold storage points in the city immediately. “We are going to vaccinate doctors and other health-care workers in the first phase. Then we will vaccinate other frontline workers. There is enough cold chain storage capacity in the city to store vaccines for health-care and frontline workers. The central medical store in Bagbazar, the cold storage points in hospitals and those of the CMC will be adequate for the initial phase,” he said. “We will need larger cold storage facilities only if the entire population of the city has to be vaccinated within a very short time. That seems un-likely.” However, the state health department has also asked the CMC to keep additional cold storage points in each of the 16 boroughs. “Each borough has identified one or two additional points that can be used as cold store points. We need to have a space where deep freezers and ice lined refrigerators (ILR) that are used to store vaccines can be kept,” said an official of the CMC’s health department. “We have had several webinars with health department officials in the past one month where details about administering the vaccines were discussed.” The Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines, issued by the Union ministry of health that was last updated on December 28, mentioned that frontline workers, health-care workers and those above 50 years on January 1, 2021, will get the vaccine in the first phase. “The priority group of above 50 years may be further subdivided into those above 60 years of age and those between 50 and 60 years of age for the phasing of roll-out based on pandemic situation and vaccine availability,” the guidelines state. The guidelines mentioned that those below 50 years but with comorbid conditions will also get the vaccine in phase I. Only 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre in each session, said the guidelines. While vaccines under the universal immunisation programme are given to anyone who walks into a clinic, Covid vaccines will be given to only pre-registered beneficiaries. “Names of people who are scheduled to receive vaccines on a day will be available in an app called Co-Win. We will administer vaccines to only those whose names are with us,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Calcutta||Food, blankets on New Year at Jesuit-run centre||On Friday morning, when many party-fatigued Calcuttans were yet to leave their beds, over 150 people in a South 24-Parganas pocket had queued up for warm blankets. Two Jesuit priests, one of them an octogenarian, were busy managing the queue first and supervising a distribution drive later. As many as 164 people received wheat, soyabean, dal, sugar, blankets, saris and lungis. The drive took place at Kalahrdaya, a Jesuit-run centre for art and culture in Nepalgunj on the southern fringes of Calcutta, around 40km from the heart of the city and a 15-minute drive from Thakurpukur Cancer Hospital. Many of the recipients were old and infirm, some of them widows abandoned by their families. Calcuttans welcomed the New Year in a more muted fashion compared to other years but with the hope that 2021 will bring happier tidings. For the poor families of Nepalgunj and a cluster of nearby villages, a near year does not make much of a difference. “Many of them work on others’ farmlands. Many are daily labourers who are still out of work because of the Covid pandemic,” said Father Saju George, the founder-director of the 20-year-old centre. A sizeable number of the recipients were women who sell fish and vegetables in markets in the city. The suspension of suburban train services had crippled their livelihood. On paper, hawkers are still not allowed on suburban trains, which resumed on November 11. An 85-year-old priest, also a member of Kalahrdaya, played an active role in the relief distribution on Friday. Father K. Thottam has three decades of teaching experience in Christian institutions, including a 21-year stint at St Lawrence High School. “All that we continue to do through Kalahrdaya is very important because Jesus teaches, ‘I was hungry and you fed me, thirsty and you gave me a drink; I was a stranger and you received me in your homes, naked and you clothed me; I was sick and you took care of me, in prison and you visited me. ‘And I tell you, whenever you did this for one of the least important of these brothers (and sisters) of mine, you did it for me,’” said Father Thottam. On Friday, the recipients were also provided with sweets and snacks after the distribution drive, which started around 10am and wrapped up by noon. “Since the lockdown and the Cyclone Amphan disaster, we have reached out to around 3,000 poor families in South and North 24-Parganas, including those in the Sunderbans and tribal hamlets in Bankura. Our relief work includes giving packed dry food materials, cooking oil, clothes, blankets, medicines, and building materials like asbestos, bamboo, cement, red sand, iron rods, plastic sheets. We were able to do it from our Kalahrdaya fund and donations from friends,” said Father George, a Bharatnatyam dancer who has trained many young boys and girls from poor families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-187
02-01-2021||Business||GST collections crosses all-time high in December 2020||With the lifting of lockdown restrictions and pick-up in economic activity, the goods and services tax collections surged to an all time high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, adding solace to the Narendra Modi-government’s desire for revenue in the coronavirus-hit economy. At Rs 1.15 lakh crore, the collections were 10 per cent more than the mop-up in the previous month — the biggest growth in monthly revenues in the last 21 months. The increase in tax collections was because of the “combined effect of the rapid economic recovery post-pandemic and the nationwide drive against GST evaders and fake bills along with many systemic changes introduced recently, which have led to improved compliance”, the finance ministry said in a statement. The mop-up from the GST, which is levied when a consumable item is sold or a service such as travel booking rendered, in December was 12 per cent higher than such receipts in the same month of 2019. The finance ministry said the December collections were the highest ever since the implementation of the nationwide tax in July 2017. The previous best was in April 2019 when Rs 1.13 lakh crore was collected. This is the third straight month of over Rs 1 lakh crore tax collections and the fourth consecutive month this fiscal when collections have outperformed comparable months of 2019. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said the GST collections touching a record high despite the fact that we are not completely out of the pandemic indicates a remarkable recovery in the economy. “Some of it could also be due to the plugging of revenue leakage by the government on account of fake credits through fraudulent invoicing and introduction of e-invoicing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Reliance Infra announces Delhi-Agra (DA) toll road sale completion||Reliance Infra on Friday announced the completion of the sale of its Delhi-Agra (DA) toll road to Cube Highways and Infrastructure for Rs 3,600 crore. In a regulatory filing, Reliance Infrastructure Ltd said it has completed the sale of its 100 per cent stake in DA Toll Road to  Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pte Ltd for an enterprise value of over Rs 3,600 crore. The deal was announced in March 2019 with the signing of a definitive binding agreement between Reliance Infra and Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pte Ltd. Reliance Infra said the entire sale proceeds are being utilised to reduce debt. Reliance Infra has reduced its total debt liabilities by 20 per cent from the deal proceeds from Rs 17,500 crore to Rs 14,000 crore. Shares of Reliance Infrastructure Ltd closed at Rs 27.65 on the BSE, up 2.98 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Soma Mondal takes charge as Steel Authority of India Ltd chairman||State-owned Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) on Friday said Soma Mondal has taken charge as its chairman. Prior to this, she was the director (commercial) of SAIL, the country’s largest steel-making company said. A 1984-graduate in electrical engineering from the National Institute of Technology-Rourkela, Mondal started her career as a graduate engineer trainee at Nalco and rose to become director (commercial) at Nalco. She joined SAIL in 2017 as the director (commercial), it said. She succeeds Anil Kumar Chaudhary, who superannuated on Thursday after serving the company for 36 years in various roles, including junior manager and director (finance). Mondal said, “Our immediate focus is to improve the topline (revenue) and bottomline (profit) of the company. We are charting out all strategies to improve value for all our stakeholders and make it structurally stronger.” She added that SAIL has a rich legacy with enormous contributions from its employees and leadership over the decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Jet fuel or ATF price hiked by 3.7 per cent||Jet fuel or ATF price on Friday was hiked by 3.7 per cent, the third increase in rates in one month on firming up of international oil prices. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price was raised by Rs 1,817.62 per kilolitre, or 3.69 per cent, to Rs 50,978.78 per kl in the national capital, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This is the third increase in price since December 1, 2020. Rates had gone up 7.6 per cent (Rs 3,288.38 per kl) on December 1 and 6.3 per cent (Rs 2,941.5 per kl) on December 16. ATF prices are revised on the first and sixteenth of every month based on the average price of benchmark international rate and foreign exchange rate in the preceding fortnight. In Mumbai, ATF price on Friday went up to Rs 49,083.65 from Rs 47,266.02 per kl. Prices vary from state to state depending on local taxes. The increase in the price of ATF, which makes for close to 40 per cent of the running cost of an airline, will put additional burden on airlines that have been struggling to return to normal business after Covid-19 lockdown had halted their operations. After rising by Rs 100 per cylinder last month, cooking gas LPG rates were unchanged on Friday. Non-subsidised LPG will continue to be priced at Rs 694 per 14.2-kg cylinder. Before the price increase in December, rates had remained unchanged at Rs 594 a cylinder since July. This was the same rate at which subsidised LPG refills are also sold. Since May, most cooking gas customers have not received subsidies as the combination of international oil price collapse and domestic refill rate increases brought parity between subsidised and market rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||New York Stock Exchange to delist three big state-run Chinese telecom companies||The New York Stock Exchange said it would delist China’s three big state-run telecommunications companies following an executive order from the Trump administration, in a symbolic severing of longstanding ties between the Chinese business world and Wall Street. The exchange said in a statement late on Thursday that it would halt trading in shares of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom by January 11. It cited an executive order issued in November by the Trump administration that barred Americans from investing in companies with ties to the Chinese military.   The United States Department of Defence had previously listed the three companies as having significant connections to Chinese military and security forces. The firms’ Hong Kong offices did not respond to requests for comment on Friday, the New Year’s Day holiday. The delistings were widely expected after the executive order was issued in November. The order was part of a broader effort by American officials to weaken the extensive economic links between the United States and China, including Chinese access to Wall Street money. The move is likely to have little impact on China’s military or security ambitions, which are funded by Beijing, or on the companies themselves, which can raise money from international investors by selling shares in Hong Kong. Still, the delisting of the three telecom giants reflects China’s rise in power and wealth, as well as the growing estrangement between the world’s two biggest economies. It also highlights the faltering of business ties between the US and China, which were set up over decades as China sought to internationalise and reform its state-run corporate behemoths. All three companies operate under Beijing’s firm control. They are ultimately owned by a government agency, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, and are often ordered to pursue Beijing’s goals. China’s ruling Communist Party sometimes shuffles executives among the three companies. They are the only three companies in China that are allowed to provide broad telecommunications network services, which Beijing regards as a strategic industry that must remain under state control. New York Times News service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||No cap on import of Covid shots||The government has allowed the import and export of Covid-19 vaccines without any value limitation to ensure speedy clearance and distribution. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the regulations to facilitate the import/export of Covid-19 vaccines through courier at locations where the Express Cargo Clearance System (ECCS) is operational. The CBIC said that Covid-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to Customs and other administrations the world over and efficient clearance and distribution of vaccines would be a critical requirement in the collective fight against the pandemic. “The challenges in doing so is heightened by the fact that the vaccines need to be stored and transported under controlled temperatures and there are multiple stakeholders involved in this process. This necessitates putting in place efficient cross-border procedures for speedy evacuation of the vaccines,” the CBIC said. The regulation further states that as the vaccines will be imported in durable containers equipped with the requisite temperature monitoring and tracking devices, the export of the durable container, including accessories thereof, imported in relation to Covid-19 vaccines has also been permitted. “Importers may be advised to indicate the unique identifier of the container and the accessories during import in the Courier Bill of Entry (CBE-V) and also at the time of re-export in the Courier Shipping Bill (CSB IV) for facilitating clearance,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Indices hit new highs on first day of 2021||Stocks kicked off the new year on a record note with both the key indices closing at lifetime highs following strong buying in IT, auto and FMCG counters. While the broader Nifty closed above the 14000-mark for the first time, the 30-share Sensex is inching towards 48000 as it finished with gains of 117.65 points, or 0.25 per cent, at a new peak of 47868.98. The good start to the year came on encouraging news of GST collections touching a record high of over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December, reflecting festive demand and an expanding economy. Expectations are also building up on the upcoming budget with the ruling BJP reportedly asking the government to give more relief to the middle class, even as investors remain optimistic that the interest shown by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) in 2020 will continue this year as well. FPIs bought equities worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore last calendar year of which Rs 62,000 crore came in December. Moreover, expectations are also positive ahead of the results season that will start next week. While TCS will declare its third-quarter results on January 8, the country’s second-largest IT services firm  Infosys will report its numbers on January 13. In Friday’s trade, TCS rose 2.02 per cent after the firm said its board will also consider a proposal for declaring the third interim dividend to shareholders at its meeting next Friday. The prevailing mood is that despite the third-quarter being a seasonally weak period for IT companies, they will report better-than-expected numbers. “In spite of lesser participation from FIIs, the Nifty 50 gave a strong closing on the monthly expiry day. The robust FII flows of $7.3 billion in December and strong closing on expiry indicates bullish rollovers for January expiry,” Rusmik Oza, executive vice-president, head of fundamental research at Kotak Securities, said. Antony Waste listing Shares of Antony Waste Handling Cell on Friday made a remarkable market debut, and closed with a premium of nearly 30 per cent against its issue price of Rs 315. The stock listed at Rs 430, a gain of 36.50 per cent from the issue price on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Sebi fines Ambani in Reliance Petroleum case||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Friday imposed penalties on Mukesh D Ambani, Reliance Industries Ltd and two other entities for alleged manipulative trading in the shares of erstwhile Reliance Petroleum Ltd (RPL) back in November 2007. Fines of Rs 25 crore and Rs 15 crore have been imposed on Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) and its chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani, respectively. Apart from them, Navi Mumbai SEZ Pvt Ltd has been asked to pay a penalty of Rs 20 crore and Mumbai SEZ Ltd pay Rs 10 crore. The case pertains to sale and purchase of RPL shares in the cash and the futures segments in November 2007. It came after RIL’s decision in March 2007 to sell a 4.1 per cent stake in RPL, a listed subsidiary that was subsequently merged with RIL in 2009. The charges are that the equity was apparently sold first in the futures market and later in the spot market. In a 95-page order, Sebi’s adjudicating officer B.J. Dilip said any manipulation in the volume or price of securities always erodes investor confidence in the market when investors find themselves at the receiving end of market manipulators. “In the instant case, the general investors were not aware that the entity behind the above F&O segment transactions was RIL. The execution of the... fraudulent trades affected the price of the RPL securities in both cash and F&O segments and harmed the interests of other investors,” he said in the order. While noting that execution of manipulative trades affects the price discovery system itself, the adjudicating officer said, “I am of the view that such acts of manipulation have to be dealt sternly so as to dissuade manipulative activities in the capital markets”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Car sales jump in December||The year-end discounts and an impending price hike from January fired up car sales in December with market leader Maruti Suzuki India registering a 19.5 per cent growth in its domestic sales to 1,50,288 units in December 2020 against 1,25,735 units in December last year. Hyundai Motor India saw a 24.89 per cent increase in car sales to 47,400 units in December 2020 compared with 37,953 units a year ago. Rajesh Goel, senior vice-president and director, marketing and sales, Honda Cars India Ltd, said, “Quicker market recovery aided by increased demand for personal mobility and our steady positive sales momentum is very encouraging.” Honda reported monthly domestic sales of 8,638 units in December 2020 against 8,412 units in the corresponding month in 2019. SAIC-owned MG Motor India said it saw retail sales of 4,010 units, (including 3,430 units of Hector) during December 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Mahindra and Ford cancel automotive joint venture||Ford Motor Company and Mahindra & Mahindra have pulled the plug on their previously announced automotive joint venture citing changes in the global economic and business conditions partly because of  the Covid-19 pandemic. Separately, M&M said it was in discussions with a potential investor to sell its majority stake in bankrupt SsangYong Motor Company. In October 2019, Mahindra and Ford had announced a definitive agreement to set up a joint venture to develop, market and distribute Ford brand vehicles in India; and Ford brand and Mahindra brand vehicles in the  emerging markets. Under the terms of the joint venture, in which Mahindra would hold a 51 per cent controlling stake, Ford would have transferred its Indian operations, including personnel and assembly plants in Chennai and Sanand. Ford would only retain the engine plant in Sanand and the global business services unit, Ford Credit and Ford Smart Mobility. Both the companies on Friday said they were scrapping the venture. M&M said the partners had mutually and amicably decided they would not complete the previously announced automotive joint venture.  It said that the action followed the passing of the “longstop”, or expiration date on December 31 of their definitive agreement . According to the companies, the outcome was driven by fundamental changes in global economic and business conditions — caused, in part, by the global pandemic — since the agreement was first announced. SsangYong At a video conference, M&M managing director and CEO Pawan Goenka said they expect to know within three months the outcome of their negotiations to sell their stake in SsangYong to an investor. “It will be known on March 1 and we do hope that during this two-month period we will complete the deal with the investor,” Goenka said. “If the deal goes through, the majority ownership will be with the new investor. Mahindra will be in minority with around 30 per cent or less and the company will also do 25 per cent capital reduction,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-183
02-01-2021||Business||Bengal oil superior to Brent and at par with West Texas Intermediate||The quality of oil that ONGC has discovered in the Bengal basin is superior to Brent and on a par with West Texas Intermediate (WTI) — the world’s best-known benchmark crude oils. The small quantity of oil, being lifted from Ashoknagar -1 block in South 24-Praganas, has an API gravity of 40-41, which is considered to be a light variety and sought after because of the lower load it exerts on refineries. Brent crude, a benchmark for oil produced in the North Sea, has a density of around 835 kg/m3, being equivalent to a specific gravity of 0.835 or an API gravity of 38.06. WTI (West Texas Intermediate) crude, denoted to oil lifted in the North America, has an API gravity of 39.6 degrees. API stands for the American Petroleum Institute which developed a specific gravity scale to measure the relative density of various petroleum liquids which is expressed in degrees on a hydrometer instrument. Values are graded from as low as 10 degrees  to 70 degrees. A higher API gravity indicates a lighter and lower density crude. Light crude falls under the 35-45 API gravity range. Brent costs around $51.80 per barrel (bbl) while WTI trades at $48.52 per bbl. While the extent of commercially recoverable reserve is still being assessed, the quality of crude will give comfort to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, which has already declared Ashoknagar a producing block and Bengal basin a producing basin. Crude oil is usually judged on two parameters, sulphur content and weight. High sulphur (sour) and heavy oils are of lowest quality and are least expensive in the global market while low sulphur (sweet) and lighter oils fetch the highest price. While the amount of elemental sulphur from Ashoknagar samples are still being examined, indications are that it may be of sweet variety. In India, the Ashoknagar crude quality is equivalent to what is produced at Bombay High, Panna Mukta (offshore) and Cauvery (onshore), where API grade is about 41.  India procures a bulk of its crude requirement from West Asia, which is heavier grade (Iran and Saudi Arabia) and the Indian refineries are geared to process this kind of crude. However, India’s crude oil import basket also includes Nigeria, Venezuela and the United States where the lighter variety is found. The country produces only 15 per cent of the domestic requirement, making India the third largest importer of crude oil globally. The Narendra Modi-government has set a target to bring down import dependence to two-thirds by 2022 and to half by 2030. One of the tools it plans to deploy to encourage domestic and international oil explorers is the early monetisation scheme. Under this plan, an explorer can also sell/monetise oil and natural gas recovered during the exploration/development phase, before reaching the commercial production stage. Ashoknagar-1 is part of that early monetisation plan. While the first well drilled is producing small quantities of oil, the Ashoknagar block is believed to have a larger reservoir of natural gas. ONGC has geared up to drill the next well by the end of this month. “This will be a horizontal well to explore a deeper layer of around 3,700 metres. The centre of the new well will be 300 metres surface distance away from the presently producing well,” a source in the company said. This will be part of three more wells the PSU plans to drill by January 2022 to ascertain recoverable reserves from the field and if it could be brought to a sustained commercial production thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-184
02-01-2021||India||Akhilesh says he doesn't trust ‘vaccine of the BJP’ ||As India comes closer to starting a massive vaccination drive across the country with two Covid-19 vaccines getting CDSCO emergency approval, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said he will not take the jab. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister termed the vaccines to be rolled out in the country as “vaccine of the BJP”, drawing sharp criticism from the saffron party, which said he insulted doctors and scientists. “How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP's vaccine,” he told reporters at Lucknow. He also said his party will come to power in the state after 2022 elections and everybody will get the vaccine free. His remarks prompted an instant rebuttal from BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who termed the statement an “insult to the doctors and scientists of the country”. “Akhilesh Yadav does not have trust in the vaccine, and people of Uttar Pradesh do not have trust in Akhilesh Yadav. His raising questions on the vaccine is an insult to doctors and scientists of the country. He should tender an apology,” Maurya told reporters. A trial drill for distribution of Covid-19 vaccine began across the country on Saturday, officials said. The Centre had on Thursday stated that the exercise aims to test the linkages between planning and implementation, and identify challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||India clears Covaxin, ‘certain conditions’ follow||Covaxin, the anti-coronavirus vaccine developed indigenously by India’s Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, has received restricted emergency use permission, with certain conditions, from an expert panel of India's central drug authority on Saturday, sources said. Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based company in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Union Health Ministry on Saturday also confirmed that the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has recommended granting permission to the Serum Institute of Institute (SII) for restricted emergency use of Covishield in India, subject to multiple regulatory conditionalities. “The SEC of CDSCO met on January 1 and 2 and made the recommendations for the consideration and final decision of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI),” the ministry said. The committee on Covid-19 on Saturday again deliberated on the emergency use authorisation (EUA) application of the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm after it submitted additional data, facts and analysis subsequent to Friday's review meeting, a source said. The panel recommended “grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains, to Bharat Biotech,” the health ministry said. According to sources, the committee, however, stated that the firm shall continue the ongoing phase 3 clinical trial and submit data emerging from the trial as and when available. The committee noted that the vaccine is an inactivated whole virion, coronavirus vaccine, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains, a source said. The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response (both antibody as well as T cell) and in-vitro viral neutralisation. According to sources, the recommendations stated that the vaccine should be supplied along with a fact-sheet and separate leaflet for the guidance of the healthcare provider. Bharat Biotech had applied to the Drugs Controller General Of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for its Covaxin on December 7. On Friday, the SEC had recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. India wants to start administering the vaccine soon, most likely by Wednesday, one source told Reuters on Friday. Pfizer has not presented all its data to the regulatory panel yet, an expert, who is not a panel member, told The Telegraph. “The home-grown vaccine has shown very promising immunogenicity data. It might be approved once some efficacy data comes in,” the expert had said on Friday. After detailed deliberations, the SEC has also recommended for grant of permission to Cadila Healthcare Ltd in Ahmedabad for conduct of phase-3 clinical trial protocol for its vaccine candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Three crore frontline workers to get Covid vaccine for free, says Harsh Vardhan ||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said free vaccine would be provided in the first phase of inoculation to the most prioritised beneficiaries, including one crore healthcare and two crore frontline workers. He added that details of how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July were being finalised. Vardhan , who visited two mock vaccination sites in Delhi to review the drill, also appealed to people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of the coronavirus vaccine, adding that there would be no compromise on any protocol before approving it. He added that details of how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July were being finalised. The minister dispelled doubts regarding the country's capability to undertake such a massive vaccination drive, describing how India had unparalleled experience in dealing with immunisation and run one of the largest such programs in the world. "It is as a result of our steadfastness and dedication that India was declared polio-free in 2014. Our rich learning from the earlier immunisation drives, including the polio vaccination campaign, is being used to guide our present countrywide COVID-19 vaccination campaign," he said. The Union minister first visited the GTB Hospital in Shahdara and later an urban primary health centre (UPHC) in Daryaganj, according to a Health Ministry statement. "I appeal to the people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccine," he said, dismissing such buzz on social media over its side effects. "We will not compromise on any protocol before approving a vaccine." The health minister underlined that vaccine hesitancy was an issue even when the country started polio immunisation drive, but "we must remember its success". He urged the media to exercise caution, behave "responsibly" and check all facts before publishing or broadcasting any reports, the ministry said. At the UPHC in Daryaganj, Vardhan reiterated that the Modi government was committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of all citizens. "I have ample personal experience from the polio eradication campaign of 1994 about how the people of the country placed their trust in the science of the vaccine rather than the falsehoods and canards being spread by some rumour-mongers," Vardhan told the media. On ensuring that the vaccine reaches the remotest corner, Vardhan said the country's cold chain infrastructure had been sufficiently upgraded to ensure last-mile delivery, and adequate supplies of syringes and other logistics had also been provided for. Expressing his satisfaction at the preparations at the GTB Hospital, Vardhan said the entire exercise of the vaccination process, including training of personnel, was being systematically taken forward. "Detailed guidelines have been issued to multiple stakeholders after extensive deliberations, paying attention to each and every minute aspect," he said. "Ahead of the actual vaccination drive, the Ministry of Health on Saturday conducted a nationwide mock drill at 285 session sites to test the end-to-end planned operations and the mechanism that has been set up to ensure smooth conduct of the COVID19 vaccination that is expected to begin soon," it said. Vardhan appreciated the tireless efforts being made by multiple stakeholders, including the central and state government officials who have worked proactively in the last few months to ensure the success of this humongous operation. He said the digital platform, Co-WIN, was the real game changer and would provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccine. This unique platform will assist in automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than 75 lakh beneficiaries have been registered on Co-WIN platform till date, he said. The minister said the entire operational planning and IT platform had been field-tested in four states -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Punjab -- and certain enhancements had been made in the system on the basis of feedback received. The dry run will end with review meetings at the district and state level to discuss the issues and challenges encountered during the exercise. States and Union territories have been requested to share with the Health Ministry the feedback, which will be analysed for ironing out any glitches in the final execution and refinement of the operational procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Farmers to hold ‘Kisan Parade’ on Jan. 26 if demands not met||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday hardened their position even more and said that they will take out a tractor march towards Delhi on January 26, on Republic Day, if the government does not meet their demands. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is scheduled to visit Delhi on the day as the chief guest of the Republic Day parade, which will be held at Rajpath. Addressing a press conference, farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh said their proposed parade will be called “Kisan Parade” and it will be held after the Republic Day parade. The next round of talks between the government and protesting farmer unions is scheduled to be held on January 4. On Friday, the unions had announced that they would have to take firm steps if the meeting fails to resolve the deadlock. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said that it is a “plain lie” that the Centre had accepted 50 per cent of their demands during the sixth round of talks. “We have got nothing on paper yet,” he said. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Choduni said, “In our last meeting, we posed a question to the government that will you buy 23 crops on MSP. They said ‘no’. Then why are you misinforming the people of the country?” “So far, over 50 farmers have been martyred during our agitation”, he said. Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Free Covid vaccine for people of Delhi, announces health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to people in the national capital for free once it arrives, and asserted that the city government has made preparations for the vaccination drive. Interacting with reporters during his visit to a facility in Daryaganj as part of a dry run exercise held here to assess the preparations for the vaccine roll-out, Jain said the system "seems flawless" as of now. "I came to see the preparations as part of the dry run being done. Three sites have been selected for it GTB Hospital Shahdara, Urban Primary Health Centre, Daryaganj, and Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka," he said. All preparations are being done, and 1,000 vaccine centres will be set up across the city, the health minister said. When asked if the vaccine will be free of cost, Jain said, "Yes, and in Delhi, the treatment and medicines are given for free." Vaccination centres will either be hospitals or facilities linked to hospitals, he said. Asked what will happen if complications are noticed after vaccination, Jain said emergency rooms will be set up at the centres, and those getting the vaccine dose will be kept there under observation for half an hour. The minister said the Delhi government has so far made preparations to vaccinate one lakh people in a day. Social distancing will be maintained, and people will be brought to the centres in batches, he added. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Jain said. These include healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly rushed to hospital after suffering 'mild' cardiac arrest||BCCI president and former India skipper Sourav Ganguly was hospitalised on Saturday afternoon after he suffered a "mild" cardiac arrest but is "stable", an official of the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. Ganguly, 48, is stable and doctors at the private Woodlands Hospital are considering whether he requires to undergo angioplasty. "He had a mild cardiac arrest but is stable now. He requires to undergo several tests. We are checking whether an angioplasty is required or not. We also need to find out whether Mr Ganguly requires stent insertion or not," Dr Saroj Mondal, who is treating the stylish former batsman, said. "Mr Ganguly tested negative for the COVID-19," he said, adding that the test was conducted before angioplasty was performed on him. He is currently admitted to the critical care unit (CCU) of the hospital. Ganguly complained of chest pain following a workout session on Friday evening and family members took him to the hospital this afternoon when the problem recurred. A team of five doctors has been constituted to supervise his treatment, hospital sources said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over Ganguly's hospitalisation. "Sad to hear that Sourav Ganguly suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital. Wishing him a speedy and full recovery. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family," Banerjee tweeted. The development came at a time when speculations were rife about his joining politics ahead of the state assembly elections likely in April-May this year. According to political circles in the state, the former batting great could join the BJP, but Ganguly himself never made his intentions quite clear about taking the political plunge. Ganguly was officially entrusted with the task of heading Indian cricket in October 2019 at the BCCI's General Body meeting in Mumbai, ending a controversial 33-month reign of the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA). He became the BCCI's 39th president succeeding C K Khanna, who was the interim head of the Board since 2017. Ganguly's tenure was for nine months but he and Board secretary Jay Shah have continued nonetheless as the Supreme Court has still not ruled on the BCCI's plea seeking amendments to its new constitution, which put a cap on the age and tenure of office-bearers as recommended by the Lodha Committee. Ganguly had earlier held positions in the Cricket Association of Bengal. The former India captain began as joint secretary at the CAB in 2014. He was recently in Delhi to unveil Arun Jaitley's statue at the DDCA's cricket stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Former home minister Buta Singh passes away||Former Union home minister Buta Singh, who remained in public service for a long time and served under four prime ministers, died at the AIIMS here on Saturday morning. He was 86. The senior Congress leader was in a coma since October last year when he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after he suffered a brain haemorrhage. His family said Singh died around 7.10 am. He will be cremated at the Lodhi Road crematorium here later in the day. Singh was an eight-time former MP and also served as the governor of Bihar. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh condoled his demise. "In the passing of Shri Buta Singh, the country has lost one of the longest-serving parliamentarians with rich administrative experience. He championed the cause of the oppressed and marginalized. Condolences to his family and supporters," Kovind said in a tweet. "Saddened to learn about the passing away of Shri Buta Singh Ji. He was an able administrator & parliamentarian. My heartfelt condolences to bereaved family members. Om Shanti!" Naidu wrote on Twitter. "Shri Buta Singh Ji was an experienced administrator and effective voice for the welfare of the poor as well as downtrodden. Saddened by his passing away. My condolences to his family and supporters," the prime minister wrote on the microblogging website. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, "Shri Buta Singh ji dedicated his life serving poor and downtrodden. He served the nation in several capacities. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Singh devoted all his life in the service of the country. "In the demise of Sardar Buta Singh Ji, the country has lost a true public servant and a loyal leader. He devoted his entire life in the service of the country and the well-being of people, for which he will always be remembered. My condolences to his family members during this difficult time," the former Congress chief said in a tweet in Hindi. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot and Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh also condoled Singh's demise. Born in Punjab's Jalandhar district on March 21, 1934, Singh was an eight-time former Lok Sabha MP. He represented the Jalore constituency in Rajasthan and was first elected to the Lower House of Parliament in 1962. Singh was earlier associated with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), but later joined the Congress in the early 1960s. A prominent Dalit leader of the grand old party, he was the convenor of the All India Congress Committee's (AICC) Harijan cell in 1973-74, after which he became the AICC general secretary in 1978. Singh became the Union deputy minister, railways in 1974 and the Union deputy minister, commerce in 1976. In 1980, he became the Union minister of state, shipping and transport and was also given the portfolio of sports (independent charge) in 1982. In 1983, then prime minister Indira Gandhi elevated him as the cabinet minister for parliamentary affairs, sports and works and housing. In 1984, he was made the Union minister for agriculture and rural development and in 1986, the Union home minister in the Rajiv Gandhi cabinet. Under PV Narasimha Rao, Singh was the Union minister of civil supplies, consumer affairs and public distribution from 1995 to 1996. He was appointed the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) by Manmohan Singh in 2007. He held that post till 2010. Singh was instrumental in building and re-building many gurdwaras in the country and abroad, especially the Sri Akaal Takht, after Operation Blue Star in 1984. He was involved in the reconstruction of many gurdwaras in Delhi after the anti-Sikh riots of November 1984. Singh was involved in choosing the Congress's new poll symbol "hand" after the party split in 1978. He was very closely associated with Indira Gandhi during Operation Blue Star and as a minister, oversaw the reconstruction of the Golden Temple in Punjab's Amritsar following the Army operation. Singh was also the chairperson of the Asian Games organising committee when the competition was held in India in 1982. He courted controversies too. In 1998, as the communications minister, he was indicted in the JMM bribery case and had to resign. As the Bihar governor in 2005, his decision to recommend dissolution of the state Assembly was criticised by the Supreme Court and he later resigned. Singh is survived by a daughter and two sons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Modi's approval ratings a testimony to his popularity as a leader, says Nadda||Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval rating is the highest among world leaders in a survey conducted by a US data firm, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday said this is a testimony to his able leadership and a matter of pride for all Indians. American firm Morning Consult, which regularly tracks approval ratings of world leaders, said over 75 per cent people approve of Modi while 20 per cent disapprove, putting his net approval rating at 55 per cent. This is higher than any other world leader the firm tracks. Referring to the survey, Nadda tweeted that Modi has yet again emerged as the most popular head of government for his efficient handling of various issues and management of the COVID-19 crisis. "PM @narendramodi ji's popularity not only rises unabated across all demographic groups & geographic regions of the country and he also gets a thumbs up globally for his dedication to his country. PM Modi ranks Number 1 among all global leaders in this (these) challenging times," he said. Ever since the Modi-led government came to power, people's trust in the government and the faith that the nation is progressing in the right direction has risen drastically, he added. "This rating is the testimony of his able leadership and hard work and is a thing of pride for all Indians," Nadda said. According to Morning Consult's survey, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's approval rating was 24 per cent while it was in the negative for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson as more people disapprove of his work than those who approve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Modi's three I's to build Atmanirbhar Bharat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said innovation, integrity and inclusion have emerged as the key mantras in the field of management which can help the country achieve the goal of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. Laying the foundation stone for the permanent campus of IIM-Sambalpur through video conference, the prime minister said the goal of a self-reliant India will be achieved with the help of collaborative, innovative and transformative concepts in management. Noting that technology is reducing distances between regions, Modi said India has brought speedy reforms in the digital connectivity sector in order to cope with changes taking places all over the world. "Technology management is as important as human management," he said, adding the country has been able to build substantial capacity over the last decade which was evident during the Covid-19 crisis. Emphasising that the young generation should take along those lagging behind to ensure inclusive growth, Modi said local products will have global reach with the help of new management concepts and techniques. "Today's start-ups in India are tomorrow's Multinational Corporations," he said, and asked young managers to align their career goals to the aspirations of the country. The prime minister said IIM Sambalpur will go a long way in giving Odisha a new identity in the field of management education apart from creating tremendous opportunities for the handloom and other sectors in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Light rain helps Delhi's minimum temperature soar up to 7 degrees Celsius||Parts of the national capital received light rain on Saturday morning, while the minimum temperature rose to 7 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. "Moderate" fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. "As per our forecast, the impact of a western disturbance has begun over northwest India, including Delhi. Palam has reported 0.4 mm rainfall. Ridge, Ayanagar and Lodi Road recorded traces of rainfall," the IMD said. The minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to rise to 9 degrees Celsius in the next two to three days under the influence of the western disturbance, it predicted. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The all-time record is minus 0.6 degree Celsius registered in January 1935. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the minimum temperature has started rising under the influence of the "intense" western disturbance, which will affect northwest India till January 6. Light rain is expected in Delhi over the next two to three days, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 1.3 crore mark with less than 20,000 cases||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded below 20,000 in India on Saturday, taking the country's caseload to 1,03,05,788, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 99 lakh, according to the health ministry. A total of 19,079 people tested positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,49,218 in the country with 224 new fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,06,387, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.12 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The number of active COVID-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 2,50,183 active coronavirus cases in the country, which accounts for 2.43 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,39,41,658 samples were tested for COVID-19 in the country till January 1, including 8,29,964 on Friday. The 224 new fatalities include 59 from Maharashtra, 26 from West Bengal, 23 from Kerala and 21 from Delhi. Of the 1,49,218 COVID-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra has accounted for the highest of 49,580, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,135), Karnataka (12,096), Delhi (10,557), West Bengal (9,738), Uttar Pradesh (8,379), Andhra Pradesh (7,108) and Punjab (5,349). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: mass movement and struggle forges new bonds||A few elderly Sikh men, two boys, a handful of women and a teenage girl — it looked like an extended family. But what unfolded during a casual conversation with them was a story of human bonding for a cause that has powered the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders with Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. These people were not related. While the Sikh men had come from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh to protest against the farm laws, the women were Delhi residents who visited the site every morning to cook for the protesters. The girl had been left there by her father a week ago to do “sewa” (service) for a day, a stint she willingly extended indefinitely. “These women come in a tempo every day around 7 in the morning,” Gurdayal Singh, one of the elderly protesters at the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, told The Telegraph. “They offered to help cook at the langar on the first day and started coming daily. They cook prasad (food at langars is called prasad) till noon. In the evening, they cook dinner and leave for home.” He added: “This little girl has been with us for a week. Now the bonding is so strong that they are like our sisters, our child.” The farmers’ movement bears testimony to people’s capacity for altruism, for willingly taking up challenges to help strangers without any benefit to themselves. While masses of women have arrived from various states to help sustain the agitation, local people are lending a hand in their hundreds. As the conversation wore on, sacks filled with peas and carrots were dropped from a slowly moving mini-truck in front of the protesters’ camp. Someone pointed towards the plentiful stocks, telling the man on the mini-truck there was no need for more. “Use these as well,” he replied nonchalantly. Asked who was sending the stuff, Gurdayal said: “We don’t know. It’s all managed by the gurdwaras. That’s the Sikh culture. We have enough rice, wheat and pulses while milk and vegetables are supplied daily.” Nobody is charging for anything. While the farmers had come with enough rations to last months, the perishable stuff is coming free and plentiful. You get tea, biscuits and breakfast in the morning. Whoever arrives at lunchtime  is fed roti, rice, dal, vegetables and even kheer. Snacks in the evening, followed by dinner completes the langars’ day. Curious visitors, activists, police and paramilitary personnel, and the neighbourhood poor are also being fed with affection and respect. Eatables apart, many stores are providing the daily necessities free to the protesters. “We have quilts, mufflers, woollen socks, mattresses, warm innerwear, toothpaste, toothbrush, soaps, everything. We don’t charge for anything,” said Sukhjeewan Singh, a volunteer at a store. “We also set up washing machines in the morning for washing clothes.” Asked where these goods came from, he expressed ignorance saying he was just a “sewadar” (one who serves) but speculated that the gurdwara management committees could be behind the supplies. Water heaters too are available, apart from medicines and doctors. There’s a blood donation camp where youths can be seen happily lying down to give blood. The protest site has two huge women-only cabins that can accommodate over 500. Bonfires, hookahs and endless rounds of tea keep the agitators warm. Busy young volunteers, boys and girls, keep running around, looking after things under the guidance of the control room. What the large-scale arrangements reflect is the protesters’ willingness to stay on for the long haul. It’s virtually impossible to find anyone confessing to fatigue or a desire to return home. Even an 80-year-old merrily proclaimed: “Mar jayenge, peechhe nahin hatenge (We will die but not back off).” A slogan often heard over the loudspeakers goes: “Kisan ekta karta hai, marne se nahin darta hai (The farmers stand united, unafraid to die).” A group of elders from Lakhimpur recalled the revolutionary hero Bhagat Singh and said the farmers’ movement too was a freedom struggle. Asked whether the government’s obduracy and one of Delhi’s harshest winters might not succeed in breaking their resolve, one of them said: “We haven’t come here for entertainment. Cold and heat can’t deter us: farmers live with nature.” He added: “The Prime Minister has inflicted this wound on us. Agitations are organised to make demands; this is the first agitation to tell the government, ‘Please don’t give us what we don’t want’. We have come here to teach Modi a lesson. He either withdraws these laws or we destroy his politics.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Oxford vaccine cleared in India, wait for others||India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Friday recommended the emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine against Covid-19, clearing the decks for an unprecedented government campaign to initially vaccinate around 300 million people. However, the panel held back its decisions on two other vaccines under assessment, an expert who is not a panel member told The Telegraph. Apart from the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute, the panel was examining emergency-use authorisation for a home-grown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and a vaccine from America’s Pfizer. The Union health ministry had till late Friday night not revealed the outcomes of the panel’s meeting, but two sources told Reuters the panel had approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. India wants to start administering the vaccine soon, most likely by Wednesday, one of the sources told the news agency. Health officials declined comment on the panel’s decisions or the specific conditions under which emergency use had been granted. A health ministry spokesperson said the panel would make “recommendations” to the drugs controller-general of India, which would take the “final decision”. The expert who spoke to this newspaper said the nod to the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine had been widely expected and that delayed decisions on the other two vaccines would not be surprising. Pfizer has not presented all its data to the regulatory panel yet and the data from Bharat Biotech was not considered sufficient for a decision, the expert said. For the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, India has relied on efficacy data generated entirely in foreign clinical trials. However, the Bharat Biotech vaccine is currently undergoing efficacy trials across India. “The home-grown vaccine has shown very promising immunogenicity data. It might be approved once some efficacy data comes in,” the expert said. A researcher associated with the development of the home-grown vaccine said the encouraging immunogenicity data and the need to rapidly roll out vaccines to address the pandemic were among “considerations” driving the emergency-use authorisation application. The UK and Argentina have already authorised the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for urgent public use. The Serum Institute has indicated it has stockpiled around 50 million doses and could increase production capacity to around 100 million doses per month by February or March. The health ministry has not yet unveiled a timetable for the vaccine rollout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Third year exit lock in DU four-year undergraduate course||A Delhi University committee is considering an undergraduate programme that seeks to deny exit option at the end of three years despite such a duration being the widely followed practice and the National Education Policy making provision for a bachelor’s degree after a three-year course. The committee, headed by Prof. Vivek Suneja and tasked with suggesting the structure of four-year undergraduate courses, has circulated a module under which students will get a certificate at the end of the first year, a diploma at the end of the second and a bachelor with research degree at the end of the fourth. Students will be allowed to leave at the end of the first, second and fourth years, but not the third. There is also a proposal to reduce four core papers in the major subject and add courses on hobby, ethics and skills in the four-year programme. The new National Education Policy (NEP) promises multiple exit and entry options in undergraduate courses. Students quitting at the end of three years are to receive a bachelor’s degree. A section of teachers expressed concern over the denial of exit option at the end of the third year and also questioned the “poor” design of the course. Currently, BA, BCom and BSc courses in universities have a duration of three years. DU Academic Council member Seema Das, who is also a member of the Suneja committee, has submitted a note expressing several concerns. “The academic rigor of the three-year Bachelor Programme would be considerably diluted with the deletion of four core/major papers. Reduction in core papers would not allow a graduating student to master the respective subject,” Das has written. “There is a strong probability that a few disciplines would be preferred over others in choice of minor subjects/papers by the students. This may lead to the elimination of a few subjects and redundancy of teachers”, she added. Former Executive Council member and treasurer of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), Abha Dev Habib, said the proposed exit points after the first and second years would allow students to leave with a false notion of achievement. “The course structure leading to these exit points shows that the coursework cannot add to their abilities, knowledge and worth. The first few semesters are largely concerning basic courses, where students won’t attain any real academic rigour or skills,” Habib said. “Students will have to spend one extra year for the same degree with no value addition at a much higher cost,” Habib said. According to her, an extra year of stay in the national capital for an outstation student would entail a cost of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||India expresses concern over 'repeated instances' of attacks on minorities in Pakistan||India has conveyed to Islamabad its serious concern over the “repeated instances” of attacks on minorities in Pakistan after a mob set afire a temple in the Karak district of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa on Wednesday. According to sources, the external affairs ministry conveyed to Pakistan through its mission in New Delhi that India expects the federal government to investigate the matter and take strict action against those responsible for the demolition of the temple, pointing out that this is not the first time such an attack has taken place. India, the sources said, has also asked for the investigation report to be shared with the ministry. “Our message reiterated that the government of Pakistan, in discharge of its responsibilities, is expected to look after the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities, including protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage,” a source said. India registering its concern with Pakistan over the temple demolition comes at a time when the Narendra Modi government has been silent on an attack on a mosque in Madhya Pradesh on the same day as the Karak incident. An attempt was made to damage a mosque at Dorana village in Mandsaur district on Wednesday allegedly by VHP and Bajrang Dal activists during a fund-collection drive for the Ayodhya Ram temple. With both incidents captured on camera, it brought into sharp relief the similarities in the condition of the minorities in the two countries. Commenting on the development, Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Programme at the Washington-based Wilson Centre, tweeted: “Sadly fitting that religious extremists attacked places of worship on the same day in both India and Pakistan. A tragic commentary on the extent of religious intolerance, both in terms of its intensity and its geographic reach.” Arrests have been made in both cases. Given its track record of not only targeting minorities but also sectarian fight with the smaller denominations of Islam under attack, Pakistan’s federal minister for religious affairs and the Supreme Court were quick to react, condemning the temple arson and posting the matter for an early hearing, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers remind govt about its duty on hunger||Farmer union leaders on Friday warned the government that it should not take their agitation lightly and think that it can be handled like the Shaheen Bagh protest against the new citizenship regime. The warning came a day after the younger generation of protesters gathered at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border and pushed their way past barricades in variance with the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) call to stay put at that point till further orders. Cautioning that the younger lot of farmers are getting agitated by the government’s delaying tactics, Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (UP) said: “Our farmers cannot be trifled with. Don’t think that you will be able to end out movement like you did in the case of Shaheen Bagh.” Singh was articulating a concern that the collective leadership of the movement might not be able to rein in the youngsters if the Narendra Modi dispensation continued to test their patience. Given that the government has not moved an inch on the farmers’ two main demands pertaining to repealing the three new farm laws and enacting a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price for all crops, the SKM has drawn up a plan to carry forward the agitation right up to January 23. While the blockade of Delhi will continue, parallel efforts will be made in the coming weeks to mobilise opinion across the country with a “Desh Jagriti Abhiyan”. As the days pass, what the government has conceded on Thursday by accepting the farmers’ demands regarding exemption from the stubble burning fine and on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill is being regarded as small change. The SKM has decided that if there is no progress on their two main demands at the next meeting on Monday, the twice-rescheduled tractor rally on the KMP Expressway (Western Peripheral Expressway) will be taken out on Wednesday. Although the farmer unions had anticipated that the government would project the two concessions as meeting them halfway, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said the narrative being built by the “pro-corporate intellectuals’’ would not convince the farming community. Further, the committee sought to point out that the farm laws do not only affect the farmers but also the larger issue of food procurement as the limits on hoarding have been lifted, allowing private players to corner the food stock. Questioning the Niti Aayog’s arguments against food procurement as India has a surplus of food stock, the AIKSCC pointed out that the country also has the maximum and rising number of hungry people. Referring to the Hunger Index, the committee said India’s score had fallen from 38.8 in 2000 to 27.2 in 2020. “The government of India is duty-bound to provide food security and these three Acts will erode the government’s food procurement and undermine the public distribution system, replace food production with commercial crops, and give freedom to the corporates to purchase, hoard and blackmarket food,” the AIKSCC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||No problem with Nitish joining us: Rabri Devi||Rabri Devi, RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former Bihar chief minister, said on Friday that the Opposition Grand Alliance would bring Nitish Kumar into its fold “if needed”, at a time the JDU is feeling increasingly hemmed in by the BJP that has now become the senior partner in the ruling alliance. “Our party leaders will discuss and take a decision on bringing Nitish to the Grand Alliance. He will be brought into our fold, if needed. I have no objection to him being included in our alliance,” RJD leader Rabri told reporters on the occasion of her birthday at her 10 Circular Road residence. Although several RJD leaders have been claiming that Nitish should join hands with the Grand Alliance and that 17 of his JDU MLAs were preparing to switch sides, this is the first time someone from the RJD’s first family has broached the topic. Some RJD leaders had also suggested that Nitish should take a shot at the Prime Minister’s chair and leave Bihar’s chief ministership to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Lalu’s younger son. Rabri’s comments come at a time discomfort is palpable in the JDU after the BJP welcomed six of the seven MLAs of the JDU in Arunachal Pradesh into the party. The JDU, which has cried betrayal and treachery, sees a threat in Bihar too with a more powerful BJP asserting itself. The JDU, with just 43 seats in the 243-member Assembly, has for the first time become the junior partner of the BJP, with 74 MLAs, since forging an alliance in Bihar in 2005. The RJD with 75 seats is the single largest party in the House. The NDA, which has 125 seats, has a thin majority with the Opposition breathing down its neck with 110 seats. Rabri’s comments also indicate a softening of Lalu Prasad’s family’s stand on Nitish, who rode to power in 2015 in alliance with the RJD but broke ranks two years later to return to the NDA and form a fresh government. It led to much bitterness between the RJD and the JDU. RJD sources said Lalu, currently incarcerated in Ranchi after conviction in fodder scam cases, has instructed his party leaders to go easy on Nitish while criticising the NDA government in the state. The sources said the Arunachal developments had left the JDU worried about its future. Rabri referred to such concerns on Friday, warning that the “BJP could break the JDU in Bihar also”. She said the “immoral alliance of the JDU and the BJP has turned Bihar into a battlefield where the two parties are going to fight a war for supremacy.” The former chief minister criticised Nitish over his recent visits to different corners of the state to inspect archaeological sites and development work, saying law and order has gone for a toss. Rabri referred to the state government’s transfer of 29 IAS and 38 IPS officers late on Thursday night, saying this had been done at the behest of the BJP and it indicated that Nitish’s writ no longer ran in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||‘Grave’ prod to China on 39 sailors||India on Friday called for “urgent, practical and time-bound” assistance to 39 stranded Indian sailors on board two ships in Chinese waters considering the “grave humanitarian situation” developing in the vessels. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Indian bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand had been on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province of China since June 13 and it had 23 Indian sailors. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, with 16 Indian nationals as its crew is on anchorage near Caofeidian port in China since September 20, he said. Srivastava said both vessels had been awaiting discharge of their cargo and there was growing stress on the crew members on account of the long delay. “Given this and our concern for the increasingly difficult conditions for our crew members, these two cases are being pursued vigorously,” he said. Srivastava said the Indian embassy in Beijing continued to remain in close touch with the Chinese authorities in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin, adding that the MEA was also following up on the matter. “We have noted the statements of the Chinese side, expressing their willingness to extend their assistance,” Srivastava said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India|| Indian Army appoints officer to head human rights cell||The Indian Army has appointed a major general-rank officer to head its newly created human rights cell. Major General Gautam Chauhan has taken charge as the first additional director-general, human rights, and will work under the army’s Vice-Chief Lieutenant General S.K. Saini. The cell will look into human rights issues and ensure that the army complies with human rights conventions. It will be the nodal point to examine reports on human rights violations by the army. Last August, defence minister Rajnath Singh had given the approval to set up the cell at the army headquarters, the first such initiative in the armed forces, to look into rights violations as part of the restructuring and reorganising of the army. As per the mandate, an IPS officer of SSP/SP rank will be taken on deputation to enhance transparency and ensure investigative expertise is available to the cell. “The human rights cell will put in place a more stringent mechanism to look into human rights violations,” said an army officer. The IPS officer in the cell will assist in investigations and legalities and will also facilitate coordination with other organisations and the Union home ministry, if required. “Charges of human rights violations often come up since the army is deployed in sensitive conflict zones. The human rights cell will investigate such charges in a professional manner and will also act as an internal watchdog,” the army officer said. Over the years, the army has been accused of human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. Major General Chauhan had earlier served as brigadier, operations logistics, at the headquarters of the Integrated Defence Staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||A. Anandavally: Sweeper to chief of Kerala block panchayat||A woman who wielded the broom at a block panchayat office for a decade has now been chosen by the Kerala CPM to head it as its president. A. Anandavally, 46, had since 2011 been employed as a sweeper at the agriculture office of the Pathanapuram block panchayat in Kollam district. It had been a surprise enough for the Class X passout when the CPM requested — and persuaded — her to contest the recent panchayat elections, after husband and house painter Mohanan had declined. “It was a bigger surprise when our party appointed me president. All of this has been a surprise since neither my husband nor I was inclined to even contest the elections,” Anandavally told The Telegraph on New Year’s Day. She said that three days after her appointment, she was still receiving congratulatory calls. Anandavally is one of several women the CPM has picked to head local bodies, including the country’s two youngest, aged 21 — Thiruvananthapuram mayor Arya Rajendran and Aruvappulam village panchayat president (Pathanamthitta) Reshma Mariam Roy. Anandavally is keenly aware of the challenges ahead, and quietly confident about meeting them. “I was only familiar with cleaning the rooms and carrying tea and snacks for the officials. It will take me some time to adjust to the new reality and responsibility,” she said. She hopes to help the six villages under her purview by using the lessons about life, poverty and struggle she has learnt and the contacts she has built in her decades as ayah, paddy field worker and sweeper. “There are many like me who need better amenities, higher education for their children and modern healthcare. I can relate to their problems,” she said. Poverty and lack of guidance had prompted Anandavally to drop out of school after clearing her Class X exams.“There was no one to guide me on what to do next. Nor did we have the financial resources,” the eldest of three siblings said on her decision to work at a young age. “I even worked in paddy fields to make ends meet,” she said. She worked at a government pre-primary school in her village, Thalavoor, from 1995 to 1997, doubling as ayah and informal teacher, at a monthly salary of Rs 300. She did several odd jobs after that till she got a sweeper’s job at the Thalavoor village panchayat office in 2007 for a daily wage of Rs 70. Both Anandavally and Mohanan come from families of CPM workers and used to be regulars at party events and election campaigns. In 2011, the CPM shifted her to the nearby block panchayat office, where she began on a monthly salary of Rs 2,000. Her last drawn salary was Rs 6,000. “People in my village wanted either my husband or me to contest the panchayat elections in 2015, but neither of us was ready at the time,” she said. This December, she defeated her Congress rival by 654 votes. Anandavally has now quit the sweeper’s job. She said her new salary would be about Rs 10,000 but was not sure. “At the moment I don’t know much about what the functions of a block panchayat president are. But I’m confident about learning quickly with the help of the officials and the local people, who have known me since decades,” said the mother of two sons, one of them enrolled in college and the other in Class XII. Her aged mother had expressed apprehensions about how Anandavally would cope in her new job with her limited education and lack of experience. “I told my mother that I have support from all quarters. Now that I have been entrusted with this job, I don’t want to disappoint my party or the people,” Anandavally said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||Naveen writes to PM demanding an international airport at Puri||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding an international airport at Puri. He said that the new airport should be named Sri Jagannath International Airport. At present Odisha has only one international airport, Biju Patnaik airport in Bhubaneswar. Naveen urged Modi to direct the ministry of civil aviation to take up the proposed airport as a priority project. Naveen also promised to provide land to the Centre for the project. Referring to the tourism potential of this pilgrim town, the chief minister said “The Sun Temple of Konark, a Unesco heritage site is just 35km away from Puri and along with the adjacent Ramchandi and Chandrabhaga beaches provides a unique experience to national and international tourists.” Naveen also maintained that, “Puri is organically linked to Ramsar sites — Chilika Lake (India’s first Ramsar site and Unesco world heritage site) on one side and Bhitarkanika National park on the other side. Both these locations have huge potential for international eco–tourism. Puri beach has been recently transformed into a Blue flag beach with world–class experience for the tourists. Most of the historic Buddhist heritage sites like Dhauli, Ratnagiri etc with travel time within three hours from Puri, attract Buddhist pilgrims from across the world.” The chief minister referred to the importance of Puri town in Hindu religion and said that it is one among the four dhams of Hindu Dharma. “The Rath Yatra of Puri is a world famous annual event attracting lakhs of pilgrims and visitors from across the world. The chariot festival is celebrated across 192 countries. The proposed airport will help bring Jagannath devotees from across the world to Puri and will help to promote Jagannath culture across the world. Therefore, we propose that an international airport be established at Puri in the name of Sri Jagannath International Airport,” Naveen said. Stating that Puri has the potential to become a hub for spiritual, tourism and economic activities, Naveen said, “The coastal highway passes through this area and connects the Paradeep Port (114km away) and Greenfield Astaranga port (60km away). There is great potential for economic synergy along the entire corridor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||Blood on new Jammu and Kashmir land law||Punjabi goldsmith Satpal Nischal and his family had braved the turbulent 1990s in Kashmir, choosing not to migrate but live alongside their Muslim neighbours of decades. And the militants too left them and their Punjabi brethren in Srinagar alone. Nischal now appears to have paid with his life for purportedly acquiring a domicile certificate and buying property in the Valley under the new land laws the Centre introduced in mid-2020. Militants killed the 70-year-old on Thursday evening at his shop at Sarai Bal in the heart of Srinagar city. The Resistance Front, believed to be a front for a major militant group, claimed responsibility, alleging Nischal had acquired a domicile certificate and threatening to kill all non-Kashmiris who did so. Till recently, the indigenous population alone could own property in Jammu and Kashmir on the strength of their Permanent Residence Certificates. But the new laws replaced the PRCs with domicile certificates, available to Kashmiri and non-Kashmiri alike, and allowed any Indian citizen to own property in Jammu and Kashmir. Many in Kashmir view these laws as an attempt to alter Jammu and Kashmir’s Muslim-majority character. Till the advent of the new laws, Nischal wasn’t eligible to own or buy property in Jammu and Kashmir. Local people said he ran his old shop from a rented space in Sarai Bal but was rumoured to have bought a shop elsewhere in the area after procuring the domicile certificate. Most of the mourners at the Nischal family’s Indra Nagar home in Srinagar were Kashmiri Muslims — neighbours and acquaintances unwilling to leave the family alone in their grief. Beneath such shows of friendliness, however, lies a palpable undercurrent of tension stemming from the abrogation of key Article 370 provisions in August 2019, which paved the way for the new land laws. A police officer said Nischal’s nine-member family recently acquired domicile in Kashmir. Nischal, who had arrived in Kashmir nearly a half-century ago, had lived in rented accommodation at Sarai Bal for about two decades before shifting to Indra Nagar a few years ago, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Amartya Sen denies calling Visva-Bharati VC Bidyut Chakraborty||Amid the controversy over Nobel laureate Amartya Sen telephoning Visva Bharati Vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty and introducing himself as Bharat Ratna, the famed economist has denied having any conversation with the VC in recent times, according to a teachers' association of the central university. In a mail to Sudipta Bhattacharya, who is the president of the Visva Bharati Faculty Association, the Nobel laureate said the phone call that the varsity authorities claim was made by him is "tantalisingly untrue" and that he had spoken to Chakraborty a few years ago, not in June 2019 as was being said. Visva Bharati authorities had in a recent statement claimed that Sen had called the VC from a number in India either on June 2 or 14 in 2019 and complained about the eviction of hawkers from near his Shantiniketan residence. Following this, the teachers' association president had sent a mail to Sen seeking his comment about the university's statement and got a reply on December 29 last year. "On June 2, 2019, I was in France, attending a meeting in Paris. On June 14, 2019, I was in America, at our home in Cambridge Massachusetts. After that I was in England, in the English Cambridge," Sen said in his reply to Bhattacharya. About speaking to the VC, Sen said, "On your other question, I have talked with the present VC of Visva Bharati, Bidyut Chakravarty, only once, to the best of my knowledge. This was a few years ago when he was chairing a meeting for the release of a book by Pranab Bardhan. "His claim that we have talked on the phone and I had introduced myself as Bharat Ratna is tantalisingly untrue. Thanks for your interest in preventing injustice and untruth!" Sen said. Responding to Bhattacharya's query on the Nobel laureate's visit to India in the summer of 2019, the economist said, "I came on the 3rd of July, and went to Delhi first, and then Calcutta and Santiniketan. I was not in India at all in June 2019. I am extremely rarely in India in June. I prefer to come only after the monsoon settles in - so it tends to be July, not June." The VC or any other senior official of the central university could not be reached for comments. Bhattacharya had in December last year said that the VC had claimed during a recent online meeting with the faculty that he had got a phone call from a person who introduced himself as "Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen" and requested him not to evict hawkers from near his Shantiniketan house as his daughter "buys vegetables from them". The faculty body president had sent a mail to Sen seeking his remarks about the VC's claim. Bhattacharya said Sen had previously denied such claims by Chakraborty. Another controversy had erupted on December 24 in 2020 when the media reported that the university had written to the West Bengal government alleging that dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the names of private parties, including Sen. On that day Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed the centenary function of Visva Bharati. The Nobel laureate, who was born in Shantiniketan in 1933, had said that the university land on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near expiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Flood of irrigation funds in pipeline||The Bengal government has released Rs 150 crore for carrying out important irrigation projects and more funds are being lined up for the irrigation department amid murmurs that Nabanna is planning to give special emphasis to the department that was helmed by Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP last month. Despite submission of detailed project reports, the demand for funds from the department had been gathering dust for the last few months. “A sum of Rs 150 crore was released to undertake pending projects of the irrigation department a few days ago. The department has also been assured that soon, another tranche of Rs 800 crore will be released to take up the pending projects,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the irrigation department had put forward files of several projects, including strengthening of Durgapur Barrage and repair and restoration of its sluice gates, a few months ago. Moreover, files of projects like strengthening of some river embankments in Sunderbans and restoration of Muriganga in North 24-Parganas were also sent for finance department’s approval. “According to a rough estimate, projects worth Rs 200 crore were pending for approval from the finance department. The department had put forward the files in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic considering the importance of the projects. Finally, the majority of the projects were approved a few days ago with an assurance that more funds would be allotted soon,” said a source. Sources said files were cleared a few days ago amid murmurs that the delay was because of the uncertainty over Suvendu’s political future. The former minister, after months of bargaining with the Trinamul top brass, severed ties with the party on December 17 after he had submitted his resignation as a Trinamul MLA from Nandigram. Prior to this, Suvendu had resigned as a minister on November 27. These days, the irrigation department reports to the chief minister after she decided to hold the charge following Suvendu’s resignation. A senior Nabanna official, however, said release of funds for the irrigation department had no connection with the resignation of Suvendu from the helm of the department. “No projects, except some urgent ones, were being cleared till the end of November because of the crisis of funds. The finance department relaxed its austerity drive on December 21 and since then, funds are being allotted for various projects. It has no connection with the resignation of the minister,” the official explained. But some officials aware of the developments said that during the pandemic, funds were being allotted for some departments, including municipal affairs and urban development department. “But projects of the irrigation department are also important and time bound as these have to be completed before the monsoon. It is still not clear whether the delay would hit the projects as most of the projects would require six to eight months to get completed,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Reservoir crumbles during first pumping in Murshidabad||The administration’s wish of fresh water supply as a “New Year’s gift” for a village in Murshidabad district came crashing down when a new overhead reservoir with a capacity of 12 lakh litres collapsed on Friday afternoon, minutes after its pump had been switched on for the first time. The structure near Hariharpara caved in around 3.30pm. Sources said the tank had started leaking and collapsed before even 25 per cent of the capacity had been filled. Work on the project, an initiative of the public health and engineering department, had started in 2018. “I switched on the pump and started walking home. Within minutes, I looked back and witnessed the horrendous sight of the tank crumbling,” said operator Abdus Selim Mondal, who owned the land that was let out for the project. “We were all eager for the operation of this new reservoir because we had been promised fresh water as a New Year’s gift from the district administration,” the Imamnagar resident added. There were no casualties in the incident. Sources said the Hariharpara block development officer Raja Bhowmick and police had visited the site on Friday evening. Public health engineers from Behrampore were on their way to the spot. “I informed police right away and rushed to the site. We are awaiting the arrival of engineers to know the exact cause of the crash,” said the BDO. He declined further comment citing “technicalities” associated with the incident. Executive engineer of the Behrampore public health and engineering department, Asit Roy, said: “We will launch an inquiry and await official results before going into conclusions about the incident.” On January 22 last year, an overhead reservoir with a capacity to store 700 cubic meters of water had crashed in Bankura’s Sarenga, raising questions over the structure that had been completed at a cost of Rs 165 crore just three years before. Engineers of the state government had cited the design fault as the cause of the collapse. The tank collapse had resulted in severe water scarcity at 20 villages in Sarenga, which is known as one of the most arid and dry zones in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee to visit north Bengal||Trinamul MP and party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee will be in north Bengal on a five-day visit next week and will attend a slew of indoor meetings with party workers. During his trip, Abhishek will address a public meeting in South Dinajpur district. The visit has been planned just ahead of a trip of Trinamul turncoat Subhendu Adhikari who is likely to be in north Bengal on January 7.  Abhishek’s visit appears to be a proactive move by the ruling party of Bengal to put all efforts to prevent Adhikari from eroding Trinamul’s support base. After Adhikari joined the BJP, he hasn’t yet visited the region on which the saffron brigade has been focusing for months and intends to secure 50 of 54 Assembly seats. “In north Bengal, three Trinamul MLAs have already defected to the BJP, along with a former MP and some other party leaders. Subhendu Adhikari has managed to dent Trinamul’s support  to some extent at a number of places in south Bengal and hinted that he would bring in more people on board. That is why it seems, Abhishek Banerjee, along with PK, will be in the region to foil the BJP leader’s plan,” said an observer. The three MLAs who have joined the BJP are Mihir Goswami of Cooch Behar South, Dipali Biswas of Gazole (in Malda) and Sukra Munda of Nagrakata (in Jalpaiguri). During his visit, the youth Trinamul president will attend indoor meetings in Siliguri, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and South Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Tourists, UK returnees test negative  for Covid||All eight tourists from Chinsurah of Hooghly district, including the trio who had travelled from the UK, have been tested negative for Covid-19, much to the relief of the district health officials and tourism stakeholders of Alipurduar district. Also, the five employees who are posted at the resort of West Bengal Forest Development Corporation (WBFDC) in Rajabhatkhawa of Buxa Tiger Reserve where these tourists had checked in have also been tested negative. On Thursday, a health team had rushed to the resort after they had been informed by the state health officials that three persons who had got to the property had travelled from the United Kingdom on the same flight in which the youth of Calcutta who was found infected with the mutant strain of Covid-19, had boarded. They had collected samples of the entire group and also of the staff who work at the resort and had served the tourists. All of them were asked to stay at the resort and entry or exit of people was halted at the property. “We had initially conducted a rapid antigen test and all the samples were tested negative. Even then, we waited for RT-PCR reports and received the same last night. It is a relief that all of them have been found negative,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. After getting the reports, the department withdrew the restriction imposed on the group and the five employees on Thursday. “The tourists have been told that they can travel as per their schedule. We have also sent an instruction to all tourist accommodations of the district to obtain travel history of people before they check in,” Bera added. The tourism sector in the region was hit by the novel coronavirus and the resultant lockdown||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||10 named in Manish Shukla murder chargesheet||The state CID submitted its chargesheet to a court in Barrackpore on Friday in connection with the killing of BJP leader Manish Shukla and brought criminal conspiracy and murder charges against 10 persons. The CID has already arrested the 10 accused persons from Bengal, Bihar and Punjab. The list includes Khurram Khan, Subodh Rai, Nasir Khan, Sujit Rai, Amar Yadav and Roshan Kumar Yadav. In the chargesheet, the sleuths claimed that the BJP leader had been killed over personal enmity and not for any political reason. A CID official who refused to be identified said: “The investigation revealed that Khurram Khan, a local trader, with the support of Subodh Singh, Subodh Rai and Nasir Khan had apparently conspired to eliminate Manish by engaging sharp shooters from Bihar.” “Subodh materialised the conspiracy while staying in jail in Nalanda. However, the exact amount of this contract murder could not be ascertained so far,” he added. Subodh Singh’s name did not feature in the chargesheet but was mentioned as a “suspect” in the case. The “suspect” list includes the names of Trinamul leader and former chairman of Barrackpore municipality Uttam Das, former chairman of Titagarh municipality Prasanta Chowdhury, Rajendra Yadav and others. On the evening of October 4 last year, Shukla was shot dead at Purani Bazar adjacent to BT road near Titagarh police station. BJP’s Barrackpore organising district committee president Rabin Bhattacharyya said: “The CID has so far said nothing about the suspected role of Trinamul leaders. It appears that the probe agency was trying to protect them on the direction of its political bosses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul, BJP test Teesta waters||The Teesta river, which meanders through the hills and the plains of north Bengal before entering Bangladesh, is emerging as an important political issue ahead of the Assembly elections after remaining a matter of discussion in the diplomatic circles in New Delhi and Dhaka for around a decade. The trigger behind Teesta’s inclusion in the domestic political matrix is a recent meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina where the sharing of water of the Teesta, an agreement on the subject is pending since 2011 because of the opposition of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, came up after Dhaka prodded Delhi for an immediate resolution. Several BJP leaders in north Bengal said in private they would make Teesta an issue and blame the Trinamul government for the delay in sealing a deal on sharing of water, which apparently strained bilateral relation. The Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, will try to reach out to the rural population of the region with the message that they had put the interests of the farmers of north Bengal ahead of other considerations. Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s Kishan Morcha, said the Trinamul leadership was simply trying to play politics over the issue. “For the central government, farmers of north Bengal are the first priority but reluctance of the Trinamul government has made this issue an area of contention between the two countries. We doubt whether the state has any proper data to confirm its point that the portion of water that north Bengal will receive as per the proposed treaty is inadequate,” she said. The BJP leaders think the issue will give them political dividends in north Bengal because of a number of reasons. One of the major reasons, a source said, is the presence of a considerable section of voters who have roots in Bangladesh. Besides, bilateral trade is carried out through multiple borders of north Bengal because of which there is a connection between people on both sides of the border. Chandan Bhowmik, a district coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri and a senior party leader, when mentioned about the issue, said their stand would continue to be the same. “If the Centre wants to go ahead with it, there would be protests. Also, as we are meeting people these days, we are elaborating on the issue that it is because of Mamata Banerjee that the region has not faced any crisis because of paucity of water in the Teesta,” said Bhowmik. Several Trinamul leaders said opposing the water treaty would help them at a time New Delhi was aggressively trying to push the deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
02-01-2021||West Bengal||State government takes over road at Visva-Bharati||Three days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement at the Birbhum administrative review meeting, the state government on Friday formally took back control of a 2.9km road connecting the Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan to Sriniketan. “Today, we took back the control of the road that the chief minister had announced at the administrative meeting,” said Vijay Bharti, the Birbhum district magistrate. In her administrative meeting in Bolpur on December 28, Mamata accepted the plea of Santiniketan residents who had wanted the government to take back control of the road that it had handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017. The residents had written to her that the varsity authorities had placed barricades on the road to restrict the movement of goods vehicles. In a formal ceremony on Friday, a new board declaring that the “road is maintained by PWD, Govt. of West Bengal” was placed on the road. The board was decorated with flowers and several Santiniketan old-timers, including Rabindranath Tagore’s descendent Supriya Tagore and economist Amartya Sen’s cousin Shanta Bhanu Sen, were present. Tagore cut the ribbon to complete the formality of the state taking back the road. District police chief Shyam Singh said law enforcement personnel would be deployed on the road to ensure free movement of local residents and tourists. While the district administration completed the formalities, Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty wrote to Mamata requesting her to reconsider her decision of taking back the road from the varsity’s control. He apprehended that the decision would lead to movement of heavy vehicles and encroachment in the vicinity of old buildings and sculptures located on either side of the road. District magistrate Bharti, however, said: “There will be no plying of heavy vehicles and the state government will take better care of the road.” On the day the road was being taken back, the Visva-Bharati authorities embarked on a new project, which Sanitiniketan residents said was a “retaliation” of the state government’s decision, to put up a boundary wall on an existing metal road near Santiniketan Doordarshan Kendra. The officials went to the site where the wall was being built and stopped the construction. A varsity official said: “We have already constructed an alternative road and the existing road will be closed for security of the campus and staff quarters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||West Bengal||26 more die of Covid, active cases fall further in Bengal||Bengal on Friday began 2021 with 1,496 Covid-19 recoveries, 1,153 new infections and 26 deaths, logging a drop in its total of active cases for the 67th consecutive day (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26). The total of infections fell from 37,190 to 11,616 during the 67 days, improving by nearly 69 per cent. The recovery rate has risen for 71 consecutive days now, by nearly nine per cent since October 22, to 96.14. After months of lagging behind the national rate — 96.07 per cent on Friday — the state overtook it on Thursday and extended the lead on Friday. “We have achieved —actually bettered — all our year-end targets in the pandemic management. If Day One of 2021 is any indication, we will be able to keep improving as the trend continues to hold,” said a minister. “In just a few weeks, we managed to lower our share in the national total of active cases from around seven per cent to 4.6 per cent. That was key to finally getting past the national recovery rate again,” he added. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported over 2.21 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.99 lakh new infections detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.53 lakh cases include over 5.31 lakh recoveries and 9,738 deaths. In December alone, the state reported 79,604 recoveries and 68,579 new infections. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. “Now, we will monitor the data for a couple of weeks, from around a week from now, to see if the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry caused us a setback, by worsening the outbreak. Having said that, since we were able to see off the mega autumnal spell of festivals, this one should not be a big problem,” said the minister. “The only thing we have to watch out for, right now, is the new strain of Covid-19 being brought from outside the country. But that is irrespective of the revelry,” he added. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 7.74 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. With 39,109 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 71.49 lakh, at 79,439 tests per million people. The 26 deaths reported included six from the city. The state attributed 8,162 (83.8 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Brother follows Suvendu Adhikari to BJP||Former chairman of Contai municipality Soumendu Adhikari, who is also the younger brother of Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, joined the BJP on Friday evening. Soumendu’s switch to the BJP, along with 13 former councillors, comes three days after he was removed by Trinamul as municipality administrator. He filed a petition in Calcutta High Court against the move on Thursday. Soumendu joined the BJP at the rally in Contai, East Midnapore. He, along with others, received BJP flags from the party’s Contai organisation secretary Anup Chakraborty at a rally held at the venue where Trinamul minister Firhad Hakim and MP Saugata Roy had addressed a meeting on December 23. On Friday morning, Suvendu had given hints regarding Soumendu’s switch to the BJP at the rally. Nandigram had become the centre of retaliatory rallies by the supporters of Suvendu and chief minister Mamata Banerjee. While Trinamul will hold a meeting of party workers in Nandigram on January 7, Suvendu is scheduled to hold a rally there the following day. Suvendu said Soumendu joining the BJP was the beginning of a “decisive phase” in Bengal and the Mamata Banerjee government would lose majority “by January 30” considering the way “leaders (MLAs) were joining the BJP”. “You have known me as a son of the soil. I have also been a councillor in Contai and we know what we have contributed,” Suvendu told a packed rally, his brother Soumendu by his side. “Trinamul says I had been in talks with the BJP for months. Yes, I had been, but it is to ensure that youths can get jobs in the state after clearing exams,” he added. Contai Trinamul leader Mahmud Hossain said Soumendu joining the BJP had “proven Trinamul’s suspicions right”. “It was for the best he was removed from his post of municipality administrator. He did not even wait for a week to switch sides,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Protest at bid to open RSS office in Jalpaiguri||Representatives of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had to face protests from residents at Santipara of Jalpaiguri town on Friday when they arrived to make preparations for opening an office at a building. Police and administrative officials reached the locality and asked the RSS to lock the building and approach the authorities with necessary documents of the office. Sources said a two-storied building owned by Narendra Berlia had been lying unused at Santipara for the past few years. On Friday, 50-odd RSS workers started cleaning the building. When some local people inquired, they were told that an office of RSS would be opened there. This led to protests. Over 100 residents gathered and asked the RSS workers to stop their work. While the locals claimed the RSS workers had broken the lock and entered the house without informing them, those on the other side said they had documents with them. As the altercation continued and the crowd swelled, a police team led by Bipul Sinha, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station and Samir Pal, a deputy superintendent of police, reached the spot. Subhendu Das, a deputy magistrate, was also sent to the spot. They spoke with both sides and brought the situation under control. “The house owner stays somewhere else. Before leaving, he had told us to look after the building. Suddenly, some people entered the house today by breaking the lock. That is why we have protested. The house owner had also assured us that if he disposed the property, he would help us renovate a local temple,” said Biswajit Majumdar, a local resident. “If these people can satisfy the administration with necessary documents, we do not have any problem,” he added. Ajay Singhania, a relative of Berlia, claimed Berlia had given him a power of attorney for the house and last year, the house owner had provided the house to a local trust for setting up the RSS office. “I have the power of attorney with me and all other relevant documents. The RSS office was supposed to open earlier but it got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Three days ago, we had even informed the district police that the office would be opened today,” Singhania said. The deputy magistrate and the police officers, who collected details about the issue, later asked the RSS representatives to lock the house. “They have been asked to meet administrative officials with relevant documents to prove that they have legal rights to use the house as an office. They can open the house only after they get necessary assent from the administration. Prohibitory orders have been clamped on the premises and anybody trying to get inside will have to face legal steps,” said Pal, the deputy superintendent of police. Debasish Lala, one of the organisers of the RSS in Jalpaiguri, said: “We had taken the building months ago and today, we planned to clean it so that we could open our office. But some locals objected.” “We informed the police and administration. We will speak with the administration in due course to resolve the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati authorities seal women’s socio-cultural office||Visva-Bharati authorities on Friday sealed the office of a women’s socio-cultural organisation set up on the campus on Rabindranath Tagore’s instructions, prompting its outraged and elderly members to demonstrate for several hours. The action against the Alapini Mahila Samity comes days after economist Amartya Sen’s assertion about a big gap between the Santiniketan culture and that of Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, “empowered as he is by the central government in Delhi”. Visva-Bharati’s officiating public relations officer did not take calls but a senior university official said: “The decision to vacate the office had been taken by the VC.” Samity members said the office at Notun Bari, a thatched mud house near the Mrinalini Ananda Pathshala, was given to the organisation in 1956 when Indira Devi Chaudhurani, daughter of Tagore’s elder brother Satyendranath, was Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor. Visva-Bharati’s estate department had on December 10 written to the president and secretary of the Samity, asking them to vacate the office by the end of the month on the ground that the university wanted it for academic activities. “We wrote back to the varsity authorities asking for a discussion but they did not respond,” said Samity member Sharmila Roy Pommot. “As we did not adhere to their wish, the authorities sealed the office today (Friday). The organisation has a historical background and we want to keep it intact. We want the office to be returned to us.” Sources said Rabindranath had over a century ago advised women of the Tagore family to set up the Alapini Mahila Samity so they could get involved with Santiniketan’s culture. Since its inception in 1916 under the stewardship of the poet’s eldest brother Dwijendranath Tagore, the organisation has been helmed by stalwarts such as Rabindranath’s daughter-in-law Pratima Devi, niece Indira Devi Chaudhurani and Amita Sen, mother of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. Samity president Aparna Das Mahapatra, 86, said the organisation represented the Tagorean tradition and the university authorities had in a way dishonoured the poet by sealing its office. Manisha Banerjee, Samity executive member and a varsity alumna, said: “Aparnadi’s maternal grandmother was Nanibala Roy, who learnt midwifery on Tagore’s instructions and helped women in Santiniketan deliver babies in a scientific way.” The 60-strong Samity members now carry out social activities, publish the cultural magazine Shreyashi, and interact with Patha Bhavana students when the school remains closed during holidays. Many among the Samity members who protested for hours outside one of Visva-Bharati’s gates around noon were aged in their 70s and 80s. Among them was Mahapatra. “We had no choice but to protest against the authorities as the present vice-chancellor is trying to create a disconnect between the varsity and the more-than-a century-old organisation,” she said. Shortly after the protest, the varsity authorities sent a fresh letter to the Samity extending the deadline to vacate the office by three days and offering to unseal it for that period. “We are not ready to accept any fresh deadline; we want our office back,” a Samity member said. She added: “We use one room at Notun Bari twice a month to hold meetings. (After the December 10 letter), we even offered to pay a monthly rent of Rs 1,000 to the university. But the authorities did not respond.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-251
02-01-2021||North East||IAF, NDRF teams battle wildfire in Dzukou Valley||The Centre has thrown its weight behind the Nagaland and Manipur governments’ efforts to douse the wildfire that has been raging for the past few days in Dzukou Valley, a popular tourist and trekking destination located on the inter-state border. This became evident from the tweets of Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh and the increasing involvement of the Indian Air Force and the NDRF in the fire-fighting operation. Located at an altitude of 2,452 m, the Valley is a popular with both tourists and trekkers but has suffered alarming damage due to the fire. It is a four-hour trek from Kohima. Johnny Ruangmei, the Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority OSD, told The Telegraph on Friday evening that three more IAF choppers will be joining the dousing exercise from Saturday, taking the number of choppers involved in the operation to four. Five more teams of NDRF personnel will also join the fire-fighting operation from Saturday while three drones will be used to assess the damage caused to the Valley because of the fire which has been raging at multiple points but the good news is that local volunteers and government agencies have managed to check the spread by cutting firelines, Ruangmei said. “The fire is still raging but has not spread on the Nagaland side but because of strong winds it could spread. This is why we will be scaling up the operations by involving more IAF choppers and NDRF teams from Saturday,” the OSD of NSDMA said. A team of NDRF consists of 60 personnel. Manipur chief minister Singh said on Friday that Union home minister Amit Shah had called him to discuss the Dzukou Valley fire and “assured” all necessary assistance from the home ministry to “contain the situation at earliest.” Singh had on Thursday requested the NDRF, Army and the Assam Rifles to assist in extinguishing the wildfire, which “might probably have started about 2-3 days ago from the Nagaland side and crossed over to Manipur side”. Singh tweeted, “I, on behalf of the people of Manipur, thank Hon’ble Union HM Shri @AmitShahJi for his timely intervention to contain the wildfire at Dzuko Valley. It is indeed very reassuring that under the leadership of @narendramodi Ji & Amit Shah Ji, the people of Manipur are in safe hands.” Apart from the army and NDRF personnel, volunteers along with local populace are also helping fight the fire, which was first, reported on December 29 in Kohima but later spread to Senapati district in neighbouring Manipur. Shillong-based IAF spokesman Wing Commander Ratnakar Singh told this newspaper that a chopper Mi-17V5 have been deployed to assist fight the fire since Thursday after it was requisitioned by the Nagaland government. Manipur chief minister had on Thursday conducted an aerial survey of the Dzukou Valley in Senapati district. According to him, the wildfire at Dzukou Valley is very alarming now and this needs immediate attention before it spreads towards Mt. Iso in Manipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
02-01-2021||Opinion||Great show: India wins Boxing Day Test||Sir — After the debacle in the first Test match against Australia, Team India bounced back in style by winning the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne to level the four-match series 1-1. All eyes were on the stand-in captain, Ajinkya Rahane, how he would lead the team in the absence of Virat Kohli and, most importantly, how India would come from behind to erase one of its darkest moments in Test history. Rahane not only led the team admirably well but also hit a brilliant century in the first innings to give India its decisive winning lead (“An inspiration named Rahane”, Dec 30). By winning this Test, Rahane has also become the second Indian captain after M.S. Dhoni to win each of his first three Tests as skipper. India has never lost a Test in which Rahane has scored a century. The win at Melbourne is all the more significant for India as it has been achieved in the absence of some key players, including Kohli. Perhaps the two major gains for India from this Test are the worthy performances of the debutants, Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It was evident from Team India’s remarkable showing in Melbourne that the squad was determined to win, especially after its ignominious performance in the previous Test in Adelaide where the entire batting order was bundled out for a paltry 36 runs in the second innings. The players had nothing left to lose and everything to prove. Ajinkya Rahane had a gargantuan job ahead; his team had to perform in the absence of the ace batsman, Virat Kohli — he had decided to play only the first Test so that he could go on paternity leave thereafter — and the fast bowler, Mohammed Shami, who was injured. It would not be unreasonable to say that even Indian fans were perhaps expecting their team to lose. Fortunately, Team India proved them wrong. All the changes in the squad line-up paid off, and the entire unit played a tight game, stopping runs and getting crucial catches. Rahane’s field placements were accurately planned, and the bowlers backed their skipper’s decisions. Rahane’s captain’s knock of 112 runs did a world of good in repairing his damaged reputation after his howler in the first Test, where Kohli got run out owing to a bad decision made by Rahane. Under Rahane’s captaincy, the team beat Australia decisively. More important, Rahane proved that the team and, indeed, the nation can count on him in Kohli’s absence. This is of utmost importance in Indian cricket, where all too often the burden of winning falls upon the shoulders of one or two players. Kohli should not feel as though the team’s fortunes depend entirely on him; he should be able to rely on each of his teammates. Malini Bose,Calcutta Novel choice Sir — It was both amusing and oddly heartening to read that a 50-year-old farmer in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district who has been feuding with his family has named his second wife and, interestingly, his dog, Jacky, as his legal heirs. He has cited them as the only two members of his family who take care of him. This is a novel way to acknowledge the fact that animals do indeed play a big role in the mental and physical well-being of human beings. However, is India’s legal apparatus equipped to ensure that Jacky benefits from his inheritance? Sayantan Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Opinion||Bottoms up: gendering of drinks||It is the time of dance and song and mirth — mostly virtual this year — and the poet’s longing for that divine beaker with beaded bubbles winking at the brim may have overtaken many unpoetic souls. But must women dancing the night away as hard as the men drink from a different fount? Received wisdom — or expectation — tends to place the long-stemmed glass of wine or delicately coloured cocktail in elegant female fingers, not the more substantial one with rich golden liquid sloshing about on silvery cubes of ice. For some mysterious reason, whisky seems to be a male drink. Women may have a gin and tonic, or even a vodka, probably mixed with something sweet or tangy. Whisky is unashamedly ‘manly’, although there seems to be no imaginative bar to women partaking of rum — with coke perhaps — and, at merrier moments, inescapably evoking memories of the rambunctious song sung by the terrifying Long John Silver. Yet rum, peculiarly enough, is not specifically ‘male’. The boss-woman plumps firmly for the glass of whisky in literature and film. And not just there either. A male aura surrounds it in everyday life too: a woman who chooses whisky is stereotyped — nicely — as someone who knows her own mind and is not bothered if it shows and — not so nicely — as intimidating. But the gendering of drink breaks down when one steps out of those rooms where women come and go, speaking of Michelangelo, as another poet put it with somewhat bleak irony. An unforgettable scene in a liquor shack by the forest in an Indian film has a beautiful tribal woman, played by an outstanding Indian actor, asking the babu from the city for more drink. The liquor that the first poet visualized as being cooled in the deep-delved earth, tasting of Flora and the country green, is plentiful and varied in rural India, made from flowers, or grain, or juice, or sap, and shared by everyone in the village or community on social occasions. Men and women relish the same drink together. So is it nature or culture that determines taste? Are the women talking of Michelangelo just expected to like wine more than whisky because it looks graceful, as they could once have smoked cigarettes from slender, gold-tipped holders? In these days of more robust equality, however, fun is less picky about gendered delicateness than before. Men and women can slurp and gobble away without attracting the raised eyebrow. With male chefs taking over the more fashionable kitchens and women pilots holding the controls in cockpits, delicacy and virility have become rather elusive attributes to define. More so in middle-class households, where men do the dishes and look after the baby as much as women come home late from work. The evening glass of whisky is shared relaxation then, with beaded bubbles winking gender divides cheerfully away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Opinion||Sweet spotlight: hot chocolate bombs trend on Tiktok||Of all the things to remember 2020 by, you would never have considered hot chocolate bombs to be one. They emerged slowly to grab attention in October on TikTok and then were everywhere on social media. These are hollow spheres of chocolate over which steamed milk is poured to melt and transform them into cups of hot chocolate. The New York Times called it the perfect metaphor for the end of the year — under pressure, we were about to crack anyway. Another food item that dominated TikTok in the early days of the lockdown — Google revealed it was one of the most searched-for recipes in 2020 — was the dalgona coffee, a South Korean drink in which instant coffee, sugar and milk are whipped into a foamy blend. It generated almost half a billion views. Similarly, iced coffee with whipped cream on top also dominated food videos of the year. TikTok showed that the biggest trending food in 2020, posted with 1.6 billion views, was #pancakecereal where people make tiny pancakes that can just be had in a bowl with milk. While TikTok food videos reveal innovation and new trends, they also show that users still rely on comfort. According to Google Trends, there was more than a 280 per cent increase in the search for “banana bread” in March. Reel life Last year marked the 30th anniversary of the classic Christmas movie, Home Alone — and there are many ways for people to take a walk down memory lane and pay tribute to it. In mid-December, the Graduate Evanston launched ‘The King McCallister Experience’, which lets guests book a room that is a replica of the room of the parents of the film’s protagonist, Kevin McCallister. Guests get to eat Little Nero’s cheese pizza; the mini-bar is stocked with Kevin’s favourite snacks from the movie. The room comes with a movie theatre with all the Home Alone films, as well as a Polaroid camera. Ten per cent of the proceeds from each booking will be donated to Lurie Children’s Hospital. In Dallas, Texas, an Airbnb rental also offered a limited edition Home Alone experience. The owner, Jeremy Turner, designed the space — called ‘The Kevin’ — to replicate some of the movie’s iconic setups. To top it all, he delivered free cheese pizza to the guests. The award-winning food artist, Michelle Wibowo, was commissioned by Disney+ to create a gingerbread replica of the McCallister home. Her creation, which took over 300 hours to complete, included 63 trees, 33 windows, 14 pizza boxes and six lampposts.Different experience New Year’s Eve in 2020 was unlike any other for everyone. The iconic Times Square celebration was not even open to the public. Instead, organizers created a global virtual New Year’s Eve ball drop. The event, called VNYE (Virtual New Year’s Eve), brought Times Square alive on people’s devices through what was supposed to be a virtual reality/augmented reality-based experience. The live-stream event allowed people to view Times Square from different angles, watch virtual concerts, ‘take’ the elevator up to the dance floor and watch the ball drop when the clock struck midnight. There was still a way to see NYE at Times Square in person. One could rent a geodesic dome via Airbnb on the Nasdaq terrace, right under the ball, for $21, giving one direct views of Times Square. Those booking a stay also got to enjoy an indoor art lounge where they could watch the celebrations, relax in a reading corner with board games, eat snacks from a fully-stocked dining area as well as dinner prepared by a private chef and cheesecake from Junior’s.Buy less Over Christmas, more than 80 million people travelled to celebrate the holidays. Many Americans are burdened by financial crises and delayed stimulus checks; families could barely afford Christmas presents for their children. Almost 40 per cent of Americans reportedly planned to spend less on gifts this holiday season than they did the year before. But overall, most people planned smaller gatherings. According to data from Pinterest, there has been a huge uptick in people searching for holiday movies and ways to celebrate Christmas at home. There are over 10,000 posts tagged with #CeramicChristmasTree, a vintage ornament popular in the 1970s. Real Christmas tree sales also saw an increase by retailers nationwide. Justin Bieber, Cardi B, Mariah Carey, Ariana Grande and Keith Urban took to social media on Christmas to share family photos, videos and inspiring messages. Wonder Woman 1984 and the Pixar animated film, Soul, debuted on streaming services on December 25. Footnote Times Square adorned billboards with funny tweets by Twitter that summarized 2020. There were six million tweets; some of the chosen ones included “Unsung hero of 2020: Athleisure” and “Can’t wait until I can say that was so 2020”. The initiative was a part of Twitter’s ‘out-of-home’ campaign to showcase tweets that made people laugh during a difficult year. It is launching in other American cities as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Opinion||In poor health||2020 has been a bad year for the health of Indians and for the health of Indian democracy too. The Modi-Shah regime, which is authoritarian by instinct and belief, has used the pandemic to further undermine the processes of constitutional democracy and strengthen its hold over State and society. In pursuit of its ambitions, the regime has launched a multi-pronged attack on the Indian Parliament, Indian federalism, the Indian press and Indian civil society organizations. Let us consider these in turn. In the years he was chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi displayed a consistent contempt for legislative procedure. A report compiled after he had been a decade in office showed that of all the chief ministers of Gujarat since the state’s formation, Modi convened the least assembly sittings. Months would pass in which the assembly would not meet; when it did, a day would be enough to dispose of matters at hand, with much time spent mourning members who had passed away. As is well known, apart from disregarding inputs from MLAs from the Opposition and even from his own party, Chief Minister Modi rarely consulted his own cabinet about major policy decisions. Modi has carried this contempt for consultation with him to New Delhi. For him, Parliament is a place to make the odd stirring speech in, not a chamber for deliberative decision-making. The partisan attitude adopted by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the chairman of the Rajya Sabha is very much in line with their leader’s way of thinking. Their deputies act in the same way. Consider the manner in which the farm bills were ‘passed’ through the Rajya Sabha, with the deputy-chairman of the House, Harivansh, violating all the rules and norms of Parliament by refusing to allow actual voting, and making the bills into law on the basis of his own sense of the House. Of this departure from democratic practice, P.D.T. Achary, the former secretary-general of the Lok Sabha, wrote, “Parliament’s systems are designed to enable the opposition to have its say and the government to have its way. If the former is not possible, parliament as a democratic institution cannot survive for long.” Those who are Modi bhakts, or who believe that the ends justify the means, have disregarded these violations and welcomed the bills as ‘historic’. On the other hand, supporters of the farm bills with more scruples and a deeper understanding of history have honourably alerted us to the awful consequences of such contempt for Parliament. Thus, as the senior lawyer, Arvind Datar, writes, “The enormous economic loss and the dislocation of normal life around Delhi could have been wholly avoided if the Bills had not been bulldozed through Parliament. The agitation teaches us the importance of following parliamentary procedure not just in letter but in spirit as well.” Union ministers may put the blame on urban Naxals, Khalistanis, and Opposition parties, but, as Datar points out, it is the “extraordinary haste with which the farm bills were pushed through both the Houses [that] has created the present crisis, which can only exacerbate the economic woes caused by the pandemic.” More recently, the government cancelled the winter session of Parliament citing the pandemic, even as the Union home minister was addressing large political rallies in Assam and West Bengal. As chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi claimed to believe in ‘co-operative federalism’. As prime minister, he has sought to savagely curtail the rights and responsibilities of states. Again, the farm bill can serve as an example. As Harish Damodaran has pointed out, since the Constitution clearly places both ‘agriculture’ and ‘markets’ on the state list, on these matters “the Centre can encourage, incentivise, persuade and cajole states. However, it cannot legislate on its own.” Nonetheless, through a creative (mis)interpretation of an item in the concurrent list which covers trade and commerce in foodstuffs, the Centre had these bills passed, through the dubious procedure in Parliament described above, and without consulting the states at all. The pandemic has witnessed a more general attack on the federal principle. The powers of the Centre have been strengthened through colonial-era laws and the National Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, state governments run by Opposition parties have been undermined by bribing, cajoling, or intimidating legislators to switch their allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party. A true marker of how much the BJP cares for power and how little for the health of Indians was that the prime minister waited for the swearing-in of the new government in Madhya Pradesh before imposing a draconian lockdown at four hours’ notice. In its attack on federalism, the BJP has particularly targeted two large states — West Bengal and Maharashtra. Here, governors more loyal to the ruling party at the Centre than to the Constitution and Central investigative agencies more loyal to their ministers than to the law have been used by the Modi-Shah regime to harass the non-BJP governments that currently rule these states. This intimidation has become so brazen that the BJP’s once loyal and long-term ally, the Shiv Sena, was compelled to state: “What if our Prime Minister is taking a special interest in destabilising State governments? The Prime Minister belongs to the country. The country stands as a federation. Even the states which do not have BJP governments, those states also talk about national interest. This feeling is being killed.” In his years as chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi was deeply distrustful of even the most non-political of civil society organizations. He has carried this distrust over to New Delhi. The year, 2020, had seen a tightening of the already extensive curbs on non-governmental organizations. The new amendment to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, argues one analyst, is designed to facilitate “arbitrary, vindictive action by the authorities”. By curbing and confining NGOs, the bill shall “have far-reaching consequences on the fields of education, health, people’s livelihoods, gender justice and indeed democracy in India”. Narendra Modi has never much liked journalists who think for themselves, as his refusal to hold a press conference in six-and-a-half years as prime minister shows. The year, 2020, saw growing attacks on the independence of the press in India. In the first two months after the lockdown was imposed in late March, some 55 journalists faced FIRs, physical intimidation, and arrest. The highest number of attacks on journalists were in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh, which are all ruled or controlled by the BJP. As a report by the Free Speech Collective noted, “The year 2020 has been a bad one for journalists in India… The killing and attacks on journalists have continued unabated. While self-censorship within the media remained an open secret, the government sought to increase regulation of the media, with media policies, funding and administrative mechanisms for online media.” India now occupies the 142nd place on the World Press Freedom Index, ranking well below Nepal, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka, though the fact that we are three places above Pakistan may provide some consolation to deshbhakts. Apart from attacks on Parliament, federalism, civil society organizations and the press, 2020 had also seen a further stigmatization of India’s large and vulnerable Muslim minority. This stigmatization has been overseen by two of the most powerful politicians in India. The hand of the home minister, Amit Shah, is most visible in the BJP’s Bengal campaign and in the police’s partisan handling of the Delhi riots and their aftermath and the hand of UP’s chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, in the incarceration of a growing number of Muslim men on charges that are shady, flimsy, or non-existent. Notwithstanding the prime minister’s recent speech at the Aligarh Muslim University, it is clearly Adityanath’s majoritarianism that represents the deep, inner feelings of the party faithful, as manifest in the eagerness of other BJP chief ministers to enact the discriminatory laws and practices adopted in UP. When the new laws regarding agriculture and labour were passed, there was a chorus of applause from free-market columnists crowing, “the crisis has not been wasted”. The chorus was credulous, because sustained economic growth requires both a level playing field and the rule of law. Neither does, or can, exist, in the Modi-Shah regime. Capitalists who contribute more to the secretive electoral bonds scheme shall get preferential treatment over those who don’t. Politicians who defect from other parties to the BJP miraculously have all corruption cases against them dropped. The police, the bureaucracy and even the courts allegedly act in the interests of their political masters rather than according to the law. To hold the State and the private sector accountable, one needs the transparent gaze of a free press, informed debate in Parliament, and independent civil society organizations. With what transpired in 2020, we have even less of these than previously. Finally, one cannot have social harmony if the State and the ruling party treat those who are not Hindus as inferior to those who are. For the prime minister and his party, political power, ideological control, and personal glory take precedence over the economic and social well-being of India’s citizens. They have, therefore, used, or rather abused, the crisis to weaken the institutions of Indian democracy and the traditions of Indian pluralism so as to further the construction of an authoritarian and majoritarian State, which they seek far more diligently than anything else. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city parking zones extended, move irritates residents||The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the civic body which looks after the parking matters of the steel city, has turned even residential areas into parking zones, thereby deepening issues in the area. Though the JNAC had implemented its parking policies in the Sakchi and Kadma localities, vehicle owners are getting more affected after the same was deployed in the Bistupur area more expansively. “Parking problem continues to get murkier in the city, especially in the posh Bistupur area. Until recently, we would have to pay parking charges on the Bistupur Main Road only, but a vehicle owner has to pay the parking charge at the place along the bypass road of the Bistupur Main Road.  Such a move on the part of the civic body is not only pinching our pocket, but also is very irritating,” said Gulab Singh, a resident of Kagalnagar in Sonari while talking to this website. Singh, who is a businessman, said he used to park his car at the parking lot behind the Bank of Baroda or on the bypass road, depending on the nature of his work at Bistupur. “But surprisingly I had to pay a parking charge -- Rs 20 -- for keeping the car on the bypass road on Saturday.  On turning around, I saw a board nearby, informing about parking of two-wheelers and four-wheelers," said the businessman. He said it seems that there is no such area left in Bistupur where one can spend a little while without paying the parking charge. At a number of places, the vehicle owners could be spotted quarreling with workers over payments of parking charge on the stretch of Bistupur Main Road's Bypass Road, which was earlier a free-parking zone. The civic body is also fixing more boards on the new areas to make people aware that a number of places have now become parking zone, Parking charge for two-wheelers is Rs 10 and for cars Rs 20. City manager, JNAC, Sandeep Kumar Singh said they are extending the parking areas for the benefit of the vehicle owners. “Parking fees that are charged from the vehicle owners are too negligible in comparison to the vehicle's cost.  If a vehicle remains parked in a parking lot, then it always remains safe. We are therefore extending our parking lots so that more and more people can be benefitted,” said the City Manager while talking to The Telegraph Online. The JNAC officer informed that they are going to put up “No-Parking” sign-boards at some stretches of the Bistupur main Road and the Bypass Road shotly.  He informed that once such boards are fixed, if any vehicle is found parked in the No-parking zone, then a police officer would pick it up with a towing vehicle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over 300 health workers join state dry run in 6 districts||The state health department, which conducted a dry run for Covid-19 immunisations at 13 locations in six districts on Saturday, dubbed the marathon exercise a success, hinting of more such trials in the coming days to prepare for the actual launch of the vaccine expected later this year. As many as 325 healthcare workers took part in the dry run aimed at finalising logistics management to crowd handling, getting to know the functioning of the app, Co-Win, which has been developed for the nationwide immunisation drive. Dry runs were held in Ranchi, Simdega, Pakur, Palamu, East Singhbhum and Chatra. At each site, a mock drill was held during which participants rehearsed the entire process, from arriving at the vaccination centre to getting registered, taking the shot and waiting at an observation room. Data collected was also updated in the system. In Ranchi, the drill was held at the community health care (CHC) in Ratu and the sub-divisional hospital in Bundu. Nodal officer for vaccine programme Ajit Prasad said, “The dry run was a success. Over 300 health workers took part. No major glitches have been reported yet, and based on feedback of participants, further preparedness will be undertaken.” In the coming days, he said, all designated vaccine centres would be equipped with facilities to tackle exigencies, if any, after the actual vaccination. In Jamshedpur, about 25 health workers were part of the dry run, civil surgeon, R.N. Jha said. “Health workers posing as patients received calls from the hospital for vaccination. Upon their arrival, sanitization protocols were performed at the vaccination centre and registration was done. After that, patients proceeded to the designated spot for getting vaccines. Then, he/she was lodged at an observation room. After half an hour they got discharged.” Jha said the process of getting registered and then receiving the vaccine took 12 minutes, after which a beneficiary was sent to the observation room where he/ she was made to wait for half an hour. So far, the state health department has prepared a panel of 7,000 vaccinators who have been provided training. This apart, the state has readied 275 cold chain points while a state-level vaccine warehouse has been set up at Namkum in Ranchi, in addition to two existing regional warehouses in Palamau and Deoghar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel promises to plant trees, residents unimpressed||Steel major Bokaro Steel Plant celebrated New Year’s Day on Friday by announcing its resolution to plant one lakh trees in the city in the next 12 months. To achieve the goal, Director in-charge, Bokaro Steel Plant, Amarendu Prakash made an appeal to each family residing in the township to plant at least one tree in 2021, saying that the company will provide them with free saplings by installing several counters. “We have four lakh residents in the Bokaro Steel Plant township, which roughly means one lakh families. If each family plants a tree we will achieve our target of planting one lakh trees in 2021,” Prakash said, adding that saving the environment for future generations is a major concern of the company. The director asked residents to take precautionary measures for Covid-19. However, all this failed to impress them as Prakash did not address major issues in the city. Problems like rising encroachment of quarters and land, growing theft of electricity and water, hindrance in expansion of Bokaro Airport with encroachment on the company’s land, problems faced by owners of commercial plots, Bokaro Steel Plant-dependent SMEs growing sick in lack of orders, installation of solid waste plant and others remained unaddressed. Instead, in an online interaction via Facebook, Prakash went on to talk about business-related achievements, saying that the company in December has made the highest ever cash collection of Rs 2,200 crore by selling its steel products. The amount collected is also the highest, in comparison to other steel plants of the parent company, Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), he said. “Our team has made it by increasing the quality of our product and reducing production costs. We are progressing. Our production and performance are improving month by month,” Prakash said. “This New Year we should also make a commitment to ourselves to make ‘Every month- A better month’. We will work with a commitment to make every month better than the past one. Like we will perform better in January than December and will follow till the end of this year. Production of hot metal, hot roll coil and cold roll coil was the best in December,” he added. Prakash also said that all the services in the township will be made online to ensure transparency and less time-consumption. From attending to complaints to its completion, everything will be online for the residents, he said. People can lodge complaints online about the civil or other problems that they face in quarters. “We have already introduced this online submission of note-sheets and other documents inside the plant and in the coming six months’ time, all the services will be made online for the benefit of people. It will speed up work and decision making, and is time-saving too,” said Prakash. He also announced to celebrate 2021 as “Sports and WellBeing Year”. Prakash appealed to residents to come forward and participate in the sports events organised by the BSL all round this year. Prakash pointed out that Bokaro is the only town in the country which has bagged the status of “Global Active City”.They will celebrate this year as a sports festival organising marathon, cycling, online chess, and other sports events. For that to happen, he sought the participation of all the residents of the town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||In Palamau, nervousness the order of the day during dry run||At Medinirai Medical College and Hospital, as the nervous nurse held the syringe during the dry run for administering a vaccine on Saturday, the health officer asked her to hold it straight, and at a right angle to the arm of the woman health worker who was posing as the recipient. She got it right immediately, and admitted she was a bit uneasy because of the presence of a large number of officials, including civil surgeon John F Kennedy and district reproductive child health officer Anil K. Singh. Chhaterpur sub-divisional hospital, 48km from here, was the second venue in Palamau where the dry run was held under the supervision of medical in-charge R.K. Agarwal. Deputy commissioner of Palamau Shashi Ranjan said, “The dry run has enabled us to know where we need to concentrate more during the vaccination drive. We have asked for a wall clock at every observation room so that we can make a note of the time a beneficiary is vaccinated before he is made to wait there for half an hour.” At Medinirai, the nurse’s nervousness was contagious. As health worker Santosh Kumar sat before the vaccination desk, he saw the nurse getting ready with his injection. The man in all seriousness asked her to ensure there was “no air bubble in the syringe” before she administered the dose. Santosh thought he was getting his first dose of the real vaccine. When told this was a dry run, he seemed relieved and willingly rolled up his sleeves to facilitate the mock jab. After that he went to the adjacent observation room to wait for the regulation half hour. Deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan said it was natural for people to be apprehensive. “In any case, people generally fear injections. In case of the coronavirus shot, so many half-baked ideas are being circulated, it is natural that people will be worried,” he said. Later, Ranjan inspected ice lined refrigerators and cold chain facilities. District reproductive child health officer Anil K. Singh said with the given infrastructure, Palamau could store 8,500 doses of the coronavirus vaccine. Civil surgeon Kennedy explained that a vaccinated individual would have to come back to the same centre after 28 days for his/her second dose. “Vaccinated individuals cannot change his/her immunisation centre,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Boy, 4, dies as father fails to notice accident||A four-year-old died Saturday on the spot at a shop in Karni Road of Itkhori, Chatra, when jute bags containing cow fodder fell on him. Ravi Dangi, the father of the toddler named Babu, was present at his shop when the accident took place, but failed to notice it. He was later found under the heap of jute bags when relatives began searching for him. Ravi and his wife immediately rushed to the government health centre with their child but doctors said he was brought dead. The doctors said that the boy had suffered injuries on his head and other parts of the body, apart from being suffocated. They added that a few bags, each weighing 50 kilograms fell on the boy, which resulted in his death on the spot. Talking about the accident, relatives of the family said Ravi runs a shop of cow fodder in his house. He was busy with customers on Saturday when the child reached the spot and started playing, by climbing up the bags. It was then when a few of them suddenly fell down, crushing the toddler. All this happened without the father noticing before his wife started searching for the boy. Ravi, his wife and neighbours finally spotted the fallen bags, and moved them aside to find Babu underneath. Itkhori police officials said they came to know about the incident, adding that the body of the toddler was handed over to his parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town bird lovers raise awareness on conservation||In a bid to promote bird conservation, a group of 30 bird lovers under the banner of ‘Dhanbad Birders’ have been working relentlessly over the past three months to raise awareness among the masses. The group, in order to achieve its goal, has been doing a range of activities, including installing 25 thought provoking exhibits, submitting reports to the concerned authorities about the presence of a wide range of birds and demanding bird conservation steps by declaring the sites as prohibited areas. Founded by a retired banker A.K. Sahay on September 14, the club through an extensive survey across the town has identified six spots that are hotspots of bird-watching and has presence of at least 20 species. The group, headed by a renowned radiologist of Dhanbad Dr. Amit Vishwakarma as its president, has also identified seven bird sites on the outskirts of the town. The aim of the Dhanbad Birders is to raise awareness among the common people about the significance of wildlife and environmental conservation. It has engaged in sustained information campaigns and has installed 25 exhibits containing messages from renowned experts like Carol Inskipp and Dr. Asad Rahmani at several places across the town. Talking about the species of birds on Saturday, Sahay, a renowned author on Ornithology and a wildlife columnist, said, “For identifying the birds spot within the town and on its outskirts, we made thousands of field trips since September 14, the results of which were amazing as we were astonished sighting so many varieties.” The six bird spots identified within the town comprise -- Jagjivan Nagar, DS Colony (near Pampu Talab), Bartand (in the vicinity of CIMFR), Bekar Bandh, Bhelatand (near DPS Hirak Branch), and Bhelatand Village. The seven sites in the outskirts include -- Dhokra near Domerpur (17 kms from Dhanbad), Govindpur (12 km from Dhanbad), Chhai Gadda near Kargali Ghat in Baliapur (20 kms from Dhanbad), Domgarh Boating Point (23 km from Dhanbad), Maheshpur in Katras (23 km from Dhanbad), Aamtal (6.2 km from Dhanbad), Foothills of Dhangi Pahar in PradhanKhanta (14 km from Dhanbad). Dr. Vishwakarma detailed the major species that have been identified in these areas. Out of the 30 species identified at Jagjivan Nagar the major ones included Orioles, Green Bee-eater and Flameback. Among the 25 species in DS Colony, the prominent ones were Bronze winged Jacana and Sparrow. The major species identified among 24 species of Bartand included Red Naped Ibis and wood sandpiper while among the 23 species identified at Bekar Bandh the major species are Parakeet, Doves and Mynas. In Bhetaland, the prominent species were identified as Laughing Dove, Asian Openbill, Sun Bird and Prinia. Among the six spots  Bartand has special features as flocks of more than 200 mynas can be sighted here. Similarly the speciality of Bhelatand village and Jagjivan Nagar is the presence of Indian Silver Bill and Verditer species respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||25 health workers join East Singhbum dry run||The East Singhbhum district health department carried out a dry run for Covid vaccinations at two health hubs on Saturday, days after a dozen-odd people staying a hotel here tested positive for the coronavirus. In all, 50 health workers were involved in the dry run at Sadar Hospital at Khasmahal and at the Ghatshila sub-divisional hospital. The session, carried out in accordance with the Union health ministry guidelines, began at 9 am and continued till 12.30pm in the presence of district civil surgeon R.N. Jha and district chief medical officer Sahir Pal at the respective hospitals. "We carried out a dry run on 25 beneficiaries at Sadar Hospital in Jamshedpur and as many beneficiaries at the government hospital in Ghatshila. All those subjected to the dry run were the health department workers. We gathered information about the persons to be immunised, fed in other details, verified documents and uploaded the data in the Co-win app," said the district civil surgeon. After that, Jha said, the vaccination was conducted. The practise session was a success, he added. As on Friday night, the number of Coronavirus cases in the East Singhbhum district stood at 17,628 of which 228 were active cases. On Thursday night, 11 foreigners, staying at the Fortune Park Centre Point at Bistupur, tested positive for the virus, in addition to a hotel staffer. This prompted the district administration to quarantine all of them in the hotel. "We have instructed all the 12 persons to remain in quarantine at the hotel for the next 10 days. At the end of the ten days, we will collect blood or swab samples of all of them for testing to find out if they had contracted the new variant of the virus," said medical officer  Pal, who is also district surveillance officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
02-01-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries in Jharkhand||New cases of Covid-19 continued to surpass recoveries in the state as 128 fresh cases of infections were reported in the last 24 hours against 105 people who got cured on Friday. No fatalities occurred during the same period. Of the total new cases in the day, Ranchi recorded 71 while Palamau and East Singhbhum recorded  11 and 12 cases each respectively. As many as 14 districts reported single-digit figures while seven out of 24 districts had zero cases, according to an official bulletin of the state health department. As many as 1,15,241 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,12,529 recovered since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Total casualties currently stand at 1030. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand now stands at 0.14% against the national average of 0.16%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state is 508.21 days against the national figure of 424.26 days. The recovery rate is 97.64 per cent than that of the national average of 96.10 per cent while the mortality rate in the state is 0.89 per cent vis-a-vis 1.40 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-187
