03-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine dry run ‘successful’ ||An identity check at the gate, a placebo injection in the vaccination room and a 30-minute wait in the observation room to note any adverse effect — these were three crucial steps of the dry run for Covid-19 vaccines conducted in three places of Bengal on Saturday. Seventy-five front line workers volunteered as recipients of the placebo during the dry run conducted at an urban primary health centre of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation at Salt Lake’s Duttabad, at the Amdanga Rural Hospital in North 24-Parganas and another urban primary health centre of Madhyamgram municipality. There were 25 volunteers at each of the sites. State health department officials said the dry run was a dress rehearsal for actual vaccination. Its objective was to identify any loopholes in the system — whether the vaccinators were able to inject the placebos properly, whether the identity was checked or whether the Co-Win app, where details of a beneficiary would be uploaded after the vaccine was administered, worked properly. The dry run also helped to see if the cold chain was maintained well. “The dry run was completed without any glitch. It was successful,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services of the state government. The dry run is a mock vaccination without giving the actual vaccine, said another senior health department official. The official explained the steps the volunteers, acting as potential Covid-19 vaccine recipients, underwent on Saturday. “The volunteers had to bring identity cards that were also their address proof. They were allowed into the centre only if they were among the ones that were asked to come on Saturday,” said the official. This was necessary because Covid-19 vaccine will be given only to those people who are pre-registered with the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) app that has been created for the vaccination. It is also mentioned in the Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines, issued by the Union ministry of health that was last updated on December 28. There will not be any on-the-spot registration. Sources in the health department said vaccination teams would have the list of 100 people who would be given the vaccine in that session. A volunteer first entered the waiting room where a basic health check was done and his/her identity was matched with the list available with the vaccination team. The person was then sent to the vaccination room where the vaccinator administered the placebo. An assistant entered the details of the person in the Co-Win app once the placebo was administered. The volunteer was next taken to the observation room where the person had to spend 30 minutes. “The observation time of 30 minutes is kept to see if there is any adverse reaction after taking the vaccine. In actual vaccination, the person would be told the date when the second dose has to be taken and where to contact if there is any adverse reaction,” said the official. There will be control rooms in each district where the recipients can call, he added. The 25 volunteers did not come together, but in gaps to ensure that they did not crowd the centre. This was done to ensure physical distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||JU summer vacation for engineering cut to 7 days||The 2021 summer vacation for first-year engineering students at Jadavpur University has been reduced to seven days to make up for the lost time in the session that was supposed to begin in August but will begin digitally on January 11. At JU, the summer vacation is usually for one-and-a-half months, from the third week of May and till the first week of July, when second-year classes start. The university has curtailed the summer break so that the syllabus can be completed and classes for the second-year can start from August, in keeping with an advisory from the UGC, a JU official said. The decision to curtail the vacation was taken at an engineering and technology faculty council meeting on December 20 “in consideration with the current situation of Covid-19 pandemic”. According to the academic calendar approved at the meeting, once the second semester exams — from July 14 to July 24 — are over, the students will have a seven-day break before second-year classes begin in August. “We will not be able to complete the courses if we did not cut down on summer vacation. UGC has recommended the academic calendar, factoring in this concern,” said an official of the faculty. The first-semester exams, usually held in December, will be held in April because the start of the academic session was delayed. Classes at IIEST, Shibpur and NIT Durgapur, that admit students on the basis of ranks at the JEE-main, started on December 1. JU could not start classes even though the three-phased centralised counselling conducted by the state JEE board had ended in October. What prevented JU? “Since 487 out of 1,253 BTech seats remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the state JEE board, JU had to conduct counselling on its own to fill up the vacancies. Now that the process is over, following a week-long induction programme, classes will start on January 11,” said an official. AICTE, from last year, has made it mandatory for all engineering institutions to conduct an induction session before classes start. Engineering students are put through the induction to reinforce the fundamental concepts and strengthen language skills required for technical education. Over one in three BTech seats remained vacant this year before JU conducted decentralised counselling — an unprecedented situation at JU, considered the premiere engineering institution in Bengal. Classes will be held on digital platforms because the state government has not given permission for on-campus classes. “As engineering education involves a regular visit to the workshops and labs, we are worried about the quality of online classes and looking forward to getting a green signal from the government for in-person classes,” said a member of the university’s executive council. The notice says: “The academic calendar for the 20020-21 academic session has been designed based on the prevalent academic situation. Further changes in this calendar, if required, may be incorporated due to any unavoidable circumstances,”. The summer vacation for third-year students will be of one-and-a-half months, because the students have to do an internship, the council member said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Interfaith couples talk about lived experiences||They left the religion column blank while admitting their kids to school. Their daughter uses both their surnames. Another couple did not give any surname to their daughter. Two Hindu-Muslim couples spoke about their lived experiences at an online discussion on December 23. They said they did not want their children to grow up as people belonging to any particular religion and that their marriage and living together bore testimonies that love was bigger than the boundaries set by dogmatic religionists. Sharmila Ghosh, 44, and Rafiuddin Ahmed, 45, both school teachers, have named their daughter Pratham Pratishruti after Ashapurna Debi’s Bengali novel of the same name. “We did not want our daughter to have a name or a surname that would tell her religion. We did not want to give people a chance to know what her religion is, so we named her Pratham Pratishruti,” said Ghosh. “It was also like my husband and I fulfiling the promise we made to each other, of marrying despite all difficulties,” she said. Ghosh and Ahmed were teachers in a school in South 24-Parganas’ Kakdwip. They got married in 2004 and had to face a groundswell of opposition from colleagues and family. “My parents were opposed to our relationship. Both Rafi and I were ostracised by many of our colleagues in school. I was suspended citing indiscipline. But there were some colleagues who stood by us. We lived in the house of one of our colleagues because it was impossible to get a house on rent,” Ghosh. “My parents neither opposed nor came forward and showed their support. They were indifferent,” said Ahmed. Ahmed was even thrashed by people in the area who were opposed to the marriage. “The local journalists helped us a lot. One of them informed Mahashweta Debi, who spoke to the local administration,” said Ghosh. Police had to escort the couple out of Kakdwip. Things turned for the better after some years. The couple now lives with Ghosh’s parents in Calcutta. Both teach at a city school. “My parents sort of accepted the relationship after our daughter was born. Now Rafi and I look after them,” said Ghosh. The journey from college buddies to married couple for freelance writer Masuma Parveen, 38, and journalist Amitava Gupta, 40, stood in stark contrast to Ghosh and Ahmed’s experience. Parveen and Gupta did not face any opposition from family and friends. They, too, did not write any religion while filling their 10-year-old daughter’s school admission form. “Our daughter writes Parveen Gupta as her surname,” said Parveen. She ascribed a combination of a patriarchal mindset and insecurity of the majority community to them not facing any trouble in getting married. “Patriarchy sees wives as properties of their husbands. A Muslim woman coming into the Hindu fold is accepted because it satisfies the majority community’s patriarchal mindset. But it is not accepted when a Hindu woman marries a Muslim man,” she said. “Besides, we were lucky to have friends and families who were not bothered about religion,” she said. The discussion was organised by Ebong Alap, a voluntary organisation working on issues like gender and social harmony. These stories need to be told and retold to counter the narrative of divisive politics. These are stories that broke barriers of religion, said one of the moderators. To the kids, their parents’ dual religion has given them reason to celebrate more occasions. The children wear new clothes and feast during Durga Puja as well as Id with the same fervour, the couples said. Did the couples ever bring up religion during the nasty fights that all married couples go through, did one tell the other ‘All Hindus are like this or all Muslims are like this?’ asked a listener. “Neither of us ever brought religion into our fights. I think doing that would be foolish because we agreed to live with each other knowing well that we belonged to different religions,” said Parveen. Sharmila and Rafiuddin nodded with smiles on their faces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Parents don multiple hats for school events||The changed circumstances have put the entire onus on parents if their child has to participate in school activities. They now have to ensure that they find time to get their child do the rehearsals, arrange the costumes and the props. And also have be adept at video recording with “just the right amount of light”. Earlier, parents would be happy to give their consent for their child to participate and all that they had to do was take half a day off to be present to see their child on stage or on field. But now, it means finding time every day to get their child ready for the final show and then shoot it after many takes to get that one “perfect recording”, which has met all parameters set by the school. Teachers send out detailed instructions and for parents the challenge is to find a bare wall as background to record the child in action or a 10ft floor length that can be used as a track for a sporting event. And the teacher does not miss the details. The parents of a child in Class V girl made a video of her dancing. The costume was right, so was the dance and the background but the teacher noticed that the girl’s feet were brushing against the carpet, which was impacting her movement. “Since it was a competitive event for an inter-school fest the teacher felt the girl would lose points and the parents had to reshoot,” said the head of the school. A father who works in a private firm had to take off so that his daughter in Class II could participate in a school sporting event. “She had to blow a paper tea cup placed 4ft from the start point. She had to run to the cup and blow it while the teacher was recording the time since it was a competitive event,” he said. “It was over in 30 seconds or more but I had to set up the laptop at the right angle and we had to wait for an hour for her turn because there were other participants also. But I was happy to do it because she was so excited,” said Y. Goel, who took a couple of hours off from work while his wife was busy at work. Schools too agree that events have become “parent dependent”. “So many schools are organising online fests but for the school to participate we have to depend on parents’ cooperation. Parents have to invest a lot of time. Some of them are in a difficult circumstance if someone is ailing at home or they have other pressing commitments,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. Several school heads agreed that parental consent has become very significance under the circumstances. “We cannot involve all children even if we want to because the parents have to agree to video record and send it to us. Earlier, we would do an audition for an event but now it is more dependent on parents’ involvement,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Ghosh said teachers send out detailed instructions and sometimes retakes are needed to get the perfect shot. “For a jumping event, the camera has to show the legs and has to be at a certain angle and from a certain range,” said Ghosh. A mother, whose six-year-old daughter played the role of a fairy in a school concert, said she shot the video seven-eight times or “maybe more” and sent it to the teacher. “Sometimes, the prop is not placed properly or the light is not right. The teacher told me to do the rehearsal at a time when she was free so that she could guide me,” said the mother. In some cases, the classroom competition has taken a different dimension. More than the children the parents have become competitive, agreed some parents. “When you see other mothers being able to do it, you feel why can’t I do it,” said R. Singh, a mother whose daughter is in Class II. While parents are sweating it out in between work from home and work at home, schools have also become less demanding than before. “Earlier, we would have specific requirements but now we understand that it is not easy for parents to arrange for costumes. So, we tell them to make do with what they have at home,” said a head. Rashmi Dixit had dressed her son, who is in upper nursery, as a sheep for an event, said it made her more “involved”. “Parents would prepare the children for fancy dress and not really see how they were doing. Now, they are part of the entire thing,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Red flags to watch out for while working out at home||Timely medical intervention helped bring Sourav Ganguly out of danger on Saturday but his condition prompted doctors and fitness experts to stress the warning signs not to be ignored while working out or running on a treadmill. Having been a sportsperson for decades, Sourav knows the pros and cons of working out better than most people, doctors said. But a bulk of Calcuttans eager to gain muscle or lose weight work out without the supervision of a qualified trainer, they pointed out. In 2017, a techie collapsed and died while running on the treadmill at his New Town office’s gym. Breathlessness, fatigue, heaviness in the chest, pain stretching from the chest to the arm are some of the red flags that should not be ignored while working out, said doctors. “Even if there is a slight discomfort while working out, you should not push yourself and continue. You should stop and seek medical help,” said interventional cardiologist Rabin Chakraborty.People with a family history of cardiac ailments should be extra cautious before starting a work-out regimen, he said. A detailed assessment of health parameters, lifestyle habits and family medical history is imperative for everyone before going ahead with a workout regimen, said fitness experts. But only a handful of the gyms that have mushroomed in and around Calcutta have qualified trainers who prepare exercise regimens for clients after observing their health parameters. People working out at their home gyms, something that had seen a surge during the lockdown, should also ideally be under a qualified trainer, said doctors. “A thorough screening to assess blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol and all other parameters should be done before joining a gym. Another detailed assessment of the client should be done at the gym by a qualified trainer before preparing a work-out regimen,” said Arthur Cardozo, CEO of Karma Fitness Studio and a fitness consultant. The client’s age and whether he or she is a smoker or drinks alcohol must also be considered while preparing an exercise regimen, he added. A section of social media memes pointed out “heart attacks suffered in a short succession” by choreographer Remo D’Souza (in December 2020) and Sourav. Their contention — both D’Souza and Sourav are much fitter than an ordinary person and if they are vulnerable to a heart attack, what is the use of staying fit. Surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay said the incidents with D’Souza and Sourav should not be considered anecdotal. “They form a miniscule percentage and should be considered isolated cases against the run of play. A person should exercise, or just walk briskly, for around 30 minutes every day at least five days a week,” he said. Gagan Gagan Sachdev, the owner of Bodyline chain of stores and multiple gyms in the city, said over the past couple of years, many gyms in Calcutta have opted for qualified trainers. It is a happy change, he said, but there are many who still do not care for caution. “A little further from the heart of Calcutta and most gyms do not have qualified trainers. They have bodybuilders who are mostly self-taught,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Virtual flag-off plan for Kolkata International Film Festival||The inauguration of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) will be held virtually though screenings will take place on site. Only government venues — Nandan, Rabindra Sadan, Calcutta Information Centre, Sisir Mancha, Chalachchitra Satabarsha Bhavan in Tollygunge and Rabindra Okakura Bhavan in Salt Lake — have been chosen this year to screen 81 feature films and 50 short and documentary films from 45 countries. Bookings, though free of cost, will have to be done on the portal bookmyshow.com for the 50 per cent seats that will be made available at each venue. Delegate registration too will happen online at kiff.in, with the delegate fee waived this year. The QR codes on delegate cards and mobile tickets will be scanned for contactless entry. Seat booking will start at 10am two days before the screening date of each film. A person can book one seat of every show. There will be a helpdesk at every venue for people without smartphones. The festival, which was pushed back from the original schedule of November 8 to 15 due to the post-Puja pandemic situation, will now be held on the same dates in January. There will be no star-studded inauguration ceremony. The honours will be done by the chief minister from Nabanna at 4pm on January 8, in presence of festival committee members. The inaugural film to be screened at Rabindra Sadan will be Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar, which was Soumitra Chatterjee’s debut film. Tribute will be paid to the legend who passed away recently through nine of his films. Works of actors Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor, Tapas Pal, Santu Mukherjee, danseuse Amala Shankar and directors Fernando Solanas, Kim Ki-Duk and Basu Chatterjee, who passed away in course of 2020, will also be screened. Centenary tributes will be paid to Federico Fellini with six films, Bhanu Banerjee with two films and to Hemanta Mukherjee, Pt Ravi Shankar and French New Wave director Eric Rohmer with a film each. Ra.One and Gulaab Gang director Anubhav Sinha will deliver the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on January 9 at Sisir Mancha on the topic “Social responsibility in mainstream Indian cinema”. The Best Film and the Best Director will get Rs 51 lakh and Rs 21 lakh in cash respectively along with the Royal Bengal Golden Tiger trophy.  In the Indian Languages Competition Section, the Best Film will get the Hiralal Sen Memorial Trophy and Rs 7 lakh. The Best Short Film and the Best Documentary Film will each get the Royal Bengal Golden Tiger Trophy and Rs 5 lakh. Filipino director Brillante Mendoza will be the international jury board chairman. Exhibitions will showcase the life and works of Soumitra at the Nandan foyer and of Fellini and Rohmer on the first floor of Gaganendra Pradarshashala, the ground floor of which will host exhibitions on Shankar, Hemanta and Bhanu Banerjee. All of them will be inaugurated on January 9. Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary on January 12 will be marked by screening of four movies and documentaries. Contemporary films to be screened will include prize-winning entries at Berlin, Venice and Busan film festivals. Discussions on films will be held at Ektara Mancha in the Rabindra Sadan complex daily from January 9 to 15 with participation from film personalities. The inaugural “cine adda” will be on Soumitra. A press conference was held on Saturday at Sisir Mancha, attended by ministers Aroop Biswas and Indranil Sen, festival committee office-bearers Raj Chakrabarty and Param-brata Chatterjee and actress Paoli Dam among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||Bus at high speed injures pedestrian||A private bus, allegedly being driven dangerously, grievously injured a pedestrian who was trying to cross the road in front of Bhowanipore police station on Saturday afternoon. The incident happened on the Exide-bound flank of SP Mukherjee Road around 3pm. Witnesses said the bus was moving at a high speed and did not stop to avert the collision with the pedestrian. “The man, who appears in his 40s, had just crossed the road and was trying to board the bus when the incident happened,” said an officer of Bhowanipore police station. The injured person has been admitted at SSKM Hospital. The stretch that remains busy with vehicles and pedestrians alike, has traffic signals at close intervals and there is often a tendency to rush through them among buses, several motorists complained. “As the gap between two signals is comparatively less, I have seen buses trying to speed past as many signals as they can whenever the signal is green,” said a resident of Tollygunge, who has to travel through the stretch everyday to reach his Girish Park office. Police said on Saturday, the injured person — whose identity was yet to be ascertained — had been trying to cross the road from one direction or another, several times. However, preliminary inquiry by the cops suggested that the bus hit the pedestrian when he was trying to board the bus through the front gate. “One of the biggest problems with buses is their tendency to pick up and drop passengers even without bringing stopping the vehicle,” said an officer of the traffic department. The offending bus of route 3C/1 had fled from the spot after hitting the man but was forced to stop at the next traffic signal that turned red before it could cross over. The driver abandoned the bus and fled from the spot. A search has been launched for the driver. According to the records available in Lalbazar, of the 267 people who had lost lives in road accidents in Calcutta in 2019, as many as 85 deaths were caused because of buses. Of the 85 people who died in accidents, 47 were pedestrians and 19 are bus passengers. Officers of Bhowanipore police station have started a case of rash and negligent driving against the bus driver. Senior official, however added that pedestrians should also follow traffic rules to avoid any accident. “Pedestrians should avail zebra crossings and wait for the signal to turn red before stepping on the thoroughfare. This is basic,” said an officer of the traffic department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Calcutta||NIT seeks alumni help to bridge digital gap||The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, has appealed to its alumni for aid as “it is very important to bridge the digital divide that is threatening the future of many students in the present pandemic situation due to lack of resources and facilities at the institutional level”. Online education has posed a great challenge to the current batch of students, many of whom come from poor economic backgrounds, and cannot afford to buy laptops/smartphones or access to high-speed Internet connection. NIT Durgapur started online classes from September 7. While live classes are being held on platforms such as Microsoft Teams or Google Meet, the institute is also uploading recorded lectures on Facebook and YouTube. But a large section of students do not have laptops, smartphones or broadband connectivity, and this is coming in the way of the online classes, said an official of the institute. “This is an unprecedented situation. We are aware of the kind of constraints our students are encountering amid the pandemic. So we have decided to appeal to our alumni for help,” Anupam Basu, the director of the institute, told Metro on December 30. Tapping the alumni resource in the hope that their donation could help students in distress amid the pandemic is not unique to NIT Durgapur. The director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur, had appealed to the institution’s former students on the occasion of a virtual global alumni meet on Sunday for a “generous contribution” to help students who are in no position to pay tuition fees because of the Covid pandemic. The digital divide has been a point of concern at the NIT Durgapur for a while and a survey among students in April had pointed out that 45-50 per cent of its BTech students won’t be able to attend online classes because they either don’t have a computer or live in places with poor Internet connectivity. Although the institute is trying its best to provide all kinds of assistance to these students to get the required IT hardware and broadband/Internet connectivity, but it may not be possible to reach out to all, an official of the institute said. Considering this inadequacy the institution has decided to engage the alumni to help the students, he said. The notice urges the alumni to contribute by clicking on the link — NITDAlumni4edu — uploaded on the institute’s website. “We request our generous alumni to come forward and donate to a cause that will ensure that every student continues to learn, and his/her economic condition doesn’t become a barrier in fulfilling his/her dreams” says the notice. The institute has also requested its alumni members who are in the telecom service sectors to help out students who are struggling with poor connectivity at home. This aid will matter a lot, it will help students join the online classes, said an official. “It is also high time that we set up a Centre for Digital Learning in order to facilitate the new normal online/ digital mode of education more effectively,” says the notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
03-01-2021||Business||China to take steps to safeguard the interests of its companies||China will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the interests of its companies after the NYSE began delisting three Chinese telecom firms that Washington says have military ties, China’s commerce ministry said on Saturday. The NYSE said on Thursday that it would delist China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom following President Donald Trump’s move in November to bar US investment in 31 firms that Washington says are owned by the Chinese military. “This kind of abuse of national security to suppress Chinese firms does not comply with market rules,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
03-01-2021||Business||PFC raises borrowing limit to Rs 1.18 lakh crore ||State-owned Power Finance Corporation (PFC) has raised its borrowing limit to Rs 1.18 lakh crore for the ongoing financial year. “The borrowing plan for 2020-21 has been revised from Rs 90,000 crore to Rs 1,18,000 crore to accommodate the moratorium granted to borrowers according to the RBI guidelines,” a statement issued by PFC on Friday said. The decision was taken by the company’s board on Wednesday, it said. The company now plans to raise a maximum of Rs 83,000 crore from long-term borrowing, Rs 15,000 crore from long-term foreign currency borrowing, Rs 5,000 crore from short-term borrowing and Rs 15,000 crore from commercial papers, it said. PFC further said it does not see any challenges in raising the borrowing amount, which is being used to lend to various power sector projects in the country. PFC, under the administrative control of the ministry of power, is the largest NBFC in the power sector in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
03-01-2021||Business||GST e-invoices higher in December||As many as 6.03 crore GST e-invoices were generated in December 2020, higher than 5.89 crore in November, according to an official release. The government had made it mandatory for businesses with a turnover of over Rs 500 crore to generate electronic invoice for B2B transactions from October 1, 2020. The IT ministry on Saturday said the GST e-invoice system has completed three months and facilitated the smooth transition of the tax payers to the new platform. It has enabled more than 37,000 taxpayers to generate more than 16.80 crore invoice reference numbers (IRNs) during the last three months. “Starting with 495 lakh (4.95 crore) during October 2020, generation of e-invoice has increased to 589 lakh (5.89 crore) in November 2020 and 603 lakh (6.03 crore) in December 2020,” it said. The e-way bill generation from the National Informatics Centre was also the highest during September to December 2020 compared with corresponding months of the previous years. “There have been errors such as repeated requests on the same document number, requests with validation or calculation errors, which were corrected by the help desk,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
03-01-2021||Business||India's trade deficit widens to $15.7bn||India’s trade deficit has widened to $15.71 billion in December as imports grew 7.6 per cent to $42.6 billion and exports contracted 0.8 per cent to $26.89 billion, according to preliminary data released by the commerce ministry on Saturday. “The sharp step up in the value of merchandise imports to $42.6 billion widened the trade deficit to $15.7 billion, the highest level since November 2018. The recovery in imports reinforces our expectation that the current account surplus will deflate to sub-$5 billion in the second half of FY2021,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist with Icra, said. “A marginal decline of just 0.8 per cent in exports is a sign of revival as the order booking position has continuously improved. Besides, more new orders are in the offing,” said FIEO president Sharad Kumar Saraf. “Going ahead by this trend, we expect our inventories to be liquidated, adding to overall demand,” he added. Exports in December 2019 were $27.11 billion, while imports stood at $39.5 billion. In November 2020, the exports were down 8.74 per cent. In December 2020, oil imports declined 10.37 per cent to $9.61 billion. During April-December this fiscal, the imports dipped 44.46 per cent to $53.71 billion. Gold imports surged about $2 billion, an 82 per cent jump from the previous year, while petroleum products saw the biggest decrease for any commodity group in trade into and out of the country, the government said. Overseas shipment of drugs and pharmaceutical products increased in value the most among India’s exports, rising 17 per cent from a year earlier. Nayar said “the Y-o-Y expansion in non-oil exports is enthusing in the light of the restrictions in various major trading partners related to the resurgence of Covid-19 cases. The re-emergence of a Y-o-Y growth in merchandise imports signals a strengthening of the domestic growth impulses, pent-up demand for imported items as well as a rise in commodity prices”. Saraf urged the government to address some of the key issues, including adequate availability of containers, softening of freight charges, the release of the required MEIS (merchandise export from India scheme) benefits and clarity on SEIS (services exports from India scheme) benefits and resolving risky exporters issues. In April-December 2020-21, the country’s merchandise exports contracted 15.8 per cent to $200.55 billion compared with $238.27 billion in the same period of 2019-20. Imports during the nine months of the current fiscal declined 29.08 per cent to $258.29 billion against $364.18 billion in April-December 2019-20. “India is thus a net importer in December 2020, with a trade deficit of $15.71 billion compared with a trade deficit of $12.49 billion, widened by 25.78 per cent,” the ministry said in a statement. Major commodities which have recorded positive growth in exports during the month under review include oil meals (192.60 per cent), iron ore (69.26 per cent), carpet (21.12 per cent), pharmaceuticals (17.44 per cent), spices (17.06 per cent), electronic goods (16.44 per cent), fruits and vegetables (12.82 per cent), and chemicals (10.73 per cent). Sectors that registered negative growth include petroleum products (-40.47 per cent), oil Seeds (-31.80 per cent), leather and leather manufactures (-17.74 per cent), coffee (-16.39 per cent), ready-made garments of all textiles (-15.07 per cent), man-made yarn/fabrics/made-ups (-14.61 per cent), marine products (-14.27 per cent), cashew (-12.04 per cent), plastic and linoleum (-7.43 per cent), and tobacco (-4.95 per cent). The major commodities imported with positive growth in December 2020 include pulses (245.15 per cent), gold (81.82 per cent), vegetable oil (43.50 per cent), chemicals (23.30 per cent), electronic goods (20.90 per cent), machine tools (13.46 per cent), pearls, precious and semi-precious stones (7.81 per cent), and fertilisers (1.42 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
03-01-2021||Business||Tata Steel transfers stake in two joint ventures to a wholly owned subsidiary||Tata Steel has transferred its stake in two joint ventures to a wholly owned subsidiary in an attempt to simplify the group corporate structure. Listed entity Tata Steel held 51 per cent in Jamshedpur Continuous Annealing and Processing Company Private Ltd (JCAPCPL) and 50 per cent in  Tata BlueScope Steel Private Ltd (TBSPL). These shares are now transferred to the books of Tata Steel Downstream Products Ltd (TSDPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Steel. The transactions were carried out on a non-cash basis; TSDPL issued shares to Tata Steel as consideration for acquiring the stakes. While Nippon Steel of Japan is the other shareholder in JCAPCPL, BlueScope Steel of Australia is the partner in TBSPL. In a communication to the bourses, Tata Steel informed that the exercise is part of “reorganising the India footprint into four clusters to drive scale, synergies and simplification and to create value for all stakeholders”. In November, the company informed that it would merge Tata Metaliks and Indian Steel and Wire Products to Tata Steel Long Products as part of this exercise. The four verticals Tata Steel proposes to create will be focusing on long products, downstream, mining and services. Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, formerly Tata Sponge Ltd, is the lead entity for long products business. TSDPL, formerly Tata Ryerson Ltd, is the flagship for the downstream activities. Set up in 2012, JCAPCPL has an installed a capacity of 600,000 tonnes of cold rolling sheets targeting the auto sector. The latest balance sheet shows Tata Steel has invested Rs 689.5 crore in the venture as on March 31, 2020 and booked a loss of Rs 3.49 crore on this account. For the inter-se transfer, the stake was valued at Rs 834 crore. In contrast, TBSPL, which manufactures colour roofing sheets, earned Rs 70.16 crore profit for Tata Steel in the last fiscal. The parent had invested Rs 433 crore in the venture which was set up in 2005. In contrast, TSL’s stake in this profit making JV was valued at Rs 1,411.57 crore, while transferring it to TSDPL. Even though TSDPL remains an unlisted company, it is one of the bigger subsidiaries in the Tata Steel India universe. It has a pan-India presence with 10 steel processing plants and 13 distribution and sales locations. The offerings of TSDPL include slitting, cut-to-length, blanking, corrugation, plate burning, fabrication, component manufacturing and steel intensive products and applications. It had posted a net profit of Rs 61 crore  in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
03-01-2021||India||Prasar Bharati's digital channels record 100% digital growth in 2020||Digital channels of Prasar Bharati have registered more than 100 per cent growth in 2020, with Pakistan being the second-highest digital audience for Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR), the government said on Sunday. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the channels across Doordarshan and Akashvani clocked over a billion digital views and over six billion digital watch minutes in the year. Interestingly during 2020, Pakistan accounted for the second-highest digital audience for DD and AIR content after domestic audience from within India, with the United States close behind, the ministry said in a statement. It said during 2020, Prasar Bharati's mobile application 'NewsOnAir' added more than 2.5 million users with the platform registering over 300 million views. Live Radio streaming broadcasting over 200 streams emerged as the most popular feature, it said. Besides DD National and DD News, the other channels in the top 20 digital channels of Prasar Bharati are Marathi News from DD Sahyadri, Kannada programming on DD Chandana, Bangla News from DD Bangla and Telugu programming on DD Saptagiri. While DD Sports and Akashvani Sports have created a steady digital following with live commentary, Prasar Bharati Archives and DD Kisan have been steady digital performers featuring in top 10, the statement said. Underscoring the substantial digital audience for news from the Northeast, the ministry said Northeast service of All India Radio (AIR) News was also in the top 10, and incidentally crossed the 1,00,000 subscribers' digital milestone. Amongst the most popular digital videos during 2020 are Prime Minister's interactions with school students, Republic Day parade 2020 and a rare video of Shakuntala Devi from DD National archives, circa the 1970s, the statement said. A dedicated Prasar Bharati YouTube channel for all Sanskrit language content was launched in 2020, wherein all Radio and TV content being produced in the Sanskrit language across DD-AIR nationwide network are uploaded for easy access to viewers, it said. The ministry said almost 1,500 Radio plays in different Indian languages are available across DD-AIR Network, which is being digitised and uploaded on its YouTube channels. Dedicated Mann Ki Baat and Twitter handle have seen rapid growth in 2020, with Mann Ki Baat updates Twitter handle now having more than 67,000 followers. The YouTube channel has regional language versions of different episodes of Mann Ki Baat, the statement said. It said thousands of hours of educational content is now available on our YouTube channels in different Indian languages. The ministry said rare archival content of great historical value, available only with DD-AIR, is being digitised and uploaded on Prasar Bharati Archives YouTube channel. In public interest, a dedicated team is working to dig out such musical, cultural, political content from thousands of tapes recorded over many decades in various stations of DD and AIR across the country so that the content is available in the public domain with easy access to all for academic and research purposes, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Protesting farmers battle rain, waterlogging, biting cold||Waterlogged tents, soaked firewood and blankets, and cold conditions --  farmers camping at Delhi borders in protest against the new farm laws had a difficult morning on Sunday due to overnight rains.  The continuous downpour led to waterlogging at agitation venues and waterproof tents did not help much, according to protesters.  Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is a member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, said farmers have waterproof tents but those are unable to protect them from the biting cold and waterlogging.  "The situation is very bad at protest sites due to rain which has caused waterlogging. There is so much cold after the rains, but the government is not able to see our misery," he said.  Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at the Singhu border, said there is waterlogging at some places as civic facilities are not up to the mark but asserted that the weather will not dampen the spirit of farmers who have been protesting for over a month.  "Despite facing several problems, we will not move from here until our demands are met," he said.  According to a MeT Department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and minimum temperatures have increased due to clouding and easterly winds.  "Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius...with 25 mm rain. Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hail storm is expected until January 6," the official said.  Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for more than a month, demanding repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and two other issues.  Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Sukhdev Singh, whose outfit is leading the protest at Tikri border, said arrangements made by farmers to brave the cold weather are not helping much because of rains and subsequent waterlogging.  Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said their blankets, clothes and wood were soaked. "Our clothes are soaked due to waterlogging caused by rains. Besides, we are facing difficulties to cook food as rainwater has also soaked firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it," he said.  Dharmveer Yadav, who is camping at the Ghazipur border protest site, said farmers will not move an inch from their agitation venues. "We are ready to face any problem, be it heavy rain or storm, but we will not leave this place in any condition until our demands are met," Yadav said.  Rainwater also entered camps at Burari ground and the protesters were seen draining the water out and rearranging their belongings to prevent from soaking in water.  Sukhwinder Singh, joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, said, "This is the time when we sow wheat. We work in our fields during night and early hours in Punjab where the temperature is even below what it is here. This would not hamper the courage of farmer."  Gurmel Singh from Patiala district of Punjab, said, "We have not been affected by the rains. We have covered our tractors completely."  Avatar Singh from Ambala district of Haryana said, "We had made our arrangements considering the possibility of rains. The grain is completely safe and under the tent. But the rains have only created mud due to which people are facing difficulty in walking. We are cleaning the area and trying to clear waterlogging."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Kerala to host Global Ayurveda Festival from March 12||The fourth Global Ayurveda Festival - Kerala (GAF2021), aimed at a global discussion and development of ayurveda, would be held from March 12 to 19 as a virtual meet, Union Minister of State V Muraleedharan said on Sunday. The Union Minister, who is also the Global Ayurveda Festival chairman said the fest would feature 12 seminars per day at five venues. "The conference will focus on the relevance of ayurveda in the post-Covid-19 world and the potential of ayurveda in enhancing immunity. This time the exhibition will be held in virtual and have stalls of ayurveda companies from all over the world," Muraleedharan said in a press release. The festival, scheduled to be held in Angamaly from May 16 to 20, 2020, was postponed due to the pandemic. The festival is organised in collaboration with various departments of the Central and state governments and delegates from different countries would share their experiences. "The requirements will be put forward and the possibility of its participation will be discussed. Steps have already been taken to attract ayurvedic products manufacturers and other stakeholders inside and outside Kerala, including foreign investment. The ayurveda exhibition will showcase technologies, products and services focusing on medical tourism, herbs and research," the release said. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) is the festival partner and industry partner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Congress questions Covaxin approval, BJP hits back||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday lashed out at the Congress after some of its members questioned the DCGI approval of the Covid-19 vaccine of Bharat Biotech. Party president J.P. Nadda alleged that whenever India achieves something commendable, the party cites “wild theories” to ridicule the “accomplishments”. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri also took a jibe at the Opposition, saying they are on a quest for permanent political marginalisation. His dig, however, drew a sharp retort from Congress leader Jairam Ramesh who compared him with Nazi propagandists. Nadda accused the Congress and other opposition parties of trying to cause panic among people to further their “failed politics and nefarious agendas”. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas,” he said in a series of tweets. Congress leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh raised concerns about the “premature” approval of Covaxin for restricted emergency use. Nadda said, “Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines.” He said people have been rejecting this kind of politics and do the same in the future. “Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people's precious lives and hard-earned livelihoods,” the BJP chief said. “While the entire nation is happy about the development of vaccines, the opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain,” he alleged. Puri in a tweet said, “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization.” Jairam Ramesh reacted, “So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer.” Both Goebbels and Speer were close aides of Adolf Hitler. Tharoor, a Congress MP and former union minister, also countered Puri, saying he had never questioned the valour of our soldiers. “I would be happy and proud if more Indian vaccines are approved but only after a full 3-phase trial confirms they are safe & effective. Short-circuiting the process is unprecedented, inadvisable & risks lives,” he tweeted, while referring to Covaxin. “We are baffled to understand what scientific logic has motivated the SEC (subject expert committee) to approve this vaccine posthaste... in violation of the criteria in the draft regulatory guidelines for the development of Covid-19 vaccines published by CDSCO on 21/9/20,” he further said. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable after angioplasty||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty after a "mild" heart attack, is stable and his health parameters are normal, doctors said on Sunday. The cricket icon was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. "He had an uneventful last night and presently Afebrile (not feverish)... He is sleeping now," a bulletin issued by the private hospital where Ganguly is admitted, said. His blood pressure is 110/70 and oxygen saturation level is 98 per cent, it said. Doctors said they will be deciding on conducting another angioplasty after assessing Ganguly’s condition. To a question, a hospital spokesperson said the medical board is not thinking about the option of bypass surgery. "Our expert panel will decide about the future course of treatment tomorrow," he said. "He has taken breakfast, read newspapers and chatted with the hospital staff in the morning. A routine ECG was also conducted... His oxygen support has been removed," one of the doctors treating Ganguly told reporters. Fans of the celebrated former cricketer were seen holding posters that read “Come back dada” outside the hospital, which saw a beeline of visitors like Saturday. Ganguly complained of chest pain following a workout session on Friday evening and family members took him to the hospital Saturday afternoon when the problem recurred. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over Ganguly's hospitalisation. "Sad to hear that Sourav Ganguly suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital. Wishing him a speedy and full recovery. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family," Banerjee tweeted. The development came at a time when speculations were rife about his joining politics ahead of the state assembly elections likely in April-May this year. According to political circles in the state, the former batting great could join the BJP, but Ganguly himself never made his intentions quite clear about taking the political plunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||At least 21 dead in Ghaziabad cremation ground shelter collapse||At least 21 people were killed and 20 others were injuredwhen the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in the Mudranagar city of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, police officials said. The roof collapsed when over 25 people had taken shelter at the structure while it was raining. Most of the people who had taken shelter were relatives of Ram Dhan, who was being cremated at that time. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also been rushed at the spot to carry out the rescue work. Apart from the 21 dead, 20 others were admitted at different hospitals, officials said Sunday evening. They added that the number of the injured could be higher as some others were taken away from the site by their relatives. Rescue operations are still on with the police and the fire department being present at the site. Several others are still feared trapped. Hours later, rescue workers were still going through the rubble to locate more victims, Ghaziabad (Rural) Superintendent of Police Iraj Raja said. Several people are admitted at hospitals. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident. The chief minister directed officials to give financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased, a statement issued by the state government said. The chief minister also directed the Divisional Commissioner of Meerut and ADG Meerut zone to submit a report in this connection. Union minister V K Singh, who is a Member of Parliament from Ghaziabad, and several senior police and administration officials visited the accident site. Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Atul Garg, who is the local BJP MLA, met some of the injured at the government hospital in Ghaziabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Varun Grover, Vir Das rally behind comedian arrested for 'indecent' remarks about Hindu deities||Several comedians, including Varun Grover, Vir Das and Rohan Joshi, have criticised the arrest of stand-up comic Munawar Faruqui, a day after he was held for alleged indecent remarks made against Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a show in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Faruqui, a comedian from Gujarat, was arrested along with four others on Saturday after the son of a BJP MLA complained against him. A local court later rejected their bail pleas and sent them in judicial custody. Grover took to Instagram and alleged that Faruqui was "beaten up". The "Sacred Games" writer shared a video where the comedian is trying to reason with Eklavya Singh Gaur, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaur, who had filed the complaint. "A fellow Indian, a fellow comedian is in jail and got beaten up by a mob because of the words he uttered. Here he's trying to logically, calmly present his case but our systems now just want to brutally silence every voice. "They don't want to hear, they don't want to even argue - they want to simply erase every shred of individual thought, every iota of reason. And we the people of the greatest civilization of earth are ok with it," Grover wrote. Das took to Twitter and wrote that it is futile to stop humour and to try and "control" it. "You can't stop jokes and laughter. Not because comedians are performing it, but because people need to laugh. Harder you try, the more you're going to be laughed at, now, and by history. "Anyone who has ever tried to control humour, now has a category of jokes devoted to them," Das tweeted. He also posted screenshot of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 2017 tweet, when he talked about the importance of humour. "I think we need more satire and humour. Humour brings happiness in our lives. Humour is the best healer," the prime minister had said in the tweet. Das captioned the image: "I'm just going to leave this here." According to Gaur, he and his associates had gone to watch the show and when they heard the "indecent" comments, they forced the organisers to stop the programme. As per the complaint, indecent remarks were passed against Hindu gods and goddesses and the Union home minister during the show, in-charge of Tukoganj police station Kamlesh Sharma said. Comedian Rohan Joshi shared Faruqui's video where he is trying to reason with those offended with his jokes. "Turns out now you can just assault people while they're doing their job and the cops will take 'them' to the police station," Joshi captioned the video. Comedian Kaneez Surka and Abish Mathew also shared the clip of Faruqui on Instagram. "Watch this, that's all and then share it," Surka wrote. While Mathew added, "Seven minutes of @munawar.faruqui trying to reason but still...' "High risk individuals to be vaccinated first. So comedians must be up there on the list, wrote comic Neeti Palta alluding to the incident in a Facebook post as India approved Oxford's and Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccines for restricted emergency use on Sunday. On Saturday, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Aman Singh Bhuria refused to grant bail to Faruqui and other four and remanded them in judicial custody till January 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints in 2020, highest in six years||The National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints of crimes committed against women in 2020, the highest in the last six years. Nearly one-fourth of the total complaints were of domestic violence, according to NCW data. Among states, the highest number of complaints was received from Uttar Pradesh at 11,872 followed by Delhi 2,635, Haryana 1,266 and Maharashtra 1,188, it added. Of the 23,722 complaints, 7,708 complaints were received under the right to live with dignity clause. The right to live with dignity clause takes into account the emotional abuse of women. According to the NCW data, a total of 5,294 complaints were related to domestic violence. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said economic insecurity, increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry, and lack of other such emotional support from parents/family's side may have resulted in domestic violence in many instances in 2020. "More so, home has become the workplace of both the spouses and as well as schools and colleges for their children. In such situations, women are multitasking being professional at the same time supporting their families from the same space. But the biggest challenge for women this year is not only to adapt but to thrive in this unprecedented situation," she told PTI. The number of complaints received in 2020 has been the highest in six years. In 2014, a total of 33,906 complaints were received, according to the NCW data. The NCW was flooded with complaints of domestic violence in March as the lockdown, imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, forced women to remain confined to their homes with their abusers. The number of complaints of domestic violence went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Sharma underlined how domestic violence remained a serious concern for the commission through the year. "Victims of domestic violence are distanced from their regular support systems making it difficult for them to call out for help. The series of Covid-19 lockdowns in India reduced the opportunities of reporting of domestic violence cases," she said. The NCW chairperson said the lockdown incapacitated women by preventing them from moving to safer places in cases of violence and abuse, reduced contact with the natal family which is usually the first point of contact for the victim. "The machinery under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act had not been identified as an essential service during the lockdown. Hence, protection officers and NGOs were not able to visit households of victims and police officers being at the frontline to tackle COVID-19 were overstretched to help victims effectively," she said. After the right to live with dignity and domestic violence, the third-highest number of complaints has been of harassment of married women or dowry harassment at 3.784 followed by that of molestation at 1,679. According to the data, 1,276 complaints of police apathy towards women and 704 complaints of cybercrime were received by the commission. As many as 1,234 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 376 complaints of sexual harassment were received by the commission in 2020, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they want. In 2021, she said the commission will continue to work with the commitment to ensure justice and empowerment to even the last woman standing at the periphery and will continue with its endeavours. Women rights activist Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), the high rate might also be because of high awareness among women to talk about such incidents and report them. "There has been an increase because there is also an increase in awareness because women are getting more proactive reporting it and talking about it. Earlier they used to suppress their grievances and the government is also spreading awareness and women get motivated by other women reporting it," she said. "Because of social media, the reporting of domestic violence has increased. Women have become more vocal and they have less tolerance which is very good," Bhayana added. Another women rights activist Shamina Shafiq said the government needs to talk strongly about domestic violence. "Unfortunately a man feels it is his right to beat a woman and he enjoys the fact that I am the one in control of the life of another person. There should be writing on the wall that spousal violence is wrong," she said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi compares farmers’ protest to Champaran Satyagraha||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday drew comparisons of the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three agri laws with the Champaran agitation during the British Raj. He called every farmer-labourer part of the current movement a ‘satyagrahi’ and said they will take their rights back. “The country is going to face a Champaran-like tragedy. British were 'company Bahadur' back then and now Modi-friends are ‘company Bahadur’,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi. “But, every farmer-labourer of the movement is a 'satyagrahi' who will take back their rights,” Gandhi said. Mahatma Gandhi in 1917 led the Champaran Satyagraha, which is considered as a major event in India’s independence movement. It was a farmer’s uprising that took place in Champaran district of Bihar during the British colonial period when the farmers protested having to grow indigo with barely any payment for it. The Congress has been seeking the repeal of the three new farm laws, alleging that they will ruin farming and the farmers. The Congress is also supporting the farmers’ agitation against the legislations. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). The farmers, picketing the national capital’s borders for the past 38 days, made it clear their movement would remain peaceful and that there would be no going back. They added that they had lost faith in the Prime Minister’s words. “Either repeal the three central farm acts or use force on us to evict us. The time has come for decisive action here and we have chosen January 26 because Republic Day represents the supremacy of the people and also because we would have demonstrated patiently and peacefully at Delhi’s borders for two full months in extreme weather conditions by then,” the coordination committee of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Congress raises concern over DCGI nod to Bharat Biotech vaccine||Moments after the Drugs Controller General of India granted permission for the restricted emergency use of two vaccines in the country on Sunday, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma raised concern over the approval of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. He asked the government to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data has been dispensed with. The DCGI on Sunday also approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield. Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs which dealt with the issue at length, said the issue of granting authorisation to the vaccine use needs to be taken carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory Phase III trials and verification of data. “As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement,” he said. “The Health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category,” Sharma told PTI. “The DCGI statement is puzzling and the government must must reveal the final data of global efficacy trials and the final trials in UK which has been shared officially by UK's MHRA following a government to government agreement signed between the two countries which should be put in public domain to avoid any confusion on the proven efficacy of the vaccine,” he added. He said that the news of the upcoming rollout of the nationwide inoculation drive was “truly uplifting” for a country paralysed with the pandemic. “It is also a tribute to our scientists, researchers and institutions, who have established India as the largest vaccine manufacturer of the world,” he said. An expert panel of India's central drug authority had on Saturday recommended granting permission for restricted use of Bharat Biotech-developed indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in emergency situations. The recommendation came a day after the panel cleared the Serum Institute of India's emergency use authorisation application for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield. Sharma said there are some concerns expressed by the news of recommendation for restricted use emergency authorisation in case of one vaccine which is still undergoing phase 3 trials and that has raised bonafide concerns as that would involve the health safety issues. Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also raised concerns and asked Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials are being modified. “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify,” he tweeted. The issue was earlier dealt in-depth by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs. The panel has recommended to the government that any vaccine against Covid-19 should be granted emergency use authorisation only after proper consideration and conducting its trials on a sufficient sample size. In its report submitted on December 21 to Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, the Parliamentary Standing Committee noted that the CDSCO has given no emergency use authorisation in the past, and suggested that all necessary and mandatory requirements must be duly fulfilled and all trial phases completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||DCGI grants ‘restricted use’ permission to two vaccines||India’s wait for the coronavirus vaccines ended on Sunday as the country’s regulator approved two vaccines, Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for “restricted emergency use” in the country. The green signal from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr. V.G. Somani said at a press conference in New Delhi. “Serum and Bharat Biotech vaccines have to be administered in two doses. All the three vaccines have to be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius,” he said. The decision paves the way for at least two vaccines in the country in the near future. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reacting to the move, said that it will “make every Indian proud”, and congratulated the country and its scientists and innovators. “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” Modi tweeted. He thanked the frontline workers for their relentless work. “We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” the PM said in another tweet. Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted, “Happy new year, everyone! All the risks Serum Institute of India took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India's first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks.” The SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In his media statement, Somani also said Cadila Healthcare has been granted the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India. Pune-based SII's shot is a Recombinant Chimpanzee Adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield), encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) glycoprotein with technology transfer from AstraZeneca/Oxford University. “The firm submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies. The overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42 per cent,” Somani briefed. Further, Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-2/3 clinical trials on 1,00 participants within the country, he said. “The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies.” “The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” he said. On Covaxin, Somani said, “Bharat Biotech has developed a Whole Virion Inactivated Coronavirus Vaccine (Covaxin) in collaboration with ICMR and NIV (Pune), from where they received the virus seed strains. This vaccine is developed on the Vero cell platform, which has a well established track record of safety and efficacy in the country and globally.” The firm has generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species such as mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamster, and also conducted challenge studies on non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) and hamsters, he said. All these data have been shared by the firm with CDSCO, he said. The Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials were conducted on approx 800 subjects and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response, he said. The Phase 3 efficacy trial was initiated in India on 25,800 volunteers and till date, approximately 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available till date, Somani said. “The SEC has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” he said. SII had applied to the DCGI for EUA for Oxford COVID-19 vaccine on December 6, while the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had sought the nod for its Covaxin on December 7. “In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated...majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae. Therefore, Covishield is safe and can be used effectively for prevention of COVID-19 in the targeted population,” the EUA application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), had stated. Pfizer had also applied for regulatory approval for its vaccine on December 4 but not much progress has been made on it after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh to deploy forces to nab Naxals||Around hundred naxalites belonging to Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra have sneaked into Madhya Pradesh over the past few months in order to expand their base, a police official said. This has made the state authorities seek deployment of six paramilitary companies in the rebel-affected areas, he added. These security forces are likely to be deployed soon in MP's Balaghat and tribal-dominated Mandla districts, which the Naxals have entered, he said. “As per the information provided to us by our sources, around 100 rebels from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra have entered Madhya Pradesh over the past few months to expand their base in the region,” the official added. “Six dalams (groups) of Naxals are operating in Balaghat and Mandla districts. Of these, Khatia Mocha Dalam in Mandla came up last year,” he said, adding that the Balaghat and Mandla districts share a long border. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra, during his visit to Balaghat last month, had told reporters that six companies of paramilitary forces are going to be sent to Balaghat and Mandla to tackle the Naxal menace. “The Madhya Pradesh police's anti-Naxal wing Hawk Force is already deployed in Balaghat. Besides, a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) battalion is also stationed there,” the official said. Police said that Naxals have sneaked into MP from the neighbouring states can be gauged from the fact that three women Maoists- two from Chhattisgarh and one from Maharashtra- were killed in three separate encounters with police in Balaghat in November and December 2020. A rebel who had entered Balaghat from Chhattisgarh had also been captured in September last year, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Himachal Police rescue 300 tourists from Atal Tunnel||The Himachal Pradesh Police has rescued more than 300 people who were stranded near the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang, an official revealed Saturday. “Some tourists had crossed the tunnel on Saturday morning but in the evening, they could not find any resting place in Lahaul due to snowfall and were stranded midway while returning to Manali,” Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said. In the evening, the Lahaul-Spiti Police coordinated with the Kullu Police to send vehicles through the tunnel, which was inaugurated in October. However, these vehicles were stuck midway while on their way to Manali due to snow and slippery roads, Singh said. A police quick reaction team, a 48-seater bus, and a 24-seater police  were among the near 70 vehicles that were deployed to rescue them. The DSP and the SHO of Manali were involved in the rescue operation which was later joined by the border roads organisation (BRO), the Kullu SP said. “The rescue operation started on Saturday evening and continued after midnight,” Singh added. All stranded tourists were rescued from Dhundhi and South Portal of the tunnel till 12.33 am and were taken to safer places in Manali. The SP further stated that the personnel team led by the Manali SHO was still checking enroute for any stranded tourist. As per forecast by the Meteorological Department, snowfall around the tunnel is expected in the coming days. Issuing a yellow weather warning for heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, the MeT Department had forecast rain and snowfall in mid and high hills of the state from January 3 to 5 and on January 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Covid-19 recovery tally inches one-crore mark||The number of Covid-19 cases remained less than 20,000 over the past 24 hours in India, while the number of recoveries inched the one-crore mark, data updated by the Union health ministry showed on Sunday. India recorded 18,177 new cases in a day, while 99,27,310 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.15 per cent on Sunday, according to the ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,03,23,965 and the death toll climbed to 1,49,435 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 217 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent on Sunday. The number of active COVID-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 2,47,220 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.39 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 17,48,99,783 samples have been tested up to January 2 with 9,58,125 samples being tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Father digs grave in Pulwama village, begs for son’s body||A father who lost his 17-year-old son to an alleged police encounter but was denied the right to bury him dug a grave at his village on Saturday in the hope of getting the body back some day. A video of a teary-eyed Mushtaq Ahmad digging the grave in his Pulwama village and pleading for his son’s body has been widely circulated on social media. Class XI student Athar Mushtaq was one of three youths killed in the alleged gunfight in Srinagar on Wednesday. The others were fellow Pulwama resident Aijaz Ahmad Ganai, son of a police head constable, and Shopian resident Zubair Ahmad, brother of two policemen. Security forces claim the three were over-ground workers for militants and were planning a big strike in Srinagar. However, none of them was listed as a militant in the police records before their death. Their families claim they were innocent boys, kidnapped from their homes and killed in a staged gunfight. The police’s refusal to hand over the bodies is part of a policy to bury militants in remote areas. The idea is to avert pro-azadi gatherings, which the forces claim generate recruits for the militants. “I want to tell the DC (deputy commissioner) and SP (superintendent of police) of Pulwama that my son was a kid, a minor who was killed mercilessly, although they claim he was killed in an encounter,” Mushtaq says between sobs in the video. “(On Wednesday) I went to Srinagar but they did not show even his face to me. Then I went to Gund (in Ganderbal district), accompanying his (Athar’s) sister and mother, but they did not allow me to go beyond that.” Mushtaq plans a protest in Srinagar on Sunday and has threatened suicide if Athar’s body is not returned. All three youths were buried in the Sonamarg area of Ganderbal, where dozens of militants killed since last year have been buried too. Addressing the mothers of army soldiers, Mushtaq said their sons were killing innocent men for rewards and promotions. As he dug the grave, sloganeering was heard in the background seeking justice for Athar and the return of his body. The Valley observed a spontaneous shutdown on Friday against the trio’s killing. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has written to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha seeking a probe. On Friday, the police tried to rebut the charge of having kidnapped the youths. They said there was digital evidence of Aijaz and Athar travelling to Hyderpora locality in Srinagar before arriving at the site of the alleged gunfight, Hokersar. “Similarly, Zubair had gone first to Pulwama, then Anantnag, then Shopian to Pulwama and finally came to (the) place of occurrence,” a police statement said. The police said background checks had revealed that “Aijaz and Ather” were over-ground workers for militants and “variously provided logistic support to terrorists”. “Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit,” they said, referring to the Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba. “One OGW (over-ground worker) presently under police custody has also corroborated Aijaz’s association with LeT terrorist Faisal Mustaq Baba who was killed in Meej (Pampore) encounter in June last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Congress slams Modi govt's apathy||The Congress on Saturday slammed the Narendra Modi government’s apathy as another protesting farmer committed suicide at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, wondering how many more deaths it would take to wake up the administration. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “The suicide of Kashmir Singh, a farmer from Uttarakhand’s Bilaspur, after the suicides of Sant Baba Ram Singh of Haryana’s Karnal and Amarjit Singh of Fazilka in Punjab, is extremely sad. The cruel government must shed its obstinacy and withdraw the three black laws immediately.” Surjewala posted a news report that mentioned a purported suicide note left behind by Kashmir Singh that said: “Till when will we sit in this winter? This government is paying no heed. That’s why I am giving up my life, so that some solution can be found. My rituals should be conducted here only (at the protest site on the Ghazipur border).” Surjewala had tweeted on Friday about the death of 57-year-old farmer Galtan Singh at the same Ghazipur border, asking: “The BJP government should clarify how many more deaths it needs instead of killing farmers in instalments. Let them fulfil their blood lust and withdraw these black laws.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “The news of deaths of farmers sitting in this cold outside Delhi’s border is distressing. Reports in the media suggest at least 57 farmers have lost their lives till now and a large number of protesters are ill. The government is demonstrating shocking insensitivity by not conceding the genuine demands of the farmers sitting in protest for over 30 days.” Although the farmers have not allowed political parties to take part in their movement, the majority of them are not happy with the role played by the Opposition so far despite the lapse of a month and the deaths of 57 farmers. They feel the Opposition, including the Congress, is just taking positions verbally to express solidarity instead of acting as a force multiplier. Many farmers argued that the entire country would have erupted in protests had the Opposition parties decided to physically support them in different states. The government has so far chosen not to even express sympathy for the farmers who have either committed suicide or died during the protests. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi did take out a tractor rally in the beginning but there has been no political action after the farmers’ agitation peaked, apart from submitting a memorandum to the President and condemning the government through social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||BJP leaders face farm anger at their doorsteps||Away from the Delhi borders where farmers have been camping in protest against the farm laws, their counterparts in Punjab and Haryana have expressed their anguish by holding demonstrations in front of the residences of BJP leaders. On Saturday, groups of villagers held demonstrations in front of the homes of Haryana woman and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and Kaithal BJP legislator Leela Ram. It was the second time Dhanda was facing such a protest. The demonstrators displaced police barricades with their tractor trolleys before reaching the area in front of her residence. These protests were not isolated as there have been several such incidents in the past few days — a helipad at Parha village in Karnal where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to land was damaged, as was one at Uchana village in Jind where deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala was to land. A group of protesters holding black flags were booked after they attempted to block Khattar’s motorcade in Ambala city a week ago. Most of the about 90 Khaps (village-level social bodies having a strong following) across Haryana are backing the farmers’ movement. The Khap leaders have also been visiting the protest sites at Delhi’s borders with supplies, including of food and milk. Tulsidas Grewal, the president of the Meham Chaubisi Khap that holds sway over at least five Assembly seats in Rohtak, Jind, Hisar and Bhiwani districts and which is one of the most powerful Khaps in the state, said all the Khaps vehemently support the farmer protest. Ashok Malik, national general secretary of the Gathawala Khap, and Randhir Saroha, leader of Saroha Khap, aired similar views. Grewal added that several Khaps had announced that they would boycott the visits of ruling BJP-JJP coalition leaders. In Punjab too, some unidentified people dumped a heap of cow dung outside the residence of state BJP leader Tikshan Sud in Hoshiarpur district on Friday. They raised slogans against the Centre for what they termed as its callous attitude towards the farmers’ demands. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has, however, taken a serious note of the incident and asked the protesters not to take the law into their hands. He said such incidents would bring a bad name to the peaceful agitation of farmers and defeat its purpose. The protesters belonging to different farmers’ fora have also staged demonstrations in front of the residences of Tarun Chugh, Punjab BJP general secretary, in Amritsar and former BJP minister Anil Joshi in Tarn Taran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Covid test protocol for UK visitors||Travellers from the UK arriving in India would need to carry certificates showing them as negative for the coronavirus disease and subject themselves to tests on entry, the Union health ministry said in fresh protocols applicable up to January 30. The protocols, released on Saturday alongside the Centre’s decision to resume India-UK flights from January 8, are intended to minimise the spread in India of the emerging UK variant that is about 50 per cent more transmissible than other variants. The health ministry in consultation with the civil aviation ministry has decided to allow limited flight connectivity to the UK with flights initially allowed into only five airports — Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Chennai. The protocols that shall be initially valid up to January 30 midnight would require passengers coming from the UK between January 8 and 30 to carry negative PCR test reports for which the tests should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to flights. Airlines would have to ensure that passengers carry a negative test report before boarding. The passengers would also be subjected to self-paid PCR tests on arrival at Indian airports and would need to wait until test results before leaving the airport. Anyone found positive would be isolated and their samples sent for genome sequencing. If the sequence shows the presence of the fast-spreading UK coronavirus variant, the patients would continue to remain in separate isolation units and receive treatment under standard guidelines and be able to exit isolation after they turn negative. If the sequence finds other variants already circulating in India, the patient would be advised home isolation or hospital treatment, depending on their symptoms. All contacts of positive cases, including co-passengers seated three rows ahead and three rows behind on the aircraft, would also be subject to institutional quarantine and tested on specific days or earlier if they develop symptoms. Contacts found positive will also have their virus samples sequenced. The protocols come amid concerns that the UK variant might alter or reverse India’s Covid-19 epidemic that has shrunk since mid-September. Some epidemiologists have argued that a fast-spreading variant could overwhelm hospitals and cause more deaths than a deadlier variant that does not spread as fast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Jharkhand to top up rural scheme wage ||Jharkhand will contribute its own money to buttress its rural job scheme workers’ wages, chief minister Hemant Soren has announced, prompting renewed calls for the Centre to raise the wages under the programme. Wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act are fixed separately for every state and paid by the Centre, which has been accused of keeping the wages low. In half the states including Jharkhand, the MGNREGA wage is lower than the minimum wage fixed by the states themselves. Jharkhand is the fourth state to decide to narrow the gap by paying out of its own pocket. Soren’s announcement has underlined the Centre’s “lack of political will” to pay even the minimum wage under the job scheme, said social activist Nikhil Dey, who works with the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sagathan in Rajasthan. The daily wage under the job scheme in Jharkhand is Rs 194. This week, Soren announced his government would pay an additional sum to ensure the workers receive Rs 225 a day. This would still be far below Jharkhand’s minimum wage of Rs 294. Dey urged the Centre to implement the Mahendra Dev committee’s recommendations of 2015 to bring the scheme’s wages — wherever lower — on a par with the states’ minimum wages. “The Jharkhand chief minister’s announcement is commendable, but the onus of paying wages under the MGNREGA lies with the central government,” he said. “It must enhance the wage in states where it is lower than the minimum wage.” The Dev committee had also recommended that the rural job scheme wages be indexed with the Consumer Price Index for Rural Labour (CPIRL) instead of the Consumer Price Index for Agricultural Labour (CPIAL), as it is now. The CPIAL emphasises the expenditure on food and clothing over that on transport, health and education but the CPIRL gives equal importance to all the parameters. When the job guarantee scheme was launched in 2006, the wage rate was linked to the minimum wage in every state. But since 2008, the scheme wage has been indexed to the CPIAL for the respective state, causing it to lag behind the minimum wage rate in some states that revise their wages through consultations with experts. The finance ministry’s department of expenditure had rejected the Dev committee recommendations, unwilling to shoulder the extra expenditure on wages they entailed. Siraj Dutta, an activist associated with the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha and the Right To Food Campaign in Jharkhand, lauded the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief minister’s gesture but advised caution. “This announcement is significant. But one should wait till it has been notified,” he said. “In Jharkhand, the bureaucracy often delays or raises hurdles before the implementation of announcements made by their political bosses.” Bihar has been paying an additional Rs 8 to its job scheme workers, raising their wage to Rs 202. The state’s minimum wage is around Rs 280. Goa and Karnataka too have made such contributions in the past. The scheme provides for up to 100 days’ paid work a year for every rural household.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Rivals dismiss as ‘outrageous’ Reliance Jio ‘allegation’ of sabotage to get customers to port out||Airtel has written to the telecom department against Reliance Jio’s purported allegation that rival telcos had a hand in provoking agitators involved in tower disruption. Airtel has called the charges baseless and outrageous. It has told the department of telecom (DoT) that Jio’s allegations against it did not demonstrate any evidence that Bharti had any hand in the ongoing issues that the Reliance company was facing, and that the complaint should be dismissed “with the contempt that it deserves”. The letter by Airtel to telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said the company was aware of a complaint made by Reliance Jio to the department dated December 28, in reference to the disruption of RJIL (Reliance Jio) services in Punjab and Haryana because of the farmers’ protests. “The baseless allegation made by Jio that Airtel is behind the farmer agitation to ‘sabotage’ their network and to force customers to switch to Airtel is therefore simply outrageous,” Bharti Airtel’s chief regulatory officer Rahul Vatts said in the letter to the DoT. Jio’s letter to the DoT had purportedly claimed that the “majority of the current sabotage and damage of RJIL network in Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country is as a result of the blatant efforts by some of the distributors, retailer and channel partners of Airtel and VIL (Vodafone) in a malicious and inciteful campaign to capitalise on the ongoing farmers’ protest”. A mail sent by PTI to Jio did not elicit a response. A VIL spokesperson said the company deplored the “false and baseless allegations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Covaxin jumps direct evidence, recommended for conditional and restricted emergency use||India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Saturday recommended conditional and restricted emergency use of a home-grown vaccine against the coronavirus disease without direct evidence for its protective efficacy. Earlier on Friday, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine had been recommended. The recommendations from the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the apex regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, imply India could use two vaccines for its planned campaign to initially vaccinate around 300 million people. The Union health ministry said on Saturday the SEC had granted the permissions under multiple conditions, but some medical experts said the committee appeared to have yielded to a desire to launch an Indian-made vaccine alongside a foreign one. The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is named Covishield, while the home-grown vaccine developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech jointly with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is called Covaxin. The SEC’s recommendation of Covishield relied on efficacy data generated through foreign clinical trials. The vaccine has shown 62 per cent protective efficacy in a two-dose regimen in trials in the UK and Brazil. Serum’s Covishield studies in India were designed only to show the vaccine is safe and generates an immune response in the volunteers. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has shown encouraging immune responses in volunteers, but the vaccine is yet to be proven effective in actually preventing the infection. A trial to evaluate Covaxin’s efficacy started in mid-November and has recruited over 23,000 volunteers in 12 cities. But efficacy assessment would need Covid-19 infections to emerge in vaccinated and unvaccinated groups, allowing measurements of efficacy through differences in the numbers of infections between the two groups. The permission to Covishield is subject to “multiple regulatory conditionalities”, and the permission to Covaxin is “in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains”, the health ministry said. The health ministry did not clarify what the SEC meant by “clinical trial mode”, but experts familiar with clinical trials said the restricted emergency use would require the vaccines’ performance to be monitored after their launch. “Restricted emergency use means both the vaccines would need to be rigorously evaluated for safety and efficacy even after they have been rolled out,” Santanu Tripathi, the former head of clinical pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, told The Telegraph. The Serum Institute has said it has stockpiled 50 million doses of Covishield and could produce 100 million doses per month by February or March. Bharat Biotech has indicated it could supply around 150 million doses a year at current capacity and scale it up to 500 million doses. Senior clinical researchers, including a member of a national task force on Covid-19 who is familiar with Covaxin, said multiple factors weighed in favour of the decision to grant permission for the vaccine’s restricted emergency use in the current circumstances. A senior researcher at the ICMR, the country’s apex health research agency that collaborated with Bharat Biotech in developing Covaxin, said the emergency-use authorisation represented a process to “accelerate” development in response to an epidemic that was killing people every day. “The pandemic has given rise to extraordinary circumstances that require extraordinary responses,” Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology division, said. Another researcher said Covaxin “generates antibodies against multiple coronavirus proteins, produces high levels of antibodies that promise an immune response of six to 12 months, and stimulates the arm of the immune memory system”. “Covaxin is made from the inactivated (killed) whole virus that has this theoretical advantage of being able to successfully trigger immune responses against emerging mutant variations of the coronavirus,” the task force member said. But several others, including the national task force member, said the standard scientific process would have required waiting for at least the interim results from the ongoing efficacy trial. “They could have waited for interim efficacy results,” the member said. “I don’t know what data the SEC reviewed, but I don’t think there is sufficient clinical evidence to permit even restricted approval,” another clinical researcher said. The SEC’s decisions, taken over Friday and Saturday, have stirred speculation in some scientific circles whether they were influenced by a political desire to have a home-grown vaccine alongside the UK vaccine. Health officials have indicated the vaccination campaign could start within days of the grant of approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
03-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable after heart attack||Sourav Ganguly suffered a “minor heart attack” on Saturday and had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery, doctors and officials said at Woodlands Hospital where the former Indian cricket captain is being treated. Sourav, 48, who sources said had got off his car and walked into the hospital at 1pm after the 11am cardiac event, is stable, the doctors said in the evening. The Board of Control for Cricket in India president had suffered chest discomfort and dizziness while working the treadmill in the gym at his home in Behala, a close associate said. Dr Saroj Mandal, interventional cardiologist, who is treating Sourav, said: “Ganguly suffered a minor heart attack and came to the hospital.” “We conducted electrocardiography and echocardiography, which showed dysfunction of the cardiac system, suggesting a heart attack.” Investigations revealed three blockages in Sourav’s arteries, one of which needed a stent implantation, Dr Mandal said. Sourav was wheeled into the cath lab at 3pm and the stent was implanted following angioplasty. Doctors said he received treatment within the “golden hour”, the six-hour period from the onset of the heart attack. “The blockage had caused a blood clot that was hindering blood flow into the heart muscle, resulting in the heart attack. He had no symptoms earlier,” Dr Mandal said. Hospital sources said Sourav was in the ICU but was conscious and talking, and had semi-solid food at night. Cricket Association of Bengal president Avishek Dalmiya said he had met Sourav at the hospital in the evening. “He’s doing fine. He was having food and watching TV when I was there,” Dalmiya said. A medical team at Woodlands will decide on Monday what to do with the two other blockages they have detected in Sourav’s arteries. As soon as Sourav had felt uncomfortable in the morning, he had stopped his workout and walked back to his living room, a close associate said. “He was complaining of pain and discomfort in the chest. This was accompanied by nausea,” the associate said. Dr Saptarshi Basu, a doctor associated with the Cricket Association of Bengal, was contacted. It was decided that Sourav would be taken to Woodlands. “Sourav didn’t show much discomfort when he walked up to the car and sat in his favourite front seat. On arrival at Woodlands he got off the car and walked into the investigation room,” the associate said. Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu said: “He (Sourav) has a family history of ischaemic heart disease. When he came to the hospital at 1pm, his pulse was 70 per minute, and his BP was 130 by 80. His other clinical parameters too were within normal limits.” Speculation relating to Sourav and the upcoming Assembly elections has been rife since his December 27 meeting with Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The following day, Sourav attended an event at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi where Union home minister Amit Shah was present. Dhankhar visited Sourav at Woodlands on Saturday. “Called on @SGanguly99 at Woodlands Hospital and saw the usual captivating cheerful smile on his face. Interacted with his wife, daughter and brothers,” the governor tweeted at 6.02pm. Sourav had been closely associated with the hosting of the Indian Premier League in the UAE in September-November. He made three visits to the Gulf country and said he had undergone 22 Covid-19 tests during that period so he could carry out his professional duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
03-01-2021||India||Centre cold, farmers signal Republic Day parade||The protesting farmers have served an ultimatum on the Narendra Modi government, vowing to march into Delhi on January 26 and stage their own Kisan Gantantra Divas Parade without disrupting the official showpiece event if the three new farm laws are not repealed. The farmers, picketing the national capital’s borders for the past 38 days, made it clear their movement would remain peaceful and that there would be no going back. They added that they had lost faith in the Prime Minister’s words. “Either repeal the three central farm acts or use force on us to evict us. The time has come for decisive action here and we have chosen January 26 because Republic Day represents the supremacy of the people and also because we would have demonstrated patiently and peacefully at Delhi’s borders for two full months in extreme weather conditions by then,” the coordination committee of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday. With another farmer committing suicide — this time at the protest site on the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh — the farmers are upset that no one in the government has expressed condolences over the death of at least 50 people since the picketing began on November 26, while the BJP ecosystem has pulled out the stops to malign the movement. The seven-member coordination committee of the SKM — the banner under which the farmers are agitating — addressed a media conference in Delhi to make the announcement. This is the first time the SKM has held a media conference in the capital since the “Dilli Chalo” campaign brought the protesters to Delhi’s borders on November 26. The event was aimed at drawing national media attention, which has dried up in recent days — at the government’s prodding, the farmers suspect. The announcement about a Kisan Gantantra Divas Parade (Farmers’ Republic Day Parade) comes two days after the sixth round of talks with the government, during which the administration conceded two of the farmers’ lesser demands while refusing to budge on the main demands -– repeal of the new farm laws and promulgation of a law guaranteeing a minimum support price. “Only 5 per cent of our demands have been met, and even on that we have not got anything in writing,” Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said at the media conference. The ultimatum comes amid attempts by the government to project the acceptance of the lesser demands as meeting the farmers halfway. However, the SKM has, since the conclusion of the sixth round of talks, made it clear that while the ministers were more accommodating and less patronising at the sixth meeting, the agitation will continue because no headway has been made on the main demands. Add to this that even after two-and-a-half days, they have not got anything in writing from the government on its assurance on the stubble burning ordinance and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. “The farmers have lost faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s words,” said Rajinder Singh of Kirti Kisan Union (Punjab), pointing to the way in which big-ticket decisions packaged as silver bullets had ended up causing a lot of misery to the people. In particular, he cited the demonetisation and the GST, adding that the Prime Minister had lied when he said the Swaminathan Commission formula on the MSP had been implemented. On the cases in the Supreme Court, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal underlined that it was not the SKM -– an umbrella organisation of 500 farmer unions and collectives – that had gone to court. “The government has used its sources to get others to approach the court. We will await the verdict before deciding our future course of action.” This apart, the SKM has asked farmers to step up pressure on all the BJP’s allies across the country to take a stand on the issue. Ashok Dhawale of the All India Kisan Sabha said all the state Assemblies should pass resolutions against the three laws to show their support for the farming community, which still accounts for 60 per cent of the population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
03-01-2021||India||Call to IIM students to innovate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the foundation stone for the permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Sambalpur through video-conferencing and asked students to make innovations, have integrity and inclusiveness as their new mantra to develop their managerial skills to work on the path of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self reliant India). We had 13 IIMs till 2014, now we have 20. Such a big talent will accelerate the mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” Modi said. Stating that the nation is working on permanent solutions to issues and has shunned the short term approach, Modi said, “During CoviD, India found permanent solutions for PPE kits, masks and ventilators. India had perpetually adopted short-term measures for problem-solving. Today, India has overcome that attitude and changed its approach to find long-term solutions.” The Prime Minister pointed out how despite the Covid-19 pandemic India has produced new unicorns. He cited the example of the launch of Jan Dhan Yojana and opening of 40 crore bank accounts. Modi also pointed out that the number of gas connections in the country had almost doubled from 14 crore to 28 crores under the Ujjwala scheme within a span of-six years from 2014. The Prime Minister urged the students to work on new innovation to popularise the Sambalpuri textiles and the famous filigree works of Cuttack. “To turn local into global, IIM students need to find new and innovative solutions. I am certain that IIMs can act as a bridge between local products and global collaborations,” he said. Stressing that the nation needs to go for new innovation to make the local as global, Modi said, “ New opportunities demand new managerial skills. The new technology has surpassed the geographical limitations. At this point, we need to work with the Time and even walk ahead of the time.” Modi pointed out how the new campus of IIM is coming at a place where there is a medical university, engineering university, Sainik School, police training institute and other prominent education institutions in Sambalpur. The area is rich in tourism potential and known for its handicraft work. Pointing out that the entire area offers a practical lab for the students to experiment, Modi said, “The students’ ideas and managerial skills will come in great use to enhance the tourism potential of this area. There are so many local products such as Bandha Ikat ( a resist dyeing technique) in Sambalpur area. It should be the role of the IIM Sambalpur to make them local for vocal.” Modi also made it clear that students’ skills should be connected to India’s growing aspirations and brand India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Owaisi gears up as Bengal nears polls, visits state||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen supremo Assaduddin Owaisi on Sunday visited  Furfura Sharif in Bengal's Hooghly district to hold discussions about the state’s political scenario. He discussed the upcoming assembly polls with prominent Muslim leader Abbas Siddiqui, sources in his party said. Owaisi, who has announced that AIMIM will contest individually in the state during the polls, visited Bengal for the first time following the move. “Owaisi wanted to keep the meeting a secret as we were apprehensive that the TMC government would stop him from exiting the airport. From Kolkata airport, he went straight to Hooghly to meet Abbas Siddiqui. He will leave for Hyderabad in the afternoon,” AIMIM state secretary Zameerul Hassan said. The leader had earlier decided to hold a virtual meeting with Siddiqui, but changed his mind at the eleventh hour to fly down to Bengal and meet him in person. Siddiqui, a pirzada (religious leader) from Furfura Sharif, has been speaking out against the state government over several issues in recent times. According to the sources, he is planning to float a minority outfit of his own. Owaisi, whose party put up a good show during Bihar polls last year -- bagging five seats in the region bordering Bengal -- might have also held talks with Siddiqui on a possible seat-sharing deal, they said. The AIMIM chief's visit to Furfura Sharif, however, evoked sharp reactions from the ruling TMC. The AIMIM is nothing but a proxy of the BJP. Owaisi is well aware that Muslims here are mostly Bengali-speaking, and won't support him. He is trying to forge ties with Abbas Siddiqui, but that won't yield any result,” Trinamul MP Sougata Roy said. “Muslims in Bengal stand firmly by Mamata Banerjee,” the senior TMC leader asserted. A deciding factor in nearly 100-110 seats in the state, minorities especially Muslims have acted as a bulwark of the TMC against its rivals till 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Prominent Muslim leaders in the state, nonetheless, have claimed that equations are likely to change with the entry of the AIMIM. According to a senior leader in the Hyderabad-based party, Owaisi has seen in West Bengal a fertile ground for his expansion plans, as Muslims constitute around 30 per cent of the state's population. Of the 30 per cent, however, at least 24 per cent are Bengali-speaking Muslims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Dada’s heart attack creates political flutter||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee as well as her political opponents made a beeline to a city hospital to enquire after the health of Sourav Ganguly, who was admitted there after a mild heart attack on Saturday. “Sourav is stable now. He was lying on the bed and he asked me about my health,” Mamata told journalists after meeting the cricketer-turned-BCCI-chief. “I thank the doctors for the kind of treatment they have provided to him,” the chief minister added. When the news of Sourav’s illness broke on Saturday afternoon, several rumours had surfaced. It was a tweet by Mamata that confirmed that Sourav had suffered a mild heart attack. “Sad to hear that @sganguly99 has suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital,” Mamata had posted on the microblogging site. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah called up BJP’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and requested him to offer Sourav’s family all possible help. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, along with a BJP vice-president, Pratap Banerjee, went to the hospital. “Amitji had also offered to take Dada to Delhi in an air ambulance if the situation so demanded. He had asked Kailashji to convey the offer to the family,” a BJP source said. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also arrived at the hospital with his wife. On behalf of the CPM, Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left legislative party, visited the hospital. The hospital visits came at a time speculation has been rife about whether Sourav would take the political plunge, especially after he met the governor and shared a platform with Shah at a cricket body event to honour the late Arun Jaitley in Delhi recently. Trinamul politicians who visited the hospital included panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, public works department minister Arup Biswas, urban development minister Firhad Hakim and junior sports minister Laxmi Ratan Shukla, himself a former cricketer. Trinamul MLA Vaishali Dalmiya was also present at the hospital. Governor Dhankhar came out of the hospital with a smiling face and declared that he was relieved to see that the cricketer was all right. Last Sunday, Sourav had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan. Sourav had described the visit as a courtesy call, adding that he had invited Dhankhar to visit Eden Gardens. Wishes for Sourav’s speedy recovery have poured in on Twitter from across the world. “Just got to know about your ailment Sourav. Hope each passing day brings you closer to a full and speedy recovery! Get well soon,” cricketing legend and contemporary Sachin Tendulkar tweeted. “Praying for your speedy recovery. Get well soon @SGanguly99,” posted Indian skipper Virat Kohli. Jay Shah, home minister Shah’s son and BCCI secretary, tweeted: “I wish and pray for the speedy recovery of @SGanguly99. I’ve spoken to his family. Dada is stable and is responding well to the treatment.” Virendra Sehwag, who had played for Team India under Sourav’s captaincy, tweeted: “Dada, jaldi se theek hone ka. Praying for your quick and speedy recovery @SGanguly99.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Mishaps kill 4 youths, injure 2 leopards in Bengal||Three youths, including a minor, died in an accident on NH512 at South Dinajpur on New Year night, while another was fatally gored by a gaur in Alipurduar. A night service bus from Balurghat heading towards Cooch Behar instantly killed Sushanta Burman, 16, Partha Burman, 27, and Milan Burman, 18, who were on a bike and residents of Belkuria village, Bansihari police station. Pankaj Roy, 21, was gored by a gaur in Alipurduar district on Friday evening and later died in hospital. Pankaj, a resident of Kholta, was heading towards Jainti under Buxa Tiger Reserve on his motorcycle when the gaur jumped out of the forest and gored him. In a separate incident on Friday night, a speeding car rammed into two adult male leopards on NH31 in Jalpaiguri district, leaving the animals and five men in the car injured. An injured leopard managed to get inside the forest. The other was rescued by Banarhat police and Binnaguri wildlife squad and sent to the leopard rescue centre in Lataguri on the fringes of Gorumara National Park. Also, among the five persons, three with severe injuries were sent to a hospital in Jalpaiguri. The driver had lost control of the car near Gandrapara Tea Estate when the leopards were on the road, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Face morphed on smut clip: MLA||Trinamul’s Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha in Cooch Behar district has complained to the police of having fallen prey to a racket that involves morphed and obscene videos of people. “A few days back, I received a video call from a woman. After some days, she sent an obscene video to me with my face morphed. Since then, I have been receiving messages asking me for money with threats of political ruin if I do not meet their demand. I have told the police and hope they crack the case,” said Guha, who also chairs the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation. Recently, Cooch Behar police had alerted people not to take video calls from unknown numbers. “Those involved in the racket instantly use the video clip of the call to morph the person’s face into videos for money or threaten exposure on social media,” said a police officer. Guha told the media that people should not take video calls from unknown numbers. The MLA added that he was not ready to pay money and would take legal steps instead. “Though it appears to be a plan to extort money, I am not ruling out political rivalry,” he said. The police officer said they had consulted cyber experts on the case. A bullet hit Altaf Ali, a vegetable vendor of Okrabari under Dinhata-I block of Cooch Behar, on his right hand when he chanced to come between two warring Trinamul groups late on Friday evening. Sources said the groups were attacking each other with firearms, bricks, stones and sticks over the formation of the party’s panchayat-level committee. Angry traders on Saturday closed the local market and blocked Dinhata-Gitaldaha road for four hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||First vaccine dry run in Bengal, crowds expect jab||Amid reports of the Covid-19 vaccine’s rollout in the country soon, Bengal’s first dry run of the vaccination process was held at three places in North 24-Parganas on Saturday. At each of the three places, huge crowds had gathered, mistaking the dry run for actual immunisation. The state health department held the dry run or mock vaccination drill to examine infrastructure readiness that includes logistic support, uploading dummy beneficiary data, adherence to actual implementation protocol, side effects care and finding gaps, if any. The dry run was conducted at the Amdanga rural hospital, the urban primary health centre of Madhyamgram Municipality and the Duttabad primary health centre under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation). At each of the three camps, 25 health workers earlier registered as “beneficiaries” through specific applications had to undergo mock vaccination in the presence of representatives of World Health Organisation, Unicef, and health officials of central and state governments. However, news of the dry run created confusion among a large number of people who turned up at the health care facilities “to get vaccinated”. It took health department officials time to clear the misconception and clear the centres of the massive crowds to carry out the mock drill. The eagerness among people to get vaccinated comes in the backdrop of the news that India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Friday recommended the emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine against Covid-19. A district health official, who was involved in the dry run in Amdanga, said: “News spread among residents that the Covid vaccination had begun and they started to gather in large numbers. nly after we explained to them that it was a mock drill before the actual rollout did they go.” Amdanga villager Asadul Biswas said it wasn’t their fault. “People have been eagerly waiting for the Covid-19 vaccine. When we saw the camp at Amdanga hospital, we rushed there but was told that it was only a mock drill,” he said. Saturday’s dry run in Bengal was the second such exercise in the country under the guidance of the Union ministry of health. The first lot of mock drills was held on December 28-29 in Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat. Chief medical officer of health of Barasat Tapas Kumar Roy said: “The trial run was held to examine the operational feasibility of vaccination as well as its planning and implementation of the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network application in real environment. The entire process was smooth.” At each healthcare facility, health workers in queues maintained social distance. On entering the facility, their registered identity number was verified through the dedicated app. They were taken to a room where mock vaccination was done. Then, a text message was sent informing the person about the next date of vaccination. The beneficiary was taken to the third room, the observation centre, where a vaccination officer monitored the person for 30 minutes for “side effects”. In case of any side effect, a rapid response team will provide medical support, a health official said. Ananya Dutta, public health manager of Madhyamgram Municipality said: “We followed all the protocol, physically implementing it in the application on a real time basis. We are happy that no drawback in the mechanism was detected.” Swapna Ghosh, a health worker who took part in the dry run, said: “The experience was quite exciting and I am waiting for the jab that would help ward off Covid-19.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung faction starts Rs 10 fundraiser||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha will launch a Rs-10 membership subscription drive, the decision taken during the party’s central committee meeting at Patlebas on Saturday indicating that the party is trying to shore up its organisational base in the hills. “We have decided to start a membership drive of Rs 10,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung camp, told the media. Gurung’s party has been out of power since 2017, after their elected sabhasads from Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) resigned from the hill body, and the state government appointed its rival Binay Tamang camp to head the GTA. With Gurung on the run from 2017 to October 2020, his faction of the Morcha suffered organisational setbacks, as many supporters left it. Giri tried to circumvent a question from The Telegraph when asked if the party was low on supporters and funds. “Membership drive has not been held since 2017...we also need party funds. A subscription of Rs 10 will help run the party,” said Giri. “We used to collect (the subscription) every year...Our source of party funds is through membership subscription. We have to submit an audited account to the Election Commision every year.” The faction also decided on a 51-member central committee instead of a huge 108-member one, and a “national committee” with representatives from different states, he said. More assistant secretaries, apart from Bimal Darjee and Binu Sundas, would be appointed apart from party spokespersons from various regions of the area. While the Morcha’s rival Binay Tamang’s youth wing is scheduled to hold a public meeting at Tukvar on Sunday, Gurung will travel to Kalimpong for a public meeting on January 7. Two days later, the Tamang camp is also likely to hold a meeting in Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
03-01-2021||West Bengal||New food unit in Nadia faces threat||Two women entrepreneurs from Calcutta have put on hold the construction of an export-oriented food processing and preservation unit on a 49-bigha plot adjacent to NH12 in Nadia’s Chakdah over alleged threats and scare tactics by extortionists. An official of the company — Delta Creation Private Limited — said in July last year they had been forced to shell out Rs 50,000 to buy peace when goons forced out private security guards from the site. Last week, goons made fresh demands for money when entrepreneurs Indrani Dutta and Laboni Dutta resumed construction that had been suspended for months because of the Covid situation. When the entrepreneurs refused to oblige, goons allegedly began stealing construction material and soil. “We initially tried to buy peace with Rs 50,000. But their demands appear to be unending. Since we have refused to oblige now, they have stolen construction materials and soil from the site,” said company’s managing director Arun Kumar Maity. Another official, who did not come on record, added that bombs were hurled at the site two days ago, forcing workers to flee. When Maity arrived at the site on Saturday, the goons allegedly said they would allow work only if their cash demand was met. “It is not possible for us to pay them every day. The goons have unleashed panic among our workers who stay at the site and are being threatened every day,” said Laboni Dutta, who is one of the directors of the company. Maity said he had apprised chief minister Mamata Banerjee, industries minister Partha Chatterjee and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar about the threat from extortionists, and demanded their intervention for work to go on, as well as lodged complaints with Chakdah police. “Cops are yet to begin a probe,” he said. Last year, entrepreneurs Indrani Dutta and Laboni Dutta bought 49 bighas of land to set up the export-oriented food processing-cum-preservation unit with technological support of a Singapore-based company. The project was aimed at procuring vegetables from farmers in bulk for export. “We are all set to implement a high-end technology that can preserve vegetables without chemicals for about 360 days. This area in Nadia is known for its vegetables and has huge potential for the food processing industry. We have tied up with about a few hundred farmers for the purpose. The project will also provide job opportunities to around 1,500 unskilled workers who can sort and clean vegetables,” said Maity. Maity said since the start of the construction, the project had been facing repeated threats from goons. The company has erected two sheds but a major part of the construction is incomplete, he added. State micro, small and medium enterprises minister and local MLA Ratna Ghosh, however, had a different take. She said there was a bone of contention between the company and villagers over a canal in the area. “There is around 100 bigha land around the project. During monsoon the land is flooded. A canal used to drain out the water, but it was filled up (plugged) by the company. But villagers are not against industries,” Ghosh said. District magistrate Nadia Partha Ghosh told The Telegraph: “I have heard about the incident (extortion demands) and instructed the police to initiate necessary action so that the work can resume.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
03-01-2021||West Bengal||Nadda rally in Birbhum next  Sunday||The BJP national president, J.P. Nadda, will visit Bengal on January 9 and 10, starting with a public rally in Birbhum, party sources have said. A BJP leader said as Mamata’s December 29 Bolpur rally in Birbhum was a far bigger show than that of Shah on December 20, the saffron party decided to focus on the district. Multiple BJP sources said the party’s central leadership wasn’t happy with the organisation in Birbhum. Hence, within a month of Union home minister Amit Shah’s roadshow in Birbhum, comes Nadda’s rally in the same district but its venue is yet to be decided. The BJP plans to be aggressive in its rallies now, insiders said. “We will not stop with a single rally at one place. There will be multiple rallies in each constituency,” a BJP office-bearer said. BJP sources also said that while Nadda would visit Birbhum, Shah might visit the Matua bastion of Thakurnagar in Bongaon, North 24-Parganas, on January 30. If Shah visits Thakurnagur, it would be significant because the BJP has been facing unrest in the state’s Matua-dominated areas over the Centre’s delay in rolling out the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act. BJP’s Bongaon MP and the chief of the All India Matua Mahasangha Shantanu Thakur had voiced the community’s anguish over the delay in the implementation of the laws, and the party leadership had reached out to him in order to keep its Matua support base intact. Following a meeting with senior party leaders, Thakur had said earlier this week that Shah might visit his constituency on January 19 or 20. However, BJP sources said that Shah’s visit might actually happen on January 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
03-01-2021||West Bengal||863 new Covid cases in 24 hours in Bengal||Bengal logged 863 Covid-19 infections during the 24-hour window ending Saturday 9am, 1,443 recoveries and 28 deaths, including eight from Calcutta. The day’s number of new infections was the lowest in months but tests were also fewer on Saturday at 28,275. Bengal also reported a drop in total active cases for the 68th consecutive day from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26, to 11,008 now. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 72 consecutive days by nearly 9 per cent since October 22 to 96.25 now, above the national rate of 96.13 per cent. “Our year-end stellar spell has apparently stayed with us  in the start of the New Year. We have undone six months of damage and hope we can continue on this path,” said a minister. “If so we will be well-placed for the vaccination phase,” he added. Since Dashami, the state reported over 2.23 lakh recoveries and 2 lakh new infections. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.54 lakh cases includes over 5.33 lakh recoveries and 9,766 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-250
03-01-2021||North East||Assam Congress promises cash benefit ||The Opposition Congress in poll-bound Assam has promised Rs 7,500 a month to each BPL and needy family if it comes to power in 2021, a move seen by most as the party’s counter to the BJP-led state government’s monthly dole of Rs 803 to over 19 lakh disadvantaged families. Apart from the direct transfer of Rs 7,500 per month, the state Congress has also promised a job to each family, either in the government sector or the private, free power up to 120 units a month, up from the 30 units being doled out by the BJP-led present government. The party also promised to waive loans availed by marginal farmers. Loans dished out by microfinance companies will also be waived, especially those availed by women. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora announced all these schemes during the customary New Year interaction at the state party headquarters here on Friday, including the monthly payout under  the Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY). The NYAY was first announced by the Congress in the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which the ruling BJP won convincingly. However, under the nationwide scheme, the amount was Rs 6,000 a month. Bora said if the Congress returns to power, a poor family will be getting Rs 7,500 in their bank accounts under the state government’s minimum income guarantee scheme to help the poor and the needy. “All these schemes are aimed at helping the poor, the youth, farmers and women. We will spell out the details in our manifesto,” Bora said. Assam goes to the polls later this year. The BJP already enjoys an edge in the game of doling out largesse with the BJP-led state government launching the Orunodoi scheme that will see over 19 lakh households getting Rs 830 a month. The beneficiaries include families with widows, unmarried women, divyang, divorcees and poor families not having ration card for free rice. Congress insiders said the party is working on “practical and doable” economic and political solutions to all problems faced by the people of the state, something that will be reflected in its manifesto. He also said the party will take NYAY to the people because it could be a game-changer if properly implemented. “It was and is a good scheme, but we didn’t get enough time to take it to the people in 2019. However, there is already some awareness about the scheme. Rahul Gandhi had flagged the issue during one of his poll rallies in Guwahati. We are keeping the faith in NYAY,” an insider said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
03-01-2021||North East||Wildfire engulfs 200 acres in Manipur||Over 200 acres of forestland on Mount Iso in Manipur have been reduced to ashes in the wildfire raging in the Dzukou Valley along the Manipur-Nagaland border since December 29, while joint operations by the Centre, state agencies and local volunteers to contain the blaze was scaled up manifold on Saturday. Dzukou Valley covers Senapati (Manipur) and Kohima (Nagaland) districts. It is called Dzuko Valley in Manipur and is a popular tourist and trekking destination known for its beautiful flowers and crystal-clear streams. The Manipur chief minister’s office on Saturday said efforts to extinguish the wildfire in the hill ranges of Dzuko Valley in Senapati district continued for the fourth day. After a thorough analysis of the landscape on Friday by a combined team of Senapati police, fire service and local volunteers, a stretch of 500 metres was cleared between the third and second mountain ranges of Mt Iso. “The team successfully prevented spread of the fire towards the eastern side by using sand and fire extinguisher. However, the inferno still continued on the southern and western side and approximately more than 200 acres of Mount Iso range had already been reduced to cinders,” the statement said. The fire on the Nagaland side was “under” control and it could be contained in another two days as operations to check the spread has been scaled up manifold in both states. Johnny Ruangmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority, told The Telegraph on Saturday that four IAF choppers sprayed eight tonnes of water on the affected spots. A senior NDRF official said as many as seven teams are engaged in the operations with government personnel and local volunteers, including making over 3km of firelines to check the spread of the blaze. Ruangmei said IAF choppers lifted the water from Dimapur for spraying in the valley and made six sorties during the day. IAF official Ratnakar Singh said the “Bambi bucket” or spraying water operation will continue on Sunday. Three drones were also used on Saturday to ascertain the spread of the fire and the damage. “We will be able to know the damage only after getting the pictures which could not be transferred today because there is no mobile network in the affected areas and satellite phone is also not working,” Ruangmei said. An NDRF official said the fire reportedly started from the Nagaland side on December 29, around 1.5km from the Manipur border. The NDRF has deployed three teams in Nagaland and four in Manipur, totalling around 280 personnel. Manipur public health engineering minister Losii Dikho, currently camping at Mao, around 14km from the valley, to supervise the operation, chaired another round of review meeting with the representatives of Senapati district administration, police, NDRF, SDRF and fire services officials and decided that a base camp would be set up at the eastern side of Mt Iso to conduct the operations. About 100 personnel from Nagaland are camping in the affected areas. A Manipur forest department official said steep terrain has hampered the containment of the wildfire which has destroyed bamboo shrubs in the upper slopes and is gradually spreading to thick forests located on the lower slopes because of strong winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
03-01-2021||Opinion||New Year pledges that make the BJP furious ||As his first resolution for 2021, the Bharatiya Janata Party member of parliament, Subramanian Swamy, listed being “committed to Narendra Modi as Prime Minister”. His second resolution was the propagation of Hindutva. The first was seen as a sign of some relief in the BJP quarters. Party managers now felt that the MP, notorious for doggedly getting after somebody he wants to target, would not attack the government. However, the 81-year-old MP was back in form on the second day of the new year. In a tweet, he sought to target the prime minister for appointing someone as principal scientific adviser. “I am amazed that PM has made Dr. Vijay Raghavan as Principal Adviser on Science in the PMO,” his tweet said. He then went on to level serious allegations against Raghavan. “This Raghavan... was on the Chinese Wuhan Bat virus project and brought the Chinese to Nagaland to experiment on the Bats without Govt clearance,” his tweet added. In another tweet, Swamy urged the prime minister to cancel the Republic Day parade this year in view of the pandemic, citing reports of soldiers getting infected during rehearsals. He went on to add that it would be a relief for the prime minister of Britain, Boris Johnson — who is scheduled to be chief guest for the parade — in the midst of Brexit. All this has made the BJP managers furious. They probably missed the last sentence in Swamy’s 2021 resolution — he said he would continue to “speak truth sans fear”. The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, just anointed his trusted lieutenant and Rajya Sabha member, RCP Singh, as the national president of the Janata Dal (United). As the stature of the five-feet tall man grew further with the announcement, celebrations broke out at the party headquarters in Patna. A flamboyant party worker, Chhotu Singh, brought the biggest garland available in the city. He brought one of marigold weighing around 120 kilogrammes, held aloft by a dozen men. As RCP Singh emerged from the office, Chhotu Singh rushed to garland him, but some other party leaders cautioned him that it would either break his neck or pull him down to the ground. Finally, it was decided to hold the garland in the air around the new leader. “Yaar, tum chhotu, RCP chhote, mala bhi chhota laana chahiye tha is awsar par (Friend, your name means small, RCP is also small, you should have brought a small garland to suit the occasion),” a party leader told Chhotu Singh as guffaws rang among the workers. The BJP poached six of the seven JD(U) members of legislative assembly in Arunachal Pradesh recently. The act has put the senior leaders of the party in Bihar in a peculiar position. They cannot open their mouths, they cannot face the roaming journalists, and they cannot talk back to the JD(U) leaders who are on a rampage, condemning their party at will. The senior BJP leaders have reportedly questioned the move of their party leadership, though not publicly. “We feel ashamed over the development. Our party has always felt proud of its ethics, fair play and protecting our friends, but our top leadership is doing exactly the opposite,” a senior BJP leader from Bihar confided. The two parties are allies in Bihar and have barely scraped through in the recent assembly elections. Another saffron party leader asserted that having Nitish Kumar in good humour was important, lest 2015 gets repeated — the JD(U) had aligned with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress back then to trounce the BJP, switching horses mid-term. The chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, was never known for his diplomacy. A hard-boiled communist who came up the hard way in both life and party, Vijayan has often made cadres cringe in his presence. His famous audacity has for long been the subject of tea-shop discussions in Kerala. But the same Vijayan surprised everyone with his diplomatic manoeuvres to convince the governor, Arif Mohammed Khan, to reconsider his decision of not clearing an assembly session to pass a resolution against the farm laws. The pugnacious communist did not want an issue with the governor. Like some party insiders say, Khan was lucky to have a much mellowed-down Vijayan in office. The decision of the Congress central leadership to align with N Chandrababu Naidu’s Telugu Desam Party in the 2018 assembly elections had angered the local party leaders in Telangana who felt the results would be disastrous. The TDP had opposed the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh and the Congress lost the people’s support in Telangana by embracing Naidu in a stunning political somersault that showcased lack of foresight. The same TDP ghost is haunting the Congress again as senior leaders of Telangana fear a major exodus if the efforts to make Revanth Reddy the state unit chief succeed. They see Reddy, who came from the TDP, as a Naidu lackey, and are trying to convince the high command that most seniors will defect to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the BJP if he becomes state chief. Many leaders are reportedly circulating documents showing pending criminal cases against Reddy and recalling how he allegedly abused Sonia Gandhi during his stint in the TDP. They also blame one key party functionary close to Rahul Gandhi for misleading the party on the choice of chief in Telangana where the ground is ripe for Congress revival. The Congress leader to watch out for in Kerala is Oommen Chandy. At 77, the soft-spoken former chief minister may not be on the right side of age and health, but his stock has only increased in the party gearing up to face the assembly polls in about four months. Still licking the wounds of the debacle in the local body polls, the Congress is banking on the Kerala swing voters, alternating between the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front. Many want Chandy to play a pivotal role to win back the state, who is perhaps the right answer for the Congress’s woes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
03-01-2021||Opinion||Lessons from the field matter||Hashtag. RealLeadersCare An instance from last week reminded that we look to the field for more than adrenaline rush. Small acts of kindness, the hard knocks of resolve, resilience and sterling leadership, carry way beyond the playing field. What else can explain the overwhelming applause for India stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane’s keep-it-up-and-going tap to Ravindra Jadeja after being run out himself? Around the time when protesting farmers’ death toll crossed 50, reams were written about “(Indian cricket) team spirit” and Rahane’s “leadership”. His mix-up in Adelaide from a few days ago when he had got his captain, Virat Kohli, run out, and for which he had apologised, was all forgotten and forgiven. Compassion and Camaraderie Likewise, there was much ado when Russian tennis player Daria Kasatkina injured herself and retired from the Italian Open in Rome last year and her opponent, Belarus’s Victoria Azarenka, rushed with the ice pack and towel. After a chat, hug and kiss on Kasatkina’s forehead as Azarenka turned to go her way, Kasatkina held out a grateful lingering hand. The commentator remarked on the “genuine camaraderie that exists between tennis players” and the Women’s Tennis Association tweeted a visual of the two players with two hearts accompanying two words --- “compassion and camaraderie”. Game. Set. Match Last September, Japan’s Naomi Osaka beat Azarenka to win the US Open. Post match, before the awards ceremony, there was the usual acceptance speech and Q&A round. After Osaka had thanked Azarenka for a “tough game”, she was asked --- “You said from the beginning you had seven matches, seven masks, seven names. What was the message...” Osaka’s masks had names of seven black victims of racial violence. The 23-year-old grand-slammed --- “Well, what was the message you got?” Which reminds of another Osaka story. In 2018 she had won her first US Open beating no less than Serena Williams. But the match itself had been fraught with tension. Williams had lost her temper once too often --- she smashed her racket and called the chair umpire a thief --- and had to forfeit a game and was even fined. Osaka had to face a lot of booing from Williams's fans. That day, the young player had tears "rivering" down her cheeks right through the awards ceremony. Way later, Williams recounted that she had written to Osaka to apologise for marring her big moment and the young sportsperson had apparently replied: “People can misunderstand anger for strength because they can't differentiate between the two... No one has stood up for themselves the way you have and you need to continue trailblazing.”  Lessons from the field matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
03-01-2021||Opinion||Aaj phir Jeeney ki Tamanna Hai||Plop! And so the journey began, and already its has gone plop! plop! plop! plop! so many multiple times that we have lost count of the plop-plops yet left ahead of us. So come, come along, there’s no time, Time is passing plop-plop-plop and we cannot let Time pass without keeping pace with it, else Time will leave us behind and you know what happens to those that Time leaves behind. They become the past, left behind, no longer within reach, forever irretrievable, gone. Those that Time leaves behind as it passes, plop-plop-plop, become the material of what we can only remember, or remember not. There is another word for them, but let us not use that word now, not at this time, not at beginnings, not when we have just set out. Come! Make haste! Mind Time. We have to be on our way, there’s no other perceivable way now, we already left. Plop! Plop! Plop! But where to? And who might you be? To command in such fashion? You may have a point, and some pull, but if only your name was Desire. Desire? Are you surprised? Who could you be but Desire that I should even be persuaded ? Or even hear? Your entreaty: Come! Why else would I listen? Give me another reason, else let me be. Let Time pass, and let me be bypassed. For why else would I make the effort? Desire. And Desire alone, the first and last and the only one. The temptress Time employs. What else is Time but a catalogue of Desire? Sought. Secured. Or squandered. That is how Time passes. Plop! Plop! Plop! Plop! Stepping stone to stepping stone to stepping stone. For beyond Desire we may all well lose step with Time and become what Time leaves behind. What do you say? What are we without Desire? Think of yourself devoid of it. And prove to me you are still one of our species and remain alive. Why would you be here if not for Desire? Why would you follow Time? Why would you not wave it ahead, go on, proceed, plop! plop! plop! I am done, this is it, this is where it ends because this is the end of Desire, the use before date has ticked over. Else, get up, walk. Time is travelling. Its Temptress is too, on silken blades that bleed all the way. It’s the way it tells itself, Time, its wake is a crowded wake. And bloodied, like disembodied, ageing Merlot. But you do not wish to become part of it yet. You want to come along, there’s more to want, there’s more to seek, there’s more to grasp and cling to, and more to quaff and quench. Oh Desire. Clip my nails so they may sprout again in shapes of waxing moon; and sprout again my nails so they may be clipped again in shapes of waning moon. As long as there’s a thing to do, or things, as long as there’s desire. If nothing else, a clipped nail, and the illusion of slices of the moon. One last drop down the throat. Who knows there may yet be room. One last rattle of air probing the suburbs of the heart. Who knows what may yet lie there lost and to be found. One last dribble of the iris. Who knows what it may settle on and go still. One last pulse on the vein. Who knows what it may yet tell. There’s Time? It isn’t the last? Who knows there may be yet more. Even after this, even when it has been such a long dying. And yet we are not dead. And yet we are being beckoned. Come! Make haste! Desire. Time’s temptress. One more time. Time, it travels, and if there’s a thing to do, or things, you travel along too. Plop-plop! Clop-clop. Cloppety-clip. Throbbetty-throb. It’s Time. And it is passing. Come then, say plop! Where have we arrived here from? And where might we be headed? The wind, it sings And breaks the wings of birds The wolves, they howl And they’re minding the herds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
03-01-2021||Opinion||Fairy tale on field||The cricket in Australia was a grace note at the end of this dirge-like year. The telecast of the Test before Christmas and the Boxing Day match soon afterwards was a window into normalcy. Even when the Indians were thrashed for 36 at Adelaide, the fact that they lost before flesh-and-blood spectators in a familiar cricket ground made it a welcome vision from a world we had lost. The rousing turnaround in Melbourne supplied a fairy-tale send-off to 2020. Fairy tales generally make no difference to the real world, but the match at the MCG provided such an unlikely climax to one particular life story that it left hard-boiled hacks muttering about miracles. Mohammed Siraj made his Test debut as a like-for-like replacement for Mohammed Shami who had his arm broken by a short ball in Adelaide. These were big boots to fill. After struggles with injury and inconsistency, Shami, along with Jasprit Bumrah and Umesh Yadav, had become an indispensable member of India’s pace attack. His loss left India’s fast-bowling trident with a missing prong. Enter Siraj. Purely in terms of cricketing pedigree, Siraj’s rise to the top was unreal in its improbability. Here was a 26-year-old debutant seam bowler who had only begun using a leather ball with a seam at the age of 21! Having made this bizarrely late transition from tennis ball cricket, Siraj made his first-class debut in 2015, was bought at the IPL auction in 2017, became Hyderabad’s main wicket taker with the red ball and performed so well for India A that he made it to the Test squad to Australia. His life in the last five years has been lived in fast-forward. When you overlay this prodigious cricket career with his personal backstory, his Australian debut begins to resemble a fairy tale scripted by a filmi screenwriter with a gift for melodrama. Oddly enough, Siraj’s cricketing career was foretold in fiction by Nagesh Kukunoor. In 2005, Kukunoor made a feature film, Iqbal, which told the story of a Muslim boy who made the Andhra Pradesh Ranji Trophy team as a fast bowler without any experience in competitive cricket, thanks to an inspirational coach. The climax of the film has Iqbal going on to play for India. Since this is a Bombay film, and its hero must transcend overwhelming odds, Iqbal is also deaf, but deafness apart, the similarities between the film and Siraj’s life are uncanny. A young Muslim lad from Andhra Pradesh (remember, this is 2005 and there is no Telangana state) with a talent for fast bowling and no league experience is helped by an inspirational coach (Naseeruddin Shah in the movie, Karthik Udupa in real life) to make it to the provincial first class side (Andhra Pradesh for Iqbal, Hyderabad for Siraj), and from there on he is fast-tracked into the Indian team thanks to the talent spotting genius of a former India international (Kapil Dev playing himself in the film and Rahul Dravid in his role as the India A coach and mentor). Iqbal is the ultimate feel-good film and it works. When its hero finally takes the field for India in an ODI, there were people sniffling in every section of the cinema hall. Siraj’s story is, if anything, even more moving. We all know by now that his father, an auto-rickshaw driver, died during the early part of the Australian tour and Siraj, encouraged by his mother, stayed on the tour because his dream of playing for India had been shared by his father. He made that decision when he had no real prospect of making the team because the fast bowling places were taken. It was only Shami’s injury that gave him his shot at glory. He seized it with both hands. He ran in hard, bowled an economical and disciplined line and length, moved the ball both ways and took five wickets for very few runs. His captain, Ajinkya Rahane, went out of his way to praise his commitment and ability. It was a dream debut. Iqbal is the only Hindi film I can think of where the central character is a Muslim in a matter-of-fact way. He just happens to be a Muslim in the same way that he happens to be deaf. There is a nice taken-for-granted air about Iqbal’s Muslim-ness. It’s almost as if Kukunoor is making the point that just as your nominally Hindu protagonist in the run-of-the-mill Bombay film doesn’t have to be self-conscious about his religious identity, neither does Iqbal. It is, if you like, a dream of innocence. It’s the kind of dream all of us want to believe can come true. Shoaib Akhtar, the eccentric and fearsomely fast Pakistani bowler, was widely reported in the Indian press when he said that Siraj’s selection showed that anyone, regardless of caste or class or creed, could make the Indian cricket team. And Siraj’s compressed and magical career shows that he’s right. It’s to the credit of Indian cricket that Siraj rose to the top despite his obvious disadvantages. Should Siraj consolidate his place in the team, it’s more than likely that in the near future, there will be new ball spells when a Mohammed will be steaming in from either end to bowl for India. And in that moment, thanks to the magical communion that sport creates between teams and their fans, Siraj’s faith, and Shami’s, will be irrelevant. But Iqbal’s dream of innocence can’t be dreamt in Narendra Modi’s India because cricket isn’t a bubble in which a cricketer can live out his entire life. He must return to a country, a state, a city, a neighbourhood where public men devote their careers to stigmatizing his co-religionists, policing their diets, attacking their livelihoods, criminalizing their romances, subverting their citizenship, confining them to ghettoes, even lynching them with impunity. Republican India was never a perfectly pluralist democracy, but there was a time when its politicians paid lip service to the ideal of a secular State. A film like Iqbal is plausible only in a world where the broader public sphere is committed to the ideal of even-handedness. It can have no purchase on the national imagination of a country where the ruling party at the Centre and many of its states are committed to excluding Muslims from political representation, where the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh has effectively declared open season on Muslims, where love-jihad-obsessed legislators in BJP-ruled states spend their time writing lunatic bigotry into law. ‘No normal sport in an abnormal society’ was the slogan coined by the South African Council on Sport in its campaign against apartheid in South Africa. It was both a powerful slogan and a simple truth. India doesn’t formally discriminate against Muslims on the same scale as apartheid South Africa did, but the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens and the love jihad laws suggest that institutionalized discrimination is on the near horizon. When majoritarianism distorts a country’s democratic institutions and forces them to diverge from the basic fairness that sustains the meritocratic structures of sport, the minority sportsman in a national team finds himself representing a nation that treats his co-religionists as second-class citizens. As citizen-spectators, we are then forced to reckon with the tension between glorying in Siraj’s achievements on ‘our’ behalf and reconciling that pride with the increasingly brazen persecution of Muslims in India. To look at the cricket and look away from the rest is one option. To look at the cricket and then hold politics accountable to the same standards of fairness that we expect of sport is the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
03-01-2021||Opinion||Exclusive language||Most people are glad that they put the nightmare that was the year, 2020, behind them. This may have something to do with the sea changes the year brought — an almighty shove in the direction of the Digital Age was among the turbulences. But the Luddites may be celebrating a bit too soon. The vaccines are being rolled out to save the world from the dreaded coronavirus, but there is no respite yet from the Zoom meeting; neither offices nor colleges are willing to zoom out yet. Zoom, therefore, is in. As the raging pandemic pushed people out of the real world and into the virtual one, suddenly everything — from school and work to birthday parties and funerals — began to be held on Zoom. Such was its popularity that Zoom not only became the ‘verb of the year’ but it also became a noun. Only Google can rival this feat of grammatical pole-vault — it went in the opposite direction, becoming a verb from a noun in 2006. Language, the adage goes, mirrors history in miniature. The roots that technology is putting down in language then are a reflection of the future. But this metaphorical mirror also sports a deep crack. One one side of the chasm lies the child with multiple electronic devices of his own. He speaks the language of technology fluently, cleverly switching off the video feed to the online class streaming on his tablet to play video games on his phone. On the other side are children, such as the girls from Howrah and Kerala, who decided to end their lives because their families could not afford a single smart device on which they could attend these New Age classes. According to the 75th round of National Sample Survey conducted between July 2017 and June 2018, just 4.4 per cent rural households in India have a computer against 14.4 per cent in urban areas; 14.9 per cent rural households have access to the internet against 42 per cent households in urban areas. India and the world are not very different places when it comes to digital exclusion: almost half the global population did not have access to mobile phones or the internet at the end of 2020, says a study on global internet usage. The select clientele of this techno-tongue has wider connotations. Students from disadvantaged backgrounds are not the only ones having trouble speaking it. Telemedicine and internet banking, which, too, are being taught the same tongue, are reportedly eluding vast segments of people in India. There is no denying the potential of technology — it can and has revolutionized human existence. What need to be addressed though are associated conditions like accessibility and affordability that would allow every section of society to enjoy its fruits. Technology has cast a spell on the land and language. But is it not a spell of exclusion?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Woman gives birth aboard New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express||A woman traveling by special Rajdhani Express 02454, coach B11 went into labour on Sunday. RPF personnel aboard the train informed senior officials at Barkakana railway station under Ramgarh district. A team, along with a doctor were assembled at Barkakana railway station, and were waiting for the train to arrive. As soon as the train reached the station, the doctor delivered a baby girl in the box of the train. Dr Deepti Jha facilitated the safe delivery and said both the baby, and the mother Meena Devi (27) were well. "It was a normal delivery. The baby is premature, but both the mother and child are healthy," said Dr Jha. After the delivery, Meena and the baby were referred to the Sadar Hospital in Ramgarh. "My wife was pregnant and about a month away from the date of delivery; she was working in Dharampur Shimla. We were returning to our ancestral village Gumla. She went into labour on the running train. We informed the RPF and TT. They informed the Barkakana railway station master about the case.  On behalf of the station master, the team of doctors of Barkakana Railway Hospital was informed and Dr  Deepti Jha was called.  The doctor got the baby delivered in the train. Both mother and child are fine after delivery," said Ajay Uraon, Meena’s husband. "The New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express stops at Barkakana Junction for just 5 minutes. But the railway management kept the train standing for 1 hour and 30 minutes for the delivery. No passenger complained," said Barkakana divisional traffic manager (DTM ) Manish Saurab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Headless, naked body of a young girl found in Ranchi||A headless body of a girl believed to be in the mid-20s was recovered from forests in Ormanjhi, over 20 km from the district headquarters in Ranchi on Sunday, sending locals into a tizzy. The body found was also without clothes and bore heavy injury marks suggesting that she may have been abused and raped before her murder. Ranchi rural SP Naushad Alam, who rushed to the spot in the morning soon after being alerted by locals, said that police is trying to ascertain the identity of the girl. “Dog squad was pressed to trace the head to establish her identity but we haven’t got any success. Police are on the job to crack the case,” he said. On the possibility of rape, the police are yet to officially make any comment till the post mortem is done. Police sources, however, suspected that the girl may have been raped, beaten severely and then beheaded to dodge the identity of the deceased. “Criminals may have killed her somewhere else and thrown the body here,” suspected another cop. Sources also claimed said that police found a few empty bottles of beer in the vicinity. The incident has again prompted opposition BJP to attack Hemant Soren government over the safety and security of women in the state. BJP’s women wing president Arti Kujur said, “How long will the women continue to face abuse, rape and murder. When will police act to plug loopholes? Such an incident happening right at the doorsteps of capital is proof enough of poor patrolling and ineffective policing.” Notably, close to 1,500 cases of rape and crime against women and child were reported in Jharkhand in 2020. Speaking with reporters on New Year eve, DGP MV Rao had said that an internal study conducted by state police had revealed that 90 per cent of cases involved criminals who were either matriculate or educated or even less than that and role of consumption of liquor was common in every incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Eight shops burgled in Dhanbad, valuables worth lakh stolen||Less than a week after the burglary worth Rs 7 lakh that took place in a book whole seller’s godown at Purana Bazar in Dhanbad, another burglary took place on Sunday in eight shops of Hirapur Hatia where cash and property worth Rs 1 lakh were stolen. The incident came to light when Parmimal Chandra Dey, one of the victim shopkeepers, arrived this morning at his sweets shop and found a broken lock. Upon entering his shop he found silver coins and some sweets worth Rs 20,000 was missing from the shop. Other shopkeepers, like retail vegetable sellers Uday Kumar Sao and Pappu Sao, also claimed that that silver coins worth Rs 900 and Rs 700 were stolen from their respective shops. Burglars took away cash worth Rs 20,000 from the sweet shop of Birbal Chandra Dey. Cash and vegetable worth Rs 500 were stolen from the vegetable retailer Hareram Sao while coins worth Rs 500 were stolen from the shop of Rajendra Sao in his neighbourhood. Cash and goods including the decoration articles and puja articles were stolen from the shop of Bittu Singh and Jagat Verma also. Talking to the media, Hareram Sao said that the cash lying in the shop was targeted in a majority of the shops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||BJP protests two alleged cold related Dalit deaths in Gumla and Bokaro||Deaths of two Dalits due to cold in Bokaro and Gumla has sparked off a controversy, with schedule caste wing of Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP), accused failure of Hemant Soren-led government in providing blanket and other beneficial schemes to the poors in the state. BJP also announced to stage dharna in front of Governor’s house in Ranchi on January, 5 to bag attention of the government over such failure that causing the death of poors. The nights are cold these days, with temperature plummeting below 10 degrees Celcius. However, the government denied charges of deaths of the two poors due to cold. The president of the schedule caste wing of BJP and Chandankyari MLA, Amar Bauri on Sunday visited Passi Tola of Surihi panchayat under Nawadih block where a 60-year-old man Raghu Passi died of cold and met his family members. He said that a BJP team has also visited Ambedkar Village in Palkot of Gumla district where a man Sukhan Nagrachi died of cold and provided help to his family. Bauri said “they are demanding from government to provide Rs 4 lakh compensation each to the family of the deceased in Bokaro and Gumla. These incidents have exposed the failure of the Hemant Soren government in providing facilities to the poor people of the state. In Bokaro, about 50 families reside in that Passi Tola of Nawadih, of them, only two-three people have got blankets from the government. It is our BJP team who went and distributed blankets and provided food grains to the deceased family”. He added, “the administration is trying to hide the matter, but failed, as we have approached and seen things with our eyes. The deceased family didn’t have ration cards and lacks pucca houses. I have asked the officials of the district administration to provide these Passi people ration cards soon, so that they can be benefitted from the government schemes, and also construct houses for them under Pradhanmantri Housing scheme. BJP is all set to stage dharna at Governor’s residence over these two deaths due to cold”. “In Gumla also, the deceased Sukhan Nagarchi was found dead due to cold on Saturday. He left behind two small children and his wife. His daughter is one year old and his son is four years old. The deceased's wife Rupa Devi told that the family does not have a ration card or a pucca house to live in,” said Bauri. The place in Bokaro where the Passi found dead on the first night of New Year is located at a distance of four kilometers from the Nawadih Block. The administration has also sent a team led by an additional collector Vijay Gupta to inquire the matter. DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Singh said the team conducting site inspection found the deceased, Aadhaar card which identifies him as a resident of Jamtara district. He had come to meet his daughter-in-law about three days ago and was living near Budhan Pasi nearby. DC also said, that it was told by Budhan Pasi that the deceased ate with them all and slept as usual in the nearby hut and died in the night. In the course of the investigation, the officers found government-provided blanket laying the bed on which he was dead. A bonfire was also found burnt at a few distances. There was no shortage of food for the family of the deceased. Food was found made in two stoves. There was no negligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Chowk revamp as tribute to ex-Dhanbad SP||Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh announced on Sunday the district administration plans to renovate the Randhir Verma Chowk situated near the district headquarters. Singh made the announcement while talking to the media on the sidelines of a programme organised by Randhir Verma Memorial Society on the 30th death anniversary of former Dhanbad superintendent of police Late Randhir Prasad Verma at Randhir Verma Chowk on Sunday. Randhir Prasad Verma, who sacrificed his life fighting with the terrorists foiling a bank robbery attempt 30 years ago on January 3, 1991, was awarded Ashok Chakra posthumously. “The sacrifice made by Late Randhir Prasad Verma is a source of inspiration for not only for the people of Jharkhand but for youth across the country,” said Singh. “We appeal to the youth and also our officials to take inspiration from Late Randhir Prasad towards the duty and responsibilities,” said Singh. “As the square developed several years ago is lying in a dilapidated state, the district administration has decided to renovate the same and no dearth of fund would come in the renovation and beatification of the square bearing the statue of Randhir Prasad Verma,” further said Singh and added the renovation would be completed within a few months. Dhanbad SSP, Aseem Vikrant Minz who also paid tribute by garlanding the statue of Randhir Prasad Verma said, “The supreme sacrifice made by Randhir Prasad Verma sir is worth emulating for every policeman.” “The sacrifice made by him has further strengthened the credibility of police service among people police service is meant for the common people,” added Minz. Meanwhile, unlike the previous years when the programme used to be quite elaborate with the participation of large number of people including politicians, social workers and bureaucrats, the function this year was held in a simple manner due to Covid constrains but several dignitaries including Dhanbad MP, PN Singh; Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha, and Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh visited the chowk and paid floral tribute. Meanwhile, a similar function was also held near IIT (ISM) gate during which tributes were paid to a non-teaching staff of IIT (ISM), Shyamal Chakraborty who died during the same incident after receiving gunshot injuries. Talking to the media, after paying tribute to Shyamal Chakraborty, former Nirsa MLA, Arup Chakraborty said, “Though Randhir Prasad Verma fought the terrorists single-handedly and made the supreme sacrifice while foiling the bank robbery attempt, Shyamal Chakraborty who was also present in the bank as a customer resisted the bank dacoity and became a victim of the attack of the terrorists.” “We want the recognition of the sacrifice of Shyamal Chakraborty as unlike other customers he could have turned passive but he tried to save the public property and recognition of his sacrifice will inspire the common people towards the protection of public property,” added Arup Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Health officials mull more sessions on Co-Win app||Health officials of the state are satisfied with Saturday’s dry run of Covid-19 vaccination protocols but would like to hold more sessions for operators who would be feeding data in the Co-Win app where details of beneficiaries and doses will have to be uploaded in real-time. The most heartening outcome of the dry run, held at 13 sites in six districts including Ranchi, was that there was no internet glitch, which is a challenge in itself, given Jharkhand’s varied topography. “At 13 chosen sites for the dry run, we did not face any internet or other technical glitches,” said state director of National Health Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We are hopeful the situation prevails when the actual vaccination happens. Today we have multiple internet service providers that can reach out to the remotest parts of the state. Still, we shall analyse this aspect threadbare in the coming days,” he said. On Sunday, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), the country’s drug regulator, announced the approval of two Covid-19 vaccines of the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for restricted use, setting the stage for the first phase of the immunisation exercise. According to the state chapter of NHM, 1lakh to 1.25 lakh people will be administered the vaccine in the first phase, ground works for which was almost ready. During Saturday’s drive in Ranchi, Pakur, Simdega, Palamau, East Singbhum and Chatra, 325 health workers took part. While the practice sessions were primarily free of problems, Shukla said he was concerned about the possibility of man-made glitches. “For example, at one centre in Pakur district and another in Bundu in Ranchi, data entry operators initially fumbled with online registration and data entry. So, we need to hold a refresher course to help these people to go through the process again.” Sources in the health department said they were expecting to start vaccinations for the first phase from the second week of January. “We will get a formal intimation. But we think the vaccines will start arriving by next week,” said an official. Shukla doesn’t anticipate major hurdles in the first phase as the chosen beneficiaries will primarily be from the health services. “Those identified for the first phase of inoculations are mostly from the health sector who are aware of the dos and don’ts. So, we don’t anticipate much problem in administering the vaccine to them. The real challenge will lie when the general public will be covered,” said Shukla. Palamau civil surgeon John F Kennedy said around 3,500 health workers would get the vaccine in the district in the first phase. Asked whether he was sure about the infrastructure requirements, given that Palamau is one of Jharkhand’s remotest districts with serious connectivity issues, he said, “Let’s hope for the best.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Three special floorball players from state to join national camp||Three special athletes and a coach from Jharkhand will be attending the national floorball preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games to be held at Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28 next year. The camp, which is scheduled between March 15 and 20 in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh is being organised by Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) with logistical support from Sports Authority of India (SAI).  It is the final camp for selecting the national floorball squad for the Russia Games. The three special athletes include Sital Sikka, Rakesh Bagh (both from East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih). Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) will go as a coach. According to Special Olympic Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota, all the three floorball players are good and expected to perform well at the preparatory camp. “We have instructed these special athletes to start working on their fitness as final selection for India floorball team will be held during the camp in Bilaspur,” Sahota added. The SOB has plans to hold two camps for Sital, Rakesh and Rahul in Jamshedpur subject to the approval of JRD Tata Sports Complex from Tata Steel sports wing. “We have planned to organise the first camp at the end of January or first week of February while the second camp will be conducted (prior to departure of the athletes to Bilaspur) from March 7 to 12,” the SOJ assistant area director informed. The state chapter will shortly approach Tata Steel sports wing for seeking permission to hold the training camp at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. “Training camp is essential to keep our athletes in fine fettle before their leave for Bilaspur. After all, it’s the final selection of the national floorball outfit,” Sahota said. The special athletes and coach will proceed to Bilaspur on March 13 and will be back on March 22. The SOJ will ensure that valid passports, Aadhar cards, and IQ certificates of the special athletes are ready by February 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad techies launches new app to monetise skills and assets||A group of IIT (ISM) graduates, along with other techies, have developed a mobile app that serves as a platform to increase incomes of people through effective utilisation of skills and assets. Ashish Kumar, an IIT (ISM) B.Tech (Mining Machinery) 2018 batch graduate, developed ‘Buddin - Teaching, Renting & Gig Jobs’ in six months along with Ashish Ranjan, IIT (ISM) Dual Degree (Fiver Year B.Tech+M.Tech) Applied Geology 2019 graduate:  Kartikeya Kumar, IIT (ISM) B.Tech (Applied Geology) 2020 graduate; and Kislay Kumar, Haldia Institute of Technology 2018 graduate. “Our mission is to make everyone financially self-sustaining using either skills or resources and our vision is to build an ecosystem where finding or providing gig jobs are hassle-free,” said Ashish Kumar. Highlighting the features of the app, Kumar said, “Our platform is totally free for users with firewalls for security. The app works on a real-time basis,”. He  added that the user can create an account within two steps and it is easy to post in the app with two clicks. “The app has different sections, including education, service provider, parking, skill and professionals, car/bike pooling and renting, logistics which acts as provider of service as well as seeker,” further added Ashish Ranjan. Citing an example, Ranjan said that in the education section one can find the appropriate and cost-effective tutor in his vicinity while in service section one can find an electrician or plumber or carpenter or mason. The electrician, plumber, carpenter or mason can vice versa utilise their idle time to earn money. “If one plans a trip by car to Hyderabad in an emergency and posts the information in the car renting section of the app, another person who has plans to visit Hyderabad can coordinate with him and go along with him by mutually sharing the fuel cost, etc.” said Ranjan. Regarding the parking section he said that a person visiting Dhanbad for one month and facing difficulty to park his vehicle, he can find the parking lot in his area while the parking owner can use his space temporarily for making money. “So far more than 1,500 persons have downloaded the app. The app can be downloaded through this link https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cuvette.seeker_provider_app,” said Ranjan and added that one can use his extra time to utilise his skill through this app even if he is engaged in a job which will help him to add on his income. “We have organised a one-hour promotion of our app on Sunday through which those NGOs engaged in free of cost teaching can connect with the underprivileged children deprived of education,” said Kartikeya Kumar and added they developed the app in six months although the idea came into their discussion about a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
03-01-2021||Jharkhand||More than 150 Covid cases over on Saturday||Jharkhand logged 151 new cases of Covid-19 on saturday while the number of fatalities rose to 1,034 with four more deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the state health department data showed on Saturday night. As per the bulletin, 205 people have recovered from the virus on Saturday. One death each was recorded in Dhanbad, Garhwa, Palamau and Ramgarh. Among fresh cases Ranchi led the charts with 71 fresh infections. East Singhbhum, Ramgarh and Bokaro reported 20, 15, and 11 cases of coronavirus respectively. A total of seven districts remained free of the virus, while 13 of them got single digit cases in the last one day. So far, 1,15,392 people got infected by the virus since March last year, while1,12,734 recovered in the state. The recovery rate in the state  97.69 per cent vis-a-vis 96.10 per cent nationally. The seven-day growth is 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.16 per cent, whereas the doubling in the state is 495.68 days compared to the national average of 424 days. The mortality rate is 0.89 percent compared to the national average of 1.40 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
03-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Couple with suspected Maoist link lynched in Jharkhand||A couple with alleged Maoist link were beaten to death after a villager was allegedly murdered in Jharkhand’s Palamau district on Friday night. The incident which happened in Kundilpur village under Manatu police station, nearly 190km northwest of state capital Ranchi, came to the notice of the police only on Saturday morning as the area falls in a rebel-hit region with hilly terrain and is situated near the border with Gaya district of Bihar. According to police, a couple identified as Prakash Singh, 45, and Terengini Devi, 41, allegedly involved with the CPI-Maoist, which is active in the region, had come to the village on Friday and had an altercation with their neighbour Binod Singh over a land dispute. In a fit of rage, Prakash used a muzzle loading firearm (usually used to hunt pigs) at Binod, killing him on the spot. Hearing the sound, the villagers, mostly relatives of Binod, gheraoed the couple and allegedly beat them with lathis till they died. The irate villagers also torched the house of the couple in Kundilpur. Palamau SP Sanjeev Kumar, however, denied it was a mob lynching. “We would not term it a mob lynching as nothing was planned by the villagers. It was only after the murder of a villager, relatives of Binod Singh ganged up in retaliation and beat the couple to death. We are yet to ascertain if the couple really have any Maoist links as they do not have any police case against them. However, villagers claim that they were involved with the Maoist group in the past,” the SP said. Kumar further said that separate cases have been lodged by the two sides. While Binod’s son has lodged a case of culpable homicide against Prakash and his wife, Prakash’s son has lodged a case of murder against five relatives of Binod. “We have managed to arrest four persons named in the complaint by deceased Prakash Singh’s son and would also arrest the other remaining villagers,” Kumar said. The bodies of the three victims have been sent to Palamau Sadar Hospital for post-mortem. In September last year, a rebel associated with the People’s Liberation Front of India (a splinter group of CPI-Maoist), identified as Sandeep Tirkey, who had four murder cases in his name, was lynched by a mob at Tesera village under Sadar police station of Gumla district. Jharkhand has hit the national headlines on several occasions for alleged mob lynchings. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), an umbrella organisation of various organisations and activists, has claimed that 24 people were lynched in the state between March 2016 and June 2020, mostly over caste and religious hatred issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-186
