04-01-2021||Calcutta||Vehicle hits minister’s car in Kasba||A goods vehicle allegedly hit a car in which state forest minister Rajib Banerjee was travelling at the EM Bypass-Rashbehari Avenue connector crossing in Kasba on Sunday afternoon. Banerjee escaped unhurt but the car, the minister’s official vehicle, got dented. Police said Banerjee’s vehicle was plying along the Rashbehari Avenue connector around 2.20pm when a Tata 407, loaded with stone chips, hit the vehicle on the right side while trying to overtake it. As the goods vehicle tried to flee, the minister’s aides alerted the police about the accident. The police intercepted the vehicle not far from the spot and arrested the driver, Vinod Mishra, 35. The police have started a suo motu case and the driver has been charged with rash and negligent driving and mischief. According to police records, a considerable number of fatal road accidents in Calcutta in 2019 involved goods vehicles. Of the 267 people who lost their lives in road accidents, at least 64 died because of rash and negligent driving of goods vehicles. “After buses, goods vehicles cause the maximum number of accidents in the city. We have been carrying out awareness campaigns to teach goods vehicle drivers the road rules,” said a senior officer of the traffic department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Wired to the mysteries of old buildings||Buildings are like people. They have distinct personalities; some even have faces. Some of them age well, some of them do not. In any case, they need care. Especially their wiring. If the analogy is stretched further, the wiring can be said to run through the buildings like veins through a human body. Wires weaken, rupture, cause blackouts. In an old building, they are more prone to damage. Then Sunil Kumar Jana is called in. Jana, 54, is the go-to electrician for some residents of Ballygunge Place, the elite south Calcutta neighbourhood, still full of old buildings, though they are disappearing fast. A quiet, dignified man who does not like to waste his words, Jana has been working in Ballygunge Place for 28 years. As a family doctor knows the pulse of his patient, Jana knows where exactly to tap the wiring of a building for something that has gone wrong. A joint may need to be seen. A wire may have come loose. The bodies of old buildings need constant attention. “Wires have a certain life span,” reminds Jana. “In this area much of the wiring is 60 or even 70 years old.” He looks trained in an ancient craft as from the height of a ladder in an old building he unfastens an old glass lampshade hanging from an iron stem, an activity that often requires a knowledge of complex fittings, the mysteries of which a new-age electrician may not want to get into. Jana also offers to clean the lampshades and the fans. He knows the power of the bulb required for a particular lampshade at a particular house or which fan just needs a gentle nudge with a jhuljhara to start rotating again. He also warns against keeping the AC main switch turned on; it keeps the electricity operating. He does not have a helper, because he is not certain how he will behave when allowed entry into the most private parts of a house. He starts working from 9am and works till he is required to. House-owners wonder what will happen once he retires. Jana himself lives at the back of a well-known Ballygunge Place sweet shop, adjacent to his own shop in the ground floor of a building. But Jana’s shop is actually a narrow glass case with wooden doors attached to the wall next to the sweet shop. His tools rest on the shelves. A signboard saying Rakhesh Electronics hangs over the glasscase. Rakhesh is his son’s name. Jana did not arrive at this affluent locality because he wanted to. Neither did he want to become an electrician. Life has just delivered him here. He was born in Ekabbarpur village under Jagatballavpur police station area in Howrah. He studied till Class IV. He had seven siblings. His father was a farmer who did not earn enough for his large family. When Jana was about 12, in the late 70s, he came over to Calcutta to work at Sutripti, another well-known sweet shop, located in Rashbehari Avenue, near Cornfield Road. There he worked as a table boy. A few years later the shop closed down because of differences between the owner and the employees’ union. Jana found work at a small shop in Behala near a masjid for the next eight to 10 years, selling tea, ghughni and small snacks. But he had to leave the place. The next year he was jobless. Back home in Howrah, where his wife, son and daughter still live, he then had to often survive on bulgar. In that desperate state he came over to Calcutta again and trained as an electrician at a store in Amherst Street. He was a “helper” at first. This was in the late 80s. But he was earning very little — Rs 10 every week. He left for a tea garden in Assam’s Dibrugarh, where he worked at the tea factory for 18 months, which paid more. Then on the recommendation of a relative, he came over to Ballygunge Place, and stayed on. Through these years, he has been witness to many changes. Homes have transitioned from the trembling glow of “light bulbs” to the white haze of “tube lights” (fluorescent lights) to the steady glares of CFLs and LEDs. Jana’s work has changed with each shift. “Previously I would be called in a lot to fix the bulbs and ‘tube lights’. ‘Tubes’ would have chokes, starters, holders. These would cause trouble. LEDs last much longer, consume less electricity,” he said. He is called in less. But newer fans make up for this. “Old fans are heavier and have 700/800 grams of coils inside them. New fans are lighter and contain about 250 grams of coils. They heat up.” The problems created by new fans keep Jana busy a lot during summer. The bigger change has been the buildings themselves. Jana has watched from close the demolition of the old buildings and the advent of the new ones, mostly apartment blocks. New houses altogether require an electrician less. Their dimensions keep everything within reach. Or there are gadgets. “Even chandeliers are remote-controlled,” Jana said. The people have changed. “Earlier, I would even be asked to have a meal at some homes after my work. I was treated with more respect, more kindness,” Jana said. His knowledge, too, does not extend to the new age. He only knows how to fix the electrical problems of a household. “I cannot repair a microwave, washing machine or fridge. I can only repair a mixie,” he said. He will keep working till he can, Jana said. But he cannot stop the houses around him from retiring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Student evaluation evolves with pandemic||The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way some schools used to prepare report cards. Digital literacy and how well a student is responding to online classes have gained prominence in report cards, especially in junior sections. Schools are now pointing out in report cards whether a student can mute or unmute the device being used for online classes, their level of ability to edit video, whether they are keeping their videos switched off or sending their questions through the chat box. In some schools teachers have redesigned report cards to match with the current times. Teachers have realised that the usual parameters are no longer as relevant as they used to be during the pre-Covid times. “Certain parameters in the report cards have been changed. We are commenting about the digital literacy of the child which includes remarks like how well the child has been able to record and edit videos or whether he/she can make short videos. These were things we never thought of in the pre-pandemic times,” said Nupur Ghosh, vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Social skills of children was an important parameter in the pre-Covid times, which now has to be left blank. “In schools, teachers observe children during free sessions, assembly and even during lunch break to gauge their social skills. Now, there’s nothing much to do about it, Ghosh said. Some sections that have not been changed include how helpful a student is towards others, but the mode of assessment had to be changed to match the present scenario. “Some children are helping their peers understand the technology of an online class. Recently the digital platform that we were using was updated, some of the students even guided the teachers to get hold of the software,” said a teacher. Sri Sri Academy has included a section on observations during online teaching. It includes parameters like whether a student is able to sit still in front of the camera, whether a child is participating in discussions and putting forth questions through the chat box. “It took us three weeks to design the new report cards, which are suitable for this period and also age appropriate,” said principal Suvina Shunglu. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy has put emphasis on the codes of online class, which includes what a child is wearing and how he or she is sitting and behaving, all of which are being taken into account by the teacher while preparing report cards. “The digital class is a paradigm shift and slowly we are finding ways to assess the child,” said Meena Kak, the director at Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. How well the children are conducting programmes online is also being observed. “It is also true that not all children might be good in academics but most of them are digitally strong and that is coming to the foreground now,” she added. The school has also asked students of Classes IX and X to prepare a portfolio, which includes things like how they have coped in online classes. They are being given grades on it. That is now extended to Classes VI, VII and VIII. In some schools, teachers are also mentioning irregular network, which is meant more for parents than students. The response of the child in the online class is taken into account. It shows how sincerely a student is attending a class. “The rubrics have changed and things that were given importance in a physical classroom have changed to respond to the children in an online classroom,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. “When it came to teachers writing their general remarks about a student or on his/her personality development, the sense of responsibility is taken into account,” said Prasad. The sense of responsibility at pre-Covid times was about discharging one’s duties that included the duty of a library monitor, minding queues, switching off lights in corridors that would develop a sense of responsibility and awareness, she said. “Now all of those have been ruled out. It has come to things like submission of assignments,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||First Sunday of the New Year||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||IIEST end-semester exams on digital platform||IIEST will conduct its end-semester exams, scheduled for January, on digital platforms, an official of the Shibpur institute said. The decision follows an assessment by the institute that most students managed to write last month’s mid-semester exams in the digital mode overcoming all constraints, the official said. The institute had feared that around 15 per cent of the 3,000-odd examinees would not be able to write the mid-semester exams because of lack of access to devices like smartphones and laptops or because of poor connectivity. But an assessment revealed that close to 95 per cent of the students wrote the test. Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, the director of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), said the participation was more than what the institute had witnessed when tests were held on the campus. “Participation by the maximum number of students in the mid-semester exams overcoming the digital constraints has encouraged us to decide to conduct end-semester exams on digital platforms,” Chakrabarti told Metro. The concerns over lack of access to devices among a section of students and lack of invigilation during tests on digital platforms had at one point made the institute contemplate whether the exams could be held on the campus. But as students opposed the proposal for on-campus tests amid the pandemic, the mid-semester exams had to be held on digital platforms. According to a notice issued on December 31, the end-semester examinations for undergraduate students (BTech and BArch 3rd, 5th and 7th semester) will be held from January 11 till 16. The exams will be held in online mode in accordance with the protocol followed at the time of mid-semester tests, says the notice. A slew of conditions to ensure invigilation during semester exams on digital platforms will be in place. “During the entire period of examination, the camera of your (students’) device (webcam or mobile camera) has to be kept on and audio to be kept off and you shall be proctored by the faculty members. Adoption of any unfair means shall be dealt with as per institute rules and practices,’’ read a notice issued by IIEST on Thursday. What made the institute worry about digital constraints among students? According to an IIEST official, a feedback from 1,830 students in August had revealed that as many as 15.5 per cent of them could not attend online classes in the last semester and 18.3 per cent faced problems because of ’’poor’’ Internet connectivity at home. The responses from a group of 1,200 students had shown that 13.2 per cent of them could not download lectures from the institute’s website. Another official said that to address the problems of digital constraints, the institute had bought students tabs and smartphones and waived some fees so students could spend the money to  buy high-speed Net connections. “The measures seem to have paid off in overcoming the digital divide. Students also took steps on their own to deal with the constraints,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Civic team elusive, Salt Lake residents spray larvicide||Residents of a Salt Lake block took upon themselves the task to spray larvicide in the lanes, gully pits and manholes on Sunday. There has been a spurt in the number of mosquitoes across Salt Lake and several residents of AE Block, who undertook the larvicide drive during the day, said they were forced to keep their windows and doors shut at all times to keep the winged menace at bay. The residents alleged that desperate calls for help to the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation did not yield results. Vector control teams of the corporation are supposed to go around each block in Salt Lake and spray larvicide every alternate week. “The teams’ visits started getting erratic after the Covid-induced lockdown was announced. We don’t remember the last time we saw a vector control team in our block,” a resident said. A group of dozen men and women from the block started spraying larvicide from in front of the AE Block community centre and covered the entire block on foot. The drive was organised by the AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha — the residents’ association of the block. Tapas Sengupta, one of the organisers of the drive, said the number of mosquitoes had gone up exponentially over the past several months. “They are invading our homes. Clouds of mosquitoes are following us wherever we go,” said Sengupta. “We bought larvicide and a spraying machine from the block association’s funds. We sprayed larvicide ourselves.” Other than AE Block, the mosquito population has gone up several times in the BL, AJ, BJ, ED, IB, HA and HC blocks. Many blocks off the Kestopur canal in sectors I and II and off the Eastern Drainage Channel in sector III have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes over the past weeks. “The canals have become breeding grounds of mosquitoes. The water in them has turned stagnant and people dump garbage along the banks,” said Saptadipa Mukherjee, a homemaker from AD Block, whose house overlooks the canal. A resident of BC Block said they had not seen civic workers spray larvicide before or after Durga Puja. “They are not spraying larvicide in the block. The number of mosquitoes has gone up manifold in our block. This has created a scare as several residents are already down with Covid-19,” said Nirmal Dasgupta, a resident of the block. A civic official said many contractual labourers who were members of vector control teams went home when the lockdown was imposed. A large number of them are yet to return. “Many have not come back as they are still afraid. We are managing with a smaller workforce,” the official said, when asked about residents’ complaint that larvicide was not being sprayed. On Sunday, Metro saw garbage dumped near City Centre, CGO Complex and on empty plots. Piles of garbage were seen along the banks of the Kestopur canal and mosquitoes were buzzing over the water in the Eastern Drainage Channel. Public health experts say objects where water can accumulate should not be carelessly thrown around because they serve as mosquito breeding grounds. The Aedes aegypti mosquito, which spreads the dengue virus, can breed in a coin-sized pool of water. An official of the Salt Lake civic body said they had been spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door dengue surveys. “We are facing the twin challenges of Covid and dengue. We are trying our best to ensure that it does not spiral out of control,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Crooner killed in Baguiati apartment||A 22-year-old woman was found murdered on Saturday inside a Baguiati apartment she had rented with a male friend three months ago. Police said a businessman from Rahara in North 24-Parganas told them that his driver Sourav Chakraborty, alias Joy, had texted him and purportedly admitted to killing a woman at a Baguiati apartment they had rented together. Chakraborty apparently mentioned the address of the apartment in Pushpak Nagar in the message. The businessman had alerted the local police, following which the Baguiati police rushed to the apartment. “On reaching the address we found the ground-floor apartment, which had been rented out to Sarbjeet Kaur and Sourav Chakraborty three months ago, locked from outside,” said an officer of Baguiati police station. The woman was a crooner in a bar, the police said. The police broke open the padlock and found Sarbjeet, alias Sweety, lying on a mattress with a pillow on her face. Sources said there were signs of froth and blood in her mouth. She was taken to a private hospital where she was declared dead. The body has been sent for post-mortem. According to landlord Mrinal Kanti Mondal, Sarbjeet was last seen outside their home on the night of December 31. A search has been launched for Chakraborty, who is missing. A murder case has been started against him. The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained, the police said. “We have activated our sources. Once we get the prime suspect, we will be able to comment on the motive of the crime,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar city police. Chakraborty could not be traced till late on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Twin systems drive up Celsius||The minimum temperature, which remained in the 11-degree zone for a few days on the trot, has risen a few notches over the first few days of 2021. Sunday’s minimum was 13.4 degrees and it is tipped to touch 14 over the next couple of days. The Met office attributed the rise to a high-pressure zone over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and parts of Madhya Pradesh. “The system denied cold winds from Kashmir passage to Calcutta,” a Met official said. A strong Western Disturbance over Afghanistan and Kashmir, which has triggered a cyclonic circulation over northwest India, Delhi and adjoining regions, is set to keep the weather in Calcutta reasonably warm, the Met office has said. “Under the influence of the circulation, the flow of cold winds has been stalled across northwestern India. If anything, easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are flowing into the system. That is why the chill is missing in Calcutta,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The system is expected to take around four to five days to pass, during which the temperature is expected to remain on the higher side.” Once the system dissipates, the cold winds from north will again make inroads into Calcutta and trigger a plunge in the Celsius, said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Cache of 90 bullets found on a man in Garden Reach||A cache of 90 bullets was allegedly found on a man in Garden Reach on Sunday afternoon. Police said this was one of the biggest seizures of ammunition from the heart of Calcutta in the recent past. Sheikh Mohammad Istique, 52, from whom the bullets were seized, has been arrested. “The ammunition was manufactured in Bihar. The person who has been arrested for illegal possession of the ammunition has no criminal records with the Calcutta police,” said a police officer. Based on a specific tip-off, a team from the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department intercepted Istique, a resident of Phears Lane in central Calcutta, near Paharpur Road in Garden Reach on Sunday afternoon. He was allegedly carrying a bag containing 90 live bullets. “Such a big seizure has not been made in the recent past,” a senior officer at Lalbazar said. “These are good quality bullets. We are trying to find out who was the intended recipient of the consignment,” the officer added. Istique, who has been charged under the arms act, will be produced in a city court on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||ATM card taken, PIN forced out in app cab||An app cab driver and three other men were arrested late on Saturday for allegedly robbing a man who had boarded the cab thinking it was a shuttle taxi in front of a bar on EM Bypass early on Christmas morning. Anjan Biswas, 51, was allegedly blindfolded and robbed of his ATM card and forced to share the PIN, police said. The men allegedly withdrew Rs 40,000 using the card and the PIN from an ATM kiosk on the Bypass. According to the complaint lodged by Biswas, the men pinned him down on the floor of the car and snatched his gold chain and wallet containing Rs 25,000 before letting him go on Dhalai bridge near Patuli. The accused have been identified as Raju Majhi, 32, Santosh Poddar, 24, Sheikh Biki, 25, and Arpan Sen, 32. All are residents of Picnic Garden Lane in Tiljala. Biswas, originally from Tripura, owns two guest houses in Anandapur and Kasba and jointly runs a band that plays at a bar on the Bypass, the police said. He was returning home to Kasba early on Christmas when he was robbed. Officers said Biswas had boarded the “shuttle cab” in front of the bar where his band plays around 2am. He sat on the backseat of the car. “There were three other men in the car, apart from the driver. When the car reached Lashkarhat (on the Bypass), the man sitting next to Biswas asked the driver to stop. He stepped out on the pretext of relieving himself. While getting in, he requested Biswas to shift inside and make room for him. Once Biswas shifted, he was easily overpowered by the others and blindfolded inside the moving car,” said an officer of Tiljala police station. Biswas, after being abandoned on the road, reported the matter to the police, based on which Tiljala police station started a case. Senior officers involved in the probe said they had drawn up the probable route the car took. “Tower dumps (data collected from a mobile phone tower closest to a particular spot) of those places were obtained. CCTV footage was scanned and a vehicle with damage mark over its left front wheel was identified. The vehicle was suspected to be a Nissan Go,” said a senior police officer. The company’s dealer in Calcutta and the app cab companies were contacted with details of the car obtained from CCTV footage. A list of vehicles of similar make and plying commercially as app cabs was prepared and each was scrutinised, the police said. The driver was tracked down and arrested, following which the other team members were rounded up. The accused were produced in court on Sunday and remanded in police custody. A senior officer said they were questioning the accused to find out whether they had robbed more people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors mull two more stents for Sourav||Sourav Ganguly can have two more stents implanted for removing as many blockages in vessels of his heart, officials of Woodlands Hospital where the former Indian cricket captain is admitted said on Sunday. Sourav, 48, who had suffered a “minor heart attack” on Saturday, was stable and spoke to family members on Sunday, said doctors and officials of the hospital. The BCCI president had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery on Saturday afternoon. Sources said the cardiac event had taken place at 11am while he was working out on a treadmill at home. He reached Woodlands at 1pm and walked from his car to the hospital. “Blockages were detected in three vessels. In such cases, there are usually two options for doctors, a cardiac bypass surgery or angioplasty to implant stents. In case of Sourav, since he is young and does not have any other complications, doctors are considering another round of stent implantation, instead of a surgery,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands. A nine-member medical board will decide on Monday whether to do an angioplasty and implant stents to remove the blocks in the other two vessels, said Basu. Sources said opinions about Sourav’s treatment were taken from at least five doctors from India and abroad, including  Devi Shetty, a cardiac surgeon and the chairman of Narayana Health. Videos of the angiogram and implantation of the stent have been sent to these experts. Doctors said the blockage and blood clot in the right coronary artery were more severe than in the other vessels and it caused the heart attack. “Usually, a second round of implantation of stents is done within four to five days of the first round. But it’s up to Sourav and his family members to decide on this,” said a doctor. Doctors said Sourav was stable and had an almost normal diet on Sunday. However, he is still in the ICU and under observation. “There were many visitors but only family members were allowed to meet him because he is still in the ICU,” said an official of the hospital. Sourav had slept well at night and had tea and breakfast on Sunday. “He mostly ate vegetables. His condition is improving and he spoke to his wife, daughter and other family members,” said Saroj Mandal, an interventional cardiologist who is treating Sourav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-185
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine outreach for private doctors||The state health department is trying to reach out to the doctors who are not attached to any hospital or other healthcare institute so they are not left out of the Covid-19 vaccination, senior officials said. Earlier, the department sent messages to doctors attached to private and government hospitals and other healthcare facilities to enrol for the Covid-19 vaccination. But there are many doctors who practice in private clinics in their localities and are not attached to any hospital or nursing home. A senior official of the department said they wanted all these doctors to be vaccinated, too. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has been asked to send copies of a form to all private doctors in the city. The doctors have to fill in the form and send a scanned copy of it to the email ID mentioned in the document. Other municipal corporations and municipalities have been asked to do the same in their areas. The chief medical officers of health (CMOH) of all districts have been told to identify private practitioners and ensure they get registered for the vaccination. “The vaccination programme will cover all doctors, irrespective of whether they are associated with a hospital/nursing home or not. We are also reaching out to all private practitioners to see to it that their names are registered for the vaccination. The CMOHs in the districts are working towards ensuring that all private practitioners are registered for the vaccination. The CMC, too, has been asked to do the needful,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the Bengal health department. The CMC is delivering a printed sheet with 24 columns at chambers of private practitioners in Calcutta. “The practitioners have to fill in the columns and send a scanned copy to kolpmu.nuhm@gmail.com,” said a CMC official. All the names will be sent to the Centre so they get registered with the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) application, which has been built for the vaccination drive across the country. “Practitioners of homoeopathy and other AYUSH streams can also apply for the vaccination,” Nigam said. “We all know that there are general practitioners who have never been associated with any hospital but who treat a large number of patients. These doctors, too, are at risk of contracting the coronavirus while treating patients. They must be vaccinated along with other doctors,” the official said. Pinaki Mitra, a private practitioner in Garia, told Metro that he had been informed about the registration by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and had sent all relevant details. “I had to fill in a form and submit it. I had to mention my name, address, registration number and other details in the form,” said Mitra, who is a member of the IMA’s Tollygunge branch. But there could be many doctors who are not members of any doctors’ association, which is why the health department has launched the drive to reach out to all private practitioners. Registering for Covid-19 vaccines is necessary as only those who have their names registered will get a vaccine. The Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines, published by the Union ministry of health and updated on December 28, mentioned that “only pre-registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated as per the prioritisation, and there will be no provision for the on-the-spot registrations”. According to the guidelines, nearly 1 crore health-care workers, 2 crore frontline workers and about 26 crore people aged above 50 years on January1, 2021, will be vaccinated in the first phase across India. Anirban Dalui, the assistant treasurer of IMA’s Bengal chapter, said the association was using all possible means to disseminate information about vaccination among private practitioners. “We are sending messages on all doctors’ groups, disseminating the information through associations of specialist doctors like the Association of Physicians of India or the Indian Pediatrics Association,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
04-01-2021||Calcutta||Showcase of young talents||Asian International School Asian International School recently organised a global fest, Regalia 2020, in association with The Telegraph Young Metro, on a digital platform. There were various competitions for different age categories such as English and Hindi recitation for the age group of three to six years, Mom/Dad and Me for seven to 10 years and painting competition for 11 to 14-year-olds. Students and their parents together made an awareness video on coronavirus in the Mom/Dad and Me event. Thousands of participants from around 100 schools all across the world took part in the fest. Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood was the chief guest. “It’s been truly amazing to watch young minds displaying their creativity and unfolding the hidden talents through the global fest. The enormous participation from all over the globe amid the pandemic reassures our faith in humanity. I congratulate all the participants, especially the winners of the various categories. I also congratulate Asian International School for infusing positivity and optimism among the students through this well-organised virtual inter-school fest,” the actor said. The winners in the English and Hindi recitation competition were Prisha Pandit of Bhavan’s Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Vidyaniketan, Haldia, and Shaily Omar of Delhi Public School, Kanpur, respectively. Anjali Kumar of Sunbeam School, Mughalsarai won the painting competition, while Harnoor Kaur of Mahadevi Birla World Academy, Calcutta, clinched the first position in Mom/Dad and Me. “With Regalia 2020 and its manifestation through global fest for children, it is established that when a team joins hands together, the dark hues of pandemic can be transformed into the brightness of happydemic. The brightness of the children has connected as many as 2,000 families with a soaring support of almost 100 schools from across the globe, coming together to set in the sense of normality. We have been conducting various engaging and enriching activities for the students through virtual seminars and commemoration in the past 10 months. The outcomes of these efforts have been displayed through huge participation by children at the inter-school fests, even at the national level,” said principal Vijay Lakshmi Kumar. Students of Birla High School junior section learnt the importance of peace in one’s life as they celebrated the International Peace Day amid the pandemic. Shaping peace together was the theme of the event with an aim to promote unity, equality, harmony and compassion among students. The tiny tots of nursery did activities such as paper chipping and palm printing, while the kindergarten children drew the outline of the dove, the symbol of peace with palm impressions. The little scholars of Class I wrote a recipe for peace using ingredients such as care, share, respect and love, followed by a paper chipping activity. Students of Class II expressed their thoughts through meaningful drawings and sketches. Class III students performed yoga to inculcate mindfulness. The students of classes IV and V expressed their wish and desire to live in a world where peace resides everywhere through colourful posters. “Every class in their way celebrated the day. Half of the problems in this world occur because people are not being able to live in harmony with one another. And I feel that children should be sensitised to be tolerant, so that they can face any situation,” said headmistress Farida Singh. Junior section of The Akshar School — classes III to VI — recently organised an online fest Avsar 2020. It focused on India and encouraged students to travel virtually and discover their country afresh. The organising committee got three weeks to put together the fest that had events focusing on the country’s heritage and rich culture. Students of classes III and IV staged folk dances while classes V and VI competed in a classical dance competition. Other events included storytelling, cookery and talking about heritage sites. Ten schools took part in the event. “Even a pandemic could not slow down the positive energy of Team Akshar,” said principal Kavneet Khullar. Birla High School, Mukundapur, has started online karate classes for its students, so that the children can remain fit and healthy by getting involved in a physical activity. “We started with academic classes and proceeded with conducting extra-curricular activities online, and now the whole idea of bringing karate into the ambit of online classes is that children get a chance to involve themselves in some kind of physical activity which is crucial. Initially, I was worried that how the children would respond to it, but they are taking part actively and that is satisfying for us,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Headmistress Hira Prasad said: “Children were hardly getting a chance to involve themselves in physical activity since online classes became the new normal. Some sort of physical activity is required for a child to stay fit. If the body is fit, the mind is sound too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-186
04-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 308 points to end at fresh record||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 308 points to end at a fresh record on Monday, tracking gains in index majors TCS, Infosys and HUL as investors cheered COVID-19 vaccine approvals. Extending its rally to the ninth straight session, the 30-share BSE index ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48,176.80. It touched a record intra-day peak of 48,220.47. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to a lifetime high of 14,132.90. It scaled an all-time intra-day high of 14,147.95. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by TCS, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, M&M, HUL and L&T. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, Titan and PowerGrid were among the laggards. Experts said final approval for two COVID-19 vaccine and likely commencement of inoculation process soon are positives for the markets and economy. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine Covishield and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Indian markets opened on a positive note following upbeat Asian market peers... During the afternoon session markets slipped as some selling was witnessed in key frontline banking stocks, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. However, markets regained and further strengthened as the Nikkei India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), released during the day, rose to 56.4 in December as against 56.3 in November. Also, cues from western markets helped in boosting the sentiments near closing session, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while and Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe opened with significant gains. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 1.31 per cent to USD 52.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Reliance denies having anything to do with Farm laws||Facing the brunt of farmer's ire over the perception of it being a beneficiary of new farm laws, Reliance Industries on Monday said it neither buys food grains directly from farmers nor is in the business of contract farming. In a statement, billionaire Mukesh Ambani's firm said its subsidiary Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking "the urgent intervention of government authorities to bring a complete stop to the illegal acts of vandalism (of telecom towers) by miscreants." Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them." "As such, the sole nefarious purpose of linking the name of Reliance to these laws is to harm our businesses and damage our reputation," it said. The company said it does not do "corporate or contract farming" and has not bought "any agricultural land, directly or indirectly, in Punjab/Haryana or anywhere else in India, for the purpose of corporate or contract farming." Its retail unit which sells food grains and staples, fruits and vegetables and items of daily use through its stores, "does not purchase any food grains directly from farmers," the statement said. "It has never entered into long-term procurement contracts to gain an unfair advantage over farmers or sought that its suppliers buy from farmers at less than remunerative prices, nor will it ever do so," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps nearly 300 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped nearly 300 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ITC, Infosys and ICICI Bank as investors cheered domestic COVID-19 vaccine approvals. The 30-share BSE index touched its lifetime intra-day high of 48,168.22 in early trade. It was trading 272.73 points or 0.57 per cent higher at 48,141.71, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 90.90 points or 0.65 per cent to a record high of 14,109.40. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, SBI, L&T, Infosys, HCL Tech, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HDFC, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex rose by 117.65 points or 0.25 per cent to close at a fresh lifetime high of 47,868.98, while Nifty closed at an all-time high of 14,018.50. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 506.21 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continue to look firm. Strong economic key data in terms of GST collections, power demand and railway freight for December 2020 will continue to offer strength to the market, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Additionally, final approval for two COVID-19 vaccines and likely commencement of the inoculation process soon are positive for the markets and economy. "Positive FPI flows are expected to sustain in subsequent weeks. Further, DIIs turning net buyers on Friday was also a positive indication for the market. 3QFY21 earnings and Union Budget will be crucial events for the market in the near term, which will offer clarity about the sustainability of demand momentum," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude futures, were trading 0.98 per cent higher at USD 52.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||HDFC, Ambuja in 72-acre realty deal||Ambuja Neotia Group has struck a deal with a HDFC Group-backed entity to build one of the largest townships in Calcutta, signalling a steady revival in the real estate sector which was bruised by the pandemic. The 72-acre development will come up in Rajarhat in close proximity to the IT and office hub in that part of the city. The township will sport plotted development and villas among others and take about five years to complete, the developers said. In plotted development, parcels of land are sold to the buyer who can build his own home. Ambuja has come on board as the development management partner, while the land that is worth north of Rs 800 crore remained with Satyaa Homes, an entity owned by HDFC and Sumit Dabriwala of Highland Group. As a development management partner, Ambuja will get a share of the revenue generated from the project while the initial investment to build the common infrastructure will be borne by the land owners. The deal was brokered by Anarock Property Consultants. The development will be modelled after the new township policy which was announced during the Bengal Global Business Summit in 2015. The Mamata Banerjee government had then allowed private landholders to build theme-based townships with certain riders. Ambuja and Satyaa plan to build the township based on the theme of skill development. A quarter of the net land area will be earmarked to create infrastructure for schools, vocational training and other facilities. Around 25 per cent of the residential units will have to be kept for the economically weaker section too,  in line with the township policy. The common infrastructure will include road, water, electricity, sewerage connection, club house and school among others. The first phase of the township will be spread over 26 acres. Harsh Vardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia Group, said there would be demand for plotted development in a post-pandemic world. “In a city like Calcutta, there will be a section of buyers who want to have their own home/villas with a little green patch. And during the pandemic, everyone, including the younger generation who were earlier wary of buying real estate, have understood the value of owning a home,” Neotia said this evening. Option before buyers A buyer will have the option to buy plotted land, which is likely to be priced between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 80 lakh, depending on the size and build a villa with the design specification of the developer. “In this process, the buyer can make investment in a staggered manner over years according to his/her convenience, in contrast to buying an apartment where the entire value is paid at one shot,” Neotia explained. There has been a spate bungalow developments on the southern fringes of Calcutta in recent times. Mayank Saksena, MD and CEO of Anarock Land Services, said the project could be what Adarsh Palm Meadows had been to Whitefield, the IT hub of Bangalore. “The Adarsh project, which came up 15 years ago, is now sought after by top tier IT professionals and expats working there. This township has all the trappings to go that way,” Saksena explained. The transaction also signals consolidation within the real estate sector and a clear shift towards reputable developers who have the right pedigree to deliver quality projects within the promised time, he added. “When the world went to a tailspin and sales and launches collapsed, it was pleasing to close a deal like this which clearly indicates a steady revival,” Saksena noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||India’s largest infertility treatment space Indira IVF targets east||Indira IVF, the largest player in the country’s infertility treatment space, is set to expand its presence in eastern India as it looks at an holistic growth in a market that continues to be under-penetrated. Founded in 2011 in Udaipur, Rajasthan, by Dr Ajay Murdia, it has grown from two speciality fertility clinics set up in 2015 to more than 93 clinics across 21 states. Of these centres, 50 per cent are located in north India, 30 per cent in the western part, 6 per cent in the east and 14 per cent in south. “We are optimistic about our holistic growth. We are putting more time and energy now on east and south because we are predominantly present in the north and the west. In the east and south, we will continue to expand and might look at some mergers or acquisitions. We are also trying to expand internationally given the infrastructure, technology and expertise we have developed in India,” Kshitiz Murdia,  co-founder and CEO, Indira IVF, told The Telegraph. “We do get patients from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and some parts of Africa where the quality of treatment and facilities are not good or the expenses are too high. We want to reach to more and more population. So, east and south of India and international expansion are in our plans,” Murdia added. Though there was a temporary halt in expansion plans as the Covid-19 struck in March, the company was able to start five new centres in the post-lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Vivad se Vishwas Scheme settles 20% cases||In a massive clean up of legacy issues, nearly one-fifth of about 5 lakh entities locked in tax litigation with the government have opted for a dispute redressal scheme, helping settle around Rs 83,000 crore of contested amount, a top finance ministry official said on Sunday. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in her budget for fiscal starting April 2020 announced a Vivad se Vishwas (VsV) Scheme to settle pending disputes relating to direct taxes. It was an attempt to release Rs 9.32 lakh crore blocked in around 4.8 lakh appeals pending at various appellate forums. “Of the pending cases, 96,000 have opted for the scheme to settle about Rs 83,000 crore (of disputed tax),” finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said. Considering the surge in VsV application that got filed in December 2020 and demands of taxpayers, he said the government has extended the scheme by a month till January 31. Entities opting for the scheme have to pay requisite tax and litigations are closed and penal proceedings dropped. “Under this exercise, more than Rs 1 lakh crore tax demands, which arose because of incorrect entries, have been cleaned up,” he said. The litigation and appeal cases are before the Commissioner (Appeals) and tax tribunals to higher courts and in arbitration. Once an entity opts for the VsV scheme and pays the due tax, the cases are deemed to have been withdrawn from the forums, interest, penalty and prosecution are also withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||Bids invited for 26% stake sale in BEML||The government on Sunday invited preliminary bids for the strategic sale of a 26 per cent stake along with transfer of management control in defence PSU BEML. “The government has issued the PIM/EoI for the disinvestment of 26 per cent equity share capital of BEML Ltd along with transfer of management control. Disinvestment will be through a two-stage competitive bidding process,” Dipam secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. Bidders can submit their expression of interest (EoI) to buy the stake in BEML by March 1, according to the preliminary information memorandum (PIM) issued by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam). At the current market price, a 26 per cent sale could fetch about Rs 1,000 crore to the exchequer. Shares of BEML closed at Rs 974.25 on Friday. BEML is involved in sectors such as defence, rail, power, mining and infrastructure.  The company’s total revenue from operations was Rs 3,028.82 crore in 2019-20. SBI Capital Markets has been appointed as the adviser by the Government of India (GoI) to advise and manage the proposed strategic disinvestment of BEML. BEML has an order book of Rs 9,795 crore as on March 31, 2020. The government has “in-principle” decided to divest 26 per cent stake of BEML through a strategic sale with transfer of management control. The government holds a 54.03 per cent stake in the company. Rashtriya Chemical The government is planning to sell a 10 per cent stake in Rashtriya Chemical and Fertilizers Ltd (RCFL) and invited bids from merchant banker and legal firms for managing the share sale process. Interested merchant bankers and legal advisers will have to be submit their bids by January 28 and January 29, respectively, Dipam  said in a notice. The government holds a 75 per cent stake in RCFL and intends to divest 10 per cent of the paid-up equity capital through an offer for sale (OFS). The merchant banker will be required to advise the government on the timing and the modalities of the OFS, ensure best return from the government and assist in securing approval and exemptions, wherever necessary, from regulatory agencies. Shares of RCF closed at Rs 54 apiece on Friday. At the current market price, the 10 per cent stake sale would fetch about Rs 300 crore to the exchequer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||The Large Cap Bet||Markets are increasingly becoming more dynamic and efficient. In such markets, unless a fund has significant flexibility with regard to its investment universe, it is difficult for a fund to outperform its benchmark. This is particularly true for the large cap category. We discuss below the importance of flexibility for a large cap fund and how the focused large cap fund category has a distinct advantage in this regard. In line with the worldwide trend, the proliferation of ETFs (exchange traded funds) has been increasing in India. This has heightened investor scrutiny of value added by active funds, measured in the form of “Alpha” (returns earned over and above market after deducting costs). Unless a fund has investments which are different from the benchmark, it is difficult for a fund to outperform its benchmark. The ability of a fund to be distinct from its benchmark is highly dependent on the flexibility it enjoys with regard to its investment universe. Hence, funds with high investment flexibility have an advantage. Typically, even within active funds, there can be two broad categories based on their active ratio. There are funds which have low active ratio (fund weight away from benchmark) and are benchmark hugging, while the other category funds are those with active ratio on the higher side. Funds in the first bucket is often referred to as closet index funds. A fund with closet index strategy logically will find it difficult to have returns different from its benchmark index. In our view, for a large cap fund to meaningfully outperform its benchmark index, it needs to have a high active ratio and also be benchmark agnostic. However, this can only be possible if the fund has a flexible investment universe. Both large cap and mid-cap stocks have their own distinct advantages and disadvantages. While the large cap stocks typically provide higher stability and lower volatility, mid-cap stocks include a higher proportion of young high-growth companies and emergence stories. Historically, the variance range between the large and midcaps have varied significantly across market cycles. Hence, having an ideal mix of large cap and mid-cap stocks can optimise the long-term returns of a fund. Further, our study based on the index performance of Large cap Nifty 50 index and Midcap 100 index suggest that the ideal mix of large and mid-cap stocks for an investor to optimise his or her risk reward ratio (attain higher shape ratio) is ~74 per cent large cap and 26 per cent midcaps. A focused large cap fund is in a position to achieve this ideal ratio. In the past, a traditional large cap fund used to have very low flexibility as its investment universe was restricted to the top 100 stocks by market capitalisation. The Sebi reclassification of investment universe in 2018 changed this and provided large cap funds with some much needed flexibility. As such, post reclassification, a large cap fund has the flexibility to invest up to 20 per cent of its corpus across market cap, while 80 per cent of its corpus still needs to be invested in the top 100 stocks by market capitalisation. Compared to this, a focused large cap fund has a lot more flexibility with regard to its investment universe. A focused large cap fund needs to invest a minimum of 65 per cent in the top 100 stocks and have the flexibility to invest across market capitalisation for the other 35 per cent of the fund. This flexibility to have a wider investment universe is an advantage that the focused large cap funds can leverage on over the long term. For instance, in our large cap fund — Motilal Oswal Focused 25 Fund— we have ensured a few things. First, it is a pure active (active ratio of ~58 per cent) and benchmark agnostic fund (no sector limits), Second, it has focused and concentrated holdings (<25 stocks, with top 5 and top 10 stocks accounting for ~42 per cent and 70 per cent weight). Third, it has higher flexibility with regard to the investment universe (minimum investment in the top 100 stocks by market capitalisation limited to 65 per cent, with a high flexibility to invest across market capitalisation up to 35 per cent). Consequently, we feel, investors should incorporate the aspect of evaluating how flexible their large cap fund is, along with the other key parameters, while shortlisting their funds or assessing the ability of a fund to significantly outperform its benchmark. The writer is fund manager, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
04-01-2021||Business||India's exporters set $350bn goal||The country’s exports could rebound next fiscal to touch $350 billion with a pickup in global trade and economic activity, according to the Federation of Indian Exports Organisations (FIEO). “This looks ambitious but definitely achievable, if we address our supply-side challenges,” Fieo president Sharad Kumar Saraf said. He said exports may reach $290 billion by the end of the current fiscal as the outbound shipments were hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic during the first half of the year. However, the year 2021 would bring a ray of hope and optimism for the exporting community. “We are confident that a V-shaped recovery will be witnessed in world trade and we will recover much more from what we lost in 2020. Since the first and second quarters have been pretty bad, we may end the financial year 2020-21 with exports of around $290 billion,” he said . The WTO in its recent forecast has projected a 9.2 per cent decline in the volume of world merchandise trade for 2020 followed by a 7.2 per cent rise in 2021. The Fieo chief said exports growth was vital to clock 8 per cent plus GDP growth and to reach the milestone of $5 trillion economy. “Our exports strategy should be two pronged: one focussing on sectors where major imports are happening and other to boost traditional sectors, which are important for exports as well as employment,” he said. Saraf said the major contributor to global trade consists of electronics & electricals, machinery, automobile, pharma and medical equipment, accounting for about 40 per cent of global imports, in which the country’s current share is less than 0.9 per cent. “The Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme is rightly focusing on these sectors. Once we create production capabilities in these products, pushing exports at a brisk pace should not be a challenge,” he said. The Fieo president said robust FTAs (free trade agreements) with the country’s major partners such as the US, the EU and UK are required on a priority basis. During April-November 2020-21, exports dipped 17.8 per cent to $173.66 billion. India’s exports had fallen 4.78 per cent to $314.31 billion in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Coal India reports big rise in despatches to its non-power consumers||Coal India has reported a big rise in despatches to its non-power consumers in the third quarter even as it reported a meagre increase in its despatches to the power sector. During the quarter ended December, CIL supplied a total of 154.6 million tonnes (mt) to its consumers posting a 9.2 per cent growth over the corresponding year-ago period. In the third quarter of the previous year, coal supply was 141.6mt. Coal supply to non-power consumers was 36.62mt compared with 25.53mt during the year ago period. Offtake from the power sector during the quarter was 117.8mt against 116.07mt previous year. “With the non-power sector consumers lifting increased quantities of coal during this year’s Q3 (third quarter), CIL could record a robust 43.4 per cent growth in supplies to this sector. The incremental supply to this sector was a little over 11mt. “The demand for coal from the power sector is yet to crystallize fully,” a senior official of the company said. There was only a nominal growth of 1.5 per cent in supplies to the power plants during the third quarter, the official added. Total coal stock at the 136 power stations tracked by the Central Electricity Authority stood at a level covering requirement for 21 days as of December 31, 2020. Coal India also said that overburden removal, a key efficiency parameter in mining, grew by 17.6 per cent during the third quarter compared with the  previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Economic recovery crucial to car sales||Car makers are banking on  recovery in the economy to post higher sales this as they focus on localisation and digitisation in the wake of the pandemic. “We adopted an ecosystem centric, agile approach to improve our market (during the pandemic), operational and financial performance by reducing costs, generating free cash flows, ” Guenter Butschek, CEO & MD, Tata Motors said: “We expect both sales and production to improve in 2021 on the back of overall economic recovery.” Toyota Kirloskar Motor, which has been witnessing a gradual improvement in sales, stressed on localization and digitisation. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, TKM, said: “There have been significant learnings including greater focus on localisation and digitalization. The current economic revival is likely to help sustain the sales momentum in 2021 and we hope to see a V shaped recovery of the economy thereby helping the industry to bounce back." Toyota will focus on electrified vehicles as a mid- to long-term strategy. At the same time, it will continue to expand its subscription and leasing service . Hyundai Motors India Ltd, which had a dream run with its SUVs in 2020, has seen new growth areas such as the used car market. “The biggest challenge is to sustain business operations and ensure financial health of organisation,” said Tarun Garg, director, sales and marketing, HMIL. He said the company has seen the “green shoots” of recovery and is cautiously optimistic for the year. Mahindra and Mahindra, which has faced supply chain issues leading to the shortage of stocks, is hopeful of a good economic recovery. Veejay Nakra, CEO, automotive division, said: “Due to the constantly changing environment in different parts of the world, some of the supply chain challenges continue in the automotive sector, including shortage of steel and micro-processors.” In the luxury segment, Mercedes Benz India Ltd (MBIL)  is satisfied with the sales recovery during the last quarter. MBIL CEO Martin Schwenk said: “I see 2020 as a year of unprecedented disruption in which we have displayed unparalleled resilience.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd to compensate for undelivered natural gas||Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP Plc of UK have committed to pay in cash for any natural gas volumes they are unable to deliver to customers from the next wave of discoveries in the eastern offshore KG-D6 block. According to the draft gas sales and purchase agreement (GSPA), Reliance and BP have shared along with price discovery bids for incremental gas from the R-Cluster fields in KG-D6 block, the sellers will reimburse buyer money equivalent to gas sourced from alternate source to make up for any volumes they are unable to deliver. The buyer on his part will be obliged to offtake the committed gas volumes or pay for it (take or pay). The volumes not taken but paid for can be taken in subsequent quarters, the GSPA said. These ship or pay and take or pay obligations will be waived in the event of force majeure events such as any act of God like earthquake and floods, fire, epidemic, acts of war, strike and lockouts, delays due to government/ regulatory actions and court orders. Also, “loss, failure, impediment, restriction in output or deliverability of reservoirs in the gas fields” will be a force majeure event, it said. Reliance had a decade back signed up to sell 60 million standard cubic metres per day (mscmd) of gas from the first set of gas fields in the KG-D6 block, but the output rapidly declined because of reservoir issues, leaving users such as power plants stranded. The company had not reimbursed buyers for the shortfall, calling it an act beyond its control. The government had, however, levied penalties on it for failure to produce the committed volumes - an act that the company has challenged through an arbitration. The outcome of the arbitration is pending. While those initial fields have ceased to produce, Reliance-BP last month started output from the R-Cluster fields. In November 2019, they sold the first 5 mscmd from the R-Cluster field at a rate benchmarked against Brent crude oil. The duo has now invited bids for selling 7.5 mmscmd of incremental output that is likely to be available from February benchmarked to a gas index.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||Business||Bitcoin soars to $30,000||Digital currency Bitcoin extended its record-smashing rally on Saturday, beginning the year with a surge over $30,000 for the first time, with ever more traders and investors betting that it is on its way to becoming a mainstream payment method. The price of the world’s most popular cryptocurrency traded as high as $33,099 on Saturday, with almost all other markets closed over the first weekend in 2021. It was last up about 12 per cent at $32,883. Bitcoin advanced more than 300 per cent in 2020, and with the latest leg higher has added more than 50 per cent since crossing $20,000 just two weeks ago. The blockchain currency has only been around for a decade or so, and in 2020 it has seen demand grow from larger US investors, attracted by its perceived inflation-hedging qualities and potential for quick gains, as well as expectations it would become a mainstream payments method. Investors said limited supply of bitcoin — produced by so-called “mining” computers that validate blocks of transactions by competing to solve mathematical puzzles — has helped power upward moves over recent days. Some also saw it as a safe-haven play during the Covid-19 pandemic, akin to gold. “It’s very likely that the asset will eventually pass $100,000 per coin,” Sergey Nazarov, co-founder of Chainlink, a global blockchain project, wrote in an email on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-182
04-01-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in dead migratory birds, four states report outbreak||Himachal Pradesh on Monday became the fourth state to report cases of bird flu after Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with officials confirming that migratory birds found dead at Pong Dam Lake in Kangra district have tested positive for the dreaded avian influenza. In Rajasthan, deaths of more than 170 new birds were reported from some districts on Monday, taking the total fatalities in recent days to over 425. "Bird flu has been confirmed only in Jhalawar (district). Report of other deaths is yet to come," according to the state animal husbandry department. As some parts of Kerala too reported the influenza outbreak, authorities have ordered the culling of ducks, hens and other domestic birds within one km radius of the affected areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. Officials said some 40,000 birds will have to be culled to check the spread of the H5N8 virus. A farm in Kerala's Kottayam has recently seen deaths of around 1,500 ducks due to bird flu recently. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the H5N1 influenza virus, which can occasionally infect humans as well. In Himachal Pradesh, around 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, have been found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Archana Sharma said the laboratory at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly detected avian influenza in the samples of dead birds while citing the information conveyed by the Centre. At the same time, she said that her department was awaiting confirmation by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, as it was the nodal body for testing this disease. Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar has also suspected avian influenza in the bird samples, she added. Kangra District Magistrate Rakesh Prajapati has prohibited slaughtering, sale, purchase and export of any poultry, birds, fish of any breed and their related products, including eggs, meat, chicken, etc, in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions of the district. Exercising his powers under Sections 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the official said that shops selling these products would also remain closed in these four subdivisions. Prajapati also banned the movement of locals and tourists within a kilometre radius of Pong Dam. In Himachal's Pong Dam Lake wildlife sanctuary, wildlife staff first reported the sudden death of four bar-headed geese and one common teal in the Fatehpur area last Monday. The next day, over four hundred migratory waterfowl were found dead in Majhar, Bathari, Sihal, Jagnoli, Chatta, Dhameta and Kuthera areas in the wildlife ranges of Dhameta and Nagrota. Subsequently, hundreds of more birds were found dead each day, totalling 1,773 till Sunday, she said. She said that more than 90 per cent of the dead birds were bar-headed geese, the most common migratory species at the lake who arrive here from Central Asia, Russia, Mongolia and other regions in winters after crossing the Himalayan ranges. There are eight-nine other bird species whose members have been found dead. Last year, more than one lakh migratory birds had camped at the lake by late January and this year, over 50,000 have arrived so far. The dead birds are being disposed off as per bird-flu protocol, officials said, adding that no such deaths have been reported so far from other water bodies in the state. Wildlife, veterinary and animal husbandry staff across the state have been put on alert and asked to immediately report the death of any bird or animal. The Gopalpur zoo in Kangra which is situated near the Pong Lake has been put on high alert. Recently, a bird flu alert has been sounded in Rajasthan after crows were found dead in half a dozen districts. Bird flu cases were also confirmed in dead crows in Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Bird flu virus was detected in around 50 crows whose carcasses were found in Indore in Madhya Pradesh last week, prompting authorities to issue an alert. In Rajasthan, 80 bird deaths were reported in Bikaner on Sunday, 42 in Sawai Madhopur, 12 in Kota, 12 in Baran, eight each in Pali and Jaipur, six in Dausa, five in Jodhpur and two in Jhalawar, according to the state animal husbandry department. The deaths have been reported in 15 districts of the state. Kerala, which saw the last major case of bird flu in 2016, has sounded a high alert in the affected districts considering the potential of the virus to infect humans, even though officials said that the situation was under control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Diljit Dosanjh shares income tax certificate to counter reports of probe||“Don’t spread so much hate,” Punjabi singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh said while sharing his certificate from the Ministry of Finance amid reports of an income tax probe against him. Dosanjh has been actively supporting the ongoing farmers' protests against the new agri legislations. There were reports that the Income Tax Department had initiated an investigation into the finances of Dosanjh after he donated Rs one crore to farmers. “There was news that my foundation is connected with some politician. Very good Raje... Keep doing this, no worries no matter how hard you try... Such people’s aim is to distract from real issues. So they will keep doing this,” the actor said in a video on Twitter. “Hope there is some solution (to farmers’ agitation) as today is January 4. I have always appealed and spoken for peace. Never said anything provocative...,” Dosanjh shared in Punjabi. The actor had earlier taken to Twitter on Sunday to share his “platinum certificate” from the ministry for filing his tax returns for the year 2019-2020 to refute rumours. The certificate recognises the 36-year-old actor’s “contribution” towards nation-building. “Here it is, my platinum certificate... One doesn’t become patriotic by saying so on Twitter. One has to work towards that,” Dosanjh wrote in Punjabi. In a subsequent tweet, the actor said even though he was reluctant to share the certificate, the situation in the country is such that he has to prove his Indian citizenship. “I didn’t want to do this, but here it is. Today the situation is such that I have to give proof of my Indian citizenship. Please don’t spread so much hate.” Last month, the “Udta Punjab” star joined the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s Singhu border and asked the demonstrators to be patient and peaceful in their agitation and requested the government to accept their demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Farmer-govt talks end in deadlock, MSP not discussed ||The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers ended inconclusively on Monday as the farmer leaders insisted on the repeal of the three contentious farm laws right from the beginning, even as the government listed various benefits from the Acts. The next meeting will take place on January 8, farmer leaders said. The two sides took a long break after just about one hour of discussions, during which representatives of protesting farmers had their own food, arranged from langar (community kitchen), as they have been doing for the last few times. However, unlike the last round of talks on December 30, the ministers did not join the union leaders for the langar food and were seen having their own discussion separately during the break, which lasted for almost two hours. The two sides got together again to resume their discussions at around 5.15 pm, but no headway could be made as the talks remained focussed on the farmers' demand for the repeal of the Acts. Farmer leaders said the government said it needs to consult internally and thereafter it would come back to the unions. The union leaders will also have their own meeting on Tuesday to decide their next course of action. In Monday's talks, the two sides did not even discuss another key demand of farmers for a legal guarantee to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income. During the meeting, the government listed various benefits from the three laws, enacted a few months ago, but farmers kept insisting that the legislation must be withdrawn to address their apprehensions that the new Acts would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan. The meeting began with paying respects to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest, sources said. On December 30, the sixth round of talks was held between the government and the farmer unions, where some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. However, no breakthrough could be reached on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- a repeal of the three recent farm laws and a legal guarantee to the MSP procurement system. On Sunday, Tomar met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh all possible options to find a "middle path" to resolve the crisis, they added. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), in the meantime, issued a press statement condemning the police action against protesting farmers in Punjab and Haryana and a ban on protests and dharnas imposed by the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government. It also said that an affidavit filed by Reliance Industries in the Punjab and Haryana High Court was "a ploy to save its business".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||India Tourism Mart 2021 goes virtual, buyer-seller meet from February 18 ||In a first, the India Tourism Mart 2021 will be held on a virtual platform with buyer-seller meetings slated from February 18 to February 20, the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH) said on Monday. FAITH is the policy federation of all national associations representing the tourism, travel and hospitality industry of India. The first such buyer-seller meet undertaken by FAITH in 2015 was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Christened Tourism Mart' in 2018, the event is supported by the Ministry of Tourism and has emerged as a highly vibrant marketplace. The event has seen active attendance from over 250 buyers from 65 countries having B2B (business-to-business) interactions from hundreds of tourism exhibitors from India, including most of the state governments, hotel companies, tour operators, travel agents and tourist transporters. "The elite international buyers reflect a strategic mix of target countries which are critical, developed and under developing markets for India. The tourism verticals in which B2B interactions take place reflect a mix between leisure, adventure, MICE, heritage and niche tourism sectors," a statement from FAITH said. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the format of the event this year has gone virtual and online B2B interactions will be held between Indian tourism exhibitors and an elite group of global buyers who will be carefully selected from over 90 countries, it said. "Additionally, the domestic focus will figure prominently in the virtual format this year as domestic tourism buyers will be invited, reflecting a mix of tourism trade, corporate and institutional tourism buyers. This will be in robust alignment to being more vocal for local and a stronger 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' from tourism," the statement said. Another landmark showcase this year will be an engaging virtual knowledge tourism conclave to bring the best in tourism, and for policymakers to discuss how Indian tourism is strategic to the country's socio-economic goals. It is critical as the country targets post-pandemic revival. This will attempt to create strong linkages between India's USD 5 trillion economy and the goals for India @75. "The India Tourism Mart or ITM 2021 virtual will also hope to showcase and be a curtain-raiser for the actual physical ITM to be held in September 2021 highlighting a tourism ready India once the vaccine is successfully deployed, it said. The FAITH associations are eagerly anticipating ITM 2021 virtual to be inaugurated by the PM of India. This will position Tourism@Made in India in services in line with the highly successful Make in India in manufacturing," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Serum's vaccine to cost Rs 200-300 per shot to govt||Coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford will cost USD 3-4 per shot (Rs 219-292) to the government and will be priced at double that rate in private market ones such sales open up, said the CEO of its Indian manufacturer on Monday. Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has a licence to produce the shot and has already manufactured close to 50 million doses. Its CEO Adar Poonawalla told PTI that the company will start selling the Covishield to the Indian government and GAVI countries in the first stage, followed by the private market. Indian drug regulator on Sunday approved Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country. "We want the vaccine to be affordable and accessible to all. The government of India will receive it at a far more affordable price of USD 3-4, since they will be buying in a larger volume," he said. Poonawalla, who had taken a huge gamble once the pandemic began to unfold by overhauling Serum's assembly line and "sacrificing" products that were to be destined for Europe and America in anticipation of a COVID-19 vaccine, said the priority supplies will go to India and the GAVI (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) nations. Only after meeting their requirements, "the private market will open up where the pricing would be USD 6-8 per done," he said. Serum will have 100 million doses in a month, and will possibly double it by April. The government has indicated that it may need 300 million doses before July 2021, with frontline health workers and the elderly given priority. Poonawalla said Serum was in touch with the government for the vaccine's procurement. "Initially, we will supply 50 million doses and we will get more confirmations over the course of the next few days," he added. After the regulator's nod, Serum expects formalities to be completed in the next 7 to 10 days for the rollout to begin. When asked if the SII has been barred by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) not to export the vaccine till vulnerable populations in India are protected, Poonawalla said: "We will start exporting the vaccine post the government's approval and talks are going on". "Our priority list will see us cater to the Indian market first, then the COVAX countries. Optimistically, by March-April we should have permissions in place," he added. When asked if the company was negotiating bilateral agreements with other countries too for the vaccine, Poonawalla said: "We have bilateral partnerships with nations like Bangladesh, Myanmar, Morocco, etc". On the efficacy of Covishield, he noted that the company has proven in its trials that it has a 100 per cent efficacy on hospitalisation, implying that there were zero hospitalisations found in the people who took the vaccine globally. "The efficacy results of the vaccine are quite high if it is administered in 2-doses within a gap of 2 3months," Poonawalla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Covid cluster at Leela Palace-Chennai, 20 test positive||Twenty staff members at one of Chennai's star hotels, the Leela Palace, tested positive for Covid-19, NDTV.com, quoting health authorities, reported on Monday. The news comes a fortnight after another luxury hotel, ITC Grand Chola, emerged as a Covid cluster where 85 staff of the ITC hotel, their family members and neighbours were declared positive for the novel coronavirus infection. While the hotel officials said they were following all state-directed standard operating procedures (SOPs), in addition to their own hygiene protocol, the Tamil Nadu health authorities ordered a saturation test covering all members of the establishment and across hotels in the city, the website reported. As many as 232 staff members of the Leela Palace were tested for the virus and results of about 10 per cent were shown to be positive, NDTV.com quoted a senior health official as saying. Of the total 6,416 people directly employed at hotels across Chennai, almost 68 per cent, or 4,392 staff members were tested for coronavirus, officials said. "Hotels in Chennai are being periodically screened and sensitised. The Chennai Corporation was asked to conduct a saturation test for all the residents of the hotel," Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan had said earlier. Over 100 students of IT-Madras were infected with Covid-19 within a week's time in mid-December last year and the campus had to be put under temporary lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Farmer unions insist on repeal of new laws ||The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers got underway here on Monday afternoon to resolve an over-a-month-long impasse over farmers' agitation against three farm laws, but representatives of farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of the Acts. As the two sides took a lunch break after about one hour of talks, sources said the government also remained firm on not repealing the laws and is believed to have suggested a panel to take the matter forward. In the first hour of talks, the two sides were yet to discuss another key demand of farmers for a legal guarantee to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system. The representatives of protesting farmers had their own food, arranged from langar (community kitchen), as they have been doing for the last few times. However, unlike the last round of talks on December 30, the ministers did not join the union leaders for the langar food and were seen having their own discussion separately during the break, which lasted for more than one and half hours. The two sides got back together to resume their discussions at around 5.15 pm. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who is participating in the meeting, told PTI over the phone during the break that the first hour of discussion remained focussed on the three laws. "Our demand is the repeal of the laws. We will not agree to any alternatives such as the setting of the committee," he said. Asked if there could be a concrete outcome from the meeting, Tikait said, "I don't think so. They have to take back the laws for us to end the protest and go back to our homes." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital. The talks are still on and there has not yet been any discussion on the second agenda pertaining to giving legal backing to MSP, Tikait said during the break. Another union representative, Kavitha Kurungati of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, said, "The standoff continues as the government is talking about benefits of the laws and we are asking for the repeal of those laws." No discussion has yet happened on the MSP, she said about the first hour of the meeting. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income. During the meeting, the government listed various benefits from the three laws, enacted a few months ago, but farmers kept insisting that the legislation must be withdrawn to address their apprehensions that the new Acts would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan. The meeting began with paying respects to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest, sources said. On December 30, the sixth round of talks was held between the government and the farmer unions, where some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. However, no breakthrough could be reached on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- a repeal of the three recent farm laws and a legal guarantee to the MSP procurement system. On Sunday, Tomar met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh all possible options to find a "middle path" to resolve the crisis, they added. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), in the meantime, issued a press statement condemning the police action against protesting farmers in Punjab and Haryana and a ban on protests and dharnas imposed by the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government. It also said that an affidavit filed by Reliance Industries in the Punjab and Haryana High Court was "a ploy to save its business".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Kejriwal urges Centre to accept all demands of farmers||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to the Centre to accept all the demands of the protesting farmers and repeal the three farm laws. In a tweet ahead of the protesting farmer unions' meeting with the Centre, Kejriwal lauded their resolve in continuing their agitation despite rains and cold weather. "Salute to the resolve of the farmers staying firm on the roads despite rains and cold. I appeal to the Centre to accept all the demands of the farmers and repeal the three black farm laws in today's meeting," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and some other states are camping at several entry points of the national capital blocking the highways, demanding that the Centre repeal the farm laws and give legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. Protesting farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the last 39 days braving the bone-chilling cold and now rains have threatened to intensify their protest if their two major demands -- repeal of the three new farm laws and legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) -- are not accepted by the government in the January 4 meeting. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income, but protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Adequate Covid vaccine stockpiled to inoculate priority groups in first phase, says Niti Aayog member||India has enough stockpile of the Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of priority groups, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in the first phase, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Monday. Paul, who is also the Chairman of National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) further said the government will soon announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine. "Our first phase (of vaccination) comprises priority groups with a high risk of mortality and our healthcare and frontline workers. For them, we believe, we have enough (Covid-19 vaccine) stockpile," he told PTI in an interview. India's drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Paul noted that "three to four months from now, there will be other vaccines and the stockpile will be even bigger. "And more acceleration can be brought about in the vaccination programme," Paul added. Asked when the government will announce its plans for purchase and distribution of COVID-19 vaccine, he said, "this will follow. Now the essential has taken place, all these steps will be taken." Asked what would be the single biggest challenge in mass vaccination for COVID-19, Paul noted that the biggest challenge encompasses the huge mobilisation that is required for such an effort. "Well, the single most important challenge for mass vaccination on such a scale is mobilising beneficiaries on the appointed day and to conduct sessions in smooth, systemic protocols, ensuring COVID-19 appropriate precautions, I think is the single biggest challenge," he observed. According to Paul, the purpose of vaccination is a staggering ambition and can be seen as hierarchical. "Ultimately, we would like vaccination to stop, stall and extinguish the pandemic, that is the ultimate purpose," he said adding that for that to be achieved, a herd immunity of about 70 per cent has to be created either through vaccination or by adding those people who have undergone natural infection. Paul pointed out that for normal life to go on, there should be enough vaccinated people, so that the country's industry, schools, transportation, the judicial system and Parliamentary activity go on. "Even though the virus may be there, the pandemic may not have finished but enough of economic and social life could go on," he emphasised. Replying to a question that India does not have experience in adult vaccination, the Niti Aayog member noted that countries face new challenges and then they respond on the basis of their intrinsic capability. "We have tremendous experience in running immunisation programs. We have experience of running affairs like national elections which happen over a short period of time across the country," he said. "So those experiences and those SOP will come handy and build on that India's ingenuity, India's innovation and India's experience will make it possible for us to mount a successful vaccination programme, even though it is unprecedented," he added. Referring to the health ministry's recently issued 'Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines', Paul said, "God forbid, if you have any comorbidity, then you will get a vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination programme. Otherwise, you will get after these high priority groups have been covered." India's drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a COVID-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). "After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations," DCGI Dr V G Somani had said. This paves the way for the rollout of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days. The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also, the authority granted Cadila Healthcare the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India, Somani had said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||India set to begin world's biggest Covid vaccination drive, says PM||The world's biggest inoculation drive against Coronavirus is set to begin in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, a day after India's drugs regulator approved two vaccines for restricted emergency use. Lauding the scientists and technicians for the 'Made in India' vaccines, he said the country is proud of them. "World's biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India. For this, the country is proud of the contributions of its scientists and technicians," Modi said. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Addressing scientists at the National Metrology Conclave, Modi also said that it must be ensured that 'Made in India' products not only have a global demand but also global acceptance. "Quality is as much important as quantity, our standards should rise with our scale in our quest for Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he stressed. The prime minister said in any progressive society, research is key and effective and its effects are commercial and social. They also help widen approach and thinking. "We do not want to fill the world with Indian products, but we must win the hearts of every customer of Indian products in every corner of the world," he said. Quality of services in our country and products, both public or private sector, will determine India's strength in the world, he stressed. The prime minister pointed out that historically any country has progressed in direct correlation to its effort to promote science. He termed this 'value creation cycle' of Science, Technology and Industry. He said scientific invention creates technology and this leads to industry development. Industry, in turn, invests further in science for new research. "This value creation cycle of science to mass creation has become all the more important in today's world when the country is moving forward with the goal of 'Aatmanirbhar' India. CSIR will have to play its role in this," he said. Modi also dedicated the National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya Pranali to the nation and laid the foundation stone of the National Environmental Standards Laboratory through video conference. The conclave was organised by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Physical Laboratory (CSIR-NPL), New Delhi, on its 75th year of inception. NPL is one of the oldest laboratories in the country. The NPL has adopted an international practice for the production of Indian Certified Reference Material (CRMs) Trademarked as Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya. Describing the NPL as India's timekeeper, Modi said it also has the responsibility to change the future of India. He urged the institute to come forward and play an important role in keeping with new standards and benchmarks to proceed towards forging a self-reliant India. Modi said metrology also sets the foundation for any scientific achievement and no research can proceed without measurements. "Even our achievement has to be measured on some scale. The credibility of the country in the world will be dependent on the reliability of its metrology. Metrology is like a mirror showing us our standing in the world, the scope for improvement," he said. Talking about the Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya, he said this would help the industry to make quality products in sectors like heavy metals, pesticides, pharma and textiles by drafting a 'Certified Reference Material System'. Modi noted that now the industry is moving towards a consumer-oriented approach instead of a regulation centric approach. He said complying with international standards will help the large foreign manufacturing companies coming to India find a local supply chain. He said with the new standards the quality of both export and import would be ensured. It will also provide quality goods to the general consumer of India and reduce problems faced by the exporter. Expressing happiness over the National Atomic Timescale, Modi said India has become self-reliant in measuring the time within the range of a nanosecond. This will be a big help for organisations like ISRO which are working with cutting edge technology. Modern technology-related banking, railways, defence, health, telecom, weather forecast, disaster management and many similar sectors will be benefited greatly from this achievement, he said. The prime minister said the timescale will also help in strengthening India's role in Industry 4.0. "India is moving towards a leading position in the field of environment. Still, for technology and tools for measuring air quality and emission, India is dependent on others. This achievement will lead to self-reliance in the field and will lead to the creation of more effective and cheaper tools for pollution control. "This will also enhance India's share in the global market for technologies related to air quality and emission technology," he said. Modi said institutionalisation of innovation is equally critical as the innovation itself. "Our youth will have to understand how to protect intellectual property. We will have to remember that the more our patents are there, the more their utility. Our identity will get strong in the sectors where our research is strong and leading. This will lead to a stronger Brand India," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Rain, strong winds help improve Delhi's air quality to 'moderate' category||Delhi's air quality improved significantly to the "moderate" category on Monday morning owing to rain and strong winds. A government forecasting agency said the air quality is likely to improve further to the "satisfactory" category. The national capital's air quality index (AQI) was 148 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 354 on Sunday and 443 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said intense rains lashed Delhi and winds gusting up to 30 kmph swept the city on Sunday under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting northwest India, dispersing pollutants. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday to 2:30 pm on Sunday. More rain is likely on Monday. The maximum wind speed will be around 30 kmph, the IMD said. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the AQI is likely to remain "moderate" to "satisfactory" on Monday and Tuesday. It said the city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- would be 5,000 m2/s on Monday and Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height at which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for the dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Dharmendra hoping farmers get justice today||Ahead of the seventh round of talks between the central government and protesting farmer unions, veteran actor and former MP Dharmendra on Monday said he prays with all his heart that the farmers agitating against the three farm laws get justice today. Braving the cold and rains, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the new agri legislations. "I hope today my farmer brothers get justice. I pray with all my heart. Every noble soul will get relief," Dharmendra, 84, wrote in Hindi on Twitter. This is not the first time the screen icon has spoken up in the wake of the farmer's crisis. In December, Dharmendra urged the Centre to find a solution to the protests over the farm laws. "I am in extreme pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. The government should do something fast," he had tweeted. The government has presented these laws, enacted in September, as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislation has left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. On Sunday evening, Haryana Police fired teargas canisters to thwart a march of a group of agitating farmers towards Delhi at Masani barrage in Rewari district. Farmers first broke police barricades put up near Bhudla Sangwari village and then started moving towards Delhi in the evening. A large number of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and some other places have been protesting on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for the past several days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||India records 16,504 fresh Covid cases, 214 casualties in a day||Daily new Covid-19 cases in the country remained below 20,000 for the third consecutive day taking the virus caseload to 1,03,40,469, while the recoveries surged to 99.46 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 16,504 people tested positive for coronavirus infection in a day. The death toll increased to 1,49,649 with 214 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,46,867 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.19 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 14th consecutive day. There are 2,43,953 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 2.36 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,56,35,761 samples have been tested up to January 3 with 7,35,978 samples being tested on Sunday. The 214 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 26 from West Bengal, 25 from Kerala, 16 from Uttar Pradesh and and 14 each from Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,49,649 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,666 from Maharashtra followed by 12,156 from Tamil Nadu, 12,107 from Karnataka, 10,585 from Delhi, 9,792 from West Bengal, 8,403 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,115 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,376 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Dense fog shrouds Delhi after rains||Dense fog enveloped parts of the national capital on Monday morning while the minimum temperature rose to 11.4 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A weather department official said fog lowered visibility to 50 metres at Safdarjung and 150 metres at Palam around 7:30 am. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in the last 22 days, as a result of the cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. On Sunday, intense rains, thunder and lightning lashed the city under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting Northwest India. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday to 2:30 pm on Sunday. The IMD said more rains are likely on Monday and Tuesday. The Western Disturbance is causing widespread snowfall in the hills. Once it withdraws, the mercury will again fall to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, the IMD official said. On Friday, the minimum temperature in Delhi plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. The city had recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degrees Celsius on January 8, 2006. The all-time low of minus 0.6 degrees Celsius was registered in January 1935.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Vaccine review method riddle ||Medical experts on Sunday expressed concern about the Indian drug regulatory authority’s silence on the mechanisms through which it would continue to review the performance of the two Covid-19 vaccines it has approved for restricted emergency use. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, said on Sunday that it had accepted its expert panel’s recommendations to approve the emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and a home-grown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “After adequate examination, the CDSCO has accepted the recommendations,” V.G. Somani, the drugs controller-general of India and chief of the CDSCO, told reporters. But he did not reveal the conditions under which the vaccines would be rolled out. The approvals mean the AstraZeneca vaccine, made in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and named Covishield, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin could be used in the government’s planned campaign to vaccinate 300 million people over the next six months. However, the CDSCO has approved both vaccines under limited evaluation data. The Serum Institute has no efficacy data on Covishield from India, while Covaxin’s efficacy is still under evaluation. While the CDSCO said the approval to Covaxin was granted under “clinical trial mode”, researchers have questioned this terminology, underlining that evaluation of a vaccine under a rigorous clinical trial protocol would be difficult to near-impossible under a campaign. “We need clarification on what they mean by this,” said a senior doctor and member of the national task force on Covid-19. “A rigorous clinical trial to assess a vaccine would require people in two groups — a vaccinated group and a non-vaccinated group selected through a randomisation process. Randomisation is impossible, given the objectives of the vaccination campaign.” The campaign seeks to vaccinate priority groups at high risk of Covid-19 infection or severity — healthcare workers and frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 but with chronic health disorders. “Given such targeted vaccinations, randomisation is impossible,” the doctor said. The All India Drug Action Network, a consortium of health rights advocates and physicians, said in a statement on Sunday that those who receive the vaccines under a clinical trial mode would need to be informed about the lack of efficacy data on the vaccine. “I think it would have built more confidence in our regulatory processes if its decisions were based on a clear rationale that was publicly communicated with supporting data,” said Anant Bhan, a physician and bioethics expert. The CDSCO has sought periodic safety update reports on the vaccines once every 15 days for the first two months after rollout, and once every month after that. But a clinical pharmacologist said that periodic safety update reports are routinely sought with every new drug or vaccine. Under standard regulations, such reports are sought once every six months for two years, and once annually after that, the pharmacologist said. “They’ve increased the frequency of safety update reports for these vaccines, but this is not equivalent to evaluation under clinical trial mode,” he said. A health official told The Telegraph that “clinical trial mode” implied “a higher degree of monitoring safety and efficacy after the rollout”. But experts said it was unclear who would conduct the efficacy analyses. “Will the companies evaluate efficacy? Or will it be done by the health ministry or its agencies? There is no clarity on this. What protocols will be used to evaluate efficacy?” another researcher asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Farmers brave inclement weather and indifferent govt||Blinding rain amid a bitter winter buffeted the protesting farmers at the capital’s borders on Sunday, which served to underscore the government’s perceived nonchalance towards the food providers to the nation and its alleged “thakao aur bhagao (tire out and drive away)” strategy. The farmers kept their chin up and braved the inclement weather and the indifferent government — their resolve highlighted by a video clip of two women standing in the rain on Saturday and becoming a rallying point for others when one of the women raised slogans against the Narendra Modi government. On Sunday, as the farmers scrambled to repair and reposition tents that bore the brunt of the rain and several bonfires were lit to keep them warm, their spirits were kept up by a 12-team kabbadi tournament at the Singhu border. The rain began around 5am and continued for hours, washing away some tents, leaving the farmers’ beds and luggage drenched, and leaving the langars struggling to cook and serve meals amid the water-logging. Abhimanyu Kohar, a member of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, said the farmers had waterproof tents but these could not protect them from the biting cold and the water-logging. “The situation is very bad at the protest sites because of the rain, which has caused water-logging. It’s so cold now after the rain but the government can’t see our misery,” he said. Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at the Singhu Border, told PTI that some places got water-logged because the civic facilities were not up to the mark. But he asserted that the weather would not break the farmers’ resolve. Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said the agitators’ blankets, clothes and firewood were soaked. “Our clothes are soaked. Besides, we are finding it difficult to cook food as the rainwater has also soaked our firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it,” he said. Protesting at the Ghazipur border, Dharmveer Yadav said: “We are ready to face any problem, be it heavy rain or a storm, but we will not leave this place until our demands are met.” Amid silence at the helm of the executive leadership, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi spoke up for the farmers and expressed anguish at their distress. In a statement, Sonia asked the government to immediately grant the farmers’ demands and end their suffering. Mincing no words, the Congress leader said: “Over 50 farmers have lost their lives during the protests because of the government’s apathy so far. Some took the extreme step of committing suicide. But that has failed to move the government and none, including the Prime Minister, has uttered a word of sympathy for them.” Three more protesting farmers have died, PTI quoted police as saying on Sunday. Shamsher Singh, 45, and Jashandeep Singh, 18, were from Punjab and Jagbir Singh, 60, was from Haryana.  All three were protesting at Delhi’s borders. Sonia said the country had never before had a government so insensitive to the miseries of the farmer and the common man. “Governments and leaders who show disregard for people’s feelings cannot rule for a long time. It is clear that the farmers won’t surrender to the government’s ‘thakao aur bhagao’ strategy,” she said. “The true tribute to the farmers who lost their lives and the spirit of rajdharma (a ruler’s duties) will be to shed arrogance and withdraw the three black laws. The purpose of democracy is to protect the rights of people and farmers, and the government must concede the demands and end the agitation now.” Rahul Gandhi warned the country against a “Champaran-like tragedy”, comparing Modi’s capitalist friends to the British East India Company. British planters had forced tenant farmers in Bihar’s Champaran district to grow indigo against little payment, triggering resentment and paving the way for Mahatma Gandhi to launch his first Satyagraha movement from there in 1917. “The country is once again going to suffer a Champaran-like tragedy. Then it was English Company Bahadur, now it is Modi-mitr Company Bahadur,” Rahul, who had earlier too likened the farmers’ movement to the freedom struggle, tweeted. “But every single farmer from this movement is a satyagrahi (campaigner for truth) who will fight for his right, come what may.” Rahul said: “The government which was not ready to guarantee MSP to farmers gave guaranteed revenues to its capitalist friends to run storage facilities. Government mandis are either being closed or food grains are not being procured. Why this apathy towards farmers and sympathy towards suit-boot friends?” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the Narendra Modi government had struck a deal in advance with the Adani group for storage of food grains. He said Adani companies had in a presentation before the National Stock Exchange in 2016 anticipated long-term contracts with huge margins and this was what eventually happened. “Adani Agri Logistics Limited (AALL) has been awarded an exclusive service agreement with the Food Corporation of India for storage of food grains. Revenues are guaranteed as the 30-year contract is linked to inflation,” he said. “Most of the contracts have been awarded to AALL from 2016 onwards. Eight projects are operational and nine projects were under construction as on March 31, 2018. AALL handles lakhs of metric tonnes of food grain for FCI in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh and has also expanded its footprints in Bihar, UP and Gujarat.” Vallabh said the Centre was refusing to procure the promised quantity of paddy from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh. “Despite a pre-intimation by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to procure 60 lakh metric tonnes of rice, Chhattisgarh has not received a final consent. The Chhattisgarh government has procured 47 lakh tonnes so far,” he said. “This would impact close to 21.52 lakh farmers. Has the FCI halted procurement in Chhattisgarh because their suit-boot friends are not involved in managing storage in Chhattisgarh, and will the procurement only start when their friends get control of storage?” Haryana police on Sunday evening fired tear smoke canisters at agitating farmers at Masani barrage in Rewari district to thwart their march towards Delhi. The farmers had broken police barricades near Bhudla Sangwari village and started moving towards Delhi. “We have stopped them at Masani,” Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said over the phone. The farmers had been camping on a service lane off the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past few days, the police said. PTI report||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Young women take guard in Kerala politics||They are feisty, confident, multi-faceted and they are like a breath of fresh air in politics. Half a dozen young women have burst onto public life in Kerala, helming panchayats and even the state’s largest city council after the recent local body elections. And politics is not the only forte of these young leaders — all from the CPM. From performing arts to sports to business acumen, the women are equipped with skills that would have helped them shine in other fields too. Arya Rajendran and Reshma Mariam Roy, the youngest mayor and panchayat president in the country, respectively, have hogged much of the limelight as they are only 21 years old, just fulfilling the minimum age requirement to contest elections. But there is another batch of twenty somethings elevated as heads of panchayats who too are making people sit up and take note for reasons not restricted to politics. Amritha C, the president of the Ittiva village panchayat in Kollam district, is a trained singer whose skills came in handy at various CPM political events. The 23-year-old is from a family of CPM workers good at singing. “I took my music classes very seriously until studies came in the way. I hope to pick up from where I left off sooner than later,” she told The Telegraph on Saturday. Like the others helming local bodies, Amritha came up the ranks of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) before contesting on a CPM ticket in the recent local body polls. Having completed a computer-programming course from the state-run Industrial Training Institute, Amritha wants to pursue higher levels of programming and music. “When the party told me to contest, I left everything aside for now,” said the young woman trained in classical music for 10 years. “I even won prizes at youth festivals (government-organised talent shows for students). But then I wanted a job to support my family and joined the course in computer programming,” Amritha said. Arya, the new mayor of Thiruvananthapuram, the largest municipal corporation in Kerala, is a trained singer. The soft-spoken mayor who is a BSc mathematics student cut her teeth in politics with Balasangham, the CPM’s children’s organisation, before becoming part of the SFI and the DYFI. She could not be reached for comments. Anas Rosna Stephy's is a story of tremendous grit and endurance. Now the president of the Pozhuthana village panchayat in Wayanad district, Stephy, 23, graduated in zoology from the prestigious Providence College in Kozhikode, become an NCC cadet, learn Bharatanatyam and gave the civil services a shot. The elder of two children of a couple in Wayanad who earn their livelihood by doing manual labour, Stephy never let any hurdle bog her down. “As a child I was keen on learning dance and music,” she said. Now she aims to learn Carnatic and western classical violin. “I know I can’t start my lessons now since my party has entrusted me with this responsibility. But I will learn sooner than later,” she said. Challenges are nothing new for Radhika Madhavan, 23, the president of the Malampuzha village panchayat in Palakkad. The second-year MA Malayalam student lives in a one-room house along with her younger brother and parents, who do manual labour. “I don’t have too many skills although I wanted to learn dance and music. But my financial background is not favourable for all that,” confessed Radhika. Olavanna village panchayat president Saruthi P, 23, used to be a school-level handball player before getting active in students politics through the SFI. But that was not the only reason why the Bullet-riding comrade shot to fame. After having spent some 20 days as a volunteer at a Covid care centre in Kozhikode, Saruthi learnt that public distribution had stopped in her area since the owner of a ration shop had tested positive for the virus. “That was the time when the state government was issuing free cooking essentials. So I ran the ration shop for a week before the owner was ready to take over,” Saruthi recalled. The law student who completed her 10-semester dual degree programme just recently wants to pursue higher education after her five-year term as panchayat president. Priyanka Prathap, who is the chief of the Kadambanad village panchayat in Pathanamthitta, possesses a bunch of skills that could be handy in her new role. A second-year student of MSc psychology from University College in Thiruvananthapuram, Priyanka pursued Bharatanatyam for 10 years. Public speaking and “mono acts” — plays with no co-actors — are her other passions that brought recognition. “Thanks to these skills that killed my stage fear, I love being in the middle of anything,” she said, referring to the confidence she gained by performing on stage since Class I. A product of campus politics through the SFI, Priyanka can’t stop thanking her teachers who introduced her to mono acts in Class I. The youngest panchayat president who completed BBA this year, Reshma, was widely noted for her speaking abilities that belie her age and experience. The reason, in her own words, lay in the fact that she pursued oratory as a skill during her school and college education. The prizes she won for public speaking at the state government-run youth festivals for school and college students came in handy during her campaign. “Public speaking is something I always enjoyed since one needs to do proper homework to drive home the points. I am sure my communication skills will help me in fulfilling my duties,” said the president of the Aruvappulam village panchayat in Pathanamthitta district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Bipin Rawat visits forward posts at LAC||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Sunday visited forward locations of Arunachal Pradesh at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and interacted with the army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel. The visit comes amid the continuing standoff between India and China in Ladakh since May last year. The standoff continues with no signs of a breakthrough and the Indian army has  been maintaining a strong vigil in other sectors of the LAC. On the second day of his visit to operational areas of Arunachal Pradesh, Rawat also reviewed the operational capabilities and preparedness of the armed forces deployed along the LAC at Subhansiri Valley. Rawat lauded the preparedness of the force to face any eventuality. “Complimenting the soldiers for the innovative measures adopted to maintain effective surveillance and enhanced operational readiness, he said that only Indian soldiers could remain vigilant under such challenging situations ever willing to go well beyond the call of  duty to safeguard the borders. Nothing can deter the Indian Armed Forces on remaining steadfast in their call for duty,” a statement issued by the army said. On Saturday, Rawat had visited the forward Air Force bases in eastern sector and interacted with soldiers from the army, Indo Tibetan Border Police and Special Frontier Force deployed at the forward post in Dibang Valley and Lohit sector of Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Kisan march sets  out from Nagpur||Hundreds of farmers from various regions of Maharashtra, joined by students and people from various walks of life, on Sunday night left for Delhi from Nagpur to join cultivators who have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for over a month seeking the repeal of three agri laws, a Kisan Sabha leader said. He said widows of those farmers who had committed suicide over farm debt and related issues from east Maharashtra and Marathwada regions, have also joined this “Chalo Delhi” vehicle march. Earlier in the day, students and people from various walks of life hailing from Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Nashik, Aurangabad, Ahmed Nagar and other districts gathered in Nagpur under the aegis of Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha. They took out a march in afternoon and a meeting was held at Sanvidhan chowk in evening. “These farmers and others have left for Delhi in 40-odd vehicles, including buses and four-wheelers,” Nagpur district secretary of Kisan Sabha, Arun Wankar, told PTI. He said 800 members of the Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha will also join the protest. Savita Jadhav, 26, who came from Parbhani district  along with 35 other women, said her farmer husband and her father committed suicides in 2010 and 2017, respectively, over their failure to repay loans taken for farming. “I am going to Delhi to support the cause of farmers. I request the government to rehabilitate the families of those farmers who have committed suicide over loans. I also urge the government to scrap the farm laws in the interest of agriculturists,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||BJP links vaccine approval with 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday linked the emergency use approval to two vaccines with his “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) slogan and went all out to claim yet another big achievement made by the country under him. Ministers, chief ministers, BJP chief and party leaders joined to amplify Modi’s message on social media platforms. “A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight!” Modi said in a tweet, describing what the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) granting approval to two vaccines meant. He congratulated India and our “scientists and innovators” before linking with his “Aatmanirbhar” slogan, seeking to reap political mileage. “It would make India proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India!” he said in another tweet. “This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” he added. The drum beating around the vaccine approval appeared to be aimed at drowning the farmers’ protest on social media platforms. “A momentous achievement for India!” home minister Amit Shah tweeted. “A visionary leadership can make a huge difference,” Shah said. “The approval to Made in India vaccines will prove to be a game changer in boosting PM @NarendraModi’s vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. BJP chief J.P. Nadda first lauded PM Modi for the “swadeshi tikon” (made-in-India vaccines), terming it a new milestone and then settling to slam the Congress for raising questions over grant of approval to the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech without evidence that it would offer protection against the virus. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian,” Nadda tweeted. The attack was primarily directed at Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s tweet raising the red flag over “premature” approval granted to made-in-India Covaxin. Tharoor had pointed out that Covaxin had not undergone phase-3 trials. Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, too, said it was “puzzling” that “internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin” and sought clarification from health minister Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Twenty-three dead in roof collapse in Ghaziabad||Twenty-three people were killed and 15 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Ghaziabad, adjoining Delhi, collapsed on Sunday. The roof build just over two months ago collapsed when several people had taken shelter under it in the rain. By evening 18 of the dead had been identified. Most of them were relatives gathered for the last rites of Ghaziabad resident Jairam Singh. Apart from the 23 dead, 15 others were admitted at different hospitals, Ghaziabad (rural) superintendent of police Iraj Raja said. “We came here to cremate my father and lost two more members of my family”, said Rajesh Kumar, a local resident at MMG Hospital, where his uncle was admitted with serious head injuries. An eyewitness who was walking towards the shelter when it crashed said: “It fell at once, giving no time to the people to escape from there. The most pathetic thing was that there was no such building six months ago. We used to stand in the open. The construction of  building a roof adjacent to a small building was completed only two-and-a-half-months ago.” V.K. Singh, minister of state for external affairs and Ghaziabad MP, who visited the ground, said, “There is definitely a lapse on someone’s part. We will conduct an impartial probe and can assure the people that the guilty must be punished soon.” Anita Meshram, divisional commissioner of Meerut, who is heading a two-member inquiry committee to probe the case, told reporters on the spot in the late afternoon, “We are here to ensure that a thorough inquiry is done into every aspect of the incident and expose the guilty people.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the deaths. “I express my condolences to the near and dear ones of those who lost their lives in this accident, and also hope for a quick recovery of the injured,” Modi tweeted in Hindi. Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each person killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Bihar schools to open from Monday||Educational institutions, including  schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutes, will reopen in Bihar from Monday after a gap of over nine months since the outbreak of Covid pandemic. Slide in number of coronavirus cases and high recovery rate of 97.61 per cent in the state seem to have boosted the confidence to resume studies physically in the educational institutions. However, the classes will operate only at half the strength of the total students and other protocols of coronavirus have to be followed strictly, education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar told PTI on Sunday. As per the health departments bulletin, the state had till Saturday recorded 2,53,651 Covid-19 cases out of which 2,47,579 people have recovered from the contagion, thus taking its recovery rate to 97.61 per cent. The state has 4669 active cases with Covid-19 death toll mounting to 1403, the bulletin said.  The state government has issued a list of Covid-19 safety guidelines for students and staff to follow in the schools, colleges and other education institutions resuming operation from Monday. Notably, the decision to reopen educational institutions including schools, both government and private, for Class IX to XII from January 4, 2021 was taken at a meeting of Crisis Management Group on December 18, 2020. The schools, which will open for Class IX to XII, will be run with only 50 per cent strength in order to maintain social distancing in the classrooms besides wearing masks on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Odisha schools and colleges to reopen ||Schools and colleges, which have been closed since March because of the corona pandemic, will reopen from January 8 and January 11, respectively. The universities will also reopen from January 11, according to a notification issued by the higher education department. In the schools, only Class X and XII students will be allowed to attend  classes.  Classroom teachings will continue till the end of the April. School hostels meant for Class X and XII students will reopen. A separate SOP( standard operating procedures) will soon be issued for schools, officials said. As per the notification issued by the higher education department only students scheduled to appear for the last semester examination will be allowed to come to the colleges. All the schools have been asked to strictly follow government guidelines while allowing students to enter the school. Sitting arrangements will be such that there will be minimum distance between two students. If needed each class will be divided into batches. It will be mandatory for all to use masks or face shields. All efforts will be made to record classroom teachings. The recordings will be shared among students who fail to attend classes. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said students taking the Class X exam will have to answer papers of 80 marks. Out of this 50 marks will be objective in the OMR (optical mark recognition) format and 30 marks will be for subjective questions. However, the evaluation will be for 100 marks only. “Twenty marks will be evaluated on the basis of percentage one has secured out of 80 marks. No one needs to worry about it,” said Dash. While Class X examination will begin from May 3 and continue till May 15, Class XII examination will commence from May 15 and conclude on June 11. The results will be declared within 45 to 50 days of the examination, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Sovan Chatterjee skips BJP roadshow in Calcutta||BJP's Calcutta zone observer and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee on Monday skipped a party roadshow that he was scheduled to lead in the metropolis. Chatterjee could not attend the rally due to the sudden illness of his friend Baisakhi Banerjee, BJP sources said. The roadshow, led by senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy and Arjun Singh, came face-to-face with a TMC street-corner meeting near Kidderpore. The BJP alleged that TMC activists hurled shoes towards the convoy of the saffron party leaders' cars and chairs at the party workers. The police, which gave verbal permission for the rally, prevented a flare-up by stopping some activists of the BJP's youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) from approaching towards the TMC members. Around 100 motorcycles and a flower-decked truck were part of the rally that began on Watgunj Road and passed through Alipore before culminating at the BJP's election office in Hastings. It was originally scheduled to end at the party's state headquarters in central Kolkata. BJP leader Mukul Roy said the roadshow was against the "misrule" of the TMC government. Party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said every leader and activist is part of the people's movement to dislodge the TMC from power in the state and it is not an individual show. Dismissing the BJP's allegations that TMC activists hurled shoes and chairs at its members, Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Minister and Calcutta Mayor Firhad Hakim said, "We are not bothered if the BJP takes out a rally as we have other important work to do."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly likely to be discharged on Wednesday||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly will have to undergo another angioplasty in a "few days or weeks" but can, for now, be discharged from hospital as his condition is "stable", the CEO of the medical facility said on Monday. A nine-member board of senior doctors discussed Ganguly's condition and reached a consensus that though necessary, angioplasty can be deferred to a later date as he is stable, Woodlands Hospital MD and CEO Dr Rupali Basu said. Renowned cardiologists Dr Devi Shetty and Dr R K Panda participated in the discussion through a virtual platform while another expert from the US was part of the discussion over the phone, she said. "The angioplasty will take place for sure in a few days or weeks. He will be discharged most probably the day after tomorrow," she said. Treating doctors will keep a constant watch on his condition and take appropriate measures at his home after he is discharged, said Dr Basu said, a member of the medical board. Dr Devi Shetty is likely to visit Ganguly on Tuesday and have another meeting with doctors about the next course of treatment. "The medical board came to a consensus that deferring angioplasty for now is a safer option as Mr Ganguly is stable, does not have chest pain and is on optimal management," she noted. The stylish left-handed former India batsman had suffered a "mild" heart attack on Saturday. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, also a former president of the BCCI, visited the hospital to see Ganguly and expressed hope he will soon return to his normal life. BCCI secretary Jay Shah also met Ganguly. "Dada is a hero of the country. He has seen a lot of ups and downs in cricket and defeated his opponents numerous times. He will do the same this time. "Sourav was smiling when I met him today. He appeared fine and I know he will be back to his normal life soon and will play an important role in taking Indian cricket to the next level. He has to play a very vital role, first in the BCCI and then in several other fields for the country," Thakur added. There has been speculation about Ganguly joining the BJP ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, and Thakur's comment about his playing a vital role in "other fields" may appear to be hinting at that. Ganguly has, however, not made his intention clear about taking the political plunge yet. His close friend and CPI-M leader Ashok Bhattacharya had Sunday said Ganguly was "under pressure" to join politics. "Some people wanted to use Ganguly politically. That probably exerted pressure on him. He is not a political element. He should be known as Sourav the sporting icon," Bhattacharya, a long-time family friend, said. "We should not create pressure on him (for joining politics). I had told Sourav last week he should not join politics and he did not oppose my views," Bhattacharya who visited Ganguly at the hospital said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader's car shot at in Asansol||BJP's West Bengal state committee member Krishnendu Mukherjee on Monday alleged that some "TMC goons" opened fire on his car in Asansol in Paschim Barddhaman district but he was saved by a whisker as the assailants failed to open the vehicle's doors. The ruling party in the state, however, dismissed his allegation and said the incident might be a fallout of Mukherjee's old rivalries. "As I was returning home in Asansol's Hirapur from Kolkata on Sunday night, three unidentified persons, whom I suspect to be TMC goons, stopped my car near my house and tried to open the doors, failing which they opened indiscriminate fire on the vehicle. "The driver shouted for help and I repeatedly honked the horn to grab the locals' attention, following which the assailants fled the spot," Mukherjee said. He alleged that the TMC was behind the incident and he has informed senior BJP leaders about the incident. A complaint has been received from Mukherjee and CCTV footages in the area are being scrutinised, an officer at Hirapur police station said. Dismissing the charges, TMC's Asansol Dakshin MLA Tapas Banerjee alleged that Mukherjee is accused in several extortions, smuggling and even murder cases and was absconding for a long time and the incident might be a fallout of his old rivalries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Rabindranath’s surname was Tagore and not Thakur:  Gaurav Bhatia||The BJP’s attempts to establish its Bengal connect suffered another jolt when party national spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia rebuked a co-panellist during a TV debate, telling him Rabindranath’s surname was Tagore and not Thakur. The comment adds to the list of BJP leaders’ gaffes about things Bengal and Bengali in the run-up to the Assembly polls, from mentioning Visva-Bharati as Tagore's birthplace to mistaking a statue to an unknown tribal hunter for a sculpture of freedom fighter Birsa Munda. An 11-second video clip shows Bhatia, a Supreme Court advocate who has joined the BJP from the Samajwadi Party, saying: “They can’t even pronounce the name of Rabindranath Tagore properly.... He (a co-panellist) was saying ‘Rabindranath Thakur’ in your channel. Please rewind and show....” The BJP seemed to realise the seriousness of the blooper this time, with state unit president Dilip Ghosh, known to brazenly defend his party colleagues' blunders, acknowledging Bhatia’s mistake. “There is some confusion regarding the pronunciation of ‘Thakur’ and ‘Tagore’ among the leaders in Delhi. But, he (Bhatia) should have come informed,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. “Our leaders from Delhi have learnt about Rabindranath by reading English translations and hence this confusion persists. I’m sure this will be rectified soon.” Descendants of the poet confirmed that Tagore family members use two surnames in two languages — Thakur in Bengali and Tagore in English. They expressed surprise at the BJP spokesperson's ignorance of what is common knowledge in Bengal. "One grows up with a given identity, a name and a surname. These are part of one's identity," said Sudripta Tagore, a Tagore family member who lives in Santiniketan and is a teacher by profession. "My forefathers were (known by the surname) 'Kushari'. I have come to learn that in the 18th century we became Thakur in Bengali and Tagore in English. That's how it has been since then. So I write Thakur in Bengali and Tagore in English -- this is my identity." Author and Tagore researcher Amitra Sudan Bhattacharya said that Rabindranath's ancestors originally used the surnames Bandyopadhyay or Kushari depending on the branch of the family. "When they came to Calcutta from what is now Bangladesh in the eighteenth century, commoners began addressing them as Thakur out of respect and courtesy," Bhattacharya said. "So, Thakur is the actual surname and Tagore is nothing but the British pronunciation, which the Tagore family members adopted when they wrote their names in English." The BJP's desperation to prove its Bengali credentials ahead of next summer's election has repeatedly led to howlers in the absence of proper homework, allowing a gleeful Trinamul to beat the party with the "bahiragawto" (outsider) stick. Trinamul spokesperson and minister Bratya Basu iterated the point, saying the Tagore-Thakur confusion was proof of the BJP's disconnect from Bengali culture. "This is why we call them outsiders. They don't even understand Bengal," Basu said. Calls and messages to Bhatia's phone remained unanswered. The BJP has been hungry to appropriate Tagore, with Union home minister Amit Shah visiting Santiniketan and party president J.P. Nadda scheduled to visit Birbhum soon. However, the mission has been blighted by errors. In November, the state unit's social media cell tweeted that Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati and attributed it to Nadda, who was touring Bengal at the time. A month on, during Shah's trip to Bolpur and Santiniketan, posters and banners with images of the home minister above Tagore's were erected in and around the Visva-Bharati campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Time for Left to re-imagine class, populism’ ||The CPIML Liberation leader’s stand seems addressed to the situation in West Bengal, and I do not know if he has something more fundamental and general in mind. But I have no doubt that this will open a new chapter in the struggle for radical social democracy in the country. At one level it is a call for a united front. But there are two prerequisites which need to be fulfilled in order to achieve a critical understanding of the political question of the united front in the current moment of history. First, we must have a clear idea of the classes involved, for which the old class analysis will not suffice. Several old class formations have dissolved in the wake of neoliberal globalisation, and in their places we have a vast sea of amorphous, petty producing and self-producing sections, wandering groups of labourers, workers in gig industry and extractive operations, and accumulation through the operation of supply chains and through virtual modes, and an informal labouring force in close link with the formal world of production. This turn in the political economy has given rise to populist rule in the states, by which I mean populists who are on the “left of centre” or at least are against neoliberal globalisation, and who carry the popular mandate. Yes, Right-wing populists are there, but the Right-wing populists quickly turn into hard authoritarians and have little in common with the populists I am speaking of. Second, and this follows from the first, the politics of a united front must address the problematic nature of populism, and thus decide the vexed question of who to ally with now, and why to ally with the populists. The main worry is not whether the CPM’s firm or intransigent position will affect the outcome of the elections in West Bengal, but what will happen to the party as a consequence of its position. Of course, the TMC has a tough task at hand. And as with populist destinies, populist politics will go up and down. But if the history of postcolonial capitalism is any guide, “people” as a category of politics will continue giving birth to new populisms. The TMC may be defeated by the Right, yet their work on protection of the petty producers and informal sections of the working people and their entire economic theology built around the protection of the poor will stay on as a permanent feature of Bengal politics. Make no mistake, a social war is being fought between capital and the subaltern classes who are behind the populists – the party of the punitive forces of the rich and the party of the populists. This is the matrix of all power struggles today and the social war of our time. Therefore I shall reframe the question: What will be the impact on the Left because of its inability to grasp the nature of the social war of our time? I do not know if this is a clear and candid political stand, nor am I saying this is mere semantic quibbling. What I know is that this indicates great confusion among the leaders of the Left about the nature of populism. Apart from the fact that this pairing of the BJP and Trinamul tells us about their mad rush for Nabanna by any means, and therefore their conjuring of convoluted arguments, the fundamental root of this confusion is the inability of the CPM to come to terms with the phenomenon called populism. They cannot call the TMC fascists; they cannot also swallow the fact that the TMC has incorporated many issues of their agenda, and has gone several steps forward in terms of the protection of the poorer sections of society, and are unabashedly welfare-oriented in nature and are against neoliberal globalisation. Parties like the CPM are caught between two destinies. They belong to a nowhere condition. They neither have a national vision, by which I mean an idea about how to develop an all-India perspective of struggle based on the various popular political forces and existences, nor do they have a local vision, by which I mean an idea of a path to develop at the state level ---where opportunities arrive at regular intervals – an alternative mode of governance, alternative political experiments, and an alternative way to connect the national and the popular. In India, what Antonio Gramsci had termed the “national-popular” has been actualised under historically concrete circumstances in local milieus – the milieus of the states – where language, culture, anti-caste movements, democratic politics, the presence of the lower classes in the public political arena and an anti-colonial legacy have combined to produce the “national-popular”. Dipankar Bhattacharya’s statement attests to the realisation attained by a section of the Left of the prevailing conundrum. Perhaps the Bihar elections led to this welcome development. In any case, it is good, it makes sense. However, the logic has to be pushed further. It is not a mere question of electoral opposition or alliance. It is a question of reconceptualising the people, the popular, and reimagining class through people and vice versa. This will lead to a reconfiguring of the tension between the national and the local. The tension is productive. But, finally, if this indispensible reconceptualising does not take place at the local and national levels as a result of an ingrained myopic attitude, we should really feel worried about the Left’s future — is it not hurtling down the path of self-destruction?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Owaisi keeps stirring pot||All India MajliseIttehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday met cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui and said his party would contest Assembly polls under his leadership. Owaisi, who has already declared his intent to field AIMIM candidates in the fray for Bengal, said: “We will go forward under the leadership of Peerzada Abbas Siddiqui in Bengal.” “We will stand by him. Whatever he decides, we will support,” he added. “We are a political party and we will establish our presence in Bengal and contest elections here.” Siqqidui, a cleric at the holy shrine of Furfura Sharif in Hooghly, is considered a key voice in the minority community — there are at least 137 seats out of the 294 Assembly seats in the state, where Muslims are a decisive electorate. Recently, Siddiqui declared his intent to float his own party and contest elections in Bengal, where one out of every three votes belongs to minorities. The Left Congress combine had been trying to woo Siddiqui prior to this. Owaisi, reacting to Mamata Banerjee’s allegations |that his party was a B team of the BJP, said it was instead her turn to introspect how the BJP achieved unprecedented success in Bengal in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019. “It should also analyse why its people have been deserting it,” he said. Another Furfura Sharif cleric Toha Siddiqui, however, dismissed the possibility of the shrine or the people of Bengal endorsing a “communal force”. The BJP has said that in a multiparty democracy, Owaisi, too, has the right to field candidates here if he so desires. “It is only because of the possibility of a split in the only votebank Mamata Banerjee relies on for her victories that she is so averse to the idea of AIMIM coming here…. Irrespective of who comes or goes though, the next government here will be formed by the BJP,” said the BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Vow to take farm protests to capitals||Peasant unions from Bengal which will attend the seventh round of talks on the Centre’s agriculture laws on Monday in Delhi have vowed to “intensify” their movement if core issues, including a legal guarantee for “minimum support price”, are not solved. Sources said a fresh round of protests, backed by countrywide farmers’ unions, would begin on January 6 and would be followed up on January 26 with a nationwide “Kisan Parade” in all state capitals. “The farm laws need to be rolled back unconditionally,” former MP and peasant wing leader Hannan Mollah said at a convention organised on Sunday in Barrackpore in preparation of the talks. Mollah, however, added he was “not confident” about a positive outcome in the current week. “It appears the Centre is not in a position to repeal the acts owing to its compulsions and obligations to corporate houses.” “The movement will no longer remain restricted to Delhi, rather we will spread it across the country with the participation of more farmers and common people. We have chosen January 26 as the special day when farmers will march peacefully in all state capitals along with tractors, bulls, ploughers and whatever they have.” A few hundred members of Bengal’s culture clan joined the convention to express solidarity with the fight to repeal the three controversial acts. The convention was organised by the Barrackpore-based Platform for Education-Theatre-Culture, in association with Pather Panchali and Sanskriti Samanway. Sources said various local organisations and individuals in total contributed nearly Rs. 4 lakh to the movement. Delivering an ultimatum to the Centre in his speech, Mollah reiterated that the time had come for “decisive” action claiming the Centre was not actually eager to listen to the farmers properly. “The Centre claims the acts will deliver goods for farmers, but in real terms, they are planning to change the character of our farming culture with dependence on the corporate sector. The Centre forced farmers to become desperate and we will never compromise until and unless the three acts are repealed,” the elderly peasant leader said. Mollah said prior to Kisan Parades in all state capitals, the fresh phase of decisive “struggle” pan-India would begin from January 21, when farmers in 700 districts of the country would organise protest rallies. “Later, during January 23-25, farmers will gherao the governors’ houses in all state capitals which will be followed by the Republic Day’s Kisan Parade.” Bengal Congress leader Abdul Mannan, CPM leader Mohammed Salim, theatre personality Koushik Sen and playwright Chandan Sen, who is the president of the platform that organised the convention, also spoke at the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||896 more contract Covid and 26 die||Bengal on Sunday logged 1,432 Covid-19 recoveries, 896 infections and 26 deaths, aiding the drop in its total of active cases for the 69th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In these 69 days, the total of active cases has fallen from 37,190 to 10,446, an improvement of nearly 72 per cent. The recovery rate has risen for 73 consecutive days, by nearly nine per cent, to 96.35. The national rate is now 96.16 per cent. “We are likely to achieve less than 10,000 active cases within the next couple of days. This is a very good situation to be in, at this stage of the pandemic, with the vaccination processes about to take off,” said a minister. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported over 2.24 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.01 lakh new infections detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.54 lakh cases include over 5.34 lakh recoveries and 9,792 deaths. The 26 deaths reported included eight from the city. The state attributed 8,208 (83.8 per cent) of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to 1.44 per cent nationally. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.7 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent on November 20. “Besides the falling total of active cases and allied parameters, the shrinking positive confirmation rate is also a key indicator. This definitely suggests a steady reduction in the spread of the outbreak in Bengal,” said the minister. With 32,256 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 72.1 lakh, at 80,112 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November have shown that the court’s instructions were effective. Last week, a similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak does not worsen over the New Year celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal aims health cards for all before poll ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to enhance the capacity of printing Swasthya Sathi cards to cover all people in Bengal under the state-sponsored health insurance scheme ahead of the Assembly polls and also to empanel more healthcare facilities in rural districts to ensure that the benefits are available even in remote areas. The move, sources said, has been initiated considering people’s interest in registering for the scheme. So far, more than 1.5 crore people have registered for various government services at the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme and out of them, 70 per cent want their names to be included in the Swasthya Sathi scheme. “Right now, we have the capacity to print 1 lakh cards every day. We are trying to enhance the capacity to 1.25 lakh a day so that all applicants can get the cards in the next two months. For this, we will hire more printing agencies,” said a senior state official. According to the sources, the state has set a target of bringing 2.5 crore people — at present outside the purview of the scheme that gives a coverage of Rs 5 lakh to each family — as 7.5 crore people are already registered under the scheme. “According to the plan, the state government needs to print about 50 lakh cards considering a family consists of five persons on an average. So, with the existing printing capacity, we could have completed printing of all the cards within two months. But we are trying to enhance the capacity as many people are applying after getting separated from the family or seeking replacement of their old cards,” said another official. The sources said the ruling establishment was desperate to hand over the Swasthya Sathi cards to all the beneficiaries ahead of the polls as Trinamul Congress leaders consider the scheme as an answer to the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme. “The BJP is alleging we did not allow the central scheme in Bengal. We want to counter the allegation with the Swasthya Sathi scheme, where the beneficiaries don’t have to pay any premium but would get the same facilities offered by the central scheme. For this, we have to ensure that all beneficiaries get the cards ahead of polls,” said a minister. The state government was not only providing the cards to the beneficiaries but also trying to ensure a better service to the beneficiaries across the state. “We will try to bring all private nursing homes and healthcare establishments under the scheme so that people in the remote corners also get the benefit of getting treated at private hospitals. For this, the district magistrates would soon hold meetings with the private healthcare establishments to persuade them to get empanelled under the scheme,” said a source. If small nursing homes and private healthcare facilities in the districts get empanelled, it would help the state in many ways. First, this will ease the pressure on the government hospitals. Second, the small nursing homes would be able to enhance their infrastructure as they would get more patients. Third, lesser number of patients would be referred to Calcutta, which would result in decongestion of healthcare services in the city. “If things go as planned, the state’s overall healthcare facilities would be improved gradually. The state already gives free treatment at all state-run hospitals. Now, the new plan would make treatment of majority ailments free in private hospitals too,” said a Trinamul insider. A section of the officials, however, said if the state wanted to bring more private hospitals under the scheme, the government has to review its existing rates. “For example, the state government-approved rate for excision of lumps from chest — a surgery to get rid of lumps from chest — is Rs 10,000. But only a handful of private hospitals would accept the rate while majority charge for surgery between Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Asok feels Sourav was ‘under pressure’||Acute mental stress over whether to walk into an uncharted territory may have been one of the reasons behind the sudden deterioration in the health condition of former Indian skipper and BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, said Asok Bhattacharya, CPM MLA of Siliguri, after meeting him on Sunday. “I suspect that he (Ganguly) is under mental pressure…. There is speculation in the media that he might join politics, which might have had played a role in the sudden deterioration of his health condition,” said Bhattacharya, who reached Calcutta on Sunday and called on Sourav at the hospital. Bhattacharya has known Ganguly, who calls him kaku (uncle), for years and has access to his family. The MLA, while talking about Sourav, told The Telegraph about what he felt about the pressure on the former Indian skipper. “I feel he is quite happy in his known territory because these responsibilities might be stressful but these pertain to cricket, which is his known turf. I think there might have been some pressure on him, which left him disturbed as unlike a seasoned politician, he can’t handle these things because politics is an uncharted territory for him.” In the morning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Ganguly and enquired about his health. Sources said BJP leader Anurag Thakur and Union home minister Amit Shah’s son and BCCI official Jay Shah might visit Ganguly on Monday. Bhattacharya had met the cricketer at his residence in Behala here on Thursday. He posted pictures of the meeting on Facebook and wrote that he had advised Ganguly to stay away from politics. “Cricket has taken him to the heights of popularity. The people of this country want it to be that way,” Bhattacharya had posted. The former minister said on Sunday that even Ganguly wanted to remain in his own space. “I can tell you that he hasn’t contradicted my suggestions,” Bhattacharya said. Bhattacharya took CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury to the hospital in the evening. Yechury said: “Ganguly is a national asset and it is our collective responsibility to keep him well.” The murmurs around Ganguly’s political future intensified after he met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan last week and then a day later shared a platform with Union home minister Amit Shah at a cricket body event in Delhi. Some BJP insiders said the manner in which some of the central leaders, especially Shah, reacted after Ganguly’s illness bore hints about their proximity to the cricketer. Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s minder for Bengal, said Union home minister told him to contact Ganguly’s wife Dona and offer all sorts of assistance. Sources also said that Shah had offered to fly Ganguly to Delhi in an air-ambulance. Immediately after Ganguly’s hospitalisation, two important party members — Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and state vice-president Pratap Banerjee — went to the hospital on Saturday. On Sunday, Keshav Prasad Maurya, deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, accompanied by state general secretary Sanjay Singh, visited the hospital. “When we went to the hospital, Sourav was sleeping. We met the doctors and Dona Ganguly,” Singh told The Telegraph. Apart from Bhattacharya and representatives of the BJP, state ministers Arup Roy, Tapas Roy, Trinamul MLA Vaishali Dalmiya and Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya also went to see Ganguly at the hospital on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||West Bengal||Bridges keep BJP and Trinamul apart||Borodoba, an otherwise nondescript village in the Falakata block of Alipurduar district, has emerged as a unique but stark example of political division. Supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP who otherwise live peacefully with each other use different “shanko” or bamboo walk bridges when it comes to crossing the Mujnai, a stream that skirts the village. The reason: one of the walk bridges, that is around 120 metres long, has been built by the BJP and has been named as “Modir Setu” (Modi’s bridge) while the other of a similar length that lies parallel to it, is known as “Didir Setu (Didi’s bridge) as it has been built by Trinamul supporters. Locals mentioned that for years now, they had been demanding a permanent bridge over the stream but the state is yet to come up with the structure that can connect Borodoba village with other parts of Falakata block. Around 7,000 people reside in the village that is 46km from the district headquarter. “Usually, we trudge through knee deep water to cross the stream. During monsoon months, we had to stay back at home unless the water levels recede,” said a villager. Last month, the local BJP workers took the initiative to build a bamboo bridge so that people can cross the stream by foot and even on two wheelers. They named it as “Modir Setu” after the Prime Minister’s name. “On one hand, BJP tried to reach out to the villagers by providing a sort of temporary connectivity to the other hand. On the other hand, they tried to prove that despite being in power for about a decade now, Trinamul has not taken any step to build a bridge that can connect the village,” said a senior political leader in Falakata. As the bridge was opened, the villagers started using it. Every day, around 2,000 people of Borodoba that is under Guabarnagar panchayat of Falakata block, cross the stream to go to other places. However, after a day or two, the Trinamul workers who are active in the village had to face scoffs from the BJP supporters. “They started passing remarks at us, saying that we are using a bridge that has been made by BJP and also questioned as why we could not get a bridge for the village,” a Trinamul supporter said. This left them disappointed and within a gap of seven days, the Trinamul supporters decided to build a parallel bridge 30 feet apart from the other bridge. The new bridge – a similar structure like the other one – was named as “Didir Setu”, as chief minister Mamata Banerjee is popularly known. It created an additional option for common villagers who can use either of the bridges now. “However, ardent party followers, whether of BJP or Trinamul, do not step into the bridge made by the other party. It is an interesting situation our here in our village,” said a resident. Ranjit Burman, a district committee member of BJP who is from the village, said the Trinamul government has simply neglected their demand for a bridge because out of the three panchayat seats of the village, two have been won by BJP. “The ruling party has intentionally remained silent about the demand. Seeing peoples’ inconveniences, we have taken the task to build a temporary bridge,” said Burman. Subhash Roy, the Falakata block president of Trinamul who is also from the village, however, has accused BJP of resorting to cheap politics. “The manner in which they used to pass comments at our men for using the temporary bridge indicates their narrow mind set. That is why we came up with the second bridge. Also, a proposal has already been sent to the north Bengal development for construction of a concrete bridge on Mujnai. We hope it will be approved soon,” the Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker’s right palm chopped off||The right palm of a BJP activist was lopped off by a group of miscreants with suspected Trinamul links in the Shimurali area of Nadia’s Chakdah on Saturday night. Victim Ratan Burman, 38, a resident of BT College Para, is a booth committee president of the BJP. The bizarre incident occurred near his home when he was returning around 11pm. Police and local sources said Burman, a fish trader, suffered multiple injuries to his head and eyes as the miscreants attacked him with a sharp weapon before chopping off his right hand wrist upwards. Local residents found him lying in a pool of blood and rushed him to JNM Hospital in Kalyani. Hospital sources said his condition was quite critical and was unconscious. Sources added the victim’s hand could not be found. Nadia BJP leadership on Sunday alleged Trinamul hand behind the attack. The police began a probe on the basis of a complaint by the victim’s wife and prima facie indicated “nonpolitical” reasons behind the attack. Angry BJP supporters blocked Shimurali station road demanding the arrest of the culprit for an hour on Sunday morning. Smriti Burman, wife of the victim, said, “My husband is an active BJP activist and heads a booth in the area. But, it is not yet clear who attacked him. Before he became unconscious he told me that miscreants attacked him from behind when he was entering our gate. Miscreants injured him in the eyes with their fingers and then dragged him a little way away where they attacked him with sharp weapons and chopped off his right hand. I am not sure whether he was attacked for political reasons.” Pankaj Ghosh, vice president of BJP’s Nadia south organizing committee, however, claimed Trinamul’s role in the attack. “The ruling party has engaged its loyal miscreants to unleash fear among our party activists as part of its strategy to weaken our organisation. Ratan is an active worker of our party and earned the wrath of the local Trinamul leadership.” Trinamul’s Nadia zilla parishad member, Tibrajyoti Das, rejected allegations of his party’s involvement in the incident. “We don’t believe in such heinous acts for settling political differences. We fight politically, but the BJP blames us for reaping political benefit out of such a bizarre incident.” “We have begun a probe and are examining all possible angles. Preliminary investigations indicate the victim had personal enmity with the assailants. However, nothing can be conclusively said until his health improves and we are able to question him,” an investigating officer of Chakdah police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-249
04-01-2021||North East||Scooters, financial aid for girls in Assam||The Assam government will give scooters and financial incentives to girl students to ensure that they attend classes regularly, Education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The state government was currently distributing 22,000 two-wheelers to Class 12 girl students who passed in the first division from the state board under the Pragyan Bharti Scheme, he said at Sivasagar on Sunday. The state government will incur an expenditure of Rs 144.30 crore for the purpose. The state government will provide scooters to all girl students who passed in the first division from the state board even if the number crosses a lakh, he said. Scooters will also be provided to all girl students who passed Class 12 examination in the first division in 2018 and 2019. Financial incentives will also be provided to all girl students from school to post-graduate level and the scheme would be launched by the end of this month. He said that girl school students would be given Rs 100 daily for each day so that they attend school while an amount of Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000 will be given to undergraduate and postgraduate students respectively. The minister further said that they had plans to launch this scheme last year but it was delayed due to the spread of Covid-19. The minster is on a visit to distribute scooters also participated in a cycle rally on Monday. Meanwhile, attendance in schools, which reopened on January one after being closed for nearly 10 months due to Covid-19, was much higher on Monday than the first two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
04-01-2021||North East||Trifed plan to boost sales of NE products ||The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed) will collaborate with the ministry of development of north eastern region (DoNER) and India Post to increase the sale of traditional tribal products from the region by four-fold in both national and international markets. The aim of the collaborative marketing and logistic intervention is to “create a brand” for products from the region, increase awareness of the brand across the globe and provide national and international market access, a move which will also result in “enhancing” tribal entrepreneurship in the northeast, thereby increasing incomes and generating livelihood for the tribal communities, an official release from the ministry of tribal affairs said. The collaboration aligns with the ‘Act East’ policy of theCentre to “promote” economic, strategic and cultural relations with the vast Asia-Pacific region at different levels, enhancing income generation of tribal suppliers and contribute effectively to the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and the Vocal for Local, Buy Tribal initiative. Under the administrative control of ministry of tribal affairs, the Trifed was set up in 1987 with the objective of promoting tribal art & craft, handloom and setting up of tribal community-owned minor forest produce Van Dhan Vikas Kendras for tribal artisans. The planned interventions include the identification of suppliers and weaving clusters; sourcing of products, training and development of tribal resources, procurement and aggregation of tribal products and transportation and distribution of the selected products to Tribes India outlets and end customers. DoNER will work on these activities through its agencies and Trifed will use its extensive network of outlets and its e-commerce platforms for the marketing and branding in domestic and international markets, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
04-01-2021||North East||Base camps to cut fire-fighting trek time  ||The Dzukou Valley fire is “almost” under control on the Nagaland side but “somewhat” under control on the Manipur side six days after it started but those involved in the fire-fighting operations are not lowering their guard with the NDRF-SDRF setting up base camps close to the affected sites to add more manhours at ground zero by cutting down on trekking time. The picturesque valley is located on the border of Nagaland (Kohima district) and Manipur (Senapati district) and is a popular trekking destinations for both domestic and international tourists. The fire reportedly started on December 29 on the Nagaland side and spread to the neighbouring Manipur. Johnny Ruangmei, OSD, Nagaland SDMA, said after an aerial assessment with a team of the Indian Air Force that the fire has been controlled by “80 to 90 per cent” on the Nagaland side due to the collective effort of personnel from both the Central and state governments and local volunteers. “The operation may continue tomorrow to douse some of the minor fires on the hillocks. The Dzukou Valley portion is safe as witnessed from the aerial survey,” Ruangmei said. A Manipur forest department official told The Telegraph that forest and fire department personnel have been able to somewhat contain the fire on the western side of mount Iso but fire is still raging on the inaccessible southern side where the IAF is continuing its Bambi bucket operation, that is pouring water on the affected areas. A senior NDRF official told this newspaper that they are setting up camps on both sides of the valley so that they can easily reach the affected site. While the affected sites can be reached swiftly from the Nagaland side compared to the Manipur side because of very steep slopes. “Some 20 camps have been set for NDRF, SDRF and police personnel on the foothills of Mt Iso, some 3km from the affected site. Setting up the camps on the foothills will help us add more manhours in actual operation. We are now having to spend significant amount of time trekking to the spots. “Moreover, it helps to stay close when there is no mobile connectivity,” the official said, adding this is the first time they are involved in fire-fighting operations in the northeast. About 15 SDRF personnel are camping near the affected site under Kohima district. In the ongoing effort to douse the wildfire, the Indian Army and Assam Rifles are providing all possible assistance to the NDRF teams in terms of accomodation, tentage and logistics resources so that they can execute their task effectively, an official said. The Indian Army is also providing its aviation  base for launch of Bambi bucket operations and coordinating ground support, air traffic control,  air space management  as well as other logistics support to Indian Air Force, thereby augmenting the air-effort. Senior Army officials also had a meeting with the state administration for better synergy in the ongoing efforts. As many as four IAF choppers and seven teams of the NDRF are working on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
04-01-2021||Opinion||Familiar taste: the Roman ‘thermopolium’||Sir — What’s in a name? That which ancient Romans called a ‘thermopolium’ in 79 CE, we could just as easily call a dhaba in 2020 CE. A food stall that was buried when Mount Vesuvius erupted has been excavated in Italy and the cock and ducks painted on it in vivid colours would not have been out of place in any roadside stall in India. People across place and time are joined by food. Paleobiologists have also found remnants of concoctions that had meat and fish. Since Rome of yore imported spices like cinnamon and tarum from India, it might not be a stretch to imagine that food at the thermopolium might have had a familiar taste. Kaushiki Sarkhel,Calcutta Set them free Sir — Bail is the rule, and jail the exception — this principle, enunciated by the Supreme Court in several judgments, continues to prove elusive for undertrial prisoners who are less privileged and powerful (“High price”, Jan 1). The alarming imbalance in the country’s justice system is brought out by cold facts — 67.7 per cent of 4.33 lakh prisoners in the country are waiting for trial, some of them for years; out of them about 65 per cent are Dalit, adivasi and marginalized people, often illiterate or barely literate and too poor to afford the bail fee. These figures have been revealed by the latest National Crime Records Bureau report. The promptness with which the Supreme Court acted while granting bail to Arnab Goswami, overriding the Bombay High Court’s judgment, is a recent case in point. Such promptness has been missing in the cases of activists, lawyers and writers arrested more than two years ago for criticizing the government. Bail reform requires a return to the values enshrined in the Constitution as well as a revival of respect for human dignity and fair treatment. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The refusal to grant bail deprives individuals of liberty. Discussions on bail reform usually arise when exceptional cases capture public attention. At present, the power to grant bail is exercised sparingly. Subordinate courts routinely reject bail. The accused are then required to approach the high court or the Supreme Court and thus remain incarcerated as undertrials for extended periods of time. The system of bail typically requires people to furnish a bond for some property valued at the amount determined by the concerned judge. The sums are often exorbitant and most undertrials cannot afford to pay it. As per an earlier apex court ruling, the socio-economic condition of the accused must be taken into consideration while deciding on the amount of the cash bond. But this is rarely done. It is time the justice system was reformed to protect the rights of citizens. C.K. Mahadevan,Thiruvananthapuram Debatable stand Sir — I read the write-ups by Uddalak Mukherjee with interest (“Goodwill hunting”, Dec 30). Unfortunately, intellectual encounters are losing steam in present-day polity; money and muscle power are gaining ground instead of a discursive endeavour to win hearts and mind. This sorry state of affairs is becoming universal. But the lack of moderation in politics of the day in India, especially in Bengal, has become a thorn in the side of rational thinking. Worryingly a large section of the intelligentsia is turning out to be party to this arrogant warfare. Surely, the framework of public engagement has changed and conventional wisdom is no longer evincing much interest? Over the past few years, I have tried to fathom the reasons behind the so-called decadence in intellectual propriety. I have lived in London for over two decades now and during this time, the modalities of my engagement with the people I know have undergone significant transformation. Polarization has become the norm not only among politicians but also among many acquaintances whom I always knew to be sane otherwise. Exposure to knowledge is no longer a guarantee to rational thinking. I have nothing against cultural nationalism as a political discourse. In fact, I always admired Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani for their steadfast tryst with ideology. What worries me is the constant and significant intervention in people’s lives, use of coercive ways to impose perceived puritanism and use of divisive tools to vitiate discursive politics. Mistakes have been made; elitism has overlooked and often undermined popular ethos. But such mistakes can be recorded and resolved through civilized debate. While argumentation is no longer the prerogative of the politicians, the people at the helm are oxidizing the flames by being selective in their expressions of judgment. I fear the current situation is even worse than that of the Emergency, which is considered a blot on the Indian democracy. Tirthankar Bandyopadhyay,London Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee must be lauded for his article. “Nationalism is a great menace.” — this is what Rabindranath Tagore thought of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s most favoured notion. One wonders how the BJP can try to claim Tagore, whose ideology stands in direct opposition to that of the saffron party? How can it dare to do so after dividing the country in terms of religion? Individuals who dare to speak their minds find themselves behind bars; even octogenarians are not spared. What a brilliant way to pay tribute to Tagore who dreamt of an India where minds would be without fear and heads held high. Paying tribute to Tagore is a clever ruse aimed at winning the upcoming assembly elections in Bengal. Owing to the secular humanitarian legacy of Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam, West Bengal has remained immune to the BJP’s brand of communal hatred. In this sense, BJP is indeed a rank outsider in Bengal. Not a single secular Bengali worth his salt will vote for a party zealously demonizing minorities. Not to mention several other snubs that the party has dealt Bengal over the years or its failure in governance in the time that it has been in power. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||Look deeper: women, SCs, STs in Indian police||Progress rarely follows a linear path. The latest data — they included figures on gender, caste and identity-based representation — released by the Bureau of Police Research and Development are suggestive of the non-linear dimension of progress. It may seem heartening that India’s scheduled tribes now enjoy better representation in the force in comparison to their share in the nation’s population: they form 12 per cent of all police forces even though their share in India’s population is about 8.6 per cent. Similarly, the number of women in the police has nearly doubled to 2.15 lakh in 2019 from around 1.11 lakh in 2014. In a nation divided along lines of identity and gender, any improvement that helps balance the scales of community-based representation in institutions can be viewed as a mark of reassurance about the State’s intentions regarding inclusion and affirmative action. A closer look at the data set, unfortunately, throws up a far more dispiriting picture. Women still form a paltry 10 per cent of the actual strength of the police, and they mostly occupy the lower rungs of the police hierarchy. Only Maharashtra has a woman in the highest ranks in the special branches dealing with intelligence collection, while Tamil Nadu and Haryana have women inspector-generals in crime investigation departments. This gender lopsidedness has two troubling consequences. First, it compromises the ratio of women officers to women citizens — one for every 3,026 — often deterring the latter from reporting violent crimes to policemen who are known to be deeply insensitive to the myriad troubles experienced by Indian women. Fewer women also result in police policy lacking sensitization and direction when it comes to tackling gender issues. The other backward classes are also poorly represented, forming only 25 per cent of police personnel even though it constitutes 41 per cent of India’s population. According to the published data, SC and ST representation is markedly poor in the decision-making ranks. This has an ominous ring given that the majority of India’s under-trials belong to marginalized groups. Already, the nation’s police people ratio — it fell from 198 in 2018 to 195 in 2019 — is short of the United Nations mandated figure of over 220. A stretched force suffering from severe imbalances in community and gender representation is far from ideal when it comes to its ability to confront crime that is often the outcome of social, cultural and economic disparities. Proportionate identity representation in the police raises another important question. Should not merit — and not identity — be the only criterion for recruitment and assessment in the police?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||Health issues: Indian banking sector||The Reserve Bank of India has indicated that the true health of the Indian banking sector is much worse than what current statistics indicate. The commercial banking system’s gross non-performing assets were 9.1 per cent of advances in March 2019. This fell to 8.2 per cent in March 2020. It fell further to 7.5 per cent in September 2020. This, as it appears, is good news. However, it conceals more than it reveals. First of all, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code helped resolve many large non-performing corporate accounts. This was a one-off improvement in the balance sheet of the banking sector. Second, banks usually prefer to write off bad debts after a while rather than keep provisioning for them. Again, this helps improve the optics of their balance sheets. Even after a debt is written off by a bank, the borrower continues to be liable to repay the written-off debt. However, banks are usually lethargic in pursuing borrowers. Data reveal that only 15-20 per cent of such debts are ever recovered. Third, the RBI, in the year of Covid-19, allowed a standstill in asset quality as part of its regulatory forbearance. In short, this meant that NPAs were not to be identified and declared. This will end on March 31, 2021. The true picture of slippages and new NPAs formed during the Covid-19 period will emerge only then. According to the banking regulator as well as banking sector observers, the real carnage of economic disruptions will become evident once the special measures are rolled back. This will imply that banks will be unable and unwilling to lend and expose themselves to additional risks. Their lending strategies will become conservative. During the pandemic, credit off-take has also been slow; latest data for November 2020 show that it has actually shrunk by 0.7 per cent. Deposits in banks have grown during the period. While this may reflect the trust shown in the banking system by depositors, it becomes more difficult for the banks to earn profits. Low demand for advances and high supply of deposits are not good news for banks.  There are two ways out of this, and they must occur concurrently. The animal spirits of Indian investors have to become active, driven by optimism and opportunities, and the government has to make large budgetary provisions using tax-payers’ money to infuse capital in the weakened banking system. When these concurrent changes will take place is anybody’s guess at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||The bubble has burst: facial recognition||Imagine walking into an international airport, completing self-check-in, self-baggage-check-in and then striding through security, with no one stopping you till just before you board — and only because Covid-19 protocol requires physical distancing. That is how easy it is for Chinese nationals to travel through Guangzhou’s Baiyun International Airport, the third busiest in the country. This kind of seamless rail and bus travel has been a norm in many Chinese cities for a couple of years, and it is all owing to indigenously designed facial recognition systems. These systems have been installed in supermarkets too, providing relief to busy working women. “No need now to wait in a long line,’’ said the 33-year-old Xinyu, who can only shop after a long working day. The demand for such systems went up rapidly after the coronavirus struck. In February itself, Guangzhou installed facial recognition thermometers in buses. As passengers swiped their bus cards, the thermometer scanned their faces, took their temperature and reported it to the driver. Urban residential communities also started installing the software too in order to reduce the physical use of objects and to limit visitors. For the elderly, this came as a boon. “No need to carry keys, cards or wallets,’’ smiled an old woman out for daily tai chi on a winter morning. As young people stayed locked inside, Tencent used facial recognition to detect underage players as they logged in to Tencent Games. The ban imposed by the United States of America on cyber technology originating from China in May only pushed the companies to innovate. In June, Lenovo introduced a laptop with facial recognition technology. Companies upgraded their software to recognize even masked faces through the iris and forehead; this was used on campuses when they reopened and also on Beijing’s subways. No escape But now, the bubble has burst. Facial recognition software is the new Enemy Number One. In November, a court in the provincial capital of Hangzhou ordered a park to compensate one of its regular visitors and delete his facial information. The member had sued the park after it insisted on his facial information for the activation of his annual admission card. His objections and requests that his card be cancelled and admission fee refunded were rejected. When he became a member last year, the park had taken his fingerprints and photograph; by making this new demand, the park was in breach of contract, he argued. The court agreed with him, but refused to invalidate the park’s new rule making biometric information the only form of admission. The case provoked a storm. Earlier, pedestrians in the provincial capital, Jinan, had protested at their faces being flashed across screens on the road after they jumped the red signal at zebra crossings, prompting the authorities to blur their faces. This time, however, protests poured in from many cities. Residents said they had not been consulted when their community managements installed facial recognition software at their gates; some had refused to register for it. More serious were the complaints against real estate and courier agencies which either forced their clients to register their facial information, or secretly photographed them. In the provincial capital, Nanning, 10 customers had their properties sold without their knowledge by a dealer who had used their facial information to access their bank details. On January 1, a new law protecting citizens’ privacy came into effect. But while private players will have to take permission before gathering such data, the government can use such information collected through equipment in public spaces only for “public security”. There is no escape, then, from Big Brother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||Turning tables||Institutions like the Asiatic Society of India, set up by the British in the eighteenth century, played an important role in generating knowledge about India. Unlike the traditional knowledge available in gurukuls, on palm-leaf manuscripts and other pre-printing forms, this new knowledge was modern and used modern technology. Several new educational institutions were established around this time, imparting modern knowledge with an aim to revive interest in India. More importantly, new institutions with new norms were defining how — from what perspective — India would be represented through the selected content. This new branch of knowledge, labelled Orientalism, later came under the careful scrutiny of postcolonial scholars like Edward Said who detected an underlying political agenda. There was undoubtedly a hidden political agenda — termed Eurocentrism — in Orientalism. A large body of knowledge on India was produced by Western scholars and was used to further the political interest of the British raj. For instance, these scholars constructed the East or the Orient as spiritual, and the West or the Occident as materialist. This was then used to justify British rule in India. Oriental India being portrayed as other-worldly and the occidental British as this-worldly allowed the latter to claim that they were justified in ruling this-world-of-India as they were the experts. This is just one instance of how the new knowledge was used to oppress Indians. Postcolonial scholars were, therefore, correct in rejecting Orientalism. I would, however, like to re-examine their premise and conclusion. The premise being: Orientalism is Eurocentric, with a strong political intent; and the conclusion: Orientalism is to be rejected because of its politics. Now while I accept the premise, I do not find it necessary to accept the conclusion. I am in total agreement with these critics of Orientalism. Despite this, I still don’t find it necessary to reject the formula on which Orientalism is founded. Let me explain further. The Self — in this case, the Occident — constructs its Other, the Orient, to further its political motive of justifying its rule over the latter. In formal terminology, A constructs B for C, where A stands for Occident, B for Orient and C for justifying political rule. I have identified an opening in this formula that makes it vulnerable. I’d like to utilize this vulnerability and insert another premise into the formula, which will, in turn, combat the original premise Orientalism is based on. If A can study B for C, without rejecting this formula, I’d like to insert another premise into it: B studies A for C, that is, India studies Europe to serve its own politics. If one is logical, this additional premise inserted into the formula is completely consistent with the premise that supports Orientalism. If the British could do their patriotic duty by producing knowledge about the Orient to help justify British colonial rule, what stops Indians from producing knowledge about the British for the sake of India? Instead of rejecting it, I would like to emulate the formula used for Orientalism, utilizing its inherent vulnerability. Rather than spending time in establishing an alternative formula, and then seeking justification and acceptance for it, I would like to use the existing one with the simple modification of inserting a combative premise. This is unlike the postcolonial scholars who rejected the formula. This strategy has kept me from getting mired in only critiquing the adversary, running the risk of being co-opted. It has also saved me from being perpetually defensive. Both these situations led postcolonialism to either be passive or accept distorted assumptions of the modern West, such as taking it to be monolithic when it disinherited its pre-modern. Instead, stationed within the formula of my adversary, enjoying the comfort of space, justification, visibility and acceptability, I begin my combat activities, doing to them exactly what they did to us. This route has eluded the postcolonialists who seem to be doomed to remain defensive. This combative strategy is absent in academic works, which are primarily focused on Oriental scholarship and its critique. Pursuing such a strategy makes it possible to take on the Western knowledge systems. I find this way of positioning — where one is firmly located within modern India with access to classical as well as modern Indian resources and combating Western philosophy — to be very productive and rewarding. Although this possibility seems to have escaped the attention of mainstream academic scholarship, I have found this attitude in modern Indian writers like Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Swami Vivekananda, Sri Aurobindo, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, Mahatma Gandhi, Babasaheb Ambedkar and in the writings from Bhasha literature that form the base of language federalism in India. The writings of S. Radhakrishnan, Krishna Chandra Bhattacharyya, Ananda K. Coomaraswamy, J.L. Mehta, Alam Khundmiri, Ashis Nandy and Ramchandra Gandhi also propound insightful theories. Let me take two ideas; one from Vivekananda and another from Bhattacharyya. The former suggested that Indians should select only those ideas from the West that they find to be rational and good. In his famous talk, “Swaraj in Ideas”, Bhattacharyya asked despite spending a lot of time, talent, energy and resources in studying Western theories, have Indians made any original contribution at all to knowledge about the West? This can be an opportunity for academics to not only combat Orientalism but also contribute positively by providing novel criticism of the West and identifying issues that may have eluded Western scholars. This will also enable Western scholars to recognize some of the unique elements of modern India, such as non-literates from the pre-modern sustaining modern democracies, when liberalism has clearly set modern autonomous individuals as the premise on which nationalism and democracies are founded. Without this change in gaze and position, humanities and social sciences in India will — to cite Hannah Arendt in a different context — follow banality, or remain much like a car in neutral gear, neither moving forward nor presenting a better description of modern India which is a wonder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Massive protests at Ranchi involving rape and murder of girl||Massive protests against the rape and beheading of a girl rocked Ranchi’s VIP road on Harmu bypass on Monday evening. Traffic was disrupted for over an hour which forced chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade to retreat from its original route and take a detour. Kishoreganj chowk at Harmu turned into a flashpoint in the evening at around 6pm when a sudden surge of protestors comprising men and women hit the streets demanding arrests. Acc Police recovered the girl’s body from a forest in Ormanjhi, over 20km from Ranchi, but her severed head was yet to be found at the time of filing this report. A massive search operation that re-commenced on Tuesday morning is on. Over 500 protestors blocked the road, holding sticks, banners and some even carried flaming torches. According to eyewitnesses, as the CM’s carcade reached towards Kishoreganj, protestors suddenly turned rogue, attempting to break barricades and welding sticks in air, injuring at least one traffic constable. The mob also gheraoed a pilot vehicle in Soren’s carcade and attempted to vandalise it, but major damage was averted after police swung into action. Soren and his carcade was then forced to take a detour from Ranchi Lake to reach his residence in Kanke road while returning from his office in Project Building. While senior officials of the city police were still to issue formal statements, both JMM and Congress condemned the protests as unruly and being orchestrated by ‘anti-government’ forces. In a video statement, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said strict action will be taken against vandals who attempted to attack the CM’s convoy. “We condemn the heinous act which occurred in Ormanjhi and the government and police are equally sensitive towards such incidents and are working to crack the case. We also respect protests and demonstrations but whatever happened today wasn’t spontaneous, but orchestrated. Police have started identifying all rogues to nab them and have also initiated a probe to expose all those behind it,” he said. Congress’s Alok Dubey too echoed similar feelings, stating that the attack attempt on the CM’s carcade and cops is a crime. BJP, on the other hand, which organized different protests across the city, demanded the chief minister’s resignation. Misfiqa Hassan, party spokesperson said, “If this government can’t provide safety to women and children, chief minister Hemant Soren should immediately resign. Our party will continue to fight for justice for the Ormanjhi rape and murder victim.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Class X and XII students return to schools with precautions||Students of classes X and XII came back to their school campuses after a hiatus of nine months on Monday. Many private schools affiliated to CISCE and CBSE opened their doors on Monday while some will open on Tuesday after proper preparations. While the rest of the students will continue to attend online classes, students of classes X and XII will attend school as per a special roster that allows 50 per cent of a class to be present on a single day. Schools conducted thermal scanning of students and arranged for sanitizers in classrooms. Schools were pre sanitized too. Students were required to bring consent forms signed by parents and submit the same to the respective school administration. "It was so good to be back. We met our friends and interacted face to face with our teachers. It was primarily doubted clarification for history, Hindi, English, and maths. However, I think the school will re-do the schedule and we have been asked to come on Fridays and Saturdays where all subject classes will be held with only 25 students in one classroom," said class X student of Sacred Heart Convent School, Jasmehr Marwa. Schools like Motilal Nehru Public School, JH Tarapore School, Little Flower School, Hill Top School, Tarapore School Agrico also reopened on Monday adhering to strict guidelines. School principals said that there was a lot to be done including pre-board tests, practical classes, and even revision before the board exams begin. While CBSE will kick off from May 4, CISCE is expected to conduct it in April though an official date is yet to be announced. "Consent forms were a necessity as per administration norms. Only 50 percent of students in a classroom are allowed on a single day for which we have also prepared a schedule. Though there were online classes, a lot is yet to be done, especially practicals," said the principal of Rajendra Vidyalaya in Sakchi, Rakhi Banerjee. Some schools like Jamshedpur Public School and Gulmohur High School will open tomorrow as they want to be better prepared. Gulmohur High School also conducted a meeting with its teachers on Monday. Jamshedpur Public School which will reopen tomorrow will directly start with their pre-board exams. The school intends to have multiple rounds of pre-board exams as this time students will come only with parents' consent. "Everyone may not come. Even if someone has a normal cold, they would stay away. So, we have decided to have two-three rounds of pre boards so that students can revise and appear and also revise in the process. Before the exams start, we have a lot to cover, especially practicals followed by its exam in March," said the principal of Jamshedpur Public School, Namita Agarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad plunges under darkness as Damodar Valley Corporation continues to cut power supply||The difficulties of common people have increased further with the Damodar Valley Corporation increasing the load shedding hours over pending bills worth Rs 4124 crore with Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) since Sunday. Expressing disgust over the situation, Manoj Keshri, a resident of Hetli Bandh locality of Jharia and a painter said, “The long hours of power cuts have made our life a virtual hell as besides facing darkness we are also getting difficulty even in operating motors required for filling of the overhead tanks.” Echoing sentiments, former councillor of ward number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao said, “The water supply situation in Jharia is also linked to the regular power supply. An uninterrupted power supply for 8 hours is required for filling up of the intake well of water treatment plant of Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority at Jamadoba. We apprehend that water supply will also be affected due to the irregular power supply,” and added that they would demand the immediate resolution of crisis otherwise they will be compelled to come on the road. Ratnesh Kumar, a resident of Karkend Bazar in Dhanbad said, “At a time when online classes are taking place in the majority of educational institutions, the situation has turned so pathetic due to increase in power cut hours that we are finding it very difficult to even charge the laptops and smartphones which are very crucial for uninterrupted classes of our children.” Former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, Surendra Arora who is also president of Shakti Mandir Management Committee of Dhanbad and owns a gift shop at Bank More locality of Dhanbad said, “The long hours of load shedding being carried out by DVC is totally unwarranted and uncalled for and not in the interest of common power subscribers.” “If at all the DVC has any issue with the JBVNL over the pending bills it should have been settled between the duo and common customers should not have been penalised,” further said Arora and added that the traders are also facing difficulty as at a time when the recession has affected the market and they are compelled to bear the extra cost of inverters, generators and other power back up facility. Notably, DVC began the load shedding from December 21 due to pending dues worth around Rs 4142 crore and again increased the power cut to 50% since yesterday due to non-payment of dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||JAC announces dates for intermediate and matriculate exams||Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC), the state government agency responsible for academic administration, on Monday announced this year’s matriculation and intermediate board exams to be held from March. Examinations have been delayed by over two weeks. The announcement was made following a meeting at the JAC office in Namkum. Chairman Arvind Singh said, “We shall start matric and inter exams on March 9 and end on 26. Usually, our exams are held from February 15 every year but in view of the challenges of completion of syllabus and other issues because of the continued lockdown of the schools due to covid-19, we have decided to conduct exams this time from March.” The JAC has asked all districts to begin identification and finalization of examination centres, keeping in mind Covid safety guidelines. Singh said that with the pandemic far from being over yet, they will ensure that there are enough examination centres across the state so that students and examiners don’t have to face any problems and all safety protocols are followed. Speaking further, he however said that they will keep in mind proper timeline in declaration of results in accordance with other boards in the country so that students in the state don’t lag behind while seeking admissions in higher centres of learning both within Jharkhand or outside. “We usually churn out results between April-May. But with many boards now digressing from their actual exam calendar because of the unprecedented times, we shall try to match our results in such a way that students don’t face any problem for taking admissions outside the state,” said Singh. The registration process has already begun for matric and inter. The last date for registration is January 22 without late fee while with penalty, one can do so till January 30, said Singh. The state government last month allowed reopening of schools for class 10 and 12. All schools are mandated to call students for practical or other works only after getting consent from parents. In November, the state education department also slashed syllabuses by 40 per cent across all classes. Officials maintained that all schools have been sent the updated syllabus last month and the JAC too has started working on devising question papers based on the revised syllabus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad lawyers protest, demand reopening of courts ||Facing pitiable financial condition due to closure of courts ever since the imposition of lockdown in March, more than 100 lawyers took out a footmarch on Monday from Randhir Verma Chowk to Dhanbad Court and submitted memorandum to the principal district and session judge of Dhanbad Basant Kumar Goswami. The lawyers later also submitted a memorandum to the Dhanbad deputy commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh demanding resumption of physical court sessions. The copies of the memorandum have also been sent to registrar of Supreme Court of India and registrar of Jharkhand High Court. Talking to the media at the sidelines of the footmarch, Dhaneshwar Mahto, Central President of Adhiwakta Kalyan Samiti under the banner of which the protest programme was organised said, “We are demanding resumption of physical court session which is closed for more than nine months.” “The memorandum submitted to the principal district judge of Dhanbad would be sent to the High Court and Supreme Court and also the chairman of the Bar Council of India,” added Mahto, who is also the former vice president of Dhanbad Bar Association. The memorandum submitted to the deputy commissioner would go the chief minister, Hemant Soren, as well. “We have also submitted a similar memorandum on June 3 last year to different concerned authorities but due to the severity of Covid situation majority of the institutions were closed then. The courts were not opened but as the situation has changed now and schools, colleges, market, train and other offices have opened up, we are demanding resumption of physical session of courts.” “Not only lawyers but large number of litigants of remote areas are facing difficulty due to the closure of physical courts,” said Mahto and added that they would be compelled to sit on a dharna if no decision with regards to opening of courts is taken soon. Echoing sentiments, Jubair Alam, a member of Adhiwakta Kalyan Samiti said, “The lawyers are facing great difficulty due to the closure of physical court as our livelihood after all is dependent on the court proceedings. If the physical court sessions will not be restored our condition is going to worsen further.” “We are demanding resumption of courts with all safety measures like mandatory wearing of masks, used of sanitizers, maintaining of six feet of physical distance which is being practiced at all other offices and public places,” further said Alam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sambalpur Jammu Tawi Express to resume run from Jan. 11||The Sambalpur Jammu Tawi Express will be resuming operations from January 11 after more than nine months and residents of Palamau, Garhwa and Latehar districts couldn't have been happier. According to an official communication from East Central Railway, the train will start its run from Sambalpur on January 11 and from Jammu Tawi three days later, from January 14.  Both the up and down services will be available four days a week. The train will continue to run till further orders. Residents of Latehar, Garhwa and Palamau districts can avail of the Up Sambalpur Jammu Tawi Express on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The Down trains will go through these districts on Thursdays, Fridays, Sundays and Mondays. A K Tiwari, station superintendent of the Daltonganj Railway Station said that the train was in demand by the residents of Latehar as there was no train to Delhi so far. Tiwari also said while Rajdhani has stoppages in Daltonganj and Garhwa but there is no stoppage at the Latehar district. Tiwari added this train will now have three stoppages in Latehar district which are Tori, Latehar and Barwadih railway junctions. Travelling to Delhi at this time was a big problem for the people of Latehar district. Sources said patients who were advised to seek treatment in Delhi AIIMS were the worst sufferers in Latehar district as there is no available train to Delhi. This long express train has stoppages in Delhi, Chandigarh and Ludhiana. A large number of businessmen in the state also do their trading of winter wears in Ludhiana. Businessman R D Singh said, “With the resumption of this train, businessmen will now rush to Ludhiana to bring in winter wears as Ludhiana is the hub of summer and winter hosiery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC peaking at the right time in ISL||Jamshedpur FC’s current form in the seventh Indian Super League (ISL) can well place them on a strong pedestal as the cash-rich tournament rolls on in Goa. Tata Steel-owned JFC are placed fourth in the table with 13 points from 9 matches, behind table toppers ATK Mohun Bagan (20 points from 9 matches), Mumbai  City FC (19 points from 8 matches and hosts FC Goa (14 points from 9 matches). The likes of goal machine Nerijus Valskis and winger Jackichand Singh in the frontlines and skipper Peter Hartley and Stephen Eze in the backline has given ample hope to the team management that the Men of Steel are showing the right form in the crucial juncture of the lengthy fixture. But for some bad refereeing, Jamshedpur would have climbed up on the points table. Jamshedpur will be playing 11 matches in January and February and head coach Owen Coyle, who believes in a spirited display from his boys, seems to be happy that his plans are falling in place. The conversions by forward Valskis from feeds have done a world of good for JFC. In fact, it was expected that the Lithuanian striker will fire all cylinders. “The confidence in the team has gone up. Cohesiveness in the unit is also apparent. The players are giving their all to help the team win the tournament. Though it’s a long way to go but I think the boys are peaking at the right time,” said JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari. According to him, a more tactical style of play inside the penalty area was not possible because of the kind of pressure and excitement, especially in the dying stages of the game. “I think we have suffered on the tactical front in some earlier matches but players cannot be blamed for that. We are happy with the form of our players and looking at the tournament with a positive frame of mind,” Choudhari added. He also applauded the performance of goalie T.P. Rehenesh. “He (Rehenesh) is our second goalkeeper but it is difficult to replace him with Pawan Kumar (first choice goalie) unless some untoward incident happens,” he said. The JFC CEO added it was difficult to conduct the ISL during the pandemic. “But hats off to the organisers for conducting the tournament in a hassle-free manner. The logistics related to the event was being handled very well in Goa,” Choudhari added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma SP uses social media to create book bank in police station ||Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib utilised social media platforms to get books through crowdsourcing for a book bank situated in Koderma police station campus. Getting books from different parts of the country, Waquarib made the library functional on Monday claiming that a good library or book bank can help in minimising the rate of crimes. This library was started by the then Koderma SP, Shivani Tiwary in 2018 but soon it became non-functional. After knowing about it, Waquarib requested people to send him books for this library. He used social media platforms for this purpose and got a good response. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Waquarib said he got co-operation from people in different parts of the country who sent books for this library. “I have utilised crowdsourcing to strengthen the book bank,” he informed. He said students of standard-VI and above can take advantage of this library by going through books available here. “We have competitive books as well,” he added. Waquarib has deployed policemen for the smooth functioning of this book bank. From March to October, the book bank will be functional from 10 am to 7 pm. From November to February, timing will be 11 am to 6 pm. “Proper sitting arrangements are also done at this book bank,” added Waquarib. According to him, the main objective behind the opening of this library is to help the needy and poor students who failed to purchase the required books. He said books are the best friend of a man and it can transform anyone's life. “I strongly feel that a library can help in reducing crime,” added he. Waquarib, before becoming an IPS officer, was a doctor. He is joining health camps in the remote naxal areas of Koderma checking patients, prescribing medicines as well. He said as a police officer his priority is to maintain law and order. “But for my own satisfaction, I am checking patients as well whenever I’m getting the opportunity,” said Waquarib, an MBBS and MD degree holder from Aligarh medical college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||SBI organises special training for visually impaired students in Jharia||The State Bank of India, Jharia branch organised a one-hour special training on its premises for 10 special children including four visually challenged students on Monday. The children are students of the state government-run resource centre for the specially-abled children of Jharia who came to know about the different aspects of banking, including account opening, passbook updation, and withdrawal of money through ATMs. During the event, the students were also provided with gift hampers comprising of biscuits, chocolates, sweets along with a school bag. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Manoj Singh, senior faculty cum physiotherapist of Jharia resource centre, who accompanied the students during the one-hour training said, “The programme was organised on the occasion of World Braille Day in order to sanitise masses in general about the significance of braille for the blind and visually impaired people.” Special educator cum speech therapist of Jharia based resource centre, Akhlaque Ahmad said, “The scholarships provided by the state social welfare department as well as the education department to these students are directly transferred into the joint bank account with their parents. The children can operate the account under the supervision of their parents or on their own.” “If the children themselves can operate the account it will be very convenient for their parents who have to accompany their children every time at the bank,” said Ahmad and added that majority of the automated deposit cum withdrawal machine of the banks are enabled with Braille script so the visually challenged students can operate the machine under the guidance of the bank officials. The branch manager of SBI Jharia branch, Satya Prakash Akhauri, who was present during the special training programme, also instructed the bank staff including the accountants to extend all help to such children when they visit the bank and also provided his mobile number to all the students so that they can directly contact him if any inconvenience caused during the bank account operation. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Monday, Satya Prakash Akhauri said, “The special training was jointly organised by the bank in association with the resource centre on the occasion of the World Braille Day to raise awareness about the fact that how braille plays a significant role in complete realisation in human rights in the lives of blind and partially sighted people,” and added that all the bank staff have been instructed to avoid discomfort to such students. Talking to The Telegraph Online after the training programme, Kajal Kumari (17), a visually challenged student of the resource centre, daughter of a construction site worker, Kallu Ram and house maker Hira Devi said, “The experience at the bank was quite memorable as all the bank staff and officers patiently listened to our queries and explained the minutest details and also guided us to find the Braille script on the automated deposit and withdrawal machine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Night temperatures to rise due to a western disturbance ||The Ranchi Meteorological Centre has predicted a gradual rise in night temperatures in most parts of the state during the next three days. Weathermen said on Monday that a western disturbance was impacting Jharkhand's weather. The disturbance, a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies with its axis at 5.8 km above mean sea level, was running roughly along longitude 72°E to the north of latitude 34°N and moving away north-eastwards. The western disturbance resulted in an induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and was hovering at 1.5km above mean sea level. Another trough over north Punjab was hovering at 1.5km above mean sea level. "Partly cloudy sky would prevail over Jharkhand for the next three to four days.  Shallow to moderate fog is also likely to prevail in the morning for the next two days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours with dominating westerly winds. Shallow fog resulted in poor visibility on Monday morning at several places, especially those located in high terrains. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.8°C, three notches above normal on Monday, while steel city Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 12.2°C, two notches above normal. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2°C, four notches above normal, while Bokaro recorded 11.1°C, one notch below normal. Chaibasa in adjoining West Singhbhum district recorded a minimum reading of 12°C, three notches above normal. Most districts in the Santhal Pargana region, including Dumka, recorded a minimum reading between 10 °C and 14 °C.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-184
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 137 fresh Covid cases, one casualty in a day||Jharkhand's Pakur district along Bengal borders, on Sunday, registered two new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, weeks after turning zero and successfully maintaining status quo till now. As per the health department bulletin last night, fresh cases also continued to surge in Ranchi with 70 more testing positive out of 137 across the state in the last 24 hours. State also reported one death from Gumla whereas 159 people have recovered during the same period. East Singhbhum remained another district with double-digit spike getting 16 new cases, while six districts, including Giridih, Godda, Khunti, Lohardaga, Saraikela and Simdega didn't get any cases and the rest reported single-digit spike. Out of 1601 total active cases in the state, 770 exist in Ranchi alone. The state's total cumulative caseload of infections now stands at 1,15,529 of which 1,12,893 recovered since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Also, 1035 died since then, with East Singhbhum registering maximum fatalities of 335 so far. The recovery rate in the state now stands at 97.71 per cent compared to 96.20 per cent nationally. The seven-day growth rate is 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.16 per cent. The doubling rate is 503.02 days compared to the national rate of 429.77 days while the mortality rate is 0.89 per cent than that of 1.40 per cent in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government offers scholarship to ST students  ||The Jharkhand government has announced scholarships to 10 talented Scheduled Tribe students every year for pursuing studies in leading foreign universities. Scholarships will be given to students pursuing masters or M.Phil programmes in some selected subjects at particular foreign universities. Instituted in memory of the iconic tribal leader, it will be known as the Marang Gomke (meaning great leader) Jaipal Singh Foreign Scholarship Scheme 2020, informed a circular issued by the state’s Scheduled Tribe, Scheduled Castes, minorities and backward classes welfare department. The local students did not get enough scope for proper utilisation of their talent primarily because of limited opportunities available within the state, the circular, signed by departmental secretary Amitabh Kaushal, mentioned as the reason behind instituting the scholarship. “Financial assistance will be given to ten selected talented students belonging to Scheduled Tribes every year for pursuing masters/M.Phil programmes in leading foreign universities,” it added. The eligible ST students who are permanent residents of Jharkhand can avail the scholarship up to the age of 40 years if they pursue full degree programme for masters or M.Phil of duration of either one year or two years, the circular informed, adding priority would be given to such students who will have some teaching or work experience in related fields. The state government will offer the selected students their actual course fee, annual maintenance allowance of £10,000 and annual contingency and equipment allowance of £1,200, besides visa fee, cost of air passage and medical insurance premium. But the offer will be limited to only to those going for studying at 15 chosen universities of Great Britain and Northern Ireland such as Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Bristol, Sussex, Imperial College London and London School of Economics and Political Science. The scholarship will also be limited to students pursuing higher studies in 22 selected subjects only. The subjects will include anthropology/sociology, agriculture, art and culture, climate change, development studies, environment science, forest conservation and ecology, law and human rights, media and communication, public policy, sports medicine, tourism and hospitality and sustainable development. “The scope of the scholarship may later be extended to other subjects and also leading universities of other countries,” the government circular assured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
04-01-2021||Jharkhand||Man pretends to be disappeared boy from Hazaribagh village||Subodh Kumar Mishra went missing at the age of 11, 13 years ago from Jharpo village in Tatijharia village of Hazaribagh district. His father, Kauleshwar Mishra, a farmer, and his mother were distraught with his disappearance. One and a half months ago, a young man knocked on their door, claiming to be Subodh. The couple thanked god for sending their son back. But the couple’s happiness did not last long. It was recently discovered that the man claiming to be Subodh is Mohammad Shafiq from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kauleshwar said Subodh left home after he was scolded for not taking care of his studies. When Shafiq came to the village and told them that he was Subodh, the couple did not suspect him, overcome by emotion. But Shafiq came under suspicion when he started taking loans from people known to Kauleshwar. On Sunday,he went to visit Subodh’s sister and demanded gold ornaments from her. He said he was in need of financial help and as a sister she should help him. The woman didn't waste time and informed her father who reached there with villagers. Kauleshwar confronted the young man, and started beating him, saying he had no doubts that he was not his son. He admitted to being Mohammad Shafiq from Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh. He arrived at Subodh’s village and came to know about his disappearance. Shafiq said that he took advantage and eventually produced his Aadhar card, irking villagers who beat him up. Tatijharia police said they have received a complaint against Shafiq and he will be sent to jail under sections 420 of the IPC. Kauleshwar said, “What Shafiq did was not right. He caused more pain to us. We didn't feel so bad when Subodh ran away. Shafiq ko saza milni chahiye (Shafiq should be punished),” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-185
