05-01-2021||Calcutta||Gift of fresh stocks for blind vendors||Three blind persons who used to sell sundry items on trains and their localities but were put out of work by the pandemic got a fillip in the form of fresh stocks on Monday. They got incense sticks, phenyl, flattened rice, sanitisers — to be sold over the coming days. Among them was Putu Bera, 30, from Hooghly, who got a fresh stock of incense sticks. Before the lockdown, Bera used to sell incense sticks on the platform of Bandel railway station with her husband, who is visually impaired, too. They used to make the sticks at home. The pandemic and long suspension of suburban trains had robbed them of their livelihood. “There was no money to buy raw materials to make new sticks. We survived on donations and relief materials from various groups,” she said. Bera plans to sell the new sticks near the station. Local trains have resumed but hawkers are not being allowed on them. The station platforms are also out of bounds for hawkers, according to railway norms. Abdul Rashid Molla, who came from Budge Budge in South 24-Parganas, got around a dozen bottles of phenyl. The recipients were brought by The Society For The Welfare Of The Blind, an NGO that had provided financial aid and dry ration to around 500 families, whose earning members are visually impaired, during the lockdown. “It is really a tough time for these people. The fresh stocks will be of great use to them. They plan to sell the items on the platform and in localities near their home till hawkers are formally allowed to sell their fare on trains,” said Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of the NGO. Niranjan Ram, the third recipient on Monday, had come from Narendrapur. “We don’t want to live on alms. Selling these products will be the first step to reclaim the life of respect,” he said. The stocks given to the hawkers on Monday were procured by Disha Eye Hospitals to mark World Braille Day, which is celebrated on January 4. The programme was held at the Gariahat unit of the chain. “The idea is to provide the principal for business to the blind hawkers, so that they can sell the products, and start rolling the profit in a sustainable manner,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, chairman and managing director, Disha Eye Hospitals. Similar help will be extended to 97 other blind hawkers, said an official of Disha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Trans-Himalayan joy at Santragachhi  jheel||Santragachhi Jheel is currently home to nearly 5,000 birds, including a “near threatened” trans-Himalayan migrant, birdwatchers who have visited the water body in Howrah said. “About 10 Gadwalls and one Ferruginous Pochard are at the jheel nowadays. Both of them are trans-Himalayan migrants,” said birdwatcher Prosenjit Dawn. The birds breed in central Asia, China and Mongolia and travel thousands of miles to reach the subcontinent to escape the harsh winter there. The Ferruginous Pochard, also called Ferruginous Duck, is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The website of IUCN said: “The species is currently listed as Near Threatened as it is suspected to be undergoing a moderately rapid overall decline.” Veteran birdwatcher Shubhankar Patra said any sighting of Ferruginous Pochard is greeted with lots of cheers among birdwatchers because “their numbers are declining”. A Black Winged Stilt, another trans-Himalayan migrant that had never been known to have been sighted at Santragachhi, was seen at the water body in the first week of December, said Dawn. “Because of a timely clearing of water hyacinths, birds started to arrive early this year, at least a fortnight earlier than previous years,” he said. Dawn and Patra both said close to 5,000 birds were at the jheel now. Birdwatchers are hoping to see a few more trans-Himalayan migrants in January. The overwhelming majority of birds are Lesser Whistling Ducks, which are found around water bodies in Bengal through the year but in far smaller numbers. “It is a delight to be around Santragachhi Jheel nowadays,” said Dawn. To any visitor training their eyes at the water hyacinth islands at the jheel, the brown chestnut bodied ducks would be hard to miss. Their calls, sounding like whistles, will ring in the ears. Among the other local birds sighted at the jheel are Purple Heron and Common Moorhen. Patra said the uniqueness of Santragachhi Jheel was that despite being surrounded by houses, railway tracks and small manufacturing units, so many birds wintered there every year. “This place is so close to Calcutta. Santragachhi is a densely populated and busy area. Around the jheel, there are houses. Hundreds of trains pass through Santragachhi station. There is so much noise pollution. Yet the birds choose to come here every year,” he said. “We do not know why they prefer Santragachhi Jheel. But we must ensure that the water body is conserved properly.” Lesser Whistling Ducks and other birds at the jheel use the water hyacinth islands as their roosting place during the day. A bird count at the jheel is scheduled for January 16. But Patra said it would show the count of that day. There were occasions in previous years when the count of birds was found to be lower on the day of the count.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Operators with grounded buses cannot avail the tax-waiver scheme ||Bus operators who have kept their vehicles grounded will not enjoy the benefits of the tax-waiver scheme of the state government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday. “We have waived the penalty till June. Those who have still kept the buses grounded will not come within the ambit of the waiver scheme,” Mamata said at Nabanna. The government had in August last year announced waiver of all taxes and fines on lapsed fitness certificates for bus and minibus owners. The waiver, with retrospective effect from April 1, came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses had been reeling from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a sharp drop in the passenger count because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Private bus operators who have still kept their vehicles grounded suffered huge losses during the lockdown. “My earnings and expenditures have to be on a par. It has to be ensured that the subsidy is being fully utilised. It should not be wasted. Every penny has a value. The income has gone down. We are yet to receive around Rs 85,000 crore (from the Centre). We haven’t yet received GST dues,” she said. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said the state transport department was having to grapple with a temporary financial crunch. “After a detailed meeting between the transport secretary and finance secretary a few days ago, a special provision has been made... After getting this special subsidy, the transport department hopes to tide over the crisis,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Last-rites candle burns kill woman||A 64-year-old woman died of burn injuries on Sunday, days after her apparel had caught fire from a candle while performing the last rites of her husband. This was the fourth reported case in Calcutta in three months of an elderly woman dying of burns suffered while performing puja or cooking. Sipra Mitra, 64, a resident of P Naskar Lane, had suffered burns on December 23 while performing the last rites of her husband, Jyotirmoy Mitra, at Adi Shanti Sangha Club on Dr GS Bose Road. Police said Mitra did not realise that her sari had caught fire from a candle. In no time did the flames engulf the lower part of her torso as she was sitting on the ground. She was taken to a hospital on BB Chatterjee Road, where she died on Sunday. The woman’s body was sent for post-mortem and later handed over to her brother, Samarjit Roy. No complaint has been lodged. Senior officers described the trend of elderly women suffering fatal burns as alarming. “It appears that people have stopped taking basic precautions while lighting a match or handling a source of fire. Loose clothes, silk or synthetic apparels should be strictly avoided when someone works near fire. They easily catch fire,” said a senior fire department official. “Elderly people, who may take a little more time to react, should be extra cautious,” the officer added. In October, Dola Mitra, 63, had died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at her home. Another elderly woman — Chaya Nag, 74 — who had gone to her daughter’s place, had suffered from fatal burn injuries while cooking at their Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane home in Beleghata in December 2020. An LPG cylinder leak was suspected to have triggered the fire. Four days after the death of Nag, 60-year-old Manjula Dutta, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, died of burn injuries after her apparel caught fire while lighting the lamp during the morning puja rituals at her home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Set time limit for meetings: JU teachers||The teachers of Jadavpur University have written to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das and urged him “to ensure and limit the duration of meetings to a reasonable span of time”, considering that in the recent past many teachers who attended academic bodies’ meetings were confined till late in the night. In this “backdrop” of such confinement, the teachers have written: “We urge the administration to ensure and limit the duration of meetings.” The letter was sent a week after the dean of engineering, Amitava Datta, resigned following what sources close to him said was pressure from students and at least four instances of being gheraoed till late night. A teacher said in the past one month whenever they had received any memorandum from students’ bodies, it was found that the representation went on for an inordinate length of time. “And then the students resort to gherao following a difference of opinion, leading to confinement through the night. It is better to tell the students beforehand that it is a time-bound meeting....” Dean Datta and the two pro-vice-chancellors had been confined for several hours on December 9, the day the students’ union in the engineering faculty launched a protest against alleged errors in results and delay in their publication. On December 11, during a meeting on the issue, some students prevented other members from leaving the venue even after the discussions had ended. Datta and others were detained till 1.30am. The teachers have written: “We always appreciate the spirit of dissent in democracy but we strongly feel that the democratic right of a section cannot curb the democratic rights of others.” On the alleged delay in publication of results, the letter says: “The examination section needs immediate strengthening by proper augmentation of skilled manpower and filling up of vacancies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||City app-cab gang targeted bar patrons||The gang that had robbed a trader in a car he had boarded after stepping out of a bar on EM Bypass early on Christmas is suspected to have robbed more people coming out of bars along the stretch, police said. The four accused — Raju Majhi, Santosh Poddar, Sheikh Biki and Arpan Sen -- are said to have told the police that they only targeted people stepping out of these bars. “They would target people coming out of bars mostly for two reasons - such victims are usually intoxicated and find it difficult to remember details about the incident, and they are often embarrassed to report the crime because of the stigma attached to going to bars in certain sections of society,” said an officer of Tiljala police station. The police said they had learned from the accused that they had recently robbed another man  in a similar fashion after he had stepped out of a bar. However, in the absence of any complaint, the police are yet to get any details about the incident. Sources said the cops had started analysing CCTV footage of that particular bar. “If the person can be spotted and if he is ready to report the offence, a second case can be started against the gang,” said a senior police officer. Investigators have learned that the gang had been active on the Bypass since the bars and nightclubs reopened after months of lockdown. The car in which businessman Anjan Biswas was robbed early on Christmas morning is registered as an app cab. One of the accused - Raju Majhi – is the driver of the cab. The police said Majhi, 32, would drive the cab during the day and pick up friends at night. Biswas owns two guesthouses in Anandapur and Kasba and jointly runs a band that performs at a bar on the Bypass. Around 2am on Christmas, he stepped out of the bar and boarded Majhi’s app cab thinking it was a shuttle taxi. There were three other men in the car, other than the driver. Biswas has told the police that initially he was sitting by a window on the backseat. One of the men asked the driver to stop and stepped out on the pretext of relieving himself. While getting in, he requested Biswas to shift inside. Once Biswas did so, he was allegedly blindfolded, pinned on the floor of the vehicle and robbed of his wallet containing Rs 25,000, gold chain and ATM card. He was also allegedly forced to share the ATM card PIN. The men allegedly withdrew Rs 40,000 from an ATM on the Bypass using the card. Biswas was allowed to go on Dhalai Bridge near Garia. The police said though the complainant had not been able to share details about the car or its occupants as he was blindfolded, they identified the car from the footage of a CCTV camera installed near the ATM kiosk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||UK-return Covid positive actress seeks better facility, declines Beleghata ID hospital||Actress Banita Sandhu, who arrived in Calcutta from the UK via Dubai on Sunday and tested positive for Covid-19, declined to get admitted to the Beleghata Infectious Diseases Hospital and sought a better facility, police sources said. The 23-year-old actress, the sources said, remained seated inside an ambulance outside the hospital for an hour on Monday, with her production team seeking a cabin with an attached toilet for her. Banita was later admitted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital. It is not clear why this option was not offered to her earlier. In the initial stages when the coronavirus was detected in Bengal, all patients had to go to a handful of hospitals, including the Beleghata hospital. However, as the numbers climbed and the initial panic subsided, the patients were given multiple choices, including hotels. The Bengal administration is now on high alert over the mutated strain of the virus found in the UK and, hence, designated Beleghata as the sole hospital for passengers arriving from Europe and testing positive for Covid-19. The Beleghata hospital ward earmarked for such patients does not have bath-attached rooms for single patients. An official at Medica said Banita, who has booked a cabin, would remain isolated from all other patients, including those suffering from Covid. Banita had travelled to Dubai from the UK on December 27. She came to Calcutta from Dubai on Sunday.  Banita holds a UK passport, an official said. “She was taken to Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in New Town, a facility for Covid patients, for a Covid test from the airport as she had travel history from the UK. She tested positive for Covid-19 and was put up at CNCI on Sunday,” a health department official said. Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services, said anyone arriving from a European country is being taken to CNCI for an RT-PCR test for Covid. “If the person tests positive, then he or she is being taken to Beleghata ID Hospital,” he said. Sources at the Beleghata hospital said 50 beds for men and as many for women have been set aside for those testing positive for Covid-19 after arriving from Europe. “Fifty of the 100 beds are general beds. The rest are high dependency unit (HDU) beds. Anyone who tests positive will first be kept on a general bed. If a further test reveals the person is carrying the mutated strain, then he or she will be shifted to an HDU bed,” said a doctor at the hospital. Swab samples of people testing positive for Covid-19 after arriving from Europe, directly or via other countries, are being sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for a genetic analysis to detect the presence of the mutated strain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Madhyamik exam centres to be tripled: Board||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education will triple the number of centres for Madhyamik 2021, to be held in June, so the examinees can write the test adhering to physical distancing norms, an official of the board said. Last year, there were 2,839 centres. This year, the number of centres could be around 7,000. Close to 14 lakh candidates are expected to write the test and the board does not want to accommodate more than 200 examinees in one centre. The figure of 200 has been fixed in keeping with the guidelines issued by the  Union ministry of home affairs in October last year, the official said. The guidelines say: “Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations, in closed spaces with a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons will continue”. Last year, on average 700 candidates wrote the exam in each centre. “This year we cannot ask the candidates to sit in close proximity to each other because of the pandemic. We have to abide by the health protocols. So we have to almost triple the number of exam centres compared with last year,” the board official said. Since the number of centres is being increased, the board is planning to requisition primary schools to set up exam venues, an official of the school education department said. Till last year, only secondary schools were used as exam centres. “We will decide how many exam centres are needed once the board gets to know the number of examinees,” the official said. Camp offices were held on December 16 and 17 to distribute enrolment forms among regular and continuing candidates. “We are in the process of gathering data on the number of examinees,” said a board official. The National Testing Agency, which had conducted the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in September for admission to the MBBS course, had increased the number of exam centres from 2,546, which was originally planned, to 3,843. The number of candidates in each room was halved — from earlier 24 to 12. An official of the secondary education board said the exam centers would ensure staggered entry of students. The candidates will be given a set of instructions on social distancing. All candidates will be required to wear masks and carry sanitisers. “Hand sanitisers will be made available at the entrance to the exam centres and inside exam halls at all times and the body temperature of the examinees will be checked with thermal scanners,” an official of the school education department said. “We have yet to decide on the steps. We will ensure that all safety protocols are followed,” said Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors consider discharging Sourav Ganguly||Sourav Ganguly is likely to be discharged from hospital on Wednesday, officials of Woodlands Hospital, where the former Indian cricket captain is being treated for a heart attack, said on Monday. The implantation of stents to remove blockages in two vessels of the heart has been deferred, the officials said. Sourav, 48, had suffered a heart attack at home and was rushed to Woodlands on Saturday. The same day a “major blockage” in the right coronary artery was removed through primary angioplasty and a stent was implanted. “The nine-member medical board (which is supervising Sourav’s treatment) met today and we took opinions from doctors across India and abroad through Zoom and phone. The consensus was that the implantation of stents in two other arteries will be deferred. We are planning to discharge him on Wednesday,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands. “The doctors are of the opinion that the risk factor has reduced following the removal of the major blockage.” Doctors treating the BCCI president said it was better to do the second round of angioplasty after a few days. “Sourav’s heart is still under stress because of the cardiac event. Since the major blockage has been removed, it is better to wait for a few days and allow the blood vessels of the heart to function without stress. There are chances of minor complications if the stent implantation is done immediately,” said cardiologist Saroj Mandal, who is treating Sourav. Once home, a doctor from Woodlands will visit Sourav every day and check his health parameters, said officials. “A team of nurses will be there at Sourav’s home to monitor his health,” said Basu. The nine-member medical board discussed Sourav’s condition with several doctors on Monday, including cardiac surgeons Devi Shetty and Ramakanta Panda and cardiologist Samuel Mathew. Opinions were also sought from Aswin Mehta of Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre, Mumbai, and Shamin K. Sharma of Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. “The family members were present during the board meeting and were explained about the disease process and further therapeutic plan,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors lay stress on need to detect underlying conditions and assess risk after a certain age||Sourav Ganguly's three undetected blockages in coronary arteries underlined once again the importance of a proper and regular health check-up after a certain age, said doctors. The former Indian cricket captain had suffered a heart attack on Saturday morning. Doctors and officials of Woodlands Hospital, where Sourav is being treated, said the cardiac event happened when Sourav was working out on a treadmill. Several doctors, including cardiologists and general physicians, said they had come across patients who were not elderly, had no apparent health condition and were non-smokers, but still suddenly developed cardiac symptoms. They are often diagnosed with cardiac ailments, diabetes and cancer in advanced stages. Doctors said regular health screening and risk assessment based on the reports of routine check-ups should be done to detect underlying conditions. “Anyone beyond a certain age, ideally 40 for men and 50 for women, should undergo a routine health check-up once a year. But as important as detecting underlying health conditions is risk assessment of a person based on tests and other factors,” said interventional cardiologist Rabin Chakraborty. “Hospitals and diagnostic centres should have a protocol for clinical triaging.” Clinical triaging is the process of determining the priority of a patient’s treatment by the severity of his or her condition. It will assess the likelihood of recovery with and without treatment. “Risk stratification for detecting lifestyle diseases is crucial. The doctor should sit down with a patient with the results of a routine health check-up. Along with the reports of blood tests, which should include lipid profile and blood sugar, the doctor should take into account other factors like family history of lifestyle diseases, including cardiac ailment, hypertension, stressful professional life and whether the person is a smoker,” said Chakraborty. Based on these analyses, a patient should be placed in one of the three groups — low risk, moderate risk and high risk. “In case of cardiac ailments, a person in the moderate risk group should undergo at least a treadmill test to find out whether there are any underlying heart conditions,” said Chakraborty. He said people in the high risk group should ideally undergo a CT coronary angiogram, a non-invasive test that reveals the condition of the arteries that supply blood to the heart. “If the report is normal, it should not be repeated for at least five years,” he said. Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya said assessment of regular health check-up reports are crucial. “The reports of regular health check-ups are usually seen by a doctor (before they are handed over to patients). If there is any irregularity, like if a person is found to have high levels of cholesterol in blood, then the patient is advised to consult a specialist. But often people tend to ignore such written advice. So it’s extremely important to consult a doctor after getting check-up reports,” Bhattacharya said. “Also, physical examination of a patient is extremely important. I can find out (during a physical examination) whether any gland is swollen or there is any unusual sound in the chest,” he said. Bhattacharya said often unnecessary tests are recommended for a routine health check-up. “It should be a complete haemogram, blood sugar, lipid profile, chest X-ray and renal function tests. Further investigations can be done if any irregularity is detected,” Bhattacharya said. Endocrinologist Subhankar Chowdhury feels that in India, where the prevalence of diabetes and cardiac ailments is high, one should start going for health check-ups from as early as 30. “If a person is detected with diabetes, then his or her other organs can be affected and accordingly, regular check-ups be done,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-184
05-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale fresh peaks to end day record high||Rallying for the 10th straight session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 261 points to end at a fresh record on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Axis Bank and TCS. Despite opening on a negative note, the 30-share BSE index pared all losses and staged a smart recovery to end 260.98 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 48,437.78. It touched an all-time high of 48,486.24 during the day. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 66.60 points or 0.47 per cent to settle at a new peak of 14,199.50. It scaled a record intra-day high of 14,215.60. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, followed by HDFC, IndusInd Bank, TCS, Asian Paints, Titan, HCL Tech and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, M&M and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. "Domestic equities saw a brisk recovery from today's low mainly led by a sharp rebound in banking and IT stocks," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Continued improvement in COVID-19 recovery rates along with likely commencement of vaccination drive shortly and sustained improvement in key economic data defied weak global markets, he said, adding that IT stocks witnessed strong buying ahead of TCS' Q3 FY21 numbers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.69 per cent to USD 51.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Jio plea: HC serves notice to Centre, Punjab on tower damage||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea filed by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd, seeking action against "miscreants" damaging its telecom infrastructure and forcibly closing its stores in the state. During the ongoing agitation by farmers against three new farm laws enacted by the Centre, over 1500 mobile towers in Punjab have been damaged. Reliance Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Monday, submitted in its plea that "vested" interests are engaged in spreading "false rumours" against it and that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming. Justice Sudhir Mittal has issued a notice of motion for February 8, according to Aashish Mittal, the counsel for Reliance Jio. The company has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Department of Telecommunications and the Punjab Director General of Police as respondents in the matter. In the civil writ petition, Reliance Jio has also sought appropriate directions to respondents for an investigation into the well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign being carried out by vested interests and miscreants against it. In the petition, the company has stated that in the past few weeks, its over 1,500 telecom towers were damaged or rendered inoperative by miscreants crippling its mobile network in Punjab. A number of its centres and stores were also forcibly closed by miscreants by using illegal force and intimidation, it submitted. The petitioner submitted that its subscribers were being forced to port to other networks, while its employees were being subjected to a grave threat to life and forcibly prevented from serving subscribers in the state. According to the petition, vested interests inimical to the petitioner and its parent company Reliance Industries, are engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner and its affiliates were somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament governing the marketing of agricultural produce. In a statement, Reliance said it "has nothing whatsoever to do with the three farm laws currently debated in the country, and in no way benefits from them. The company also sought the constitution of a competent authority under the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act for the assessment of losses caused to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid a weak trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 112.74 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 48,064.06, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 38.25 points or 0.27 per cent to 14,094.65. ONGC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, Bajaj Auto, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Axis Bank, HDFC, TCS and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48,176.80, and Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to its fresh lifetime high of 14,132.90. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,843.22 crore on a net basis on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities are not looking inspiring at the moment with Asian bourses trading lower taking cues from US markets. "US equities fell sharply mainly led by mounting concerns over a potential rise in borrowing costs after the 10-Year Treasury break-even rate rose over 2 per cent yesterday and rise in COVID-19 cases along with resultant lockdowns. "Fresh lockdown announced in Britain until at least mid-February weighed on investors' sentiment. All eyes would be on Georgia's run-off elections, in which two Senate seats have the potential to create fresh volatility in the markets," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.14 per cent lower at USD 51.02 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Nissan Motor to ramp up production at India plant||Japanese car maker Nissan Motor India will ramp up production at its plant in India to meet the demand for its Magnite sports utility vehicle (SUV), which it also plans to export. The company will introduce a third shift in the plant and plans to hire 1,000 workers. Rakesh Srivastava, managing director of Nissan Motor India, said: “We are ramping up production to decrease the waiting period for Magnite. We have received 32,800 bookings in one month. There were 1,80,000 enquiries for the car. The conversion ratio has been 17.7 per cent, something unheard of.” At present, the plant is producing more than 2,700 units. With the third shift, it will produce 4,000 units. At dealerships, the company will infuse 500 workers to meet the rush though there are no plans for network expansion. Nissan also plans to export the Magnite to Indonesia and South Africa but the domestic market remains top priority. The company has faced no challenge in its supply chain. Srivastava also said the company will continue with the introductory prices. The Magnite was launched in December 2 with a price range of Rs 4.99 lakh to Rs 5.99 lakh. While the price of the base model Magnite MT XE will be increased by Rs 50,000 to Rs 5.49 lakh, the prices of the rest of the variants will remain unchanged. Hyundai to export i20 Hyundai Motor India Ltd on Monday announced that it will  start exporting its recently launched i20. The company is the largest car exporter and has surpassed the milestone of 3 million despatches last year with exports to 88 countries. S.S. Kim, MD and CEO, Hyundai Motor India, said, “The new i20 is one of the highest selling models in its segment. We will commence the export of the all-new i20 in the global markets. With 5.16 lakh exports since its first launch, the i20 is already a brand to reckon with even in the global markets.” Hyundai Motor India at present exports 10 models, including the Atos (Santro), Grand i10, Xcent, Grand i10 (Nios, Aura) and i20. Globally, Hyundai exports ‘Made-In-India’ cars to 88 countries across five continents including South America (32 countries), North America (Mexico), Africa (28 countries), Asia Pacific (26 countries), Europe (1 country). When asked if the company was taking a hit at profitability while keeping prices down despite rise in input costs, Srivastava said: “We are offering a value proposition with the Magnite. We are making a B segment car within the reach of everyone who wants to own a four-wheeler.” Asked about future products, Srivasata said: “We will focus on our core DNA, SUV is our strength an SUVs are also the order of the day be it globally or in the domestic market. We have a fairly strong global portfolio including he Patrol, the Qashqai, Juke, the X-trail. We will bring whatever will be suitable for the Indian market.” At present, Nissan offers the Kicks SUV and the Magnite while under the Datsun brand it offers Redi-Go and Redi-Go Plus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Bengal govt to provide 40 acres of land free of cost to ONGC||The Bengal government will provide 40 acres of land free of cost to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation to develop the Ashoknagar block where the central PSU has discovered hydrocarbon reserves, hoping that the find will catalyse industrial resurgence in the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written a letter to Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan informing him of the state’s decision to provide land in Ashoknagar and a few sites in Barrackpore and assured him of her full fledged support in the future. “The state government is very happy to provide the land free of cost. They (ONGC) wanted to pay but we said you don’t have to pay. (You) set up industries here, we will provide all the land and other assistance,” Banerjee said on Monday. The state had received a letter from ONGC for the settlement of around 40 acres of state-owned land for the installation of a quick production system with a green belt area and allied infrastructure. The state has also received another land application for temporary occupation of three years at an upcoming exploratory location in Barrackpore, the chief minister said. She suggested that an integrated development can take place involving big, medium, small and micro industries around the discovery of oil and gas in Ashoknagar and the Indian Oil Corporation’s refinery at Haldia. “The state has extended all help; we are happy that the state and the Centre have worked together. We are providing full fledged co-operation,” Banerjee said. While the state agreed to let go of the land cost, it requested the Centre to take care of the 300 people who are on the land. “We requested (ONGC) to provide special rehabilitation and also a job,” she said. So far the company has provided l4-15 jobs to local people. ONGC has been lifting crude from a well drilled at the site, 55 km north-east of Calcutta, in small quantities and  selling it commercially by taking advantage of a new central scheme that allows commercial exploitation during exploration and development. Potential recoverable reserve of oil and gas and their long term commercial viability is still to be ascertained but ONGC said the quality of the crude to be better than Brent and on a par with WTI. It is planning to drill three more wells by January 2022 and one of them would start by the end of this month. Early signs buoyed ONGC to acquire three more blocks adjacent to Asokenagar, which will be explored simultaneously over next three years and 13 more wells will be drilled. The total capital expenditure will be around Rs 425 crore. “According to our information, the discovery of oil reserves at Ashoknagar-1 is only the beginning, more such success in the near future will help reduce import of oil and make Bengal a future energy destination,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Metal producers expected to report rebound in earnings in 2021-22||Producers of metals are expected to report a rebound in earnings in 2021-22 in sync with the surge in global steel capacity utilisation which is projected to hit a decade high of 81-82 per cent with iron ore supplies likely to remain in deficit in 2021-22. Jindal Steel and Power was among the first to report a sharp rise in steel demand in its monthly business update. The company said it had achieved its highest ever production and sales in the month of December. JSPL said it had a record 30 per cent jump in its standalone production and 25 per cent growth in sales during December 2020. The company’s total production from its plants in India was at 7.27 lakh tonnes (LT) in December, up from 5.59 LT during the same month in 2019, JSPL said in a statement. JSPL has raised prices by Rs 5,200 per tonne in the third quarter. “We are proud of our dedicated workforce who achieved such an extraordinary increase in the production with existing capacity by way of optimising various operating parameters without any capex. We will achieve even greater heights in times to come,” JSPL managing director V.R. Sharma said. During the month under review, standalone sales were at 7.11 LT against 5.67 LT in December 2019. On a month-on-month basis, the production at 7.27 LT was over 18 per cent higher from 6.14 LT in November 2020. At 7.11 LT the sales in December 2020 were 26 per cent up compared with 5.65 LT in November 2020. For October-December 2020, the company has posted 19.26 LT standalone production, up 20 per cent from 16.10 LT in the same period in 2019. During the period under review, the sales were at 18.76 LT, registering a rise of 12 compared to 16.71 LT in October-December 2019. In the statement, JSPL said the company recorded its highest ever production and sales numbers in December 2020, as well as in the October-December period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Reliance Jio writ in the Punjab & Haryana High Court alleges foul play||Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio Infocomm in its writ petition in the Punjab & Haryana High Court has said the alleged campaign against the telco began in October and one of the pockets where its telecom infrastructure was targeted was Sangrur, the district that shot to fame in 1987 when a PepsiCo group firm set up its first potato chips plant and pioneered contract farming in the country. Jio has in the petition alleged the sustained disinformation campaign run by “vested interests”, including through social media channels, has made its business and assets a target of attack and destruction by miscreants at the instigation of the vested interests, purporting to be engaged in public demonstrations and protests against the farm laws. It further reiterated neither parent Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) or any of the affiliates of RIL have plans to enter into contract or corporate farming. The petitioner also claimed that none of the Reliance group firms have purchased any agricultural land directly or indirectly anywhere in India for corporate farming and it has no such plans either. It has said in the petition that over the past few weeks, apart from more than 1,500 of its towers being damaged or rendered inoperative by the miscreants, a number of its stores in Punjab have been “forcibly closed by these miscreants using illegal force and intimidation”. Jio said in its petition that its tower assets had been sabotaged or destroyed in the districts of Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Chandigarh, Faridkot, Fategarh Sahib, Fazilka, Firozpur, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Moga, Mansa, Mohali, Muktsar, Nawanshahr, Pathankot, Patiala, Ropar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. The petition also carried photographs and media reports documenting the vandalism in Punjab. Jio alleged that at Sangrur miscreants disrupted its 4G services. Its affidavit also carried tweets by individuals who had discontinued their Jio connections. The petition said the consequences have not only been borne by Jio but also its 1.4 crore subscribers across Punjab. Jio has made the state of Punjab through its chief secretary, the Union home affairs ministry and the department of telecommunications as the respondents in the matter. In the civil writ petition, Jio sought appropriate directions to respondents for investigation into the “well-orchestrated and sustained disinformation campaign” being carried out by the vested interests and miscreants against it. The petition filed through counsel Aashish Chopra alleged that vested interests "inimical" to the company and RIL are actively engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that it is a beneficiary of the recent farm legislation passed by Parliament. Last month, Jio had blamed its telecom rivals and written to Trai where it accused them of running "vicious and divisive campaign’’ and making preposterous claims that migrating Jio mobile numbers to their networks would be an act of support to farmers' protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Power ministry proposes deadline pushing back for new emission norms||India’s power ministry has proposed pushing back the deadlines for adoption of new emission norms by coal-fired power plants, saying “an unworkable time schedule” would burden utilities and lead to an increase in power tariffs. India initially had set a 2017 deadline for thermal power plants to comply with emissions standards for installing Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) units that cut emissions of toxic sulphur dioxide. That was later changed to varying deadlines for different regions, ending in 2022. Under the latest proposal, no new dates have been set. However, a final decision will have to be approved by the Supreme Court, which is hearing the issue. “The target should be to maintain uniform ambient air quality across the country and not uniform emission norms for thermal power plants,” Nishat Kumar, an official at India’s ministry of power said in a January 2 note to the country’s environment ministry, seen by Reuters. “This could avoid immediate increase in power price in various relatively clean areas of the country (and) avoid unnecessary burden on power utilities/consumers,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Centre's core infrastructure push for Bengal||Bengal and the eastern states of India could see more central support towards infrastructure development, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur said on Monday. Thakur was in the state ahead of the Union budget to meet tax professionals and GST officials. He addressed a programme organised by CCI Professionals Forum and Direct Tax Professionals’ Association. “You will see in the coming months and coming years, there will be a lot of money spent in the east and northeastern part of India and infrastructure development is a priority for the government of India,” Thakur said. “If India has to achieve a double-digit growth rate, then the growth has to come from the east and Northeast. We see a lot of potential and that is why we are here before the budget session to take feedback from professionals like you,” said Thakur at a gathering of tax advocates, chartered accountants and company secretaries. The minister said with the upcoming elections in Bengal, citizens have to ask why businessmen tend to hesitate before making any investment in the state and whether there is an adequate ecosystem to foster the development of unicorns (startups with valuations of over $1 billion). The minister was presented with several suggestions both on the direct and indirect tax side for consideration in the Union budget. On GST, a key suggestion was on the cash flow and input tax credit fronts. “The recently introduced rule 86B placing a restriction on using ITC to the extent of 99 per cent of liability may be proposed for curbing fake invoices, but many genuine taxpayers are facing blockage of credit and cash flow issues due to this,” said N.K. Goyal, president of DTPA. On the direct tax side, Narayan Jain, president CCI Professionals Forum, said there is a need to simplify and shorten income tax returns and revise the monetary limits on presumptive taxation and tax audits. Jain also urged the minister to consider modification to the definition of relatives under section 56(2) of the Income Tax Act. “Under the present definition, if an uncle gives a gift to his nephew, it is exempt as they are treated as relatives. But in case of a gift given by nephew to his uncle it is not exempt. There are unnecessary litigations on the point,” Jain said in a statement. A book titled Income Tax Pleading and Practice written by Narayan Jain and Dilip Loyalka was also released by Thakur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Manufacturing activity continued to grow in December||Manufacturing activity continued to grow in December to meet increasing demand, a private survey showed on Monday, although the employment situation worsened as firms continued to reduce headcounts. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) was at 56.4 in December, a tick higher than November’s reading of 56.3 and above the critical 50 threshold for the fifth straight month. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “The latest PMI results for the Indian manufacturing sector continued to point to an economy on the mend as a supportive demand environment and firms’ efforts to rebuild safety stocks underpinned another sharp rise in production,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. International demand for Indian goods rose in December, but the growth was hampered by the pandemic. As a result, new export orders increased at the slowest pace in the current four-month sequence of expansion. Output growth also eased to a four-month low, but remained strong, the survey said. Employment, however, decreased again in December, thereby stretching the current sequence of job shedding to nine months. “India’s manufacturing PMI reading for December points to a continued rebound in the sector at the end of last year. And the recovery could gain further momentum if Covid-19 vaccines are successfully distributed in India and restrictions are subsequently scaled back even further,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, CapitalEconomics, said. “Companies stated that government guidelines to have employees working only on shifts and difficulties in finding suitable staff were the key factors causing the latest fall in payroll numbers. However, the pace of contraction was moderate and the weakest in the current downturn period," the survey noted. On the prices front, the survey noted that input cost inflation accelerated to a 26-month high in December, with panellists noting increased prices for chemicals, metals, plastics and textiles. Output charges were lifted in response to rising cost burdens, but here the rate of inflation was only marginal. Lima further noted that “when we combine the latest three months we see that the performance of the manufacturing industry for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020-21 was notably better than in the second quarter". The three-month PMI average rose from 51.6 to 57.2, the survey said. Going ahead, Indian manufacturers maintained an upbeat view that output will increase in the coming year. However, the degree of optimism weakened to a four-month low as some firms were concerned about the lasting effect of the pandemic on the global economy. Nomura The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) picked up to 94.5 for the week ending 3 January from an average of 91.7 December. Since its trough in April, economic normalisation has continued nearly uninterrupted, with NIBRI ending 2020 just 5.5 below pre-pandemic activity levels. The continued rise in NIBRI through December and into early January was led by an improvement in mobility indices, in sync with the holiday season. Power demand has also been strong, although the latest week corrected by 2.7 per cent week-on-week after rising by 2.7 per cent and 3.1 per cent over the preceding two weeks. The labour participation rate eased to 40.3 per cent in early January from 40.9 per cent in December. NIBRI averaged higher in December (91.7) than in November (86.3) and is starting January at another high (94.5). This faster normalisation reflects a further moderation in new cases, despite the festive and winter season. In tandem, activity data like auto sales, import growth, GST proceeds, manufacturing PMI and diesel sales improved. While weak global growth and a sudden volte-face on domestic pandemic control are key short term risks, over the medium term, easier financial conditions, stronger global demand and accelerated vaccinations could lead to an economic upcycle in 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-180
05-01-2021||Business||Crude oil above $50 signals turbulence ||After remaining soft for the better part of 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic, crude oil prices have began to inch up and are hovering around $50 per barrel mark. However, experts are of the view that the commodity will be volatile this year and its movement will be determined by the vaccine rollout and whether the new strain of coronavirus will spread further. Opec is meeting to decide (on the production levels for February) whether it can lift output as rising infections affect recovery in global energy demand. Reports say while countries such as Saudi Arabia have been cautious on raising output, others like Russia have said the producers could add another 500,000 barrels a day next month. According to the ‘Crude Oil Insight Report’ from Motilal Oswal, prices of the commodity advanced higher in the past one month and prices finally hit $50 per barrel as traders expect demand to pick up next year. “A falling dollar on the back of a global economic recovery and continued stimulus spending in the US as well as other major economies, is creating a positive feedback loop for oil prices, akin to what occurred in the 1970s and 2000s when oil reached historical highs. All these events suggest a turbulent and disorderly global oil markets over the last 12 months with long-lasting implications as markets begin to digest a new form of normality towards a post-virus equilibrium,’’ the report added. The West Texas Intermediate crude oil was trading 2.02 per cent higher at $49.50 per barrel, while Brent crude also gained 2.26 per cent at $52.97 per barrel in New York on Monday. Crude oil prices have been rallying from November on positive news from the Pfizer vaccine and this had led to Brent crude rising from $42 per barrel to $52 per barrel. The Motilal Oswal report said crude demand stood close to 100m barrels per day in 2019, but the pandemic wiped out 10 per cent of the market as transport and industry took a hit from lockdown measures implemented globally to contain the spread of the pandemic. Demand for crude is likely to have closed 2020 at 89 million barrels per day, a historic fall of 9 million barrels per day compared to 2019. However, while oil demand from Asian countries particularly India and China remain strong, that from Europe and the US  disappoint. ``Fundamentals do not suggest seeing a second significant jump in oil prices until vaccination rate begins to rise. Brent and WTI crude are expected to climb `marginally’ in the first half of 2021, and then move up more quickly in the second half of the year. The understandable euphoria around the start of the vaccination programme partially explains higher oil prices, but it will be several months before the advent of mass inoculation to economically active people and relevant impact on oil demand’’, the report observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
05-01-2021||Business||BSE Sensex closed above the 48000-mark for the first time||The BSE Sensex closed above the 48000-mark for the first time on Monday as investor sentiment got a boost after India approved two coronavirus vaccines over the weekend. A strengthening rupee, positive global cues and encouraging macroeconomic data gave further impetus to risk appetite, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 307.82 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 48176.80. It touched a record intra-day peak of 48220.47. The broader NSE Nifty jumped 114.40 points or 0.82 per cent to its fresh lifetime high of 14132.90. It scaled an all-time high of 14147.95 during the session. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting 4.02 per cent, followed by TCS, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, M&M, HUL, Sun Pharma and L&T. Kotak Bank, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, HDFC Bank, PowerGrid and Titan were among the laggards, shedding up to 1.43 per cent. India’s drug regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Experts said the approvals and the likely commencement of inoculation process soon bode well for the markets and economy. “Emboldened by the likely rollout of the vaccines this month, bulls went berserk, bolstered by IT and metal stocks with able support from pharma stocks. PMI data and renewed buying in select financials provided buoyancy across the broader markets,” said S. Ranganathan, head of Research at LKP Securities. Sector-wise, BSE metal, IT, technology, oil and gas, auto, industrials and telecom indices rallied up to 5.34 per cent, while bankex and consumer durables slipped. Global equities surged as vaccine rollout in multiple countries enthused investors. Bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe opened with significant gains. Fitch Solutions on Monday said it has revised its forecast for the rupee to average stronger at Rs 75.50 to the dollar in 2021, from Rs 77. For 2022, it revised the forecast to Rs 77 to a dollar from Rs 79 previously to account for a stronger 2021 forecast. “We expect the rupee to trade only slightly weaker over the near term from current levels,” it said in a note. It saw depreciatory pressure on the rupee due to worsening terms of trade from rising oil prices, further monetary easing, and bouts of risk-off sentiment being partially offset by the US dollar weakness and central bank foreign exchange intervention to combat imported inflation. The rupee on Monday appreciated by 9 paise to close at 73.02 against the dollar, supported by sustained foreign fund inflows. Sector-wise, BSE metal, IT, teck, oil and gas, auto, industrials and telecom indices rallied up to 5.34 per cent, while bankex and consumer durables slipped. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 1.42 per cent. Foreign institutional investors purchased shares worth Rs 506.21 crore on a net basis on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "Over the longer term, the overvaluation of the rupee in real terms and higher inflation in India vis-à-vis the US should exert weakening pressure for the rupee," it said.    The Indian rupee averaged Rs 74.10 to a US dollar in 2020||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-181
05-01-2021||India||Union Budget to be presented on February 1||The Budget session of the Parliament can be conducted between January 29 and to April 8, the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) has recommended on Tuesday. The committee recommended that Part I of the Budget session may be held  from January 29 to February 15, while Part II may be conducted from March 8 to April 8. President Ram Nath Kovind would address the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament on January 29, a Friday, and the Union Budget would be presented on February 1, sources said citing the CCPA recommendations. All Covid-related protocols would be followed during the session, the sources said. The final decision on the commencement of the session will be taken by the Union Cabinet of Ministers, they said. The Centre had cancelled the Winter Session of the Parliament in December citing the coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to the leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, “Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of the recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi. At present, we are in the middle of December and a Covid vaccine is expected very soon.” The minister said he had informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and “they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session”. “Government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the budget session in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” Joshi wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Kerala gold-smuggling case: NIA files chargesheet against 20 accused||The NIA on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against 20 people before a special court here for their alleged involvement in smuggling 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in diplomatic baggage into Kerala, an official said. All the accused, including Sarith P S and main accused Swapna Prabha Suresh, both residents of Thiruvananthapuram, have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), an NIA spokesperson said. Suresh and Sarith were former employees of the UAE consulate and they allegedly used their past connection to smuggle gold using the diplomatic channel, the official said. Ramees K T, Jalal A M, Mohammed Shafi P, Saidalavi E, Abdu P T, Rabins Hameed, Muhammedali Ebrahim, Muhammedali, Sharafuddeen K T, Mohammed Shafeeq A, Hamzath Abdulsalam, Samju T M, Hamjad Ali K, Jifsal C V, Aboobacker P, Muhammed Abdu Shameem K V, Abdul Hameed resident and Shamshudeen have also been named in the chargesheet. The case was registered by the NIA on July 10, 2020 against Sarith, Swapna, Faisal Fareed, Sandeep Nair and others under sections of the UA (P) Act after the seizure of around 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore on July 5, 2020 at Trivandrum International Airport by Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi, from the import cargo addressed to the Charge D' Affaires at the Consulate General of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Thiruvananthapuram. Absconding accused Suresh and Sandeep were arrested by the NIA from Bengaluru on July 11, 2020. During investigation, 31 more people, who had conspired and financed gold smuggling besides facilitating the disposal of the contraband and transfer of proceeds thereof to the UAE through hawala channels, for purchasing and smuggling more gold, with the intention of threatening the economic security of India, were arraigned as accused in the case. So far, 21 accused have been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case, while eight are absconding. The case pertains to the seizure of 30 kg of gold on July 5 last year from a diplomatic baggage at the air cargo of the Trivandrum International Airport by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi. The NIA investigation revealed that the accused had knowingly conspired since June 2019, raised funds and smuggled around 167 kg of gold into the country from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) between November 2019 and June 2020 through the import cargo addressed to diplomats at the Consulate General of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. The main accused in the case had planned to smuggle more gold from countries such as Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia. The probe against the absconding accused and others who had facilitated them is on, the NIA said. The consignment was found camouflaged in a diplomatic baggage from the UAE that is exempted from inspection in accordance with the Vienna Convention. Besides the NIA, the ED the Customs and the Income Tax Department probed the accused involved in the case. In July, the NIA had told a special court in Kochi that Suresh, Nair and others conspired to damage the country's monetary stability by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad. In a report submitted to the court, the NIA also said it is suspected that the accused had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means. The accused deliberately used the diplomatic baggage of the UAE as a cover to transact illegal business and it may have serious repercussions in India's diplomatic relations with the UAE government and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well, the NIA said. IAS officer M Sivasakar was removed as Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the state IT Secretary over his alleged links with Suresh and other accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Ready to roll out vaccines by January 13, says health ministry||The Covid-19 vaccines cleared by the DCGI on January 3 will be prepared for rollout within 10 days from the date of emergency use authorisation, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. However, it noted that the final decision lies with the government. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a press conference, said healthcare workers and frontline workers need not register themselves as their database has been populated on to the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system in a bulk manner. “Based on the feedback of dry-run, the Health Ministry is ready to introduce Covid-19 vaccine within 10 days from date of emergency use authorisation,” he said. However, responding to a query about rollout, the secretary said the government will take the final decision. The country’s drugs regulator on Sunday granted restricted emergency use approval to Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and also to indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech. Bhushan said that the Co-WIN app can be used by any country who wants to do so, as the system is made for India and the world. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V.K. Paul said an optimistic scenario is emerging with the pandemic situation in India consistently improving in terms of active cases and new deaths declining. “Let’s hope this trend will continue. In terms of the new UK mutant issue, this mutation has entered this country and 71 have been isolated which shows our capacity to mount that kind of a scientific investigation. But at the same time we have not seen the emergence of any untoward cluster in the country as of now which is reassuring so far,” Paul said. While healthcare and frontline workers will not be required to register themselves, Bhushan said when they would come to the population priority group, there the provision of registration and editing of data would come. “Then the system electronically allows session allocation...the beneficiary has been vaccinated this will also be digitally captured and he will be given this information digitally when he has to come for the next dose. They will also get an acknowledgement, a unique health ID would also be generated,” he said. Bhushan said Co-WIN will have a provision that one can create a unique health ID and “you can keep the acknowledgement in a digi locker which is free or on your phone”. “In case of an adverse event, to ensure its real time reporting there is a provision in Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system,” he said. Bhushan further said that Co-WIN has the facility of automated session allocation, Aadhaar authentication to prevent malpractice, creation of Unique Health ID for willing beneficiaries, reporting and tracking of adverse events following immunization, if any, SMSes in 12 languages to guide beneficiaries and vaccinators, QR code-based vaccination certificate issued after all doses, DigiLocker integrated for data retrieval and storing QR code-based certificate, 24x7 Helpline including IT professionals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||SII, Bharat Biotech vow to work together on Covid-19 vaccines||After their ugly public spat, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday buried the hatchet and issued a joint statement saying they will work together to develop, manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines in the country and globally. In the statement posted on their respective twitter accounts, the companies said Serum Institute Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech Chairman Krishna Ella communicated their combined intent to develop, manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines. They said the more important task in front of them was saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world. The vaccines were a global public health good and have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest, the statement said. We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for the people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines, it said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin of the city-based Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued emergency use authorisation in the country, the focus was on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that people who need it the most receive high-quality, safe and efficacious vaccines, the two companies said. "Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth roll out of vaccines. Each of our companies continue their Covid-19 vaccine development activities as planned," the joint statement said. Without naming Poonawalla who had called vaccines other than that of Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines "just like water", Krishna Ella on Monday in a media briefing slammed the Pune-based vaccine maker for the remarks. "We do 200 per cent honest clinical trials and yet we receive backlash. If I am wrong, tell me. Some companies have branded me like water," Ella had said. Poonawalla on Tuesday tweeted that there would be a statement clearing up miscommunication with regard to Bharat Biotech. "I would like to clarify two matters; as there is confusion in the public domain, exports of vaccines are permitted to all countries and a joint public statement clearing up any recent miscommunication with regards to Bharat Biotech will be made," he said. Covaxin is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials involving 24,000 volunteers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Cardiologist Devi Shetty visits Sourav, says he is stable||Noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, who flew down to Calcutta to monitor BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s health following his angioplasty due to a mild heart attack, said that the former Indian skipper is stable now, with no complaint of chest pain or breathing issues. The cricket icon will be discharged on Wednesday, he informed. Dr Shetty, while dubbing Ganguly as an “asset”, said the mild heart attack that he experienced did not cause any damage to his health. The cardiac surgeon then held a meeting with 13 doctors of the woodlands Hospital in Calcutta said that Sourav can return to normal for “his heart is as strong as it used to be when he was 20 years old”. “This was not a major cardiac event which would damage his heart. This event will certainly not have any impact on his life in the future. He will be leading a normal life. It will not affect his lifespan,” Dr Shetty said. Thanking the doctors at the medical establishment for providing Ganguly with the “best possible treatment right on time”, Dr Shetty further said, “He (Sourav) will be able to participate in a marathon, fly a plane or chase any of his dreams or aspirations without this (mild heart attack) causing any set back. He can get back to cricket if he wants to. He can even exercise like a normal person.” Asked if the former left-handed batsman would have to undergo another angioplasty, the cardiologist said he could either treat it medically or go for the procedure. “He (Sourav) has both the options at his disposal, but it would be wise to go for another angioplasty. We have left it to him to decide. We think it would be good for him to wait for at least two weeks and then take a call,” the noted cardiologist said. “He has no chest pain, no breathing problems. He is stable. (He can) go home and come back 15 days later and get the procedure done,” Dr Shetty said. Meanwhile, Dr Rupali Basu, the MD and CEO of Woodlands Hospital, said that Ganguly was “doing well clinically as expected by all of us. He slept well last night and spoke to us this morning. We will be discharging him tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Frustrated political players casting doubt on Covid vaccine, says Naqvi||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said some frustrated political players are doubting the efficacy of coronavirus vaccines made in India. Naqvi's remarks came after some Congress leaders raised doubts on the restricted use approval granted to Bharat Biotechs vaccine while its third phase trial is still underway. Speaking after chairing a meeting of Haj Committee of India officials and Haj Group organisers at Haj House in south Mumbai, Naqvi said these "failed and frustrated political players" had earlier questioned the relief measures taken by the Modi government during the coronavirus pandemic. The Modi government has tirelessly and effectively worked to provide relief to every needy person during the pandemic, he said, adding Modi has led the fight against the pandemic. Modi turned a crisis into an opportunity to make India aatmanirbhar (self-reliant), Naqvi said. In an unprecedented measure, the Modi government provided free ration to over 80 crore people, and free gas cylinders to over 8 crore families, a statement from Naqvi's office said. "Rs 1500 were deposited into bank accounts of 20 crore women and Rs 19,000 crore was given under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi to over 10 crore farmers," it said. Aatmanirbhar Bharat package worth Rs 20 lakh crore was given to various sectors including Rs one lakh crore to the agriculture sector, Naqvi said. Over 60 lakh migrant labourers reached back to their home states during the pandemic through Shramik Special trains and Rs 17,000 crore were given to states under the State Disaster Relief Fund for providing assistance to migrant labourers, he added. Naqvi said the hard-working scientists of India had developed the vaccines and it is a matter of pride for every Indian that both the vaccines approved for emergency use are made in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Modi highlights ‘energy agenda’, lays roadmap||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday put forth his government’s energy roadmap, envisaging more than double the share of cleaner natural gas in the consumption basket, diversifying sources of energy, connecting the nation with one gas pipeline grid and bringing affordable fuel to people and industry. Inaugurating a 450-km natural gas pipeline between Kochi in Kerala to Mangalore in Karnataka, he said under his administration, the country is witnessing unparalleled work on highways, railway, metro, air, water, digital and gas connectivity which will aid economic development. Modi said his government moves towards an “integrated approach to energy planning. Our energy agenda is all-inclusive”. “While on one hand, natural gas pipeline network is being doubled to about 32,000 km in 5-6 years, on the other, work on the world’s biggest hybrid renewable plant combining wind and solar power has started in Gujarat,” he said. “Also, the emphasis is being laid on manufacturing biofuels as well as electric mobility,” Modi added. “In 10 years’ time, petrol will be doped with as much as 20 per cent of ethanol extracted from sugarcane and other agro products,” he asserted. The Prime Minister said this will help curb reliance on imports for meeting the need for oil, and also reduce carbon emissions. “Alongside, the share of natural gas in the energy basket is being targeted to be raised to 15 per cent from the current 6.2 per cent,” he said. “The pipeline grid will help improve clean energy access as well as also aid in the development of city gas projects,” he said. Modi said 900 CNG stations were set up till 2014 after the advent of compressed natural gas as fuel for automobiles in the country around 1992. “In the last six years, the number of CNG stations has gone up to 1,500 and the target is to take them to 10,000,” he said. “Around 25 lakh households had piped natural gas connections for using the fuel for cooking purposes till 2014 which has risen to 72 lakh now,” the prime minister said. “We are working to provide clean, affordable and sustainable energy,” Modi asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Hardeep Singh Puri welcomes SC judgement on Central Vista project||Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday welcomed a Supreme Court judgement giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project and asserted that the government has always been sensitive to environmental concerns. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister, whose ministry is executing the ambitious project, said the government would continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction. "Delhi is on course to becoming a World Class capital city and in the first step by the time nation completes 75 years of its Independence in 2022 a new Parliament building will be readily reflecting the aspirations of new India," Puri tweeted. In a majority verdict, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the environmental clearance and notification for change in land use for the Central Vista project. "We welcome the Judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court giving the go-ahead for the ambitious Central Vista Project. Central Govt has always been sensitive to environmental concerns & will continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction," Puri said in a tweet. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. According to the government's latest proposal for the redevelopment of the Central Vista, the prime minister's new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||SC nod for Central Vista project on a 2:1 majority||The Supreme Court on Tuesday cleared the decks for the ambitious Central Vista Project, which covers a three-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens' Delhi, by upholding the environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September, 2019 envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024 under the project. A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar, by 2:1 majority, held that the grant of environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use for the project was valid. Justice Khanwilkar, writing the judgement for himself and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, also directed that the project proponent set up smog tower and use anti-smog guns at the construction site for the Central Vista project. Justice Sanjiv Khanna, the third judge on the bench, also agreed on the issue of award of the project. He, however, disagreed with the judgment on change of land use and on the grant of environmental clearance for the project. In the majority verdict, the apex court said that prior permission shall be taken from heritage conservation committee and other relevant authorities before start of construction at new sites. On the aspect of change in land use, Justice Khanna said it was bad in law and there was no disclosure for public participation on the issue. The top court's verdict came on several pleas on the issue, including the one filed by activist Rajeev Suri, against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the grant of environmental clearance and the nod to change of land use. On December 7, last year the top court had allowed the Centre to proceed with the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Central Vista project on December 10 after the government assured it that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decides the pending pleas on the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building and the construction is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore. The apex court had earlier said that any change at the ground level made by authorities for the Central Vista project will be "at their own risk". It had made it clear that the fate of the project, which includes several new government buildings and a new Parliament House, will depend on its decision. The Centre had earlier argued in the top court that the project would "save money" which is paid as rent for housing central government ministries in the national capital. It had submitted that the decision to have a new Parliament building has not been taken in haste and no law or norms have been violated in any manner for the project. The Centre had also said there was no arbitrariness or favouritism in selecting a consultant for the project and the argument that the government could have adopted a better process cannot be a ground to scrap the project. Gujarat-based architecture firm HCP Designs has won the consultancy bid for the project to redevelop the Central Vista. The pleas filed in the apex court had also challenged the grant of a no-objection certificate by the Central Vista Committee (CVC) and also the environmental clearances for the construction of a new Parliament house building. One of the pleas was filed against a Delhi High Court order which had said the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) was not required to apprise it before notifying changes in the Master Plan to allow the Central Vista project. A division bench of the Delhi High Court had on February 28 stayed an order of its single-judge bench which had asked the DDA to approach the court before notifying any change in the Master Plan for going forth with the project to redevelop the Central Vista. The stay order of the high court on the single-judge bench's February 11 direction had come on the intra-court appeal of the DDA and the Centre. The petitioners before the high court had opposed the Central Vista project on grounds that it involves a change in land use of the green area adjoining Rajpath and Vijay Chowk for building a new Parliament building and government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid cases in over six months||India recorded 16,375 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in over six months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,03,56,844, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,49,850 with 201 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,75,958 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.32 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 15th consecutive day. There are 2,31,036 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.23 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,65,31,997 samples have been tested up to January 4 with 8,96,236 samples being tested on Monday. The 201 new fatalities include 29 from Maharashtra, 25 from West Bengal, 24 from Punjab, 19 from Kerala and 12 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,49,850 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,695 from Maharashtra followed by 12,166 from Tamil Nadu, 12,110 from Karnataka, 10,597 from Delhi, 9,817 from West Bengal, 8,413 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,118 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,400 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Delhi sees rain for third day on the trot, minimum temperature rises||Sporadic rains lashed the national capital for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, even as the minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius, six notches more than normal, the India Meteorological Department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 4.7 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Monday and 8:30 am on Tuesday. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road, Ayanagar and Ridge recorded 12 mm and 4.8 mm, 8.9 mm and 6.2 mm rainfall, respectively, during the period. The minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius as a result of cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The weather department said Delhi may witness light to moderate rain, and thunderstorms with winds gusting up to 30 kmph during the day. A hailstorm is also predicted in parts of the capital. The rains, under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance, come on the back of a 'severe" cold wave that gripped Delhi in the run-up to the New Year. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On Sunday, intense rains, thunder and lightning lashed the city. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday and 2:30 pm on Sunday. The WD is causing widespread snowfall in the hills. Once it withdraws, the mercury will fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Reliance says it has no intention to engage in ‘corporate’ or ‘contract’ farming ||Reliance Industries on Monday announced that it had no plans to venture into contract farming, acquire farmland anywhere in the country or source farm produce directly from farmers. The uncommon announcement by the industry group run by Mukesh Ambani is being seen as an attempt to quell the mounting anger against the group after the Narendra Modi government passed three contentious farm laws in September. Farmers agitating against the bills believe that Reliance, besides the Adani Group, will emerge as one of the principal beneficiaries of the so-called farm sector reforms. “Reliance Industries Ltd have not done any ‘corporate’ or ‘contract’ farming in the past, and have absolutely no plans to enter this business,” the company said in a media statement. The conglomerate said it would insist that its suppliers strictly abide by the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism or any other framework that the government implements to provide for remunerative price for farm produce. The statement from Reliance Industries, the country’s largest private company, comes at a time the farmers’ agitation has crossed 40 days and group company Reliance Jio has seen its telecom assets come under attack and faced an exodus of its subscribers. In a 637-page petition filed before Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday, Reliance Jio said more than 1,500 telecom towers belonging to the group had been vandalised or rendered inoperative by miscreants, crippling its mobile network in Punjab. The petition said Jio subscribers were being forced to port to other networks while its employees had received grave threats to their lives and had been forcibly prevented from serving Jio subscribers in the state. The petition said that vested interests “inimical” to Reliance Jio and its parent RIL had “actively engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner, and its parent company and its affiliates are somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament, governing marketing of agricultural produce”. As of October 31, Jio had more than 1.4 crore subscribers in Punjab (about 36 per cent of the telecom subscriber base in the state) and 94 lakh in Haryana (about 34 per cent). Farmers accused the Reliance group of making self-serving claims to suggest that it had not acquired farmland anywhere in the country. Hours after Jio submitted its affidavit in the high court, the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), representing 250 farmers’ organisations, said: “The Reliance industry’s affidavit is full of false claims of it not entering the crop market and taking over farm land. In Raigad, Maharashtra, and other places, large tracts of land have been taken over by Reliance and it must return all those before making any false claim.” Reliance had acquired over 20,000 hectares of farmland in Raigad in 2007 for a special economic zone (not for contract farming) that never really got off the ground. “Unlike vested interests, Jio has not resorted to any coercive or unlawful measures to win over customers,” RIL said in its media statement, once again amplifying its attack on telecom rivals like Airtel without actually naming them. Last month, Jio had written to telecom regulator Trai accusing its rivals of running a “vicious and divisive campaign” while urging Jio subscribers to migrate to other networks. Both Airtel and Vodafone have termed the complaint baseless. There is no data available to quantify the number of Jio subscribers in the two states who have sought to port out of the network. Media reports suggest that more than 1 lakh subscribers have sought to migrate to competitors. Recently, some users had taken to Twitter to complain that Jio was not responding to mobile number portability requests. Telecom players are obliged to immediately facilitate requests to move to competing networks. However, a spokesperson for the Reliance group has denied that the telecom company has tried to block requests to port out of the Jio network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Army veterans question delay in acquiring patrol boats for Ladakh||Military veterans have questioned the army’s eight-month delay in ordering high-speed boats for surveillance and patrolling of the Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, after the Chinese had established control over two-thirds of the lake. On Friday, the army said it had signed a contract with Goa Shipyard Ltd for 12 fast boats that would be deployed in large water bodies in Ladakh’s high-altitude areas, including the Pangong Lake. “What was the army doing over the past eight months when the Chinese were rushing in additional high-speed boats to the Pangong Lake to strengthen their position?” a retired lieutenant general said. “They have been controlling the heights since May last year and patrolling aggressively in the lake. Ordering high-speed boats eight months after the start of the standoff shows our (lack of) intent. The army brass seem not to have learnt any lessons even after losing territory in Ladakh.” The veteran said the 12 high-speed boats would take another five to six months to be delivered. Army sources said delivery of the 12 indigenously made boats was expected by May-June. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a bitter standoff since early May at several points in Ladakh. The Chinese have dug themselves in almost 8km inside India-claimed lines on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake, which is nearly 140km long and 7-8km wide. A retired colonel said the army should have bought these high-speed boats right when the standoff began. “What were they waiting for so long?” he asked. Another veteran said it was “shocking that we have woken up only now” after the Chinese had occupied the Finger 4 ridgeline and were controlling the heights by deploying men and machines. “They are said to have fortified their bunkers on the lake’s shores and built several posts and observation towers,” he said. “It’s shocking that we have woken up only now and placed orders for high-speed boats.” The border standoff had begun at the lake with a fists-and-stones clash between the two armies on May 5. This was followed by a violent face-off on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley, which killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||India Covid vaccine makers in corporate hostility ||Simmering undercurrents of business rivalry seem to have erupted into vocal corporate hostility between India’s two Covid-19 vaccine makers that medical experts say could leave the public confused about their vaccines. The heads of the Pune-based Serum Institute, manufacturing the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine in India, and the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, producing a home-grown vaccine, have questioned the credentials of each other’s vaccine. India’s drug regulatory authority on Sunday approved restricted emergency use of both vaccines, clearing the decks for the government to launch its planned campaign to vaccinate over 300 million people in the coming six months. Some medical researchers have questioned both the approvals, underlining what they say is the absence of adequate efficacy data on the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and the lack of any efficacy data on the Bharat Biotech vaccine. Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna, Sputnik V and a Chinese manufacturer are already in emergency use in several countries. The UK and Argentina have also approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. Serum Institute’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawala on Sunday told a television channel that only three vaccines had “proven efficacy” and the rest were “safe like water”. “There are only three vaccines in the world (with) proven efficacy… it’s Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca. These are the only three vaccines which have proven to work. Everything else has been proven to be safe, just like water,” Poonawala said. Bharat Biotech managing director Krishna Ella, a scientist turned entrepreneur, responded on Monday, questioning the quality and quantity of data submitted by AstraZeneca and Serum for regulatory approval for their vaccine. The home-grown vaccine, developed jointly with the Indian Council of Medical Research, has proved safe and capable of generating a strong immune response against the coronavirus, Ella said. “We now have five publications (research papers) in peer-reviewed journals or under review,” he said. The type of immune response observed with the home-grown vaccine suggests long-lasting immunity for six to 12 months, he said. Ella underlined issues relating to the clinical trial conducted by AstraZeneca in the UK and Brazil that some researchers have described as signals of sloppy science. The trial had involved two different dosing regimens with 62 per cent efficacy, 90 per cent efficacy and a pooled efficacy of 70 per cent. “No one is questioning the lousy trial in the UK…. If we had done such a trial in India, our regulators would have shut down our company,” Ella said. “But (India’s regulators) have been gracious enough to approve the vaccine keeping in mind the public health emergency.” Amid the controversy, a Gurgaon-based doctor tweeted: “I will wait for the Pfizer vaccine. Until then, I am going to wear a mask and social distance.” Pfizer has also sought emergency use authorisation of its vaccine in India. Ella said Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine was not the first to receive emergency use approval without efficacy data. In the past, he said, Ebola vaccines from Merck and Johnson & Johnson had been approved without efficacy data. In India too, Ella said, during the 2009 H1N1 influenza epidemic, drug regulators had allowed Bharat Biotech and a few other companies – Serum Institute, Panacea and Zydus – to launch influenza vaccines in the absence of efficacy data. He said the Serum Institute had conducted a safety trial with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine on only 1,200 volunteers in India and submitted immunogenicity data on less than the required 400 participants. A senior Indian Council of Medical Research officer confirmed this. The Serum Institute did not immediately respond to a query from this newspaper on the limited immunogenicity data submitted for the review. Clinical researchers said such exchanges between vaccine makers had the potential to sow distrust. Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a vaccine science specialist, said: “Calling out other products builds distrust. I hope the leaders of our vaccine industry and our government foster an environment where our science and industry are recognised for the public good they provide and not for competition.” Both Serum and Bharat Biotech expect to supply vaccines to the government in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Govt and farmers make no headway, to meet again on Friday||The government and the protesting farmers continued to stare each other down in their seventh round of negotiations on the three contentious farm laws on Monday, making no headway but agreeing to meet again on Friday. Only too aware of the government’s strategy to try to wear them down — particularly in the face of a severe winter and heavy showers that have drenched their tents at the borders of Delhi and strained their resources — the farmer union leaders said they were even more forceful in their articulation on Monday, their resolve strengthened by the sacrifices the farming community was making to get the laws repealed. “You think we enjoy sitting out in the cold and in the rain for days on end?” a union leader asked, pointing to the growing list of farmers who have died during the protest. Around 60 farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have lost their lives in the past month. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again tried to peddle amendments as the solution to the farmers’ grievances on the three laws rushed through Parliament in September without consultation, but the farmer leaders refused. They said they represented not just the organisations they led but the 450-plus unions and collectives in the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha and thousands of other farmers across the country. The government’s attempt to discuss the laws clause by clause was firmly rejected by the union leaders, who asserted there was no point going through the exercise again. “Finally, the ministers said they would have further consultations within the government and revert on Friday,” said Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch. The farmers have lobbed the issue back into the government’s court, making it clear there is no question of going back on their demand for repeal of the laws and insisting there is no point discussing a law on minimum support price without first repealing the three laws. “The only alternative to repeal is repeal,” said Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha. With voices from the government ecosystem arguing that repealing the three laws would have a cascading effect on other legislation, the farmer union leaders said this was not a burden for the farming community to carry. “The government should have weighed the consequences of forcing a law on the farming community without discussion,” a union leader said. At the meeting, the union leaders pointed to the Narendra Modi government’s reply to an RTI query seeking details of the consultations held with farmer groups before the enactment of the three laws. The department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare — the department in the agriculture ministry that has been liaising with the farmer unions through the protest — had in its reply said it “does not hold any record in this matter”. The government had earlier claimed that consultations had been held with “lakhs of farmers” before enacting the three laws. Tomar had in an online interaction with farmers said that such reforms had been under consideration for long. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said last month that “a total of 1.37 lakh webinars and trainings were conducted since June 2020 where 92.42 lakh farmers participated”. On Monday, the government sought to soften the union leaders by easily conceding their demand that the meeting begin with a homage to the farmers who have died protesting. But coming as it did a day after Haryana police fired tear gas and used chilli powder to disperse farmers trying to join the protest at Delhi’s borders, the gesture did not cut much ice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Kerala church jolt to Congress||An influential Church organ in Kerala has alleged that an unofficial alliance between the Congress-led United Democratic Front and a Muslim Right-wing party led to a split in Christian votes in the recent local body polls. The comment in an editorial in Sathyadeepam, mouthpiece of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese, jolted the Congress into publicly promising to take note of the concerns and stressing the party’s secular credentials. “The Christian community felt the UDF was losing its secular image with its tie-up with the Welfare Party,” the Malayalam weekly said in its latest issue on Monday. It said this feeling had led to a sizeable division in Christian votes in central and northern Kerala. The UDF’s informal alliance with the Welfare Party of India, political arm of the Right-wing Jamaat-e-Islami, had generated controversy from the outset. While some leaders like state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran had chosen to deny the arrangement, his party colleague M.M. Hassan, who is believed to have brokered the deal as UDF convener, had admitted to “adjustments”. After the ruling Left Democratic Front won the majority of the local bodies, a blame game began within the UDF and the Congress over the association with the Welfare Party. The Sathyadeepam editorial said the Congress would get “eclipsed” by the Indian Union Muslim League, the second-largest UDF constituent, with P.K. Kunhalikutty’s return to state politics. Kunhalikutty, a Lok Sabha member and IUML general secretary, recently decided to contest the upcoming Assembly elections. “The political observation that the Congress would be completely eclipsed by the IUML with P.K. Kunhalikutty switching back to state politics has also become important,” the editorial said. Senior Congress leader and former spokesperson Pandalam Sudhakaran admitted that such a strong expression of concern was rare from the Church. “It’s a rare expression from the Church. But the Congress has never compromised on its secular credentials and never will,” he told The Telegraph. “We will take these concerns seriously because the Church has historically been our well-wisher and supporter.” Sudhakaran argued that the association with the Welfare Party was only “one of the reasons for the poll setback”, stressing that the unofficial ally’s influence was confined to small pockets in northern Kerala. His party colleague and leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala tried to deflect attention from the Church criticism, which he didn’t refer to, by alleging a secret tie-up between the Left and the BJP. “The CPM forged a secret understanding with the BJP in the local body elections,” he told a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram. “In trying to destroy the Congress and the UDF, the CPM is playing dangerous politics by encouraging the BJP in Kerala.” The Sathyadeepam editorial slammed the BJP too, saying the party’s efforts to portray its Kerala unit as secular had got exposed when it returned to its communal agenda after the elections. “By hanging a ‘Jai Sri Ram’ banner on the Palakkad municipality building, the BJP once again projected its communal agenda and proved that its attempt to present a secular image in Kerala was fake,” it said. After retaining the Palakkad municipality, the BJP workers had unfurled a banner printed with “Jai Sri Ram” on the local body’s building, and another with pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Several BJP workers were later booked on the charge of trying to destroy communal harmony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Mutant in 6 Kerala UK returnees||Kerala health minister K.K. Shailaja on Monday confirmed that six UK returnees have tested positive for the mutant strain of Covid-19 in the state. The minister told a media conference late on Monday that they were among the 29 returnees from the UK who had tested positive for Covid. “We just received the confirmation from National Institute of Virology (Pune) that six of the samples have tested positive for the mutant strain detected in the UK,” she said. Two of those who tested positive are from Kozhikode, another two are from Alappuzha, and one each from Kottayam and Kannur. While 11 samples had earlier tested negative for the new strain, the remaining results were expected in a day or two, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Social justice ministry objects to IIT no-quota call||The social justice ministry has opposed any exemption to the IITs from having to implement reservation in teacher posts, as recommended in June by a panel headed by IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao. The ministry has written to the education ministry asking it to reject the recommendation, arguing that such an exemption would defeat social justice. “The committee had representatives from various ministries dealing with reservation, including the social justice ministry. The panel came out with a unanimous report,” an education ministry official said. “After the report was shared with the ministries again for comments, the social justice ministry opposed any exemptions from reservation.” The education ministry has sent the report to the IIT Council’s standing committee for further study. The government apparently wants to go slow on the recommendation, which has upset Ambedkarites, at a time it is already facing the wrath of farmers. The standing committee, headed by former Isro chairman R. Radhakrishnan, had scheduled an online meeting of members about a month ago, but it was deferred on the government’s instructions. Ground report Among central government-run institutions, only a few elite ones are now exempt from implementing reservations. These include the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, National Brain Research Centre, North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences, Space Physics Laboratory and the Homi Bhabha National Institute and its 10 centres. Till 2019, the law required the IITs to apply reservation only to the assistant professors’ posts while recruiting teachers to their science and technology departments. In the management, humanities and social science subjects, reservation applied to all categories of faculty posts. But if the IITs felt that the candidates who had applied for the advertised reserved posts were not suitable enough, they de-reserved them a year later and recruited general category candidates. However, the HRD ministry (now education ministry) wrote to all the central educational institutions in August 2019 asking them to implement reservations in all faculty recruitment. Following objections from the IITs, the panel led by the IIT Delhi director was formed in April 2020 to look into the matter. Among its members were the IIT Kanpur director and the registrars of IIT Madras and IIT Bombay. Panel logic According to the panel, there aren’t enough fit candidates to be appointed IIT teachers. It says the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes make up 6-7 per cent and less than 2 per cent, respectively, of PhD students at the IITs — so they can hardly be expected to fill their 15 and 7.5 per cent quotas in teacher recruitment. The IITs being premier institutions, they must not let the vacant positions remain blocked too long for lack of suitable candidates, the panel has argued. Ambedkarite stand The Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle, representing IIT Bombay students championing social justice, has opposed the panel’s recommendation. In a statement recently, it said RTI applications had revealed that enough reserved category candidates applied for IIT faculty posts but were wrongly kept out, for instance, by being awarded poor scores. “Instead of highlighting wrongs in the existing selection process and recommending ways to correct those, the committee carries their casteist ignorance and leaves the blame on the candidates from reserved categories for not being ‘qualified enough’,” it said. The statement asked the IITs not to de-reserve any unfilled reserved post. Defiant IIMs The IIMs have never implemented reservation in faculty posts, citing a department of personnel order of 1975 that suggested scientific and technical institutions would be outside the ambit of reservation. When the government amended the order in 2008 and got the IITs to implement quotas partially, the IIMs continued resisting. They are still doing so after the August 2019 ministry letter, citing a shortage of suitable candidates. ‘Wilful neglect’ Deepak Malghan, an IIM Bangalore teacher, censured the elite institutes for failing to take adequate measures to ensure the enrolment of more Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Caste candidates. “The IITs and the IIMs, like research universities around the world, are both producers and consumers of faculty talent. If there are not enough applicants, a large part of the problem is the wilful neglect of diversity and inclusion in their PhD programmes,” he said. “If these institutions had nurtured diversity in their PhD programmes, we would have had a large pool of diverse faculty applicants.” Ambedkarite scholar Anil Wagde demanded a centralised commission like the UPSC for the recruitment of IIT teachers in strict compliance with the reservation rules. “Currently, the recruitment is done by each institution separately. The directors with their caste biases implement reservation in their own way. They consider the institutes their fief,” Wagde said. “IIM Ahmedabad says it wants to encourage the representation of SCs, STs and OBCs, whereas it is mandated by law to implement reservation. So there must be a centralised recruitment body in the pattern of the UPSC, which will uniformly follow reservation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Students write letter to CJI for farmers||A group of 35 present and former students of the Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Panjab University, on Monday wrote an open letter to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, highlighting the condition of thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, braving water cannons, lathis and alleged police brutalities in the severe cold. The letter, copies of which were marked to all the other judges of the Supreme Court, has made the following requests to the CJI: Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The letter is likely to be taken up on January 8 along with a batch of petitions already pending with the top court on the issue of the farm laws. While some of the petitioners had sought eviction of the farmers from Delhi’s borders on the ground that it was causing severe hardship to commuters, the other petitioners had sought quashing of the farm laws as being illegal. The letter described the Centre as “deaf”, “indifferent” and “insensitive” towards the farmers’ plight. The farmers in India, who consider their land their “sacrosanct mother”, were feeling so “threatened” that they have no way out but to protest even amid a global pandemic, it added. The farmers were forced to march to Delhi in November-end for their indefinite strike after holding protests for months in their respective states because the Centre did not heed their demand for repeal of the three laws, the letter said. But in Delhi they “were thrashed and walloped” and “it seemed that raising their voice for Fundamental Rights as provided by the supreme law of the nation is a dreadful crime (which it is not)”, it added. “The government and unconscientious, overly-biased media outlets are trying to polarise the whole peaceful movement by associating it with separatism,” the letter said. Multiple photographs of the protesting farmers were attached to the letter. “This is an open letter signed by human rights students, including research scholars, current batch as well as former students,” the signatories wrote, making a “humble request” to the Chief Justice of India for his “immediate intervention” and described it as “a hope of last resort”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Misleading claims trail of Covid vaccines leads to govt||Misleading claims on the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines have emerged from top government health officials amid a plea via Twitter by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan urging people not to spread rumours about the vaccines. The government officials, including two doctors, have made claims about both the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute and the home-grown vaccine made by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech that medical experts say are misleading. The experts say it is unclear whether the misleading information reflects poor understanding of vaccine efficacy or signal efforts to douse concerns among some experts that India’s drug regulatory authority has approved the restricted emergency use of two vaccines with limited data. “Some of the claims made are not really evidence-based, but likely reflect wishful thinking,” said Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist and adjunct professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. Harsh Vardhan had tweeted on Sunday: “For those spreading rumours, let it be known that the EUA (emergency use authorisation) for Covaxin (the home-grown vaccine) is differently conditional — in clinical trial mode.” Referring to tweets by Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor about the approval to Covaxin without efficacy data, Harsh Vardhan responded: “Disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue… don’t try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving #COVID19vaccines. Wake up & realise you are only discrediting yourselves!” ‘Equal’ efficacy Earlier on Sunday, the health ministry itself circulated a video with comments on Covid-19 vaccines by Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. In one observation, Guleria is recorded as saying: “The vaccines introduced in India will be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries.” Rath and other experts point out that the available data from clinical trials should be considered interim and efficacy values could change over time. Yet, even the current values are significantly different for different vaccines — over 94 per cent for the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, over 90 per cent for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and 62 per cent for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine in one dose regimen and 90 per cent in another dose regimen. Guleria did not respond to a query from this newspaper asking what he had meant by equal efficacy. AstraZeneca ‘70%’ On Sunday, India’s top drug regulator V.G. Somani, announced through a written statement the approval of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called Covishield, and Covaxin. Somani’s statement puts Covishield’s efficacy at 70 per cent. But researchers say this 70 per cent efficacy is a statistical average obtained by pooling results of two dosing regimens — a two full-dose regimen with 62 per cent efficacy and a half dose followed by a full dose regimen with 90 per cent efficacy. If the regimen approved in India is a two full-dose regimen, a researcher said the 62 per cent efficacy would have been the correct value to cite. Somani did not respond to a query from this newspaper asking the use of the higher efficacy value. Emerging variants Some government researchers, including minister Harsh Vardhan, have claimed the home-grown vaccine is better suited to help fight emerging coronavirus variants. “Covaxin is more likely to work against newer variants like the (fast-spreading) UK variant and any other that may arise due to” genetic changes, minister Vardhan tweeted. But scientists say this is a hypothetical possibility without evidence yet to support it. “I would call this wishful expectation,” Rath said. “The best way to prove this would be to measure Covid-19 infections in people who’ve received the vaccine and show that the proportion of the new variant is significantly smaller in this group than among people who’ve received other vaccines.” However, a top official with the Indian Council of Medical Research said laboratory experiments in cells to determine the efficacy of Covaxin against the UK variant have already begun at the National Institute of Virology, Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Pakistani brides to India govt: Accept us or deport us||Women from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Pakistan, married to Kashmiris who have returned to India under a government rehabilitation scheme, on Monday asked the Narendra Modi government to deport them to their country, regretting they are denied rights available to other women here. The women have been protesting for their rights for around a decade and their fresh demand has come as tens of thousands of people who migrated from Pakistan to Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of Partition have been granted domicile and other rights here following the abrogation of Article 370. But these brides, more than half of them from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir which India claims as its own territory, are still waiting for travel documents that would allow them to visit their families across the border. “Our only fault is that we chose to marry Kashmiris but we are being denied nationality… If the government does not want to treat us fairly, so be it, but we are requesting them to deport us back,” Saira Javaid, a Pakistani married to a Kupwara resident, said at a news conference in Srinagar. Saira is among hundreds of “Pakistani brides” whose Kashmiri husbands had crossed to the Pakistani side for arms training or because of alleged harassment, but chose to return under the Omar Abdullah government’s informal “rehabilitation scheme” in 2010. The scheme was available to those who had crossed to the other side of the Line of Control between 1989 and 2009. In 2017, the state government revealed that 377 “former militants”, along with 864 family members, had returned since 2010. They could not return through “designated routes” and came via Bangladesh and Nepal, apparently because India and Pakistan did not reach any agreement on them. Far from being rehabilitated, the families said they were always treated as pariahs and denied the very basic right of meeting their families on the other side of the divide. Uzma Raees, who lived in Muzaffarabad in PoK and whose family is originally from Srinagar, said her father had passed away last month after longing for years to meet her. “My grandfather was originally from Srinagar’s Fateh Kadal locality who migrated to Muzaffarabad (decades back). I am married to a Pulwama resident but ever since we returned to the Valley, I have been fighting for a passport so that I could meet my family. But I never got it, neither for myself nor my little daughter,” Uzma told The Telegraph. “My father died in that grief. I could not see his face and am still in mourning. I fear losing my other family members also and might never be able to see them again.” Taiba Akhtar, from Pakistan’s Abbottabad, said the only time she could see her parents was in 2013 when she had to use a telescope to spy them across the speedy Kishan Ganga stream in border Teetwal area of Kupwara. “My school (where she worked as a teacher) saw I was always upset and arranged an excursion to Teetwal. I informed my family over phone to visit the spot on a particular date. I saw my parents from a distance and I wished to jump into the river so that I could hug them. But others prevented me from doing so,” she said. “If the government treats us as illegal immigrants, there is a law…. They can jail us and then deport us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Bhitarkanika National Park in Odisha to be shut for  nine days||The Bhitarkanika National Park in Odisha would remain out of bounds for nine days of this month for nature lovers, who long for savouring the warmth of congenial wetland spots, with the annual headcount  exercise of estuarine crocodiles getting underway, officials said. The national park is being shut from January 15 to 23 for the annual census of the estuarine crocodiles. As many as 22 teams have been constituted to count the crocodiles in the creeks, nullahs and rivers within the park and its nearby areas. The park’s closure during the period will ensure the smooth and human interference-free census operation. Any form of human activity would come in the way of the meticulous census of these reptiles. That’s why the curb on tourists’ footfall has been imposed, said the divisional forest officer, Bhitarkanika Mangrove (wildlife) Forest Division, Bikash Ranjan Dash. Bhitarkanika is said to house 70 per cent of India’s estuarine crocodile or saltwater crocodiles, conservation of which was started way back in 1975. The number of saltwater crocodiles, the species which are not found in any other river system in Odisha, as per the latest census, in Bhitarkanika wildlife sanctuary is estimated to be 1,757, he said. Adequate conservation measures by the state forest department have led to a systematic rise in the number of these reptiles over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||16% applicants skip CAT ||Over 16 per cent of the candidates who had applied for the Common Admission Test (CAT) for MBA courses in the IIMs and other B-schools did not take the exam, held in November. Around 1.9 lakh of the 2.28 lakh registered candidates sat the test. Some 2.44 lakh had applied in 2019, and nearly 14 per cent had dropped out. Two IIM teachers attributed the decline in the number of applicants and the increase in absenteeism to the Covid-19 scare and the economic crisis that has hamstrung job creation. The 20 IIMs offer close to 5,000 MBA seats, charging between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 23 lakh for a two-year programme. Most of those who enrol have to take an education loan, which they pay back after securing jobs. However, the job situation has been grim this year because of a contraction in the economy, the IIM teachers said. According to private research group Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the unemployment rate was over 9 per cent in December. India lost one-third of its white-collar jobs in four months, seeing an estimated 59 lakh white-collar jobs disappear between May and August. The CAT 2020 results, announced on Saturday, showed nine candidates scoring an overall 100 percentile. They are all men and seven of them have an engineering/technology background while the two others have mathematics and management degrees, respectively. Five of these nine are from the IITs and the rest from IIM Indore (IPM programme), BITS Pilani, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology and the YMCA Institute of Engineering, a media release said. The IIMs will now release their shortlists based on the CAT 2020 scores, group discussions, interviews and some other parameters. More than 94 other institutions too will use the CAT 2020 scores this year to admit students to their management programmes. IIM Indore was in charge of organising CAT 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||1,000 Odisha farmers to join protests in Delhi||Nearly 1,000 farmers from Odisha are ready to leave for Delhi on January 15 to join the ongoing protest against the farm laws and the “cold-blooded murder” of their brethren who have been camping in the open on the outskirts of the national capital in the chilly winter. The Odisha farmers have started a door to door campaign to collect funds to defray the cost of their journey to Delhi. Earlier, more than 50 farmers from Odisha had joined the protests in Delhi and then returned back home to mobilise others for the cause. Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan convener Akshay Kumar told The Telegraph: “Cold-blooded murder is taking place in Delhi. Farmers are dying in the chilly winter and they are also committing suicide. Is it not cold-blooded murder? But the Centre is yet to take a conclusive decision to repeal the farm laws which are meant to serve only the interests of corporates. They are adopting a thakao (tire out) and bhagao (drive out) policy against the protesters. More and more farmers from different parts of the state are going to join the agitation till the goal is achieved. We all are planning to go to Delhi by bus and other vehicles as there is every chance of being detained en route during a train journey.” “From today (Monday) onwards, camps are being organised in different parts of the state to mobilise the farmer leaders to join the stir. In order to sustain the movement, a campaign was launched today to collect funds from farmers. Farmers willing to go to Delhi will be requested to contribute Rs 2,000 for their 15-day stay in Delhi. Those who are not going to Delhi will be asked to contribute according to their capacity for the thousands of farmers who are protesting in Delhi,” he added. Ahead of the journey to Delhi, nearly 5,000 farmers will congregate here on January 15 to lodge their protest against the farm laws. “Earlier the Naveen Patnaik government had opposed the farmers’ entry into the city. However, this time we are hopeful that the state government will allow them to gather,” he said. Alleging that the Narendra Modi government has usurped the powers of the state on farm related issues, Kumar quoted historian and writer Ramachandra Guha’s article “In poor health” that appeared in this newspaper on Saturday. “As Harish Damodaran has pointed out, since the Constitution clearly places both ‘agriculture’ and ‘markets’ on the state list, on these matters, ‘the Centre can encourage, incentivise, persuade and cajole states. However, it cannot legislate on its own. Nonetheless, through a creative (mis)interpretation of an item in the concurrent list which covers trade and commerce in foodstuffs, the Centre had these bills passed, through the dubious procedure in Parliament described above, and without consulting the states at all,” he said. He added: “We want that MSP should be legalised and farm laws which are in favour of the corporates should be repealed immediately.” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee state convener Suresh Panigrahi also quoted Guha’s article and said: “Consider the manner in which the farm bills were ‘passed’ through the Rajya Sabha, with the deputy-chairman of the House, Harivansh, violating all the rules and norms of Parliament by refusing to allow actual voting, and making the bills into law on the basis of his own sense of the House.” “We are against the farm bills. Many farmers are already camping in Delhi and more will join them despite the chilly winter,” he said. Farmer Damburu Soren, who joined the farmers’ rally in Delhi and is now camping near Gwalior with his friends, said: “There is ‘josh’ (excitement) among the farmers in Delhi. Despite the chilly winter, they are quite enthusiastic and upbeat. I met farmers from across the country. They have come from everywhere, from Kerala to Haryana. We the farmers from the eastern part of the country, including Bengal and Jharkhand, are also participating. The number of farmers will swell further after January 15 once the winter becomes less severe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest is ‘nationalism’ test for BJP says Congress||The Congress on Monday said how the Narendra Modi government deals with the farmers’ movement is the true test of nationalism, and several senior leaders warned the BJP of a heavy political cost if it chose to remain stuck to its “pro-capitalist” stance. Rahul Gandhi has all along taken a strident position against crony capitalism, warning the nation of a new form of slavery under “Ambani-Adani” dominance, and on Monday Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took the unusual step of declaring the party’s intent to fight this battle against political rulers as well as corporate houses. Baghel tweeted: “This is not a movement; this is a war. This is a war of farmers who plough the fields… This is a war against the diktats that destroy people and this war will be fought, both against the political masters and the corporate houses.” Congress chief ministers have taken an aggressive stand against the farm laws. While Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot organised a massive protest in Jaipur on Sunday to show solidarity with the protesting farmers, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh said mobile towers being damaged by the protesters can be erected again but the farmers who have lost their lives will not return. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “My favourite poet Saint Tiruvalluvar wrote 2,000 years ago that ‘If farmers fold their hands, even a person who has renounced life cannot survive’. How true it is today. No government can face the wrath of farmers who believe they are being deceived.” Asked why the Congress was not directly participating in the movement or organising its own protests, a senior party functionary said: “We have held demonstrations throughout the country in solidarity with the agitating farmers after Rahul Gandhi took out a two-day tractor rally in Punjab-Haryana. Though the farmers’ unions themselves insist politicians should not join, we have spared no pains in demonstrating our solidarity and support to their cause” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted before Monday’s meeting between the government and farmer leaders: “Today is the true test of ‘Nationalism’! Will Modi Govt act in ‘national interest’ or ‘crony corporate interest’?” The government refused to accept the demand to repeal the laws, resulting in the meeting ending inconclusively. Surjewala later tweeted: “The Modi government’s arrogance has surpassed the excesses of the British regime in terms of apathy towards the farmers’ struggle. Such an undemocratic and irresponsible government has ruled India for the first time. Modiji, remember, your cruel, intolerant and dictatorial government will not be forgiven by history.” Surjewala also recalled how the Haryana government used brute force to stop the farmers from marching towards Delhi on Sunday night, alleging that the use of water cannons and tear gas reminded the nation of General Dyer. In April 1919, General Dyer had ordered troops to open fire on a large crowd that had gathered at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar in defiance of a ban on public meetings, massacring hundreds. Rahul said on Monday that nothing more of the government’s cruelty was left to be seen, tweeting under the hashtag — KisanNahiToDeshNahi (No country without farmers).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Tax inquiry at Zee offices||The income tax department had a busy day on Monday, knocking on the doors of Zee Group, Larsen & Toubro and Robert Vadra. The tax officers called on the offices of the two companies apparently following inputs from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) department. Vadra, the husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, had visitors to record his statement in connection with some property cases. Zee said in a statement: “Officials from the tax department have visited our offices, with certain queries. Our officials are providing all the required information and extending complete cooperation.” L&T, the construction engineering firm, did not offer any comments. A tax official said in New Delhi that “there are no searches or raids but we are carrying out limited verification exercise at the offices of the Larsen and Toubro and Zee Group as we had information about input tax credit… It is basically a follow-up exercise”. Sources said the tax enquiry was linked to Zee Entertainment. Zee Group founder Subhash Chandra is a Rajya Sabha member whose media network is considered friendly towards the Narendra Modi government. However, Zee’s Punjabi news channel has taken a pro-farmer stand on the ongoing agitation. Vadra, after his statement was recorded, told reporters: “I don’t have to hide anything. Whatever they will ask, we will reply. We are here to cooperate. We have answered everything. It was nothing related to benami property. Justice and truth will prevail. I have nothing to hide and worry. I will always cooperate.” The income tax team reached Vadra’s office in east Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar on Monday afternoon, sources said. He was earlier called by the department but had sought more time, citing the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Nitish, BJP tussle over ministry share||Bihar crucially needs a ministry expansion but the process has hit a hurdle with ruling partners Janata Dal United and BJP differing over their share of berths, sources in the alliance said. They said the BJP, the senior partner with 74 seats, wants more ministers than the JDU which has 43 seats, but chief minister Nitish Kumar insists that the two allies should have an equal number of ministers. Bihar now has only 14 ministers out of a permissible 36 – equivalent to 15 per cent of its 243 Assembly seats — and the expansion was expected immediately after a month’s stretch of “inauspicious” time ended on January 15. Relations between the ruling allies have been uneasy for a while, with the BJP leveraging its numbers to foist on Nitish two deputy chief ministers, replacing Sushil Modi with whom the JDU leader had a comfortable working relationship. Recently in Arunachal, the BJP got several JDU members to defect, increasing the tensions. Sources said Nitish’s assertiveness on ministry berths owed partly to his resentment at the way former ally Lok Janshakti Party was allowed to run a campaign against him ahead of the October-November polls, helping script his demotion from senior to junior partner in the alliance. LJP chief Chirag Paswan put up candidates specifically targeting the JDU. The BJP is widely believed to have propped up and encouraged Chirag although neither acknowledges it. “Nitish has been unable to get over the Chirag episode. It has hurt him and he is no mood to forgive because he believes it cost him several seats, turning him into the BJP’s junior partner,” a senior BJP politician told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “He wants to settle scores by ensuring that the JDU gets an equal number of ministry berths as the BJP.” The BJP politician added that since his party was the bigger partner, it should have more ministers. “While heading previous NDA governments, Nitish had allocated ministry berths to allies on the basis of their strength in the Assembly. He used to showcase this as an example of fairness and transparency. Let’s see if he remembers it now,” he said. JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi refused to speak on the subject of his party demanding an equal share of ministry berths with the BJP. Asked when the ministry expansion might happen, he tossed the ball into the BJP’s court. “It’s a very delicate thing. It will happen when the BJP prepares a list of its leaders and talks to the chief minister. We can’t discuss these things,” Tyagi said. “Either the chief minister or Naddaji (BJP national president J.P. Nadda) or the Prime Minister can talk about these things.” State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal too sidestepped the issue of cabinet expansion and the hurdles before it, saying: “Please leave me out of this; these things are decided by our central leadership.” A shortage of ministers has brought development efforts and decision-making virtually to a standstill since the new government was sworn in on November 16. Several among the 14 ministers hold charge of four to six departments. The JDU has five ministers (after a sixth, Mewalal Chaudhary, had to resign over corruption charges) including Nitish while the BJP has seven. Smaller allies Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insan Party have one each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Political battle over Shukla's resignation erupts in Bengal||The ruling Trinamool Congress on Tuesday said that the resignation of Laxmi Ratan Shukla as West Bengal minister of state for youth services and sports is unfortunate but it will not affect the party, while the BJP said that the former cricketer is welcome to join the saffron camp. Shukla's resignation came months before the assembly election in the state and almost a fortnight after transport minister Suvendu Adhikari left the party and joined the BJP. The Congress claimed that TMC is collapsing and party supremo and state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has no remedy for it, while the CPI(M) asked her to explain why the state's ministers one after another are losing faith in her. "Mamata Banerjee had given Shukla due respect and even made him a minister. He was inducted as part of our policy to give prominence to people from different walks of life. It is unfortunate if he quit his post, but it won't affect the party," TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. Describing Shukla as a good party member, senior TMC MP Sougata Ray expressed hope that he will reconsider his decision. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said that if Shukla wants to join his party, he is welcome. "The Trinamool Congres has no political ideology, no direction. It was established on anti-CPI(M) plank which is no more relevant now. People at the grassroot level are aware that the TMC's days are numbered. Just wait for some more time," he told reporters. Bhattacharya did not comment on whether the party had been in touch with Shukla. BJP leader and Union minister Babul Supriyo urged Shukla to leave the TMC and join the BJP. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Choudhury claimed the TMC is collapsing and Banerjee does not know how to prevent it. "We will not ask Shukla to join the party. But our door is open for those who want to be part of the Congress family, those who can't be with the BJP for ideological reasons," said Choudhury who is also the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that Shukla was a sportsman who was made an MLA by the TMC. "It is not for us to comment on why he resigned as minister. He and his party supremo can explain it better. But the CM should explain why his ministers one after another are losing faith in her," Chakraborty said. Shukla, a former captain of Bengal Ranji Trophy team, sent his resignation letter to the chief minister and a copy of it to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Assembly elections in West Bengal are due in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigns from Bengal sports minister's post||Bengal Minister of State for Youth Services and Sports Laxmi Ratan Shukla resigned from his post on Tuesday, sources in the state secretariat said. Shukla sent his resignation letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and a copy of it to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, they said. The former cricketer's resignation came almost a fortnight after state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari had left the party and joined BJP. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accepted the resignation of Laxmi Ratan Shukla and forwarded the letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankar. Banerjee, who is also the supremo of the ruling TMC, wished Shukla good luck in the future. "Laxmi can resign, it does not matter. He is a good boy. It's okay that he left to rejoin cricket. In his letter, he has not written of resigning from the ministry but has expressed his wish to retire from all forms of politics and concentrate on sports and give more time to it," Banerjee told reporters at the secretariat. The chief minister said that in the resignation letter Shukla, who represents Howrah (Uttar), has written that he will continue as an MLA till the end of the present term of the Assembly. "He (Shukla) has asked to be relieved from all other responsibilities. So I have recommended the governor to accept his resignation. I wish him to good luck and there is no misunderstanding between us," she added. Former captain of the Bengal Ranji team, 39-year-old Shukla, MLA of Howrah (Uttar), in his resignation letter to Banerjee expressed his willingness to "retire" from politics, the officials said. Shukla, who was looking after the TMC affairs in Howrah district, however, has not given up his post as an MLA, they added. Repeated calls to Shukla's mobile number went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stands in queue to collect health scheme card||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday stood in a queue along with other locals in Kalighat area here to collect her 'Swasthya Sathi' smart card from a Kolkata Municipal Corporation distribution centre. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, dubbed the move as "pure drama". The TMC chief, accompanied by urban development minister Firhad Hakim and other government officials, arrived at Joy Hind Bhavan, close to her residence on Harish Chatterjee Street, around 11.45 am, to collect the card. Swasthya Sathi, a flagship scheme launched by the TMC government, provides health cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per annum to a family for secondary and tertiary care. Hakim, while talking to reporters, said that the chief minister stood in the queue like any ordinary person to collect the card. "It goes on to show that she is one among the people of the state," he stated. The CM had on Monday urged all ministers of her government to collect the card. "I will keep this card in my archive. I urge other ministers, too, to join the scheme," she had said. The state government has been providing 'Swasthya Sathi' smart cards to people, as part of her 'Duare Sarkar' initiative -- a mass outreach programme for doorstep delivery of welfare scheme benefits. State chief secretary Alapan Bandopadyay had said that over one crore people have enrolled themselves for the scheme so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP minority leader shot at ||A BJP leader from the minority community was shot at in Kumarganj area of Pukhuria police station on Sunday night. Sadek Ali, who took two bullets on his left elbow, is admitted to the Malda Medical College and Hospital. The BJP accused Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. Trinamul denied the charges. Ali told his party colleagues that he was returning home after attending a party event in Samsi when a truck blocked his car. When he got off his car, some persons led by the husband and son of Selina Bibi, the head of the Trinamulrun Kumarganj panchayat, fired at him, alleged a BJP leader, quoting Ali. “The first two bullets missed him but two others hit him on the (left) elbow.” On Monday, a BJP delegation led by Malda North MP Khagen Murmu went to the hospital and spoke to Ali. Sayantan Basu, state BJP generalsecretary, also met Ali and told the media that the attack indicated that Trinamul was “scared” that people from minority communities were joining the BJP. Malda district Trinamul chief Mausam Noor blamed “acute infighting in the BJP across Malda” for the firing. “We have spoken to residents who said BJP’s camp squabbling led to the firing. Trinamul has no link with the incident,” she said. The BJP will launch a movement across the district if no arrests are made within next 48 hours, its leaders said. Police visited the spot, met Ali and started a probe, said Gautam Choudhury, the officerincharge of Pukhuria police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
05-01-2021||West Bengal||State to celebrate ‘secular Netaji’||Mamata Banerjee will launch the yearlong quasquicentennial anniversary celebration of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23, the day the Prime Minister is likely to be in Bengal. “The core idea is to make sure that once again Netaji’s ideas and everything he stood for are spread far and wide…. A truly national, global icon, who rose from Bengal,” said the chief minister on Monday. In a meeting with the elite committee comprising eminent members of the civil society tasked with planning the celebration, Mamata took suggestions on Monday to make Netaji’s ideals more relevant to the youth. Nobel laureate economists Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, part of the committee, asked Mamata to ensure that Netaji’s uncompromisingly inclusive, secular worldview was highlighted. While Banerjee joined the meeting virtually, Sugata Bose, Netaji’s grandnephew, presented Sen’s suggestions and explained that the Nobel laureate had “an 11hour time lag with India now”. Mamata was appreciative, sources said. “He (Sen) asked the state government to try and foster awareness on Netaji’s ideals of unity and equality among youths. He stressed the need for attention to Netaji’s unifying philosophy, important as he was against narrowmindedness in any form and was firmly opposed to communalism,” said Bose at the meeting. “Not only was he uncompromisingly secular but also firmly stood by the poor,” he added, quoting Sen. “If we truly want to celebrate his life, we should work towards bringing together all kinds of opinions, faiths, even creative work,” said Banerjee. A minister said Mamata will use the occasion to lambaste the saffron camp’s attempts at deifying “controversial” figures such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya. Modi, likely to participate in Netaji-centric events in Bengal on January 23, has often lauded Netaji, but according to critics with the intent to undermine Jawaharlal Nehru. “Modi is the ideological descendant of Syama Prasad Mookerjee…It is no secret that Bose was a fierce critic of Mookerjee and the Hindu Mahasabha...This will be highlighted,” said a Trinamul MP. The elite committee includes poet Shankha Ghosh, scholars and Netaji kin Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose, finance minister and Netaji kin Amit Mitra, authors Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay and Abul Bashar, thespians Rudraprasad Sengupta and Manoj Mitra, artists Jogen Chowdhury and Suvaprasanna, poet Subodh Sarkar, danseuseactor Mamata Shankar, and author and activist Manoranjan Byapari, senior government officials and many vicechancellors. Mamata said henceforth, Bengal would celebrate January 23 — Netaji was born on that date in 1897 — as Deshonayak Diwas, to be launched this time with a mega rally from the base of his statue at Shyambazar to that on Red Road. At 12.15pm, the time of his birth, sirens would be sounded across the state. In educational institutions, cells of the Jai Hind Vahini akin to the NCC would be set up. “Besides, we must have a special Azad Hind Fauj monument, a national university in Netaji’s name…. Personally, I believe as a nation we have not done enough to honour the global hero. We are yet to declare his birthday as a national holiday,” said the Trinamul chief, in a jibe at the Centre. Mamata also reiterated her demand for bringing to light the “whole truth” about Netaji’s end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Cong panel for Left talks||The Congress central leadership on Monday constituted a four member committee headed by state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to hold talks with Left parties on seat sharing and chalk out plans to hold joint political programmes. The development comes within a week of the Congress high command giving the state unit its “formal approval” to fight the Bengal polls in alliance with the Left Front. Apart from Chowdhury, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan, MP Pradip Bhattacharya and MLA from Baghmundi in Purulia, Nepal Mahato, are members of the committee. “The following committee has been constituted to hold talks with the Left parties regarding seat sharing and joint programmes for the West Bengal assembly election,” the notification issued by Bengal’s Congress minder Jitin Prasada states. Chowdhury said on Monday: “We have already started talks with the Left parties and the high command has formed a specific committee to take forward the proposed pact with the Left Front.” Sources said the formation of the committee led to confusion among a section of state Congress leaders who had already been tasked to hold talks with Left by Chowdhury. “A few party leaders were working on the issue on the advice of Chowdhury. Now the question is whether the talks held so far will count after formation of the new committee?” said a senior Congress leader. Bhattacharya, who is also part of the new committee, said he had met Left Front chairperson Biman Basu on Sunday and discussed issues related to the alliance. Chowdhury, however, said: “It is not an issue at all as there was no specific committee and the leaders were holding talks with the Left parties on my behalf. Now, the newly formed committee will take forward the talks, while other leaders can place their suggestions.” The state Congress unit has sent an invitation to the office of former party president Rahul Gandhi requesting him to visit Bengal to hold political programmes. However, the state leaders are yet to get any nod from Rahul’s office. “We have invited him (Gandhi). However, we are yet to get his green signal,” said Chowdhury. On the other hand, the Left Front is planning to hold a mega rally at Brigade Parade ground in February where CPM leaders want to show their strength jointly with Congress in presence of senior Congress leaders like Rahul Gandhi. “However, the plan for the rally at Brigade is yet to be finalised,” said a source in CPM. CPM candidates The CPM state committee has in principle decided to reserve 60 per cent seats for candidates below the age of 40 years in the polls. “It was decided that more young people need to be brought to forefront and hence CPM would give tickets to people below 40 years of age at 60 per cent of the seats,” a CPM leader present at the state committee meeting said. Sources said the decision was pushed by leaders like former minister Kanti Ganguly and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury. “Yechury gave his own example and said that since CPM is the party of future and the only alternative, someone of his age cannot be the face of the party,” a source said. The decision came in the backdrop of growing unemployment and lack of educational facilities in the country. "These are issues only the youth can identify with and hence the decision," the source added. Twelve Left student and youth organisations have given a call to march to the state secretariat at Nabanna on February 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Hill music stampede kills two||Two women died and four were injured in a stampede when the entrance door to a musical event in Kalimpong was suddenly opened by the organisers on Sunday night. The event organised by a group of people under the banner Mad Dog had popular rapper from Nepal, Ashish Rana aka Laure, performing at the Mela Ground, along with other artistes in the region. “Because of instant swelling of the crowd at Gandhi gate ticket counter, a stampede occurred around 7pm on Sunday,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the superintendent of police, Kalimpong. The deceased were Anita Chhetri, 40 and Banita Gurung, 46, both from Chandraloke in Kalimpong. Both died at hospital. The injured are Parima Rai, 18, Pratiksha Chettri, 14, Marsang Subba, 20 and Anita Subba, 31. Marsang has been referred to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, Siliguri, while the rest are being treated at Kalimpong district hospital. The Mela Ground has a capacity to hold around 20,000 people and even though the footfall was not as large, the flash point was the rush to enter the venue. A descending staircase connects Kalimpong Motor Stand with the ground where the event was held. Parima, an injured, said they had gathered in front of the Gandhi gate to enter the ground. “The police waved their batons and sent us to another entrance. However, people at the other entrance sent us back to the Gandhi gate.” It was then, according to Parima, that the organisers opened the gate and the crowd behind rushed on them. “The crowd at the entrance was not properly managed in the sense that there were no proper queues,” said Parima. The Kalimpong motor stand has a relative wide space for the crowd to have been spaced out. Sources said few hundred people had jostled with each other and many of them had fallen on the staircase. The injured were taken to hospital by the police, volunteers and local people. The Kalimpong police chief said cases would be registered against the organisers and an investigation was on. No arrests have been made. Pai said the police had tried to push the crowd away from the choke point. “In fact, pushing away from the choke point helped save many lives.” The musical soiree began around 7.30pm and it was stopped by the police after one hour. The police said around 15,00 people had come to watch the show. None of the organisers could be contacted by this correspondent to know their version. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on Monday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that negligence on the part of Kalimpong administration had triggered the stampede and seeking judicial investigation into the incident. “Since it was the West Bengal government officials who granted permission for the event, the state government must pay all the treatment and hospital bills for those injured and appropriate financial compensation must be paid to the families of those who lost their lives,” wrote Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Total active Covid cases fall below 10,000||Bengal on Monday lowered total active Covid19 cases to less than 10,000 as the state recorded a drop in the count for 70 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The active cases at present are 9,671 — almost back to the figure 146 days ago on July 11. In these 70 days, the total of active cases has improved by 74 per cent, from 37,190 on October 26. “This is a moment of pride for us. Getting back to a four digit total in active cases is a stellar achievement at this stage of the pandemic,” said a minister. Bengal has fallen to the sixth place — from third, a few weeks ago — on the list of states with the most active cases. The state now has around 4.2 per cent of the national total of active cases, down from over seven, weeks ago. On Monday, the state logged 597 infections — the lowest tally in months. There were also 1,347 recoveries and 25 deaths. The 597 new cases were detected from 25,256 tests, considerably less than the 42,00045,000 swab samples tests now conducted daily –The recovery rate has risen for 74 consecutive days, by over nine per cent, to 96.49. The national rate is now 96.29 per cent. “We will stretch our lead to two per cent by the end of the month,” said the minister. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported nearly 2.26 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.01 lakh new infections detected. The state’s total 5.55 lakh Covid cases include over 5.36 lakh recoveries and 9,817 deaths. Monday’s 25 deaths included eight recorded in Calcutta. The state attributed 8,232 deaths (83.9 per cent of the toll) to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. The state’s current positive confirmation rate is 7.68 per cent, which is a steady improvement from 8.27 per cent on November 20. The state’s total test count went past 72.35 lakh, at 80,393 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. Last week, a similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak does not worsen over the New Year celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Ready to verify central farm dole pleas: CM||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she had written a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, informing him that the state government would verify 21.79 lakh farmers’ applications for the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme. The move, bureaucrats said, is a significant development as this gives a hint that the state is ready to implement the scheme, which was so far being rejected since it was launched in December, 2018. The scheme ensures a financial support of Rs 6,000 annually for farmers across the country. “The Union agriculture minister had written a letter on November 6 last year asking us to verify the applications of 21.79 lakh farmers, who had applied for the scheme through the Centre’s portal. I have urged him to send the list of farmers and we will verify the applicants,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Monday. Mamata made it clear that her government did not want the farmers to be deprived of any benefits offered by the Centre. She insisted that her objection was to the manner in which the Centre wanted to implement the scheme. “I had called up the Union agriculture minister and urged him to transfer money to the state’s treasury. We will transfer the money to the farmers immediately. But he said the Centre wanted to send benefits directly to the farmers. This shows the Centre wants to bypass the state,” said the chief minister. “As we don’t want to deprive any of the farmers of any benefit, we have asked the Centre to send the list so that we can verify them,” the chief minister added. Bengal was opposing the scheme citing it did not give benefit to all the farmers and the state-sponsored scheme — Krishak Bandu — was far more inclusive as it was offering Rs 5,000 per acre annually, besides a sum of Rs 2 lakh in case of a farmer’s death. “Our scheme is for 72 lakh farmers in the state, but the Centre’s scheme would give benefit to a maximum of 21 lakh to 22 lakh farmers,” the chief minister said. So far, a total of 47 lakh farmers have registered for the state’s scheme and another 2 lakh farmers have applied through the Duare Sarkar camps. Trinamul insiders said the move by the chief minister was a smart one as it would counter the BJP’s campaign that the state government had deprived the farmers of the state of financial assistance under the central scheme by not implementing it. “Now the BJP would not be able to raise the issue to attack the chief minister. But on the other hand, the chief minister would be able to catch the BJP on the wrong foot by saying only one third of the state’s farmers are eligible for the scheme,” said a Trinamul MLA. Sources in Nabanna said that according to the guideline of Krishak Bandu, the farmers could avail themselves of both the schemes as the state’s scheme didn’t prevent anybody from getting the benefits even if a farmer was getting assistance under a similar scheme from any other agency. House motion Mamata said her government would get a resolution passed in the Assembly against the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre. “We will hold an Assembly session of two to three days where the resolution will be passed. I hope that all parties, except the BJP, would support the move,” said the chief minister. Recently, the Left and the Congress had written to the chief minister urging her to convene an Assembly session to discuss the contentious farm laws. Many states have already got similar motions passed in their respective Assembles against the agriculture laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea prices reap lockdown blessing in disguise  ||Tea prices soared in 2020, fuelled by supply constraints linked to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Unlike previous years when tea prices stayed more or less stagnant, rates soared particularly from June onwards. Sources said the supply chain was affected because many gardens could not get trucks to transport the tea stocks. The Tea Board of India recently came out with data on prices that teas fetched in auction centres in the first 11 months — till November 2020. According to the data, the average price fetched by a kilo of tea in north Indian auctions till November was Rs 207.59. In 2019, it was Rs 152.84. In south India, the average price fetched last year (till November) was Rs 130 per kilo of tea while it was Rs 101.04 in 2019. The all-India average rate was Rs 187.91 in 2020, considerably higher than Rs 141.03 in 2019. The notable rise, stakeholders in the tea industry said, was in north India, specifically from June to September. “During these months, the average auction price of a kilo of tea increased by as much as Rs 130 vis-à-vis the average price of 2019,” said a planter. He said that in June 2020, the average price was Rs 238.40, around Rs 132 higher than the price of a kilo of tea in the corresponding month in 2019, Rs 166.97. The highest average tea price in north India was in August, Rs 284.44. Tea planters, however, spoke about the dip in tea production in 2020. Planters said the Tea Board data hints that in 2020, India’s annual tea production was less by around 150 million kilos compared to 2019. In 2019, 1,390.08 million kilos of tea was produced in India while till November 2020, the total production stood at 1,181.67 million kilos. “Around 65 million kilos are usually produced in December in India. Even if it remains the same in 2020 (December figures are not yet released), we are staring at a shortfall of around 150 million kilos,” said a planter, explaining that main tea growers in Assam and Bengal produced around 100 and 40 million kilos less in 2000 than 2019. Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the Tea Association of India, north Bengal branch, explained reasons for the dip: “Because of the nationwide lockdown (in March-end), the industry suffered a jolt when production was supposed to start in full swing. Then came the monsoon months, when many gardens saw floods.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Free cataract surgeries and spectacles||The Mamata Banerjee government will enable 20 lakh cataract surgeries and distribute 8.25 lakh spectacles, both free of cost, in the next five years under the new Chokher Alo scheme that aims to provide eye health for all in Bengal. “We are launching a new initiative — Chokher Alo — from tomorrow (Tuesday) for a period of five years. During this period, we will conduct 20 lakh cataract surgeries and distribute 8.25 lakh spectacles free of cost. This will help us eradicate vision impairment in the state,” said Mamata at Nabanna on Monday. The chief minister also announced that students of all schools and colleges would undergo free eye check-up under the scheme and 4 lakh spectacles in all would be distributed to them in the course of the next five years. Chokher Alo starts from Tuesday in 1,200 gram panchayats and 120 urban health centres, Mamata said, and eye camps will be held in these areas with more than 300 ophthalmologists working in tandem. Roughly, some 11 per cent people are blind and over 4 per cent have low vision from among 18 lakh specially abled persons in Bengal. “The number of persons with low vision must be much higher as elderly people from remote areas hardly have money and resources to visit an ophthalmologist,” said a senior health official. The scheme, sources said, would benefit the poor and aged especially from remote areas as the state will set up camps in their localities. “People who visit camps would first undergo a vision test. Those with severe vision problems would be checked for the reason. If it is cataract, the state government will organise surgery for them. People from financially weaker sections will get preference for the free surgery,” said a source. If the reason for low vision is something else, the person concerned would be referred to nearby hospitals. “As all people in Bengal would have Swasthya Sathi (state government sponsored health insurance) cards by the next few months, patients referred to nearby hospitals would not face much trouble in getting treatment,” said an official. Some officials said the initiative was taken when people’s enthusiasm to register under state government schemes at Duare Sarkar camps became visible. A Trinamul insider said the chief minister was leaving no stone unturned to reach out to those in remote areas ahead of the 2021 polls. “The BJP is campaigning that the state government deprived people by not implementing Ayushman Bharat, a medical insurance scheme of the Centre. We are countering that through Swasthya Sathi. But eye check-up camps at gram panchayat level would help us ahead of the polls,” said a ruling party MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Leopard dead, hind leg missing ||A leopard carcass was found near Baradighi tea estate on fringes of Gorumara National Park in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri district on Monday morning. The animal, foresters said, died of infighting, but after its death, some people seemed to have chopped off a hind leg. Foresters engaged the department’s sniffer dog Orlando to help trace the culprits. A forest officer said they suspected poaching initially as on December 27, the carcass of another leopard was recovered from Kurti, a tea estate in Nagrakata block, with one of its legs missing. In this case, when vets conducted the post-mortem, they confirmed that the leopard had died from infighting. “We suspect some people chopped off one of the legs and took it away after they spotted the carcass. This is the second such incident in a week,” the officer added. Suicide A 21-year-old accused of stealing a goat and confined to a room at Barobisha market of Alipurduar on Monday afternoon was found hanging some time later, allegedly committing suicide out of humiliation. Police sources said Chiranjit Ramayan, 21, of Kamandanga village, had been to the market when some people intercepted him and accused him of stealing a goat. They beat him up and took him to a room in the market where he was tied with rope and locked in. As news spread, his family rushed to the spot and asked traders to let him go. The traders refused. The family called up the police but soon got the news that Chiranjit was found hanging inside the room. Police recovered the body and started a probe. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata launches trauma care facility||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee virtually inaugurated a level II trauma care facility in North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Monday. Mamata, who inaugurated the facility from state secretariat Nabanna, said it would help accident patients from across north Bengal. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, senior officials and faculty members of the hospital were present at NBMCH during the inauguration. The new unit, built at a cost of Rs 10 crore, has 20 beds, two operation theatres, two operating tables and a recovery room with 10 beds. Specialist doctors will man the unit that will also have orthopaedic and neurosurgery departments. “Earlier, we had built a level I trauma care unit in Calcutta where around Rs 100 crore was spent. This new unit also has all the facilities. Accident patients would no longer have to come to Calcutta for treatment,” Mamata added. Covid advisory The state health department has come up with guidelines for those who recovered from Covid-19. “They must be examined on the 14th and 28th day after discharge and once a month for next one year for complications,” said an official of the Darjeeling district health department. At NBMCH, a designated facility would be ready for such patients. Post-Covid complications can include breathing problems, chest pain, headaches, neurocognitive problems, muscle pain and weakness, gastrointestinal upsets, rashes, metabolic disruption, thromboembolic conditions and depression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Brothers clash over land, 10 hurt||At least 10 persons got injured as two brothers and their associates clashed with each other over the possession of a piece of land at Nayargach village under Chopra police station of North Dinajpur on Monday. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. All the injured were taken to a local health centre in Dalua. Later, two with serious injuries were sent to North Bengal Medical College & Hospital. Sources said four brothers were having problems over the sharing of an ancestral plot measuring around four bighas for a while. Recently, Ashimuddin alleged that his brother Kashimuddin got the entire plot registered in the latter’s name by convincing their father. This further intensified the dispute among them. On Monday, the brothers got involved in an altercation over land and soon attacked each other. Their associates joined in and the assault intensified, prompting other villagers to inform the police. “The situation is under control now. Our officers are investigating the case. No arrests have been made so far,” said a police officer. In another incident, Baishnabnagar police in Malda district arrested a youth from 16th Mile area on Sunday and seized Rs 96,000 of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) in denominations of Rs 500 from him. An improvised firearm and one round of live cartridge were also found on him. The police, who have withheld his name, are interrogating him to know where he obtained the FICN and the weapons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-247
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Stones hit BJP road show||A scuffle broke out between supporters of the BJP and the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Monday afternoon after a BJP road show was attacked with stones and shoes. The BJP alleged that Trinamul supporters who were holding a street corner meeting at Watgunj had stoned the road show which was being led by Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy and MP Arjun Singh. The rally started from Orphangunje at Alipore and ended in front of the BJP office at Hastings. The stones and the shoes were hurled at the vehicle carrying the BJP leaders, but they missed the target. Soon, the BJP processionists and alleged Trinamul members got into a scuffle. “Police intervened just in time and the matter ended with stone and shoe pelting and mild skirmishes,” said a BJP insider. “Since Trinamul has started falling apart, its supporters are venting out their despair through such unruliness,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said. “Just see the law and order in the state. But they cannot stop us like this,” Ghosh added. The BJP had announced that Trinamul turncoat and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his associate Baisakhi Banerjee would lead the road show, but they didn’t show up. The stone throwing and the skirmishes helped the BJP divert attention from a major loss of face. “Thanks to the clash, we can downplay Sovanda and Baisakhi’s absence. The party will create a narrative about how our leaders were manhandled by Trinamul goons to avoid talking about the two,” a BJP state officebearer told this correspondent. A source said Vijayvargiya had taken Roy and MP Singh to the rally as a last minute substitute. “Mukulda was supposed to stay at Hastings office today and was not scheduled to turn up for the event. Since, the two people who were supposed to be the focus of the road show didn’t turn up, Kailashji dragged him and Arjunda to the rally,” the BJP source said. Roy said he had no idea why Chatterjee and Banerjee had stayed away from the rally. “I’ve no idea why they didn’t come,” Roy said. Chatterjee was recently named the observer for the BJP’s Calcutta zone, while Banerjee has been designated as a coconvenor. Monday’s rally was set to be the first public program of the two leaders since they joined the BJP in August 2019. The party had planned the event as a mega road show. However, Banerjee had apparently refused to participate in the rally citing personal reasons. Immediately, state BJP leaders changed the event’s agenda in a bid to find a way out of the embarrassment. “This event wasn’t about one or two leaders. It was a campaign rally with our anti-Trinamul slogan Aar noye awnyay (no more injustice),” a BJP leader said. According to sources, Banerjee was called from the party’s call centre on Monday morning and was invited to participate in the rally. “The caller had referred to the event as Sovan Chatterjee’s rally which didn’t go down well with Baisakhi and hence she refused to turn up,” a source close to the two leaders said. As soon as it was confirmed that Banerjee would not participate in the rally, BJP leaders were sure that Chatterjee would follow suit. “The party has its own disciplinary action committee which will look into the matter,” Ghosh said reacting to the absence of the two leaders. Black flags at Anurag Left Front supporters showed black flags to Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur as he was on his way to the GST office at Kasba in Calcutta on Monday. The protest was organised by the CPM’s Haltu area committee. “We don’t want the rioter Anurag Thakur in our state, in our city,” a participant in the demonstration said. The CPM has maintained that some of Thakur’s comments had added to the communal flareup in Delhi last year. Thakur visited former Indian skipper Sourav Ganguly who was admitted to a city hospital to enquire about his health. He also took a jibe at Trinamul’s attempt to tag the BJP as a party of outsiders. “If a minister of the central government is tagged as an outsider, then who is an insider?” Thakur told journalists on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
05-01-2021||West Bengal||Covid test must for pilgrims||The Bengal government on Monday urged pilgrims, who wish to visit Gangasagar Mela this year, to get tested for Covid19 before leaving their respective states. The state government has also decided to set up 13 Covid19 testing centres at various entry points of Sagar Island in addition to five such centres in Calcutta. The state government’s move comes on a day a public interest litigation (PIL) was filed before Calcutta High Court seeking cancellation of Gangasagar Mela, which will be held between January 8 and 16 at Sagar Island in South 24Parganas, to stem the further spread of Covid19 in Bengal. A division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan will hear the petition filed by advocate Ajoy De on Tuesday. Sources said when the issue would come up for hearing on Tuesday, the state’s advocate general would inform the bench about the steps the government had taken in view of the pandemic. Moving the petition, De said: “It is the second largest religious mela in India and lakhs of pilgrims from all the parts of country assemble at Sagar Island. In the midst of a pandemic, when there is a bar on gathering, how can government grant permission to the event?” The lawyer pleaded that the court direct the government to declare Sagar Island as containment zone to bar such a large gathering this year. In October last year, De had in a similar move got the court to declare Durga Puja pandals as containment zones. The order had helped the government avoid large gatherings that happens during Durga Puja every year. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday met senior officials to chalk out plans to carry out Covid tests on pilgrims before they enter the Island. Mamata urged pilgrims from Bengal to avoid visiting Gangasagar this year as the state was trying to organise the fair with fewer visitors in the backdrop of the pandemic. At the meeting held in Nabanna, Mamata said a dedicated team of 800 people would be deployed at the island to ensure that everybody followed Covid protocol. The government said a 600 bed Covid hospital, in addition to isolation centres and safe homes, would be arranged at Gangasagar. In addition, there would be two air ambulances, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-248
05-01-2021||North East||Strong winds hamper Dzukou Valley fire fight||Inaccessibility and windy conditions are hindering the fight to contain the fire raging in multiple areas of Dzukou Valley located along the Nagaland-Manipur border but the efforts by both states and central government agencies have controlled it to a large extent, officials involved in the fire-fighting operations said on Monday. “There are spots we cannot even reach in person because of very steep slopes. The Indian Air Force choppers are helping us. There were no flames seen on the Nagaland side on Monday afternoon but there are reports of flames at a few spots following strong wind during the evening. Inaccessibility and strong wind are hindering operations but the overall situation has improved since Sunday due to the collective effort of all stakeholders,” a Nagaland official told The Telegraph. The day saw the IAF continue its Bambi bucket operations (pouring water in the affected areas), while field-level personnel tried to contain the fire at several spots on the Nagaland side where 5km of firelines have been made to check the spread. The four IAF choppers made 12 sorties on Monday, the official said. In Manipur, the focus is more on containing the spread on the southern side of Mount Iso since the western side is almost under control. Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio will be undertaking an aerial survey of the valley on Tuesday. His Manipur counterpart N. Biren Singh had carried out an assessment on Thursday and requested the Centre to help fight the fire in the picturesque valley which is a popular destination for both tourists and trekkers. Soon after, the IAF was deployed. The army, NDRF and Assam Rifles personnel are also engaged in the fire-fighting operations along with state government departments and local volunteers. “Tomorrow, I will be making an aerial survey of the latest forest fire situation at Dzukou valley that is spreading across Nagaland and Manipur. There has been a joint effort to tackle the situation and Nagaland side is more or less under control,” Rio tweeted on Monday evening. The IAF will continue its operations on Tuesday which will also see a thorough review of the ongoing operations and what more could be done to douse the fire as soon as possible, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
05-01-2021||North East||AASU launches employment exchange in Jorhat||The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) has entered a government domain by launching a private employment exchange in Jorhat, the first such initiative in the state. Till Monday, 114 unemployed youths have registered at the exchange. “We will help provide 100 per cent placement to indigenous, efficient and unemployed youth at very reasonable fees. We will be signing memoranda of understanding with private companies very soon,” Jorhat AASU unit president Bijoy S. Bordoloi told The Telegraph. Employment exchanges are usually run by the government to help the educated unemployed find jobs for free, while private firms run placement centres or consultancies for a fee. The AASU Jorhat unit launched the employment exchange, in collaboration with the district unit of the Asom Sena and the Guidance Information-cum-Consultancy Centre (GICC), at Solicitor Road on December 18. AASU president Dipanka Nath inaugurated the exchange and said similar centres will be launched across the state. “Tinsukia and Dibrugarh are next in line,” he said. The timing of the launch has, however, raised eyebrows since it comes just months ahead of the Assembly polls amid the AASU’s assertion that it does not want the BJP-led state government to continue. The union has accused the state government for allegedly failing to protect Assam’s interests, a reason why the student organisation along with Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) backed the formation of the Assam Jatiya Parishad, a regional outfit. Most see the launch of the private employment exchange as an attempt to reach out to the youth by helping them find gainful employment in an economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. In September 2019, the state had over 17 lakh educated unemployed, which has risen to about 27 lakh in wake of the pandemic, according to a government agency. The BJP had attracted the youth in the last Assembly and general elections but the ruling party may find it hard to retain them with rising unemployment numbers. Initiatives such as the AASU’s employment exchange will only remind them of the government’s apparent inability to deliver, most say. The setting up of the exchange has been influenced by Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord which envisages 100 per cent employment of local residents in Group C and D jobs in the private sector, Nath said. “Since Assam has an unemployment issue and the government has not been able to help resolve it despite Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, we decided to launch the exchange. We will ensure that our boys and girls get 100 per cent jobs in the private sector,” Nath said. The AASU will not only help job-seekers with their placements but will also provide assistance on counselling and training. According to Bordoloi, they will be charging processing fees of Rs 200 so that they can run the exchange smoothly. “We have employed three persons to run the exchange. We are not charging anything now. Once somebody gets a placement, we will request them to give Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 to the exchange. “We may also charge a nominal fee later to make the exchange self-sustaining. This is a not-for-profit venture unlike private placement agencies or consultancies which charge exorbitant amounts. We hope to make a positive intervention,” Bordoloi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
05-01-2021||Opinion||Hard truths: executive and judiciary||If the mixing of politics and religion is dangerous in a secular country, the slightest suspicion that the executive in a democracy is encroaching on the territory of justice is equally so. The Andhra Pradesh High Court has pronounced strongly against what it perceived as such encroachment by the chief minister of the state, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and his government. The two-judge bench of Rakesh Kumar and D. Ramesh was hearing a case challenging the auction of government land to private parties. Reportedly stating that the chief minister was undermining the functioning of the court, the bench referred to his letter to the Chief Justice of India, complaining against the functioning of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Since the two chief justices of the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana High Courts were transferred, the bench expressed its disapproval, as that might look as though the Supreme Court collegium were responding to the chief minister’s letter. The justice system could thus lose credibility in people’s minds. More, the transfers were to the chief minister’s advantage, because the hearings against him would be delayed. In September, the police had closed a number of cases against him, calling them ‘false’. The chief minister, the court reportedly pointed out, had also complained against a senior Supreme Court judge, who had asked that all cases against legislators be completed within a year. The issues raised here are deeply unsettling. The high court reportedly remarked that the courts were ‘under attack’ from people in power; this laid bare the connection with corruption. The implied contempt for the system in Mr Reddy’s complaint to the Supreme Court was indirectly touched upon, while the Andhra Pradesh High Court judge, Mr Kumar, responded sharply to the government’s attempt, based allegedly on falsehoods, to have him recuse himself on grounds of bias from the case he was hearing. He also said that if there were a gap of a year before judges were reassigned after retiring, no political party in power would be able to undermine the judiciary’s independence. The statement made obvious the implications of the confrontation between the Andhra Pradesh chief minister and the state’s high court, while pointing to a systemic flaw — a loose end that, for obvious reasons, legislatures have left unchanged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||Exercise caution: Indian oil sardine on path to revival||Sir — After years of low yield, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute has found that the Indian oil sardine is on a path to revival on the Kerala coast. While this is indeed great news, the researchers have warned that the resurgence is still in its early stages. The schools of fish are below the reproductive age and indiscriminate fishing would have an adverse affect. Hopefully, fishermen will heed these warnings and wait till the fish reach maturity. Navya Abraham,Kochi Start anew Sir — It must come as a relief to many that the United Kingdom and the European Union managed to strike a provisional free trade deal on December 24, just before the post-Brexit transition period ended on December 31 (“Deal with it”, Dec 30). The deal contains stipulations on subjects ranging from civil nuclear cooperation and energy interconnections to fishing and aviation. The deal comes as a boost for the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, whose vociferous push towards Brexit saw him rise to his current position. But those hoping that it will allow British assets to catch up with high-flying overseas markets may be disappointed. The nature of the deal will leave Britain far more detached from the EU than was thought likely in 2016, with signs pointing towards the need for further negotiations. The combination of Brexit and Covid-19 has left the British economy in tatters. Its currency is 20 per cent below its long-term fair value and few expect it to recover fully in the near future. The deal leaves much to be desired. It is not surprising that the details of the agreement reached between London and Brussels are still somewhat fuzzy for now. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Boris Johnson must be lauded for ensuring a dignified exit for the UK from the EU. The citizens of the country had been dragged through the turmoil for years, both by the Labour Party and the Tories before the referendum in 2016. The UK, an established global financial hub, has been through much uncertainty. However, the pandemic has made it abundantly clear that both the UK and the EU need each other to tide over these trying times. The latest deal agreed upon by the two parties opens up a new chapter of regional cooperation in Europe. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||Pot boils: JDU and the BJP||Political disaffection does not obey the laws of geography. Therefore, it is only to be expected that the tremors of a political development in Arunachal Pradesh would be felt in Bihar. After the Bharatiya Janata Party, as is its wont, welcomed six legislators from the Janata Dal (United) into its fold in the northeastern state, the game could well be afoot in Bihar where the BJP and the JD(U) are in power by virtue of a wafer-thin majority. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, the party that won the highest number of seats among the contenders in the recent elections, is doing its bit to muddy the waters within the National Democratic Alliance. In a significant concession, Rabri Devi, the former chief minister, said that she would have no objections if Nitish Kumar were to switch sides and join the Grand Alliance. This remark had been preceded by speculation — aided and abetted by another leader of the RJD — that as many as 17 legislators of a besieged JD(U) have expressed an interest to join the RJD since the BJP, now the senior partner in the ruling alliance, was weakening Mr Kumar’s party. Mr Kumar has scotched these rumours. They could be emblematic of the posturing that is common in competitive politics. But a staunch denial is unlikely to calm the nerves in Patna. The NDA, even though it won the mandate in Bihar, remains vulnerable because of several reasons other than the absence of a decisive majority. An expansive and aggressive BJP is likely to be a source of anguish for Mr Kumar whose political leverage has been reduced significantly because of a modest performance at the hustings. The JD(U) has only 43 seats in its kitty. Mr Kumar’s history of changing political spots — he had fought and won the 2015 polls with the RJD by its side, only to return to the NDA’s arms two years later — would also force the BJP to look over its shoulders. The RJD, energized by its recent showing, is waiting in the wings. Of course, such blatant jockeying for power remains unmindful of ideological fidelity or that other principle integral in a democracy:  the sanctity of the people’s mandate. The propensity to dishonour electoral verdicts has coincided with the political ascendancy of the BJP, which has snatched several states from its rivals by means that are usually more foul than fair. Would a cornered Mr Kumar pay the BJP back in its own coin?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||India’s para-athletes||The World Health Organization observed the International Day of Persons with Disabilities on December 3, endorsing the theme, “a day for all”. The United Nations is embarking on its 17-point sustainable development goals for the year, 2030, and inclusive measures for the disabled have been duly accommodated. India has been a signatory to the UN Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities since 2016. However, India seems undeterred about not executing adequate measures for PwDs in various fields, including sports. Sport has the potential to lessen the stigma attached to the disabled community. To make sports for the disabled inclusive, the Union sports ministry has planned to spend Rs 83.7 lakh under the Khelo India initiative. The Centre for Disability Sports is also coming up in Gwalior. In a refreshing change, during this year’s Indian Premier League, an education-tech firm roped in Deepa Malik, a silver medallist in Paralympics, for an advertisement. Manasi Joshi, a para-badminton player, also made it to the cover of Time’s Asia edition. Blind cricket is also gaining popularity in India. However, these developments, although inspiring, are not enough. As it is, sport has taken a back seat in public policy. Parasports, or sports for PwDs, is yet to become part of the mainstream narrative. Consequently, Paralympians are left in the lurch; the Paralympic movement is yet to gain traction in India too. Significantly, India has taken part in the Paralympic Games since 1968. Athletes have brought back 12 medals in a total of 10 editions of the tournament. For many such athletes, representing the country is often a means of gaining acceptance in society. The prospect of winning a medal comes with the promise of recognition, awards and, in many cases, a job. However, there is a dearth of interest in disability sports in the public domain. This has resulted in the paucity of sponsors and, as a result, a funds crunch. Moreover, sports for PwDs are also limited to urban centres. There are divisions pertaining to gender and geography. Women with disabilities and PwDs from rural areas are grossly under-represented in policy. The Paralympics, which caters to persons with some kinds of physical disability and is separate from the Deaflympics and the Special Olympic World Games — two other major sporting competitions for PwDs — has had a lopsided participation from women in the Indian contingent. Among 95 athletes, 12 women have represented the country in the past 30 years. The cyborgfication of elite disabled athletes on account of the increasing use of technology is also a matter of concern. The other challenges for sports for PwDs include the scarcity of physical education in schools, the absence of coaches as well as socio-cultural prejudices. At a time when there is a global shift towards making sports inclusive, India cannot afford to achieve development in the real sense if it continues to marginalize PwDs who constitute 2.21 per cent of the total population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||The prescient Poet: Modi-Shah invoke Tagore||Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party as a whole are known for conflating Hindutva with nationalism. Many BJP leaders, including Modi, have employed phrases, idioms and images invoking binaries — Eid versus Diwali, to cite one example — during election campaigns. These messages strengthen division and reflect the adoption of a sectarian approach for acquiring political power. So when Modi and Shah invoked Rabindranath Tagore, one was reminded of the dire warning issued by Tagore in his speech, “Robbery of Soil”, delivered in 1922 at Calcutta University. Anticipating the “sectarian ambition for power”, Tagore outlined its sordid and grim aftermath endangering unity and amity among people and imperilling harmonious relations among the different organs of collective life. He said — presciently — “Whenever some sectarian ambition for power establishes a dominating position in life’s republic, the sense of unity, which can only be generated and maintained by a perfect rhythm of reciprocity between the parts is bound to be disturbed.” The disunity and the imbalance attributed to the dominance of the “sectarian ambition for power” are now being replayed egregiously in the life of the Republic. Institutions are collapsing; freedom is being throttled; dissent criminalized. Tagore had prophesied that the “sectarian ambition for power” is accompanied by an assault on the unity of people and the subsequent fall of institutions, on account of greed, would threaten democracy. With a far-sighted perspective, he had said, “In a society where the greed of an individual or of a group is allowed to grow uncontrolled, and is encouraged or even applauded by the populace, democracy, as it is termed in the West, cannot be truly realized.” Tragically, some people are applauding the quest for power anchored in sectarianism. Tagore’s words and fears, articulated in 1922, have come true. Gurudev’s incisive analysis — “In such an atmosphere a constant struggle goes on among individuals to capture public organizations for the satisfaction of their own personal ambition” — is applicable to the New India that is being conjured up by aligning it with the forces representing vigilantism and Hindutva. It is instructive that Tagore likened democracy prevailing in such a situation to an elephant employed by the clever and the rich for their benefit. This establishes the point that the proponents of sectarianism exercising the levers of power in a democracy reduce it to fulfil their pleasure-seeking activities. Tagore reflected on another worrisome development. “The organs of information and expression, through which opinions are manufactured, and the machinery of administration, are openly or secretly manipulated by the prosperous few...” It is revealing that Tagore could anticipate rulers manufacturing narratives by determining the functioning of the media, thereby generating news and views as desired by them. Tagore was apprehending the emergence of what is now called ‘godi media’ that are subservient to the ruling regime. Tagore’s reflections on the domination of the media and the generation of media content by the rulers in their favour are evocative of Walter Lippmann’s articulations on the manufacturing of consent in his book, Public Opinion, published in 1922. It is remarkable that Tagore delivered his speech in which he elaborated on the same idea in the same year. These reflections are also echoed in Noam Chomsky’s Manufacturing Consent. It is also edifying to note that Tagore was sceptical that the people manipulating the organs of information and expression would, like the proverbial camel, never “... pass through the needle’s eye, that narrow gate, that leads to the kingdom of ideals”. “Such a society”, Tagore said, “necessarily becomes inhospitable, suspicious, and callous towards those who preach their faith in ideals, in spiritual freedom”. Adding further, he said, “In such a society people become intoxicated by the constant stimulation of what they are told is progress, like the man for whom wine has a greater attraction than food”. Nearly 90 years after Tagore wrote these lines, the people have been misled by progress or vikas and society has become “inhospitable, suspicious, and callous towards those who preach their faith in ideals, in spiritual freedom”. Indeed, it is tragic that those who are invoking Tagore are the same people who are persecuting citizens and Tagore’s vision of an India that is the embodiment of the ideal of a land “[w]here the mind is without fear and the head is held high”. The author served as OSD to President K.R. Narayanan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
05-01-2021||Opinion||Balancing act||In The Class, a 2008 French drama-film, a middle-aged, white, male teacher emphasizes the French identity of everyone present in a diverse class of young students with parental backgrounds in Francophone countries. This is met with a rebuttal by one of the students that he is not French and that he hails from his parents’ country of origin. The two continue to argue as neither relents. The present acrimonious debate in France on ‘safeguarding the republic’, this time centred on Muslim citizens, is not new although the arguments and consequences have both a local as well as a universal context. A greater, in-depth understanding is required for the outside world, particularly multi-ethnic and multi-religious countries reeling under similar challenges, as there are multiple factors underpinning the acrimonious and violent chapter in France’s political journey. At the same time, the argument that the French challenge is unique needs to be interrogated further. The current spate of developments is a result of the assassination of a French teacher in October last year. The French teacher had angered the assassin as he had shown his students cartoons of Prophet Muhammed in a civic education course on the freedom of expression. A series of other assassinations followed in France, carried out by young Muslim residents. France has seen a wave of violence since the 2015 terror attacks on the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, and the shooting in a Jewish school in Toulouse in 2012, which killed seven, including three children. After the recent attacks, the president, Emmanuel Macron, vowed to meet the challenge. Some initial statements from members of his government, which were later clarified, became controversial as many heads of state and governments of Muslim-majority countries accused him of peddling Islamophobia. In response to these developments, Macron has now come forward with a new draft law, which is designed to curb ‘Islamist separatism’. The bill, which will go to the National Assembly, the lower chamber of Parliament, this month includes an extension of the principle of ‘neutrality’ in public services — it prohibits civil servants from wearing ostentatious religious symbols, for instance — to private sector companies if they are contracted by the authorities. An overwhelming majority of France’s citizenry across the political spectrum supports the president who is up for re-election in 2022. The majority believes that ‘France’s distinctive form of laïcité, or secularism, is in danger.’ The laïcité law of 1905 emphasizes that the French Republic establishes that religion is a private matter and that the State has to remain neutral in matters of religion. The challenges to the French State in this regard are multifold and interwoven. Within the European context, France has one of the largest Muslim population with diverse ethnic backgrounds although the majority come from the Maghreb region and from erstwhile French colonies, namely Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. The French Muslim population, according to Pew Research Center, is estimated to be around 8.8 per cent. France, like many European countries, needs young immigrants as the median age is 41.5 years and the population of more than 65 years is 19.84 per cent. The fertility rate is 1.9 per cent, less than the replacement rate of 2.1 per cent. One of the vital distinctions of the French political project is that it is de facto a multi-cultural and multi-confessional society, but de jure its institutions are shaped by laïcité, not multiculturalism. The social scientist, Clément Godbarge, who is native to the wine-growing region of Bordeaux, told me that outsiders should be more sensitive to a nuanced understanding of the domestic context in which the French majority is articulating its concerns. He argued, “Approaches to secularism tend to be the result of complex historical processes, long negotiations that are unique to a country’s history and institutions.” Apart from the domestic factors, there is a need to pay attention to the external influences impacting the events in France. Most of the recent attacks were carried out by new immigrants, including a Sudanese asylum-seeker, a Chechen refugee, and a Pakistani Punjabi. They came from distant countries with little connection to France and are less aware of French history, values and traditions. The impact of schisms within the larger Muslim world may play a part in the religiosity of recent immigrants, which includes a larger number of people with Turkish ethnicity. That explains some of the proactive combative statements by the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with respect to recent developments in France. By taking up real or perceived grievances of Muslim populations across the world, Erdogan has often challenged the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s traditional leadership of the Muslim ummah. On the other side of the spectrum, reeling under the threat of globalization and automation, many Western democracies are experiencing the rise of majoritarian politics among vast swathes of blue-collar workers. Threatened by the popularity of right-wing political parties such as National Rally, the centrist ruling party, La République En Marche, and the left-of-centre Socialist Party are competing in populism. This is coupled with the lack of inclusive political, social and economic structures. France is no exception to this trend. The idea of the laïcité may have a definite historical context but the challenges that the French society faces cannot ignore the contemporary structural and institutional biases that impact the minorities, including the Muslims born and raised in France. There are institutional impediments in France to social mobility that push them into ghettos. France has a rigid institutional entry code for many professions, including lowly-paid ones. Meanwhile, the argument that the mosque is the site for radicalization for some Muslims doesn’t stand the test of empirical evidence. The majority of lone wolf attacks in the West are perpetuated by those radicalized through online platforms. Consistent studies have proven that with a few exceptions radicalization of young men occurs courtesy online echo-chambers. On the other hand, mosques, particularly those in Western societies, are places for socialization and the development of social capital for minorities. In fact, mosques can deter attacks as they allow individuals to socialize and provide them with platforms to articulate their anxieties and concerns within a social framework. Any sign of radicalization can be easily identified by social peers, whereas lone wolf attacks are difficult to intercept. Finally, the issue of deculturalization of the Muslim community is common to many European countries, including France. The idea of treating Muslim people hailing from a diverse range of ethnic and geographical backgrounds as a homogenous group reinforces this deculturalization. Prescriptive policies and popular narratives reinforce the homogenous religious identity while underestimating the influence of distinct languages, cultures and customs. The younger men start eying broader, universal Islamic causes, internalizing real or perceived Islamic grievances. This is exacerbated by the problem of online radicalization, which is hard to interdict by State agencies. Filtration mechanisms of tech giants, such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter, are also proving to be far from adequate. To sum up, the French State and its civil society response will have to strike a fine balance between the need to be sensitive to and accommodative of the religious aspirations of its largest religious minority on the one hand and the majority’s fears that a long-held civilizational belief system of the country is in danger on the other. In doing so, the response requires to be more creative, nuanced and grounded in the political, social and economic realities of the 21st century that are shaping France as well as the rest of the global community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Health centre with OPD facility to come up at Belgarhia||Aiming to provide all basic facilities to the people who were rehabilitated from different underground fire-affected areas to newly developed quarters of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority in Belgarhia, Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has formed a committee last week to explore the prospects of improving basic facilities in the colony. On Tuesday, he has identified a site to establish a health centre with OPD facility. The team led by Dhanabd civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das and others including rehabilitation and resettlement in-charge of JRDA Gulzar Anjum, Dhanbad Sadar hospital in-charge Dr Rajkumar Singh, JRDA executive engineer Amrendra Kumar and district Mineral Foundation Trust officer Subham Singhal also carried out the cost estimation for the establishment of the centre, including the cost to purchase the equipment, medicines, furniture etc. The committee also discussed the manpower required for the operation. Uma Shankar, during his visit to Belgharia township on December 21, came to know about the lack of basic facilities including health care. The Belgharia residents have complained to him about the lack of government health care facility in the colony and also informed him about the poor private health care facility in the area. He said the new health centre with OPD facility will be established at the earliest with 24x7 deployment of manpower. He further said that an ambulance will always be there at the centre to make it easier for the residents to reach other hospitals during any emergency. “The team led by the civil surgeon will also prepare a medical calendar for the centre to organise periodic camps for diabetes and other ailments,” said Singh. During the inspection, he also came to know about the irregular water supply in the colony. He had instructed the JRDA authorities to constitute a committee of residents to look after the water and electricity supply. Out of 1.04 lakh families, only 4,500 of them are living in around 595 underground fire-affected sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||AJSU-P enters Bengal politics, to contest in assembly elections 2021||The All Jharkhand Students Union Party (AJSU-P), NDA’s lone constituent in Jharkhand, will  make a foray into Bengal politics by contesting in the upcoming assembly elections in the state.. The party organised a pre-poll rally from Purulia by holding a conclave on Tuesday. Former Jharkhand deputy CM and AJSU-P chief Sudesh Mahto demanded the formation of a separate Manbhum-Junglemahal Territorial Administration for the development of Kurmis, Mahtos, and other backward castes who reside in the bordering areas of Jharkhand. The organisation has also resolved to fight for granting Kurmis SC/ST status in Bengal, formation of separate linguistic and cultural council to safeguard indigenous languages and called for a separate religion code for nature worshippers residing in the forest and tribal belts of the adjoining district. Addressing the rally, Mahto said, “Several people living here fought alongside AJSU-P during the statehood movement for Jharkhand but remained cut off due to bifurcation. However, AJSU-P has now decided to fight for the cause of our brothers and sisters here to help them achieve socio-economic justice.” Party spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said that they have decided to step into Bengal considering the emerging political situation. “After fighting for Jharkhand, it is time for us to fight for our people in Bengal. Hence, we have decided to fight elections this time,” he said, adding that the party shall be focusing on districts bordering with Jharkhand. “From today, we have officially begun our Bengal campaign,” he added. AJSU-P is an ally of BJP in the state, but it hasn’t yet formally decided whether to fight in alliance with the saffron camp or go solo. “We shall take an appropriate call on the number of seats to fight and other modalities at an appropriate time after evaluating the ground situation through our pre-poll campaigns. But AJSU-P will certainly be in the fray this time,” Bhagat informed. ASJU-P and BJP contested separately in the 2019 assembly polls in Jharkhand after lack of consensus on seat sharing. The decision, however, proved costly for both camps making way for the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance to form government. Despite contesting from 70 seats, AJSU-P won only two seats, three less than its previous tally of five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||10 vaccination centres coming up at each block of Ranchi district||As many as 10 Covid-19 vaccination centres will be set up in each of the 18 blocks of Ranchi, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced on Tuesday after a marathon meeting with district officials to monitor their state of readiness for the actual roll out. “We have decided to set up 10 vaccination centres equipped with all-around facilities in every block. Directives have been given to health officials and others tasked with the job to start identification of potential places in this regard,” Ranjan said. There will be five officials to man each centre. “At each centre, there will be four vaccine officers and a vaccinator. All those coming to the centre for vaccination will be first registered in Co-Win application devised by the Union government after matching their photo-based identities,” he said. Tuesday's meeting was to collect feedback on the maiden dry run and to fine tune groundwork required for the immunisation exercise. Ranjan said every vaccine centre would be equipped with a proper waiting area, washrooms, a logistics storage section, seamless internet connectivity, power and other utilities to prevent any breakdown of the established vaccination protocol. “We will also set up help desks at each vaccine centre and a dedicated observation room to keep a tab on those who take the vaccination,” he said. Ranchi was among the six districts where dry runs for the vaccine administration were held on Saturday. Sources said over 5,000 health workers have been identified in the district to receive the vaccine in the first phase. As many as 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh health workers across the state are in the priority group. “In the second phase, other frontline workers and those above 50 will be given the vaccination in Ranchi,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Group of 6 opens fire on packed bus in West Singhbhum||A group of armed men opened fire on a passenger bus plying between Ranchi and Chiabasa near Bandgaon valley on Monday night, but police are not sure if it was the handiwork of Naxalites even though the area in West Singhbum, about 150km from here, is a Naxalite den. No one was injured although the bus's rear glass screen was shattered. On Tuesday morning, the bus driver Sitaram Singh had lodged an FIR at Chaibasa police station. In his complaint, Singh said at 9.30 pm when he was crossing the Ranchi- Bandgaon-Chaibasa road, around half-a-dozen armed men suddenly blocked his way and tried to stop the vehicle. When he tried to escape, they had started firing from behind. According to Chaibasa police, five rounds of bullets were fired, one of them broke the vehicle’s rear glass. Singh said since the vehicle was packed with passengers, it was his responsibility to save their lives. He informed the police that the bus conductor had advised the passengers to bow down when the miscreants continued firing. West Singhbhum district superintendent of police Ajay Linda had confirmed the incident and said that they were investigating the matter. “On Monday night, some armed miscreants fired a few rounds of bullets on a bus. But we are yet to find out whether Naxals were involved in this attack. Generally, Naxals do not tend to fire on any passenger vehicle. Those attackers must be criminals who intended to rob the passengers,” said Linda, while speaking to The Telegraph Online. He also pointed out that as the bus driver had refused to stop, the miscreants got angry and some of them started firing at the vehicle. Linda said as soon as they got the information, a police team immediately reached the spot. However, they could not catch the culprits. Linda said a fortnight ago a gang of five armed miscreants had tried to stop a bus on Jhinkpani-Chaibasa route and eventually the gang was arrested by the police. After an investigation, it was discovered that the gang had tried to rob the passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||16-year-old arrested for Kadma nurse’s murder||The 16-year-old son of Arvind Kumar Singh has been arrested for the murder of Anita Sharma after he confessed saying the nurse’s affair with his father was the cause of severe unhappiness in the family. Revealing the breakthrough, DSP (headquarters-II) Arvind Kumar said on Tuesday that the boy is a plus-two student of a prominent school in the steel city. He told the police he was upset with the nurse as she had an “illicit relationship” with his father. "The boy had come to the nurse's flat (in Kadma) from his house in Bagbera about 7km away early on December 31 on his father's bike. He first tried to convince her to call off the relationship with his father as this was affecting their family. “But when she did not assure him, the boy asked for Rs 200 to refuel his bike. As the woman went to fetch the money, the boy came from behind and strangulated her. Subsequently, he stabbed her repeatedly with a kitchen knife to ensure she died," Kumar told reporters on Tuesday evening. Arvind (50) found the partially burnt body of Anita (43) in her first-floor flat at Jayanti Apartment on Road No 3 in Ramnagar at Kadma late on December 31 and then informed police. A devastated Arvind, who also has a 14-year-old daughter, rued having introduced his son to Anita, who was a nurse at Brahmananda Narayana Superspeciality Hospital at Tamulia. "It was my grave mistake that I had taken my son to my beloved's place. Had I not taken him along before, nothing would have happened," he said. Kadma police station OC Ranjit Kumar Singh, who solved the case, said they had used a team of forensic experts at the crime scene. "The boy had wiped the blood-stained knife. Hence, there was little chance of getting any prints. But we had CCTV footage of the assailant entering the house of the nurse. This is the only material evidence which we will produce before the court for his conviction," he said. The boy, a minor, was sent to a remand home after he was presented before a judicial magistrate in the evening. DSP Kumar said the boy was wearing cotton gloves which he used to wipe the blood stains from the knife. He then threw both the knife and the gloves in a water tank at the nurse’s home. “Subsequently, the boy sprinkled sanitizer on the nurse's body and set her on fire. Hence the partial burns,” he said. Kumar said Arvind claimed repeatedly that he had killed Anita. “We kept him in custody for the past four days but spoke to all his family members. During interrogation, we realised there was strong opposition to, and resentment about, Arvind’s relationship with the nurse. “Serious quarrelling was a regular affair at home for the past one-and-half-years, ever since the family got to know of their relationship which was at least six years old. We focussed on the boy and after questioning, he gave in,” the DSP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town committees announce mass marriage for poor||Dhanbad social organisations, in a bid to help people of the economically disadvantaged sections, have come forward to help them in organising weddings during a mass marriage function. The Sri Sri Bhagavati Jagran Committee, the management section of the district’s biggest temple, Shakti Mandir, has decided to organise the function on February 21 for people who could not marry during the lockdown. Addressing a press conference at the temple office, committee president S.P. Sondhi said they had organised a mass marriage for 11 pairs 10 years ago, and are taking the initiative again in view of the economic slowdown due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. “The committee will make all efforts to continue the tradition in the coming years in order to extend helping hands to the people of the economically weaker sections of the society,” he said. Surendra Arora, the joint secretary of the committee said that the registration for the event has started on Tuesday and will continue till January 31. “Applicants will have to submit the copies of their Aadhar Card, Voter Card and the certificate issued by local mukhiya/ward councilor certifying details of their parents along with the application,” he added. “The scrutiny of the application forms will be carried out on February 5 and selection list would be announced on February 6,” Arora said, adding that the selected pairs would receive wedding outfits on February 15. The Mehendi ceremony will be held on February 20, he said. Secretary of the temple committee Arun Bhandari said that on February 21, the marriage procession will be taken out at 10 am on an e-rickshaw. “It will return to the temple after passing through Pani Tanki and Telephone Exchange Road. The marriages will be then solemnised in the temple Samdhi Milan and Jaymala rituals at around 2 pm,” he said. Bhandari also informed that the ceremony will end at 4 pm and the temple authorities will give the couples all necessary items to start a new life, such as utensils, furniture and clothes. Another group of volunteers, under the banner of Sarv Dharm Samuhik Vivah Samiti, had on December 27 also made a similar announcement of conducting mass marriage on January 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Three SUVs stolen in wee hours||Three SUVs (white Mahindra Scorpios) were stolen from different parts of the district in the wee hours of Tuesday, the police said. However, the police have lodged an FIR and started conducting raids in various areas of the district to arrest the culprits. According to information, two SUVs were stolen from the main market area at City Centre under Sector-IV police station. Meanwhile, another was stolen from Bokaro Thermal area under Bermo Sub-Division. The police have started an investigation and also collected CCTV footages from the areas where the miscreants came in a white Hyundai i20 car. DSP City Gyan Ranjan said, “We are carrying out an investigation to trace the stolen vehicles and arrest the criminals. All the police stations have been informed about the matter. We suspect that the same gang is involved in the incidents. They are professional thieves as they broke the locks easily and took away the vehicles.” Ranjan said the first SUV was owned by Arun Kumar Singh, an income tax lawyer, who stays near Bokaro Mall in the City Centre area. Singh said, “In the morning, I found my vehicle missing. I immediately informed the matter to the police. After seeing the CCTV footage, it was clear that four thieves were involved in the crime. One of them came near my vehicle, broke its back glass, and entered inside. After a few minutes, he drove it away.” The second incident was reported near a Maruti showroom. The vehicle owner, who owns a shop just opposite the showroom, used to park his car there. Both the incidents took place within an hour, the police said. Meanwhile, the third SUV was owned by Shambhu Yadav, a retired employee of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Yadav had parked the vehicle in front of his house and on the next day, he found it missing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Rs 50,000 police reward for information on Ormanhji culprits||Ranchi police have announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for anyone providing information on the rape and beheading of a young girl whose body was found in the forests of Ormanjhi on the outskirts of the state capital on Sunday morning, triggering statewide outrage. In a communiqué announcing the reward, police said they had registered a case under IPC sections of 302, 304, 201 and 120 B. “The informant’s identity will be kept strictly confidential,” police said and released phone numbers of senior SP (9431706136), rural SP (7250514449), Silli DSP (7764066357) and Oramnjhi police station in-charge (9431706138). Police are yet to locate the severed head of the victim. “The age of the victim seems in be between 18-22. She is about five feet tall,” read the police communiqué. It added that the victim had a mole in her right arm and right feet. The incident has triggered a wave of protests in the capital with both the Opposition and citizen’s groups staging demonstrations to denounce poor policing and demand immediate arrest of the culprits. On Monday, the BJP held a series of protests through the day. But there was a flare-up during one at Kishoreganj Chowk on VIP Road in Harmu leading to the injury of a policeman posted there. The protestors turned violent and resorted to vandalism. They also threatened to attack chief minister Hemant Soren’s cavalcade forcing him to take a detour via Ranchi Lake to reach his official residence from Project Building. The incident led to a political slugfest between the ruling and Opposition camps with the latter accusing “anti-government” forces of having orchestrated the violence. Both JMM and Congress, partners in the ruling alliance government, accused the BJP of fanning the violence and condemned the rape and beheading at Ormanjhi, appealing to the police to apprehend the culprits as soon as possible. Referring to the Ormanjhi victim as Ranchi’s “Nirbhaya”, the BJP and its allies hit back at police and the state government for trying to give spontaneous protests a “communal colour” and bury genuine anti-government sentiments. State BJP president Deepak Prakash tweeted: “There is a different between protests and attack CM sir. People are now coming to streets to protest against unending crime and attack on women in this state. But the district administration and police is wielding sticks to silence voices of dissent. We demand justice to Ranchi’s Nirbhaya CM sir.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to get a new blood bank||Dhanbad district will soon get a new state-owned blood bank with a storage capacity of 400 units on the Sadar hospital campus near Randhir Verma Chowk. According to the secretary of the Dhanbad Red Cross Society, Kaushlendra Kumar Singh, on Tuesday, necessary equipment for the blood bank was brought with funds from National Rural Health Mission. Among the equipment bought are deep freezers, blood bank refrigerator, donor couch, plasma throwing bath, dielectric tube sealer, blood mixer and collector, semi-automated reader, centrifuge for Gel ID cards and refrigerated water bath (cryo bath) were purchased in Ranchi in 2020. He said all those necessary items will be brought back to the district hospital. Singh said, “The items were purchased in Ranchi which could not be brought back to Dhanbad due to Covid-19 restrictions. Those will be handed over to the district Red Cross Society which will carry out the installation work to start operating the new blood bank from the hospital campus.” “The Department of Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare will arrange manpower for the blood bank,” said Singh. A new blood bank near the district headquarters will prove extremely beneficial for the patients during any emergency. Till 2012, a blood bank with 900-unit storage capacity used to operate on the same campus. However, due to space constraints, it was shifted to the Shahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) at Saraidhela. He said the health department had planned to set up a blood bank on Sadar hospital campus 2013. There was also a plan to establish two storage facilities, with a capacity of 25 units each, at Baghmara and Govindpur Primary Health Centres. However, the plan could not materialise due to various reasons. Singh said the new proposal was finalised on December 17. “To improve the standard of the blood bank, we should first raise awareness among people. They should be encouraged to donate blood,” said Gopal Bhattacharya, general secretary of social organisation Bengali Welfare Society. Till now, Bhattacharya has donated blood for almost 56 times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi logs half of the fresh Covid cases in a day||Recoveries outshined fresh infections of Covid-19 on Monday with 232 declared cured in comparison to 160 new cases besides one fatality, as per the bulletin issued by health department last night. Ranchi, however, remained vulnerable of all 24 districts with 81 new cases and one death in the last 24 hours. As many as 141 got cured in the capital during this same period, the bulletin added. Other districts with double-digit single day growth included Bokaro (12), Dhanbad (16) and East Singhbhum (14). On the other hand, seven districts namely Chatra, Godda, Jamtara, Khunti, West Singhbhum, Lohardaga and Pakur reported cases in single-digits. Active cases in three districts--Giridih, Godda and Pakur are currently in single digits out of  1528 total active cases. Since the outbreak of the virus in March last year, 1,15,689 total infections reported of which 1,13,125 defeated the virus while 1036 have succumbed so far. Jharkhand's seven-day growth rate now stands at 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.16 per cent. The doubling rate of is 537.82 days against the national figure of 428.28 days. State's recovery rate stands at 97.71 per cent compared to 96.20 per cent in the country whereas the mortality rate is 0.89 per cent than that of 1.40 nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand issues alert on bird flu||The Jharkhand government on Monday afternoon issued an advisory to all the 24 districts unit of animal husbandry unit to report unnatural deaths of birds immediately to the government and send samples to the Ranchi lab at the earliest. The directive was issued by director state animal husbandry department, Nancy Sahay in the wake of detection of bird flu virus from the carcasses of crows in two states of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh even as entire country is fighting Covid-pandemic. “We do not have a single case of such bird flu cases in any of our neighbouring states (Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Bihar). But we do not want to take chances and have issued advisory to all our district animal husbandry officers (DAHO) to be on vigil 24x7 and coordinate with local thanas, animal watch groups, poultry owners etc, on a regular basis and immediately inform about deaths of any birds in their respective areas. Effort should be made to send the sample of the dead bird at the earliest to our Kanke-based virology lab for confirmatory test,” said Nancy Sahay. The director said that DAHOs have been directed to establish contact with poultry sellers in their respective districts to keep an eye on poultry products brought from other states and inform immediately about suspicious deaths so that samples can be sent for confirmatory tests and the dead birds be buried as per protocol. “We have enough stock of testing kits at our labs and at the moment we are simply keeping a tab as a precautionary measure. We will issue necessary guidelines like culling if the need arises,” the director added. The state forest department has also sounded the zoos and bird sanctuaries authorities to be on high alert in the wake of crows death in a few states. The directive assumes significance as Jharkhand witnesses an influx of a large number of migratory birds during winters. Jharkhand chief wildlife warden Rajeev Ranjan informed that an advisory in this regard has been sent to all zoos and bird sanctuaries asking them to take all necessary precautions to prevent the transmission of the disease. “We have also asked to keep a close vigil on the health of the animals in the zoos,” Ranjan said. Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, popularly known as Birsa zoo, at Ormanjhi block, has enhanced the routine spray and health check of animals in the zoo. The birds are being served amino modulator drugs in water and food to make their immune system stronger against the diseases. Significantly, the state has had instances of deaths of crows due to bird flu in 2020 and also in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
05-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata adventure wing’s winter leadership expedition||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has announced its winter leadership expedition programme during January and February. It will organise six treks for as many batches of trekkers during these two winter months — three each to Darwa Top (13,500 feet) and Dayara Top (12,500 feet) in Uttarakhand and each trek will be of one week duration, informed a release issued by TSAF on Monday. The first three of those will be Darwa-Dodital treks to be conducted this month, beginning on January 9 while the next three are scheduled for Dayara Top next month, the first of the series beginning on February 2. “Participants can expect snow during these treks which increases the beauty of the mountains and makes it an unforgettable experience,” the TSAF release informed the trekkers of a possible bonus. It further assured that TSAF followed all standard safety practices to minimise Covid risks during it expeditions, adding those included small closed grouping, maintaining social distancing, sanitising equipments and tents and above all a Covid-19 test as part of a pre-check. The organisation recently conducted one such expedition with no record of any infection, the release assured and added that they have an expert team of guides for conducting those treks. In case of any query the participants have been advised to contact TSAF either through its official website or its social media handle on Instagram. India’s first woman Everester and Padma Bhushan awardee Bachendri Pal was associated TSAF since its inception in the mid-80s and functioned as its director during her association lasting for three and a half decades. She trained many adventure enthusiasts at TSAF and also successfully led many expeditions under its banner during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-183
