06-01-2021||Calcutta||Arrest in techie murder case||The CBI on Monday night arrested Priyanka Chowdhury, former daughter-in-law of ex-Mohun Bahan club official Balaram Chowdhury, in connection with the murder of a 27-year-old IT professional in 2011. Junior Mirdha was found dead with a bullet lodged inside his head along the Belgharia Expressway in July 2011. Priyanka was produced in a court in Barrackpore on Tuesday and remanded in CBI custody for seven days. The CBI had taken over the probe into the incident in 2019 following Calcutta High Court’s order. Mirdha’s father Samaresh Mirdha had moved the high court expressing dissatisfaction over the state CID probe and sought an investigation by the CBI, which the court accepted. Mirdha, who was allegedly into a relationship with Priyanka, was found dead along the Belgharia Expressway. Initially, police believed he was a victim of a road accident. It was only after the post-mortem revealed the presence of a bullet in the head that a murder case was registered. The state CID had started the investigation but failed to make any headway. In 2019, the CBI was handed over the case. Sources said the CBI found during the investigation that the victim and Priyanka had exchanged multiple phone calls on the night of the incident. “There were CCTV images that showed Junior riding his bike with a woman on the pillion,” said a CBI officer. It was rumoured that Mirdha was eliminated by professional killers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Fake IAS officer arrested||The CID arrested a 47-year-old man in Thakurpukur late on Monday for allegedly posing as an IAS officer. Sleuths said Arup Nandi, who was rounded up from his flat on Diamond Harbour Road, had cheated a number of people by taking money from them after making false promises. “He had collected several crores of rupees by promising people government flats, licences and government jobs,” a CID officer said. “He used an identity card that had his passport-sized photograph. The card claimed he was ‘joint secretary, Home and Home Political’ wing of the state government and that he was posted at Nabanna.” It was mentioned on the card that it was issued on January 8, 2014, and Nandi’s blood group was O-positive. He allegedly had another identity card, in the name of Raja Nandi. CID officers said at several places Nandi had introduced himself as Santo Mitra. “On September 23, a complaint of cheating and criminal intimidation was lodged with Durgapur police station. The amount involved was around Rs 60 lakh. While probing the case, we stumbled upon this man,” said a senior CID officer. “It appears this man had cheated several persons in Durgapur and adjoining areas posing as an IAS officer.” The police have learnt that Nandi used to move around in a car fitted with a blue beacon. If any cop ever stopped him on the way, he would allegedly flash his identity card. To most of his victims, the police said, Nandi would claim that he was very close to several influential personalities in the state. The police said he had been cheating people since 2013.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||School bus owners appeal to CM for tax waiver||Owners of school buses have appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to waive road tax and penalties for delayed payment of the tax for six months to help them tide over the pandemic-induced crisis. There are around 4,000 school bus operators in Calcutta and its adjoining areas. The buses have been idling since the schools were closed in March last year as a precaution against Covid-19. On Tuesday, the bus owners submitted a letter to Mamata’s office at her residence in Kalighat requesting the state government to offer a six-month waiver on road tax and the penalties for late payment of the tax. A similar relief has been offered to operators of private buses and minibuses. The plea from the school bus operators came a day after Mamata had said that the owners of the buses and minibuses that are still grounded would not be eligible for the waiver. “We want to run our buses, but there is no way we can since all the schools are closed. So it would be unfair to treat us the same way as the owners of grounded private buses and minibuses,” said Himadri Ganguly, of the West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners and Operators Association. “We are ready to increase our fleet strength to carry fewer students in each bus if the state government decides to reopen schools. We have no other sources of income. How do we pay the road tax?” School bus operators said that while private bus operators had to pay around Rs 1,500 every three months as road tax, they had to pay around Rs 4,000. School buses come under the category of contract carriage — not stage carriage, like private buses and minibuses — and so the owners have to pay a higher road tax. “If one fails to pay the tax after a grace period of a fortnight, the tax amount gets doubled. After paying salaries to our staff, there is hardly anything left to pay the road tax,” said a school bus operator from south Calcutta. Last August, the state government had declared a waiver of all taxes and fines on lapsed fitness certificates for bus and minibus owners. The waiver came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses had been reeling from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a drop in the passenger count because of the pandemic. On Tuesday, several school bus owners and operators walked to the chief minister's Kalighat residence from Hazra Park to hand over a letter containing their appeal to her. They were stopped by police on the way. Later, some of the owners visited the chief minister's office at her residence and submitted their letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Three mourners die as pick-up truck overturns||Three men died and at least seven people were injured after a pick-up truck they were travelling in toppled on the Barasat-bound flank of Jessore Road, near Michael Nagar, early on Tuesday, police said. The truck was carrying more than a dozen men and women, who were returning home to Barasat after performing the last rites of a man, said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. The truck was travelling at a high speed around 1am when one of it’s tyres burst, causing the vehicle to topple over, the officer said. The accident spot is around 4km from the airport. “The driver lost control of the truck as soon as the tyre burst. After the truck overturned, it slid on the road for around 20 feet before coming to a halt. Most people were flung on the road,” the officer said. The driver fled the scene soon after the accident. Some shopkeepers on the stretch and a few passing motorists shifted the injured passengers to the side of the road and alerted a patrol team of the airport police station. Once the patrol team reached the spot, the cops called ambulances and took the injured to Barasat District Hospital. Three of the passengers —Raju Shaw, 22, his relative Rampadarath Shaw, 50, and Arun Shaw, 32 — were declared dead on arrival. At least 10 other men and women suffered injuries and five of them have been admitted to the hospital. Vehicles often tend to pick up speed on VIP Road and Jessore Road at night as both the thoroughfares are smooth and wide. Sawan Shaw, 21, one of the injured, said the pick-up truck was being driven recklessly.  “We had banged our head on the driver's cabin several times and asked him to slow down but he did not listen. At Michael Nagar, we heard a loud sound like a firecracker going off. Then I passed out. When I came to and opened my eyes, I saw that I was being helped by a police officer to a vehicle” said Sawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||IIT scholars seek extension of fee deadline||A section of research scholars at IIT Kharagpur has written to the dean of students’ affairs appealing for an extension of the deadline for paying the fee for the spring semester by at least a month because of the pandemic-induced economic distress. Tuesday was the last day for paying the fee of Rs 18,400. The scholars have stated in the letter that “economic depression unleashed by the pandemic has intensified the hardship... many parents have lost their business, jobs or have (had) to bear salary cuts”. The dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, did not take calls or respond to text messages from The Telegraph. The mail that was sent on behalf of the Science Education Group, IIT Kharagpur, a forum of research scholars, says: “The payment link was activated on 28/12/2020 and the last date for payment is 05/01/2021, which leaves the students with less than 10 days to arrange the required amount. Many scholars do not belong to affluent families and their families depend on their fellowship to meet the family expenses…. Therefore, if the last date for payment could be extended by at least a month’s time, the scholars would have enough time to arrange the money.” The scholars have also pleaded for withdrawal of charges for laboratories, and gymkhana and other amenities since most students were not using them. In September, the students who were still on the campus were asked to leave following a Covid outbreak in the area and the institute is yet to recall most of them. The fee structure is - establishment charge: Rs 12,500; tuition fee: Rs 2,500; student amenities: Rs 600; gymkhana: Rs 600; Internet connectivity: Rs 400; examination: Rs 300; medical registration: Rs 50; laboratory contingency: Rs 600; registration: Rs 300; hostel seat rent: Rs 550. Of the 3,000-odd scholars enrolled with the institute, close to 60 are on the campus. A research scholar said since the fee structure did not include the mess charge of Rs 12,000, they were assuming that the authorities were not planning to call back all researchers to the campus. “They are calling back students phase-wise…. A large number of students are not going to use gymkhana and other amenities, but they are still being charged for those facilities. We feel this is completely unfair and the charges must be waived,” said a research scholar who did not want to be named. Another research scholar said that since the institute was recalling students in batches of 10 to 20 each month from December, it was clear that such a huge number of researchers could not be recalled in this semester. The scholars have also called for waiver of the tuition fees for those who are not attending any coursework. In July, the students’ senate of the IIT had passed a resolution, demanding that the mess fee of Rs 10,000 and the hostel overhead charge of Rs 600 per semester be “completely waived”. The institute waived the mess fee and the hostel overhead charge, along with some other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Cold winds blocked, Celsius on the rise||The day temperature on Tuesday clocked 28.2 degrees in its latest upward swing, making a January day difficult to tell from a mid-November day. If the maximum temperature was three notches above normal, the minimum at 15.5 degrees was two notches above normal. Wednesday is set to be warmer, according to the Met forecast. After a cold spell that characterised the end of December, the rise in mercury started from late last week. The Met office has attributed the rise to a strong Western Disturbance in northwest India, the same system that is triggering a wet spell in Delhi and other parts of northern and central India. The Western Disturbance, a low-pressure system, has stalled the flow of northwesterly winds. If anything, moisture-laden southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are headed towards the system via Calcutta, said a Met official. “The chill has gone missing because of the absence of the cold northwesterly winds,” said the official. The Celsius is tipped to touch 29 degrees on Wednesday, the Met office has said. The average maximum temperature for January is 25.8 degrees, according to the India Meteorological Department records. The Celsius had slid to 11.2 degrees on December 27, the lowest this season. The new year was tipped to see the Celsius plunging further below. A high-pressure area over eastern Uttar Pradesh had initially blocked the flow of cold winds into south Bengal. The system has since weakened but the emergence of the Western Disturbance has made things worse. The warm spell is likely to stay at least till the weekend, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav can run marathon: Devi Shetty||Sourav Ganguly can run a marathon or fly a plane and his heart will not be a hindrance to normal life, cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty said on Tuesday after meeting the former India cricket captain at Woodlands Hospital. “Will this event (heart attack) have an impact on his life? Certainly not. Sourav has  received the right care. He is going to lead a normal life like anybody else. This event should not affect his lifestyle or lifespan,” said Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, who flew down from Bangalore on Tuesday to examine Sourav. He also pointed out the importance of regular health check-ups, even for young and healthy individuals, to prevent such events. Sourav, 48, had suffered the heart attack while working out on a treadmill at home and underwent angioplasty to get a stent implanted in his right coronary artery. There are blockages in two other coronary arteries, which will be dealt with after 15 days, said doctors and officials at Woodlands. Sourav is set to be discharged on Wednesday. “After this procedure, Sourav can participate in a marathon race. He can fly a plane,” said Shetty. He said that even if someone underwent a bypass surgery, which is a lot more intensive than an angioplasty, one could get a licence to fly a civilian plane. “Sourav can chase any of his dreams and aspirations…. He can get back to cricket if he wants to and he can exercise like a normal person,” said Shetty. The nine-member medical board at Woodlands had taken opinions of several doctors in India and abroad, including Shetty, on Monday about the course of Sourav’s treatment. “The consensus opinion among doctors is that he can get back home and start working…. At some point of time he may require angioplasty, which is like a routine procedure done in most hospitals of the country. It is nothing very complicated or life threatening,” said Shetty. Asked why the second round of stent implantation cannot be done immediately, Shetty said it might lead to formation of small blood clots in the artery. “When someone develops a blood clot in the coronary artery, the entire body chemistry changes. He is more likely to develop a fresh clot if we insert a foreign body. That is why we want to defer it,” he said. Shetty pointed out the importance of regular health check-ups to reduce chances of a heart attack. “People think how can a 48-year-old athletic man like Sourav, who doesn’t drink or smoke and is a fit man, have a heart attack? This is the true reality of India. The kind of lifestyle we lead, irrespective of how athletic you are, you can still have a heart attack if you don’t go for a preventive check-up at regular intervals,” Shetty said. “If Sourav had undergone a simple test like CT angiogram, this incident could have been predicted.” The Telegraph report on Tuesday, which quoted a number of doctors, highlighted the need for regular health check-ups. “It doesn’t matter how fit you are, you should go for a regular health check-up once a year or once in two years…. This is the message Sourav wanted to give to all,” said Shetty. Explaining the importance of exercise and leading a healthy lifestyle, the cardiac surgeon said apparently it would seem there was no use of such things. “One may ask what is the point of leading a life like Sourav. He exercised all his life, didn’t drink or smoke but still had a heart attack. Sourav had blockages in tiny isolated portions of the coronary arteries,” he said. Coronary arteries are long pipes and most people who lead an unhealthy lifestyle can develop a blockage along the entire length of such an artery. “Sourav had tiny areas of critical blockage and once it’s dealt with, his heart is going to be as healthy as anybody else’s,” he said. According to Shetty, no one can predict such an incident. “Even in the life of a monk… something changes in the body and then one can form a blood clot anywhere in the body. It stays for a short period of time and disappears,” he said. “My advice is, it doesn’t matter how strong or fit you are or how fast you run, get a preventive health check-up done at least once in two years. You can predict your heart attack 20 years ahead,” said Shetty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Cycle docking stations planned for Sector V||Multiple bicycle docking stations will be set up all over Salt Lake Sector V as there has been a spurt in the number of people cycling to their workplaces. Many office-goers have taken to cycling to ensure distancing rules are followed. Most of them are keeping the cycles on roads or pavements. An official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), which looks after civic amenities in Sector V, said the places where the cycle docking stations would be set up had been identified and the space would be carved out of the existing parking spaces in the township. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said they would issue an advisory to all offices asking them to demarcate areas for parking. The stands, each of which will have two guards, will be built close to large office complexes. Sen said they were trying to encourage people to take up cycling and consider it as “a serious means of transport”. “The lockdown has shown people how cycles can be used easily for commuting. We have cycle tracks in New Town and we want to encourage this non-polluting form of transport,” said Sen, who is also chairman of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), which provides civic services in New Town. The docking stations in Sector V are likely to have CCTV cameras and mobile phone chargers. One such stand in New Town has two large LCD screens that display the distances between that point and various landmarks of the township such as the Unitech crossing, Eco Park and Sector V. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they would not allow bicycles on flyovers and thoroughfares.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||Preschools give up premises, go online ||Preschools in the city are letting go of their premises that are mostly on rent and focussing more on online classes in a bid to survive the Covid pandemic. A preschool chain in Bengal has retained only 23 of the 80-odd school properties it had before the pandemic. Another preschool chain has left one and is planning to leave another soon. A preschool with four branches in the city has already released one. Another in Salt Lake has shut down its premises and said it would start “afresh”. Most of the preschools are on rented premises. With no in-person classes taking place and the number of new admissions going down drastically, these schools are finding it difficult to retain the spaces. The schools are concentrating on online classes but a proprietor said it was not easy to get students for “online classes”. “Before the pandemic, we had 800 students across four branches, 500 left after getting admitted to high schools. Of the 300, not everyone was willing to attend online classes. Now, after the fresh session in high schools start, more than 200 would go and we would have to get a fresh batch of students,” said Neelakshi Shukla, the proprietor and principal of Beginners Montessori House, which is in its 25th year. Beginners had to release one of its premises. Young Learners had to let go of its Salt Lake premises. “We are concentrating largely on online classes and once we get the go ahead we can start afresh from a new campus,” said principal Sangeeta Sureka. Rent is not the only expense. There are other overhead costs incured on electricity, maintenance and infrastructure. Rent, however, takes the lion’s share, said one school head. Most preschools are located in areas where real estate is expensive. “We were spending more than Rs 25 lakh on rent. After letting go of several premises we have been able to save. We have to survive,” said Tamal Mukherjee, the founder-director, Little Laureates. The chain of preschool has developed a digital platform for children in the age group of 2.6 to 6 years.The platform has separate log in for parents, teachers and students. “It has a facility where all live classes will be recorded for parents to access at their convenience,” Mukherjee said. Most of the preschools are trying to convince parents how the children can achieve milestones, all through online classes. “Online education is here to stay and we are trying to convince parents that we are not teaching them only language or numbers, we are also trying to connect with their children socially and at an emotional level,” said Nabonita Bose Mukherjee, the principal and owner of Bubble Blue Montessori. Pooja Dugar, the director of Leap Years Preschool, said that though they had retained their space, they had shifted the focus from “physical class to online class”. But they are also trying to figure out how to generate revenue from the space. Many parents are unwilling to admit their children even to high school because of the uncertainty as to when they can attend in-person classes. “In a preschool, the class size is much smaller even in the online mode,” said Bose Mukherjee. Under the changed circumstances, the preschools have also become more flexible. They have kept multiple class timings, so that parents can choose according to their convenience. For example Little Laureates will have four batches — 9am, 11am, 5 pm and 7pm. At Bubble Blue also there are four class timings, including one in the evening. Shukla said that they are also giving demo classes to parents. “Children are enjoying the classes. They look forward to it. The task of teaching is much more difficult in online mode because there are that many eyes looking at you which also includes the mothers,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Calcutta||CM gets her Swastha Sathi card||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee stood in a queue with some of her neighbours to collect her Swasthya Sathi card on Tuesday morning. The card was given to her at a camp organised at Jai Hind Bhavan, a community hall at the crossing of Kalighat Road and Harish Mukherjee Road. “Here is my Swastha Sathi card,” Mamata said while flashing the card after stepping out of the hall. Swastha Sathi is a cashless health insurance scheme offered by the state government. It provides secondary and tertiary health-care coverage of up to Rs 5 lakh a year to each family and the premium is paid by the government. The chief minister had said in November that all residents of the state would be eligible for inclusion under the scheme. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) is the nodal agency to distribute Swasthya Sathi forms and cards in the city. It has conducted two rounds of Duare Sarkar camps in each of the 144 wards, where the Swasthya Sathi forms and cards were distributed “A third round is under way and a final round will be held later. The last date for submission of the form is January 25,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-183
06-01-2021||Business||Sensex snaps 10-session winning run, drops 264 pts||Snapping its 10-session winning run, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 264 points on Wednesday, dragged by losses in Reliance Industries, ITC and Infosys. After touching its record intra-day high of 48,616.66 in early trade, the 30-share BSE index pared all gains to end 263.72 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 48,174.06. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 53.25 points or 0.38 per cent to 14,146.25. It touched a record peak of 14,244.15 during the day. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, HUL and HCL Tech. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Bharti Airtel, ONGC and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed high volatility and corrected mainly on turning the outcome of Georgia's run-off elections for two Senate seats in the favour of Democrats, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Control of Senate by Democrats is likely to result in a reversal of lower tax rates in the US, which may create certain volatility in the market," he said, adding that volatility index shot up sharply over 5 per cent at one point of time. Further, profit-booking at record levels also dragged benchmarks lower, traders said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading firm in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.99 per cent higher at USD 54.13 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
06-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note on weak global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex turned choppy after opening at a record intra-day high of 48,616.66 in opening trade on Wednesday amid a weak trend in global equities. After rising 179 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index was trading 38.03 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 48,399.75, and the broader NSE Nifty slipped 8.10 points or 0.06 per cent to 14,191.40. ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, HUL, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, ONGC, Titan, SBI, ICICI Bank and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 260.98 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 48,437.78, while Nifty rose 66.60 points or 0.47 per cent to settle at a new peak of 14,199.50. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 986.30 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be flat at the moment amid mixed cues from Asian markets. "Announcement of date to begin vaccination drive and India continues to remain the most resilient in the world in terms of COVID-19 recovery rates should continue to augur well for equities. Additionally, key economic indicators for December 2020 show sustained recovery in the economic activities. "Considering ongoing economic recovery and persistent weakness in the dollar with soft monetary policies across the world, FPIs flow should continue to remain supportive for Indian equities. 3QFY21 earnings and Union Budget will be crucial for markets in the near term, he said. US equities ended higher as investors focused on higher fiscal stimulus as Democrats' control in the Senate (as indicated by polls) will open the door for large fiscal stimulus and expansive fiscal policies irrespective of near-term volatility due to higher taxes, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.56 per cent higher at USD 53.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
06-01-2021||Business||New York Stock Exchange shelves delist plan ||The New York Stock Exchange said late on Monday that it had reversed a decision to delist China’s three major state-run telecommunications companies. The Big Board said it took the step after consulting with the US Treasury Department. Last week, the exchange said it would stop the trading of shares in China Unicom, China Telecom and China Mobile by January 11 in response to a Trump administration executive order that blocked Americans from investing in companies tied to the Chinese military. The statement did not give a reason for the decision, though it appeared that the executive order may not require the exchange to delist the companies. The exchange said that its regulatory department would continue to evaluate the applicability of the order to the telecommunications companies. The delisting would have had little practical impact on the companies, which also have shares listed in Hong Kong and are state-owned. Still, the disappearance from the American exchange had hefty symbolic value for worsening economic ties between China and the United States. Hong Kong-traded shares in the three phone carriers surged on Tuesday. China Telecom rose 3.4 per cent, China Mobile jumped 5.7 per cent and China Unicom surged 8.5 per cent. Shares in all three have fallen recently. The Chinese government has accused Washington of misusing national security as an excuse to hamper competition and has warned that Trumps order would hurt US and other investors worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Rating boost for Eveready||Eveready Industries India Ltd (EIIL) has received an upgrade from India Ratings & Research (Ind-Ra), reflecting an improvement of the company’s financial profile and liquidity position in the first half of the year. The rating for EIIL’s term loan now stands at ‘BBB-’ with a positive bias, upgraded from ‘BB+’ issued in August. The issuer said the improvement in the financial profile is continuing in the second half as well, backed by substantial improvement in profitability. The positive outlook reflects Ind-Ra’s expectations of a further improvement in the business profile and the liquidity position over FY2021-22, aided by the sustained performance of the batteries and flashlight segments and the likely improvement in the lighting and appliances. Moreover, it factors in the possible resolution of the contingent liability issue and board representation by the Burman family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Uttam Galva Metallics buyout done||Distressed asset managers Nithia Capital and CarVal Investors on Tuesday announced the completion of their Rs 2,000-crore acquisition of Uttam Galva Metallics and Uttam Value Steel. The acquisition was done by the two entities’ Singapore-based joint venture Wardha Steel Holdings, as per a statement. Johannes Sittard, chairman and founding member of Nithia, has been appointed as chairman of Wardha Steel, while Jai Saraf, founder and chief executive of Nithia, has been appointed chairman of Uttam. Saraf said Nithia aspires to create a consolidated operating platform of up to 2 million tonnes of steel production per year in India through acquisition and organic growth. “We have been looking at multiple steel acquisition opportunities in India over the last few years and we are confident that we will continue to grow and build further on the success of Uttam. “We consider India to be the engine of growth for world steel for the next 20-25 years, and it is our intention to actively participate in this process,” he added. The acquisition of the Uttam group companies happened through an insolvency process steered by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Both the companies together had reportedly over Rs 7,000 crore of claims which were admitted by the resolution professional. State Bank of India and Union Bank of India were the lead bankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Audi plans to locally assemble 80% models to avoid high import duties ||Audi India plans to locally assemble 80 per cent of its models to avoid the high import duties on cars. At present, it manufactures the A6 and the latest A4 variant at its Aurangabad plant. “We will be locally assembling 80 per cent of our portfolio,” Audi India head Balbir Singh Dhillon said at the launch of the entry level sedan A4 in India on Tuesday. Dhillon said the luxury segment was taxed heavily at 50 per cent, which includes the 28 per cent GST and the 20-22 per cent cess. The high taxation “keeps the penetration of luxury cars in India low at 1 per cent while it is significantly higher in other neighbouring south east Asian countries”. The company, which had to delay the launch of its entry level sedan because of  the pandemic, has given a bigger engine to the fifth generation A4, which it hopes will lure customers away from cars with a diesel engine. Earlier, the A4 used to sport a 1.4 litre engine. Audi has discontinued its diesel programme in India following the BS-VI regulations. “We are not feeling the heat of not having diesel among our models. Even for our SUVs such as  the Q8 and Q2, the petrol variants are selling rather well,” said Dhillon. Audi, which launched five products in the pandemic year, will continue with its launches this year too, starting with the A4 that will retail at Rs 42.34 lakh, ex-showroom. “We will launch a number of models which will be a combination of sedans, SUVs, sports cars with ICE and electric engines. We will launch our first EV, the e-tron soon,” said Dhillon. The company is expected to add A3, Q3, Q5, Q7 to its lineup this year. The A3 when launched will become the new entry-level car for Audi and  is expected to be a volume driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||HC notice to Punjab on Jio plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the Punjab government and the Centre on a plea filed by Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd seeking action against “miscreants” damaging its telecom infrastructure and forcibly closing its stores in the state. During the ongoing agitation by farmers against the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre, over 1,500 mobile towers in Punjab have been damaged. Reliance Jio, a subsidiary of Reliance Industries, on Monday, submitted in its plea that “vested” interests are engaged in spreading “false rumours” against it and that the petitioner, its parent company and its affiliates had no plans to enter corporate or contract farming. Justice Sudhir Mittal has issued notice of motion for February 8, according to Aashish Mittal, the counsel for Reliance Jio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Stocks soar on Q3 hopes||Benchmark indices on Tuesday settled at lifetime highs on hopes of encouraging performance from corporate India with the results season kicking off this Friday. The gains in stock prices overcame the lacklustre global cues as Britain announced a fresh lockdown. The 30-share Sensex saw some volatility as it oscillated to news about rising coronavirus infections overseas and positive sentiment back home with companies set to announce their third quarter results. After opening lower at 48037.63, the gauge hit an intra-day low of 47903.38. However, it staged a smart recovery to touch an all-time high of 48486.24 during the day. The index later ended at 260.98 points or 0.54 per cent higher at 48437.78, a new closing high. This is for the tenth straight session that the Sensex has ended in the green of which it has closed at record highs in seven sessions. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty rose 66.60 points or 0.47 per cent to settle at a new peak of 14199.50. It scaled a record intra-day high of 14215.60. The gains came as investors remained confident that the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 will reflect the improved performance of India Inc. They are also optimistic that the commentary on the road ahead will be positive. Tata Consultancy Services will declare its numbers on January 8. “We argue Indian IT companies are poised to turn in the best third quarter in a decade given the highest-ever order books, marked revenue acceleration, margin expansion and ongoing outlook upgrades...We expect robust commentaries, record deal-wins and guidance upgrades by all. And we argue that upward guidance revisions by Indian IT companies, which set in two quarters ago, will be followed by upgrades in consensus forecasts for quarters to come,’’ analysts at Edelweiss said in a note. Apart from IT services, the earnings from other sectors such as automobiles, metals, consumer durables, telecom are expected to reflect the recovery in the domestic economy from the lows in the first quarter where it contracted a record 23.9 per cent. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying 6.31 per cent, followed by HDFC, IndusInd Bank, TCS, Asian Paints, HCL Tech, Titan and ICICI Bank. However, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, M&M and Reliance Industries were among the laggards, tumbling up to 2.06 per cent. “Based on the historical standards of valuation today, equities are at a rich level. But these levels are easily extended or cannot be comparable due to one-time economic euphoria from early vaccination, high double digit earnings growth and high liquidity in the market. The ongoing Indian rally is supported by the anticipation of Q3 result,” Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial services, said. Global markets were mixed after Britain announced a fresh nationwide coronavirus lockdown, while Wall Street was under selling pressure in the overnight session. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in early deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||World Bank alert on informal sector||India’s economy is estimated to contract 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year 2020-21, reflecting a sharp drop in household spending and private investment, and the growth is expected to recover to 5.4 per cent in 2021, the World Bank said on Tuesday. In its Global Economic Prospects report, the World Bank said that the informal sector, which accounts for four-fifths of employment, has been subject to severe income losses during the Covid-19 pandemic. “In India, the pandemic hit the economy at a time when growth was already decelerating. The output is estimated to contract by 9.6 per cent in Fiscal Year 2020/21, reflecting a sharp drop in household spending and private investment,” it said. “In India, growth is expected to recover to 5.4 per cent in 2021, as the rebound from a low base is offset by muted private investment growth given financial sector weaknesses,” the bank said. The informal sector, which accounts for four-fifths of employment, has also been subject to severe income losses during the pandemic. Recent high-frequency data indicate that the services and manufacturing recovery are gaining momentum, the report said. The sustained improvement in high-frequency economic indicators along with the impending vaccination programme has raised optimism of an improved performance in the second half of the current fiscal year, the finance ministry said in its report on the economy for December. However, it warns that the spread of the mutant variant of the coronavirus andsocial distancing fatigue could be a downside risk to recovery. “The downside risk, however, remains due to the spread of the UK variant and fatigue from social distancing guidelines,” it said. “The emphasis on continued observation of  ‘Covid appropriate’ behaviour with the due exercise of caution and surveillance needs to be sustained.” “The effective management of Covid-19 spread despite the festive season and onset of winter season combined with sustained improvement in high frequency indicators along with the easing of lockdown restrictions distinguish Indian economy as one riding against the Covid wave,” the report said. The World Bank said it expects the global economy to expand 4 per cent in 2021, assuming an initial Covid-19 vaccine rollout becomes widespread throughout the year. A recovery, however, will likely be subdued, unless policy makers move decisively to tame the pandemic and implement investment-enhancing reforms. India’s growth is expected to recover to 5.4 per cent in 2021 as the rebound from a low base is offset by muted private investment growth given financial sector weaknesses. In the financial sector, non-performing loans were already high before the pandemic, the World Bank, in its January 2021 Global Economic Prospects, said. The pandemic hit the economy at a time growth was already decelerating. Output is estimated to contract 9.6 per cent in fiscal year 2020-21, reflecting a sharp drop in household spending and private investment. The informal sector, which accounts for four-fifths of employment, has also been subject to severe income losses during the pandemic. Recent high frequency data indicate that the services and manufacturing recovery is gaining momentum, it added. The Indian economy reported its sharpest economic contraction of 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter before improving marginally to report a contraction of 7.5 per cent in the July-September quarter. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has expressed optimism that the economy may record positive growth in the October-December quarter. Full-year GDP growth is estimated at -7.5 per cent by the RBI. Sharing improvement in some of the high-frequency data, the report said the sustained spurt in commercial and industrial activity was further corroborated by continued growth in PMI (purchasing manager’s index) manufacturing, power demand, persistent improvement in e-way bills generated and highway toll collection rising above pre-Covid levels Monthly GST collections attained their record levels in December. The gross GST revenue collected in December 2020 was Rs 115,174 crore, the highest since the introduction of goods and services tax from July 1, 2017. The liquidity situation remains comfortable as the accumulation of dollars along with the growth of currency in circulation are enhancing liquidity in the banking system despite the average daily net absorptions by the RBI rose in December compared to the preceding month, the report said. The credit growth improved sharply as reflected in strong non-food credit rise and overall credit growth, thanks to the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), which continues to support robust credit disbursements to MSMEs, with Rs 2.05 lakh crore sanctioned to 80.93 lakh borrowers under ECLGS 1.0. Extension of ECLGS to 26 stressed sectors is a further boost to MSME credit growth. Credit growth is further corroborated by a sharp rise in the incremental credit deposit ratio of banks, as per the report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||World Bank loan to Bengal ||The World Bank will offer $105 million (Rs 770 crore) as a soft loan to improve inland water transport infrastructure in and around Calcutta as part of a $150 million (Rs 1,100 crore) project that will address both passenger traffic as well as freight movement. A tripartite agreement was signed on Tuesday among the international agency, the Union government and the Bengal government to facilitate the loan which will have a tenure of 17 years, with a grace period of seven years. The five-year project, where the recipient of the loan will also arrange $45 million (Rs 330 crore), will be carried out in two phases and cover the five most populous districts of south Bengal, including the Calcutta Metropolitan Area (CMA), home to three crore people or a third of Bengal’s population. “This operation will allow the state to invest in Calcutta’s economic productivity by making its waterways and ferry services part of an efficient and safe urban mobility strategy,” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director in India. “Given Calcutta’s strategic location, the project is also ensuring that the metropolitan area emerges as a transport and logistics hub for the sub-region, leveraging the EDFC (eastern dedicated freight corridor) and connecting to the Northeast and the land-locked countries of Nepal and Bhutan,” he added. The inland water transport project will add to the two ongoing ones supported by the World Bank in Bengal, having a combined portfolio of $460 million (Rs 3,375 crore). The other two programmes involve strengthening gram panchayats and irrigation and flood management. In the first phase, the project will enhance the capacity and improve the safety of the inland water transport system, including rehabilitating existing jetties, buying new ferries and installing electronic gates in 40 locations. In the second phase, it will support long-term investments for passenger movements, including in terminals and jetties; improve the design of the inland water transport vessels; ensure night navigation on the most hazardous and trafficked routes and crossing points; and encourage the private sector to invest in Ro-Ro vessels that will allow easier movement of trucks across the Hooghly river. Climate-smart engineering solutions will be applied, including modular floating designs for ferry access points at the passenger terminals. In addition, the project will facilitate disable-friendly amenities, ensure women’s safety and encourage women’s employment in the IWT department and with the ferry operators. There is an existing ferry system connecting Calcutta, north and south 24 Parganas situated on the east bank of Hooghly to various parts of Howrah and Hooghly which are on the west bank of the river. Operational for decades, this rudimentary service caters to less than 2 per cent of the traffic movement and a small portion of the freight movement. Developing the river transport infrastructure will enable a large population of the state to utilise its waterways, have alternative, multi-modal options for transportation for both freight and passengers, connect the hinterland with Calcutta Metropolitan Area’s markets and job centres and emerge as a logistics hub. Moreover, the river separates Calcutta Port (east bank) with large consumption centres, including neighbouring countries such as Nepal and Bhutan. More than 80 per cent of freight and passenger traffic now cross the river via Calcutta’s three bridges. To curtail congestion, the city has restricted the movement of trucks to the port to certain bridges and only during limited hours, reducing access to the port and increasing the cost of logistics. A roll on-roll off (Ro-Ro) service for trucks from the port to the other side of the river can bypass movement within the city as well as the bridges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea dials investors for $2 billion||Vodafone Idea (Vi) is close to raising at least $2 billion from a clutch of investors to be deployed to expand its 4G operations and clear part of the dues of  the government. The telco had announced in September it planned to raise up to Rs 25,000 crore in fresh capital. The loss-making carrier had been ordered by the Supreme Court to pay roughly Rs 58,000 crore in adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to the government over a 10-year period of which it has so far paid over Rs 7,900 crore. Vodafone had said it would raise up to Rs 15,000 crore through debentures and an equal amount in shares and warrants, but together they will not exceed Rs 25,000 crore. It is now learnt the telco could announce the much awaited transaction over the next few days from a consortium that includes Oak Hill Advisors, PIMCO and Golden Tree Asset Management. The buzz is that Vi may raise up to $3 billion in a mix of equity and debt at a time subscribers have been migrating to rival networks. In October 2020, it lost 2.7 million users and  its subscriber base stands at around 293 million. Shares of Vodafone Idea on Tuesday ended marginally lower at Rs 11.91. Over the past one month, the counter has gained almost 24 per cent. The company was in the news last month when it announced a tariff hike on two of its postpaid plans. It had posted a consolidated loss of Rs 7,218.2 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2020 against Rs 50,879.9 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. Brokerages feel the operators will report sequentially better numbers for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020. Analysts at Axis Securities estimated revenues for Vodafone Idea are likely to decline by 0.5 per cent sequentially during the period, as subscriber losses continued. However, it added that the company’s average revenue per user (ARPU) will improve 0.4 per cent over the preceding quarter to Rs 120 helped by more recharges, exit of low ARPU subscribers and conversion of more users to 4G. Exim raises $1bn Exim Bank has raised $1 billion through an overseas bond sale offering just 2.25 per cent for the 10-year money, setting a new low in pricing. The issue was oversubscribed over 3.5 times, managing director David Rasquinha said. In Asia when the issue was launched the bonds were oversold within two hours. “The coupon of 2.25 per cent is a record low for any 10-year bond issuance out of the country till date,’’ he disclosed. Exim Bank, with a substantially dollarised balance sheet, is one of the largest domestic issuers of long-term debt in the global markets . The funds thus raised will be used to support project exports and overseas investment by way of long-term credit of Indian companies and its export lines of credit portfolio, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||Business||Centre sets 32,000km gas grid goal ||The government plans to cut energy imports and reduce carbon emissions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said while inaugurating a 450km natural gas pipeline between Kochi in Kerala to Mangalore in Karnataka, which has been built at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore. Modi said the country’s natural gas pipeline network will be doubled to about 32,000km in 5-6 years.  “The first interstate natural gas pipeline of the country was commissioned in 1987 and by 2014, India had 15,000 kilometres of natural gas pipeline built. Today there are over 16,000 kilometres of new gas pipelines being worked upon. This work is going to be complete in the next 5 to 6 years,” he said. The Kochi-Mangalore pipeline built by GAIL (India) will enable industries, households and automobiles to migrate to the cleaner fuel. It will help set up 700 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations and 2.1 million people avail piped natural gas (PNG). Under the one nation-one gas grid plan, nearly 1,500km of pipeline has been laid last year. The target is to invest $60 billion in four years in pipelines, liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals and city gas distribution networks. India’s push for a gas-based economy assumes significance as the country is the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after the US and China and is among the most vulnerable to climate change. India plans to reduce its carbon footprint by 33-35 per cent from its 2005 levels by 2030 as part of its commitments to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted by 195 countries in Paris in 2015. Gas comprises about 6.2 per cent of India’s primary energy mix, far behind the global average of 24 per cent. The government plans to increase this share to 15 per cent by 2030. The demand is expected to be driven by fertiliser, power, city gas distribution, and steel sectors. The Centre also plans to boost domestic gas production by 40 million standard cubic meters a day (mscmd) from 80 mscmd at present. Modi said work had also begun on the world's biggest hybrid renewable plant combining wind and solar power in Gujarat. Emphasis will be laid on manufacturing biofuels as well as electric mobility. In 10 years' time, petrol will be mixed with as much as 20 per cent of ethanol extracted from sugarcane and other agro products, he said. The number of CNG stations in the country will be raised to 10,000 from 1,500 at present. India is the fourth-largest importer of LNG. Some of the strategies adopted to meet the objective of energy security and energy transition include a faster clean energy trajectory by leveraging natural gas and green hydrogen. The country is projected to see over $300 billion investment by 2030 in the oil and gas sector to meet rising demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-179
06-01-2021||India||RSS-BJP meet on farm stir, Bengal polls||Top leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the BJP are to discuss the farmer protest and the upcoming Bengal and Assam elections, among other issues, at a three-day co-ordination meeting that started in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar on Tuesday. Although no decision is taken at such meetings, the BJP will get to know the RSS’s views on the new farm laws and take feedback from the ground from a host of Sangh parivar outfits working in different areas. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and BJP president J.P. Nadda, along with over 150 delegates drawn from over two dozen Sangh-affiliated outfits, are taking part in the meeting. The biannual meeting, anchored by the RSS that is considered the head of the Sangh family, is held to get feedback, share experiences and discuss key national and regional issues. On the farm laws, the RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagran Manch has already suggested several amendments, including a legally guaranteed minimum support price, which the protesting farmers have been demanding. The Narendra Modi government has so far held off the farmers’ key demands. “At the meeting, top leaders of the RSS could give their suggestions to the BJP on how to resolve the crisis,” an RSS leader said. Internally, the RSS attaches a lot of significance to a harmonious relationship between the Hindus and the Sikhs and is learnt to be concerned over the way the farmer protest appears to be turning the Sikhs against the BJP. “The government passed the farm laws in a hurry without wider consultations. There are a lot of flaws,” an RSS leader associated with farmers said. “The government has to fix base or floor prices for different agri-products and make them legally binding or else farmers will be exploited by market forces,” the leader added. This leader claimed that the government so far has been firm that a legal guarantee on MSP would defeat the very purpose of the laws aimed to reform and open up the agri-sector. The other big agenda for discussion during the meeting would be the upcoming Bengal and Assam polls. While the BJP is confident about retaining Assam, the party wants all wings of the Sangh parivar to give their best to win the politically and ideologically significant Bengal. BJP chief Nadda, who visited Bengal recently, is likely to share his feedback and receive “vital inputs” from the Sangh affiliates, sources said. The RSS has been known to mobilise its ground cadres with keen interest when it comes to achieving ideological goals like winning elections in Bengal. At the meeting, the BJP, along with other RSS affiliates, will work out a coordinated strategy on ground mobilisation ahead of the elections. Apart from some issues, the RSS is learnt to be happy with Prime Minister Modi, given the way most ideologically crucial goals such as the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 have been achieved without any big controversy. Fund raising for the construction of the temple will also be discussed at the meeting. “So, even if the RSS has some misgivings about certain issues like the farm laws, it will not go beyond a point to exert pressure on the Modi government,” an RSS leader said, pointing out that the Sangh has got more than it had expected from the Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Centre sends teams to Haryana, Kerala amid bird flu scare||The Centre on Wednesday said it has deployed multi-disciplinary teams to avian influenza-affected Alappuzha and Kottayam districts of Kerala, and Panchkula district of Haryana, making them two out of the four states that have confirmed Avian Influenza or bird flu, as lakhs of birds were found dead in the last 10 days. It has also issued advisories to contain further spread of the infection in poultry ducks, crows and migratory birds. In a statement, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said that other states have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds. Avian Influenza has been confirmed at 12 epicentres in four states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, and thousands of birds have already been culled there. “After confirmation of positive samples from ICAR-NIHSAD (National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases), Avian Influenza has been reported at 12 epicenters,” the ministry said in its statement. “Infection in humans is not yet reported in India though the disease is zoonotic. There is no direct evidence that AI viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products,” it said. Of the 12 epicenters, the bird flu has been reported in crows in Baran, Kota, Jhalawar region of Rajasthan as well as Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa areas of Madhya Pradesh. Whereas in Himachal Pradesh, the infection was found in migratory birds in Kangra region and in poultry ducks in Kottayam, Alappuzha (4 epicentres) in Kerala, the ministry said. Over 69,000 birds, mostly ducks, were culled in the districts of Alappuzha and Kottayam to contain the H5N8 strain of bird flu, Kerala Animal Husbandry Minister K Raju said on Wednesday. In Haryana, over four lakh poultry birds have died at farms in Panchkula district in the past 10 days, officials said Tuesday, adding a team from Jalandhar's Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory has collected samples. However, the state has not confirmed Avian Influenza yet. The Centre on Wednesday said it has set up a “control room” in New Delhi to keep a watch on the situation and to take stock on a daily basis the preventive and control measures undertaken by the state authorities. According to the reports received from the states, control measures are being taken in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan as per the guidelines of National Action Plan of Avian Influenza. In the case of Himachal Pradesh, another advisory was issued on Tuesday to avoid further spread of the infection, the Centre said. As per the action plan on Avian Influenza, the Union ministry has suggested the affected states for strengthening the biosecurity of poultry farms, disinfection of affected areas, proper disposal of dead birds/carcasses, timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance, intensification of surveillance plan as well as the general guidelines for prevention of disease spread from affected birds to poultry and human. The Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying has also suggested the states for coordination with the forest department for reporting any unusual mortality of birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Have evidence against Arnab, Republic TV in TRP case, police tell HC||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that "some evidence" was found against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in the Television Rating Points (TRP) scam case, and therefore, it did not want to continue granting them any protection from any coercive action. However, as the high court adjourned the matter without hearing any arguments during the day, the police agreed to continue its previous assurance of not taking any coercive action till January 15, the next date of hearing in the case. The alleged fake TRP scam was unearthed last year after the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint alleging that certain television channels were rigging their TRP numbers, apparently to generate more revenue from advertisements. On Wednesday, the HC adjourned the matter without hearing any arguments after a Republic TV counsel told the court that senior advocate Harish Salve was unable to appear while the second senior lawyer was stuck due to some medical emergency in family. At this point, Mumbai Police's lawyer Kapil Sibal agreed to refrain from taking any coercive action against the accused till the next date of hearing. "We (Mumbai Police) have found evidence on record through investigation with BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) against Republic TV and Arnab Goswami. Milords may record my statement that I (police) do not wish to continue my statement. I (Police) have agreed (not to take any coercive action against the accused) because of this extreme emergency," Sibal said referring to the adjournment. He also told the HC that the police will submit a status report of its probe in the case on the next date of hearing. On December 16 last year, Sibal had submitted in the HC that no coercive action would be taken against Goswami or any other employees of ARG Outlier Media (AOM), which runs Republic TV, till January 6. The AOM had approached the high court last year, seeking, among other things, that the police be restrained from taking coercive action against its employees. During the hearing in December last year, advocate Abad Ponda, who appeared for AOM, had read out from the charge sheet to point out that the police had mentioned in the charge sheet, the owners, managers, and related persons of Republic TV, as suspects in the case. Ponda had said that this could mean that the police could arrest anyone related to the channel and that the same constituted "gross illegality". The HC bench had then asked the state's counsel to take instructions from the police on no coercive action against the employees till further hearing. AOM had filed several pleas and interim applications in the HC urging it to transfer the probe in the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation or any other independent agency. It had also requested the HC to stay the ongoing investigation and restrain the police from taking any coercive action against the petitioners, their employees, or investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Modi deserved prime ministership: Pranab in his memoir||The decisive mandate the BJP got in two consecutive general elections in 2014 and 2019 indicated voters' preference for political stability, according to former president Pranab Mukherjee, who said Narendra Modi "earned and achieved" the prime ministership. Mukherjee also said in his memoir that Narendra Modi became prime minister "through popular choice" unlike Manmohan Singh "who was offered the post by Sonia Gandhi". Every general election has its "importance because the issues that are debated during the polls reflect the various views and perceptions of the electorate", Mukherjee wrote in his memoir "The Presidential Years, 2012-2017" which he completed before his death last year. " The 2014 verdict was historic for two reasons. First, after three decades, a contesting political party received a decisive mandate instead of a fractured one," he wrote. The second reason, he said, is that the BJP emerged with a simple majority on its own in the Lok Sabha for the first time and was thus able to form the government, though it still did so by co-opting its allies. "But the real winner was the electorate that came out in large numbers and voted decisively, thus indicating its preference for political stability, which it believed would result in development-oriented politics," the former Congress stalwart and union minister wrote in the book, which was released on Tuesday. Mukherjee said he was also of the belief that people were dejected with coalitions and the behaviour of political parties changing sides for parochial gains. "Coalitions are often formed with the only common agenda of blocking a particular party or individual from coming to power." Comparing Modi with Singh, Mukherjee said the route to prime ministership for the two prime ministers he worked with was very different. Mukherjee, who was the president from July 25, 2012 to July 25, 2017, had worked with both the prime ministers during his tenure. "Dr Singh was offered the post by Sonia Gandhi; she had been chosen as the prime ministerial candidate by the Congress Parliamentary Party and other constituents of the UPA, but she declined the offer," he wrote. "Modi, on the other hand, became PM through popular choice after leading the BJP to a historic victory in 2014. He is a politician to the core and had been named the BJP's prime ministerial candidate as the party went into campaign mode. He was then Gujarat's CM and had built an image that seemed to click with the masses. He has earned and achieved the prime ministership," he added. Mukherjee wrote he had very cordial relations with Prime Minister Modi during his tenure. "However, I did not hesitate to give my advice on matters of policy during our meetings. There were several occasions when he echoed concerns that I had voiced. I also believe that he has managed to grasp the nuances of foreign policy quickly," the book said. Mukherjee's approach to maintaining cordial relations with Modi was rooted in the fact that "I believe in the parliamentary form of government and its principle". On the Congress's performance in the face of Modi's surge in 2014, he wrote, " There is no escaping the fact that the Congress had failed miserably to fulfil people's expectations and aspirations. In fact, after the campaign, when all the formalities were complete, several important Congress leaders and ministers met me at Rashtrapati Bhavan for various reasons. Interestingly, none of them expected a clear majority for either the Congress or the UPA combine." Talking about his advice for decisive mandate in upcoming elections in his Republic Day address in 2014, Mukherjee remarked tongue-in-cheek in his book, published by Rupa Publications, "Of course, people may say that the voters responded to my advice and gave a conclusive mandate in favour of PM Modi to form a government on his own." Mukherjee also wrote that he wasn't sure of the numbers and massive mandate of the BJP before 2014 elections but was impressed seeing the planning and hard work of Modi. "Only Piyush Goyal, the then national treasurer of the party and now a cabinet minister, was confident that the BJP would get no less than 265 seats, and that the number could go up to 280. I didn't and still don't know the reasons for his optimism. However, I took him seriously when he gave me Modi's detailed electioneering schedule, which was not only gruelling but also painstaking," he said. Mukherjee also appreciated Modi for the quick grasp of the nuances of foreign policy. "When Narendra Modi took over as PM, he had absolutely no experience in foreign affairs. As the CM of Gujarat, he had visited some countries, but those visits were limited to engaging for the good of his state and had little to do with domestic or global foreign policies. Foreign policy was, therefore, truly uncharted territory for him," he wrote. "But he did what no PM had attempted before: invite the heads of government/state of SAARC nations to his oath-taking ceremony in 2014 - and this included Pakistan's then PM, Nawaz Sharif. His out-of-the-box initiative took several foreign policy veterans by surprise." PTI GSN||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Steady fall in Covid cases point to herd immunity  ||India could be at a turning point in its life and death battle against Covid-19 with a steady fall in the number of cases combining with the government’s ambitious plans to roll out vaccines at high speed. Virologists say the declining case trajectory may reflect herd immunity taking hold in localised areas of the country. Daily new Covid-19 cases in the country have been riding below 20,000 for a number of days and on Monday stood at 16,504. That’s more than six times below the peak hit on September 16 when fresh cases hit 97,784. It was widely forecast in mid-September that India was about to crack a dismal milestone of a record 100,0000 fresh cases a day. Instead, the number of daily cases began slipping. “You can’t miss the trend. I think we have turned a corner,” says virologist Shahid Jameel. Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, says encouragement can be drawn from the pandemic’s downward registered case trajectory in India as the number of people testing positive has been dropping despite a string of festivals that could have been super-spreader events. (He notes that the testing methodology has remained unchanged even as the numbers have been falling). Jameel points to the crowds that went shopping in the weeks before Diwali and the rallies and other mass gatherings which took place during the Bihar elections. Then, there have been the farmers’ protests outside Delhi which have brought tens of thousands of demonstrators together and which do not appear to have resulted in mass infections. There may be an element of community herd immunity developing but it is not nationwide, says Jameel. “Herd immunity is not a national concept. It’s applicable to communities and clusters. Some (communities) may have achieved it, others not.” He adds: “Remember (also) that people move in and out of clusters” and that there will continue to be spikes in cases. The government’s decision at the weekend to clear two vaccines for use is crucial to fighting the pandemic, especially now with the emergence of a new fast-spreading virus variant in Britain and South Africa that could change the coronavirus outlook in India and in other parts of the world. It’s reckoned the variant, called B.1.1.7, which has prompted an England-wide lockdown, is anywhere between 50 per cent and 70 per cent more transmissible than D614G, the dominant strain globally. Experts in the field believe the vaccines which have been developed will still work against the new variants. “The vaccines should largely not be affected by one mutation,” says Lipi Thukral, senior scientist, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. But the experts say that the emergence of the more transmissible strain makes the vaccine rollout all the more urgent. Delhi, which has faced three Covid-19 infection waves, reported only 655 cases on Sunday and numbers have stayed below a thousand for three days running. These are the lowest numbers since August. The number of Covid-19-related deaths in Delhi fell to 18 last Thursday and to 23 on Sunday the lowest since early September. In Bangalore, however, larger hospital ICUs are at risk of being swamped by a rising number of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections cases coming in. Kerala, though, remains a national outlier in still reporting rising case numbers. Kerala reported 5,328 cases on Saturday and 4,600 cases and 25 deaths on Sunday. Virologists suggest the reason for the caseload continuing to mount in Kerala is that the state held the pandemic at bay for several months. In many parts of rural India, meanwhile, there are indications that Covid-19 is spreading only in a limited way and that the cases that are happening are relatively mild. “Evidence coming in suggests rural India is only minimally affected,” says Dipyaman Ganguly, principal scientist, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. No studies have yet been carried out to establish this conclusively, but he notes that people in urban India and those living in rural areas live starkly different lives. Indian experts are generally sanguine about the impact on the country of the new, more transmissible strain. “I don’t see a serious impact from the new strain, the virus is not more virulent,” says Dileep Raman, director and co-founder, CloudPhysician, which offers tele-ICU services. Experts say it may be that the high-speed spread that has taken place in Southeast England is because of people meeting up and also going on shopping expeditions during the pre-Christmas season. About 50 countries including India have banned travel from the UK in the wake of the announcement about the fast-spreading variant. Late last week, the government said 29 people arriving from Britain have tested positive for the variant and are being isolated. But there could be many more as some 33,000 passengers landed at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and administered the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. “All control (of the new variant) depends on the methods we know, identifying cases by testing, tracing and isolating to prevent further spread. If that is done well, we may not have a rise in cases,” says Gagandeep Kang, clinical scientist and professor, Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The new variant detected in the UK on December 8 is worrying, say researchers, because the virus mutation is at the point of interface between the virus and the human cells. Says Lipi Thukral: “That’s why it is critical and more studies need to be done to understand how it can impact the virus biology.” The other danger signal from the new mutant is that it appears to have multiple spike protein mutations. “The mutations here in the spike protein have been shown to affect the binding so this needs to be looked at,” says Thukral. India, meanwhile, has become the first country to successfully isolate and culture the UK variant of the virus that causes coronavirus from the clinical specimens collected from UK-returnees, according to the ICMR, the country’s top medical body. But one consequence of developing the vaccines at ultra-high speed is that there are still several questions, including no clear picture yet on how long immunity will last after the second and final injection. Ganguly says that Phase IV trials on the vaccines need to be done in India. A phase 4 trial is done after the drug’s already marketed and available to the general public and its main goal is to assess the drug's performance in real-life scenarios, to study the long-term risks and benefits of using the drug and to discover any rare side-effects. “Our immunological constitution is very different from people abroad. Normally, you will want a Phase IV trial in India,” he says. There is also the worry that the vaccination of huge numbers of people around the globe could prompt the virus to mutate in a fashion that would make the immune system less responsive to the vaccine. However, scientists say that it could take years for these so-called “vaccine escape mutants” to render the current set of vaccines useless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Amid economic contractions, PM to meet top analysts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with top economists and sectoral experts on Friday to deliberate on measures, which may be included in the upcoming budget for promoting growth, amid uncertainty on multiple fronts caused by Covid-19. The meeting assumes significance as according to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), India’s economy is projected to contract 7.5 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021, while the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank estimates the contraction at 10.3 per cent and 9.6 per cent, respectively. Government think tank Niti Aayog is responsible for organising the meeting, which will be held virtually, and will be attended by Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar and its CEO Amitabh Kant. “The Prime Minister will meet economists on Friday to seek their inputs for the next budget,” a government official, who did not wish to be named, said. The country’s economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on better consumer demand. India’s economic growth stood at an estimated 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The upcoming Union Budget is likely to be presented on February 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Four die due to toxic gas leak at Odisha plant, few others fall ill||At least four workers died on Wednesday after inhaling a toxic gas leaked at Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP) in Odisha of the state-run Steel Authority of India, while a few others fell ill, official sources said. The accident happened at a coal chemical department facility on Wednesday morning, the sources said. The four deceased were identified as Ganesh Chandra Paila (55), Rabindra Sahu (59), Abhimanyu Sah (33) and Bramhananda Panda (51). “The four contractual workers, engaged by a private company, felt unwell at 9 am, following which they were taken to a health facility of the plant and later admitted to the ICU of the Ispat General Hospital where they died,” the RSP officials said. They further elaborated that according to preliminary reports, the workers died after they inhaled carbon monoxide that leaked from the unit, adding that some others, who also fell ill after inhaling the toxic gas, are being treated at the RSP dispensary. “A high-level committee has been formed to inquire into the cause of the incident. The plant is functioning normally,” the RSP officials said. RSP chief executive officer Dipak Chattaraj condoled the demise of four contractual workers and said the authorities will extend all the support to the bereaved families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas regarding farm laws and ongoing protest on January 11||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it would hear on January 11 a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as also the ones raising issues related to the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which observed that there is no improvement on the ground regarding farmers' protests, was told by the Centre that healthy discussions are going on between the government and farmers over these issues. Attorney General K K Venugopal said there is a good chance that parties may come to a conclusion in the near future and filing of response by the Centre on the pleas challenging the new farm laws might foreclose the negotiations between the farmers and government. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, while informing the bench that talks are going on between the government and farmers in a healthy atmosphere, said that these matters should not be listed for hearing on January 8. We understand the situation and encourage consultation. We can adjourn the matters on Monday (January 11) if you submit the same due to the ongoing consultation process, the bench said. The top court was hearing a plea challenging the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Arnab Goswami granted more time to amend petition||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted further time to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami to amend his petition and place on record the charge sheet filed against him and two others in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer. Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda will have to appear before a magistrate court at Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, pursuant to the summons issued to them in December 2020. On December 16, 2020, the magistrate's court took cognisance of the charge sheet filed by Alibaug police in the case and directed the three accused to appear before it on January 7 to commit the case to a sessions court. As the charges invoked in the case are punishable for more than seven years, the trial in the case will have to be conducted by a sessions court. In November last year, Goswami filed a petition in the high court, seeking to quash the FIR registered against him by the Alibaug police. He later sought to amend his petition so as to challenge the charge sheet filed by the police. The same was allowed by the HC in December 2020. On Wednesday, advocate Niranjan Mundargi, appearing for Goswami, sought further time to carry out the amendment. "The charge sheet is bulky and is in Marathi. We need to translate it to English and hence, we need some more time to do so," Mundargi said. The court accepted it and posted the petition for hearing on February 11. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for accused Nitish Sarda, who has also filed a petition in the HC against the FIR, sought that the court hear his arguments. Aggarwal said the accused persons have been asked to appear before the magistrate's court on Thursday. To this, Justice Shinde said, "So appear there. What is going to happen? The trial is not going to start tomorrow." The court posted Sarda's plea also for hearing on February 11. The three accused were arrested by the Alibaug police on November 4, 2020. It is the police's case that architect and interior designer Anvay Naik committed suicide in May 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused persons. Goswami in November last year filed a petition in the HC seeking to quash the FIR, and also sought interim bail. The HC on November 9 refused to grant interim bail following whichGoswamiapproached the Supreme Court. The SC on November 11 granted interim bail to Goswami. The police filed the charge sheet in the case last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Woman, 50, gangraped, murdered by three in Uttar Pradesh temple||A 50-year-old woman was brutally gangraped and murdered by allegedly three people, including a priest, in the Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Wednesday. The police arrested two of them on Tuesday, while all three of the accused have been booked under respective provisions. The brutal attack on the woman took place on Sunday when she had gone to a temple. “They brought her on their own in a vehicle. She was dead when they left her here. The priest and others dropped her at the door and left quickly,” her son was quoted as saying by NDTV. Before family members could ask how she died, the accused left the house saying that she had fallen in a dry well, and her body was pulled out and brought to her home, the son added. He said police were informed on Monday. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said “The post-mortem report confirms rape, and there are injuries in her private parts and a fracture in the leg”. He added that the station house officer of Ughaiti police station has been suspended for laxity in the case. Giving out details, he said, “On Sunday, the 50-year-old woman, who had gone to a temple, was found dead under mysterious circumstances. Family members of the woman have accused the temple mahant and his aides of raping and murdering her.” “Based on this, a case was registered against the accused. Two of the accused persons were arrested on Tuesday night, while the mahant is still absconding,” he added. Four teams have been formed to nab the priest, the SSP said. According to NDTV, a video of the accused priest came into view on Monday, where he claimed that the woman had fallen into a well near the temple and he and a few others had rescued her. “I brought two men to rescue her. We took her out of the well. She was alive. When we dropped her home, she was alive,” he claimed. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that there was something wrong in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women's security. Tagging a media report, Gandhi tweeted: “In Hathras, the government administration did not listen to the voice of those pleading. The government saved officials and suppressed the victim's voice.” “In Budaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government's intentions on women's security,” she added. Party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed the incident “horrific” and “shameful for humanity”. “How many more Nirbhayas? How much more of this monstrosity (haivaniyat)? When will the Adityanath government wake up? Where are our awakened journalists,” he said in a tweet in a hindi. Taking to Twitter, Samajwadi Party said, “Fifty-year-old anganwadi assistant, who had gone to offer prayers at a temple in Budaun, gang-raped and subsequently murdered. Those in power who only make false claims of women security should drown themselves. The guilty should be punished at the earliest, and justice should prevail.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||SC agrees to examine Love Jihad laws of UP, Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to look into the controversial new laws of the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments against ‘unlawful’ religious conversions on the pretext of interfaith marriages, and issued notices to both the states. A bench, headed by chief Justice S.A. Bobde however refused to stay the provisions of the laws. The apex court addressed two pleas, filed by advocate Vishal Thakre and others and an NGO ‘Citizen for Justice and Peace’, which have challenged the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. Initially, the bench was reluctant to hear the pleas and asked the petitioners to approach the Allahabad High Court after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that it was already seized. The bench said that this is not the transfer petition where it can transfer to itself all the cases on the law after one of the petitioners said that the issue should be examined by the top court. Senior advocate C.U. Singh, appearing for the NGO, referred to the judgement of Justice (retd) Deepak Gupta and says that similar laws are being made in various states. Singh said some of the provisions under the laws should be stayed as people are being held in the middle of wedding ceremonies. Singh added that the provisions are “oppressive and horrible” in nature and requires prior consent of the government to marry which is absolutely obnoxious. The bench said that it is issuing notice and sought response from both the state governments within four weeks. When Singh insisted for stay of provisions, the CJI said that a stay cannot be sought without hearing the states. “How can it be done,” the bench asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Biden urged to ease restrictions on H-1B visa by India-American business group ||A top India-centric American business advocacy group has urged the incoming Biden administration to ease the restrictions on H-1B visas and provide green cards to higher education students with science and mathematics degrees to meet the increasing demand for IT professionals in the country. On December 31, outgoing US President Donald Trump extended a freeze on the most sought-after H-1B visas along with other types of foreign work visas by three months to March 31, affecting a large number of Indian IT professionals who were issued visas by the US government for the fiscal year 2021. President-elect Joe Biden, a Democrat, has promised to lift the suspension on H-1B visas, saying Trump's immigration policies are cruel. "It is more of a legislative issue. We have basically recommended to the Biden administration, one, is ease up the H-1B (visa), but at the same time, every STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) PhD graduating, should be given a Green Card, so that they stay and contribute from day one as a taxpayer and also to the growth of the economy," Mukesh Aghi, president of US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum told PTI in an interview. "That's the position, we still are very supportive of. And I think the sentiment seems to be the same with the Biden administration, said Aghi, based on the interactions he has had with members of the Biden Transition Team. Biden is scheduled to be inaugurated as the 46th US President on January 20. Responding to a question, Aghi said the number of H-1B visas issued every year should be driven by the market demands. At this point of time, the current figure of 65,000 H-1B visas in addition to another 20,000 to those foreign nationals with graduation from a US university is quite inadequate to meet the huge demand of IT professionals in the US, he noted. Currently, there is a shortage of 1 million IT professionals in the US. At the same time, he asserted, there is a need to ensure that the local job environment continues. Supporting the farm laws in India, Aghi said the three new legislation recently enacted are the right thing to do. Today the farmer in India gets 24 cents to a dollar for his produce, he said. In the era of technology, farmers need to have choices to be able to sell their produce to 'mandis' or to be able to sell to other geographies as well. The farm bill provides farmers with such an option, he explained. It is just providing choices and in any economy choices are healthy. At the same time, if somebody is protesting diverse choices, in a peaceful manner, then we support it, he said. But at the end of the day, in an agriculture-based economy, one has to figure out how to double the farmers' income, expand job creation and improve productivity. We strongly believe the farm bill supports that vision. People will object to it, but that's normal in a good democracy, he said. Aghi said the COVID-19 crisis and the current change in administration in the US provide India with an opportunity to look at the Biden administration in a positive manner. The crisis with China has brought to India the message that 'we will not treat you as an equal partner'; sends a message to the leadership in India to look at the Biden Administration in a very, very positive manner, he said. It also sends a message to the Biden Administration that with the current scenario, which is a geopolitical one, India can be a reliable partner; India can stand up to the threat of aggressive China, which no other country has stood up to. Both countries have a common factor here, Aghi said. So, I think the current COVID-19 crisis where India can play a strong role in the vaccine production on producing cheaper generic drugs, not only for the US, but worldwide provides an equal partnership. I think India and the Biden administration will reach out to each other and come with some kind of an understanding early on, rather than waiting on and making sure that there is a win-win partnership here, Aghi said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor in favour of cancelling R-Day festivities||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has suggested cancelling the Republic Day festivities after Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelled his India visit due to the coronavirus situation in the UK, saying getting crowds to cheer the parade as usual would be "irresponsible". Johnson, who was scheduled to attend the Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi as chief guest, has cancelled his visit to India later this month due to the growing health crisis created by the new coronavirus variant in the UK. "Now that @BorisJohnson's visit to India this month has been cancelled due to the COVID Second Wave, & we don't have a Chief Guest on Republic Day, why not go one step farther & cancel the festivities altogether?" Tharoor asked Twitter on Tuesday night. "Getting crowds to cheer the parade, as usual, would be irresponsible," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with Johnson on Tuesday, during which the British leader reiterated his thanks for India's invitation for him as the chief guest of the Republic Day celebrations, but regretted his inability to attend. Johnson's call with Modi came a day after he addressed the nation to announce a new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK as his medical chiefs warned that the National Health Service was under threat of being overwhelmed by the rising infection rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Parts of Delhi experience hailstorm as rains continue to pour||Residents in parts of Delhi woke up to the sound of hailstones hitting rooftops and windows, even as sporadic rain continued in the national capital for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said parts of South Delhi reported hailstorm around 7:30 am. More rain and hailstorms are predicted during the day, it said. Residents in neighbouring Gurgaon shared video clips of hailstorm there. On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, recorded 1.3 mm rainfall till 5:30 pm. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road and Ridge recorded 5.3 mm, 0.4 mm and 4.8 mm rainfall, respectively, during the period. The minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius as a result of a cloud cover. The maximum temperature settled at 20.8 degrees Celsius. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downwards, warming the ground. The rains, under the influence of a strong western disturbance, come on the back of a "severe" cold wave that gripped Delhi in the run-up to the New Year. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and very dense fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On Sunday, there was intense rainfall, thunder and lightning in the city. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday and 2:30 pm on Sunday. The western disturbance is causing widespread snowfall in the hills too. Once it withdraws, the mercury will fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||More than 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 264 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,74,932 with 18,088 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries are nearing one crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,50,114 with 264 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,97,272 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 16th consecutive day. There are 2,27,546, active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.19 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,74,63,405 samples have been tested up to January 5 with 9,31,408 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 264 new fatalities include 64 from Maharashtra, 25 from Chhattisgarh, and 24 each from West Bengal and Kerala and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,50,114 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,759 from Maharashtra followed by 12,177 from Tamil Nadu, 12,118 from Karnataka, 10,609 from Delhi, 9,841 from West Bengal, 8,433 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,122 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,404 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||More than 12 lakh migratory birds flock to Chilika||The Chilika lake, India’a first Ramsar site (wetlands of international importance) and Unesco world heritage site, continues to be the favourite haunt of migratory birds because of easy availability of food during the winter. The fact came to light during the bird census held in the lake on Tuesday with the active support and participation of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). Though the final results of the count are yet to be officially declared, highly placed sources said that the number of birds in the lake this time would exceed the figure of 11 lakh last year. “The number is likely to be increased as the weather is favourable and there is natural availability of food for birds. It would cross 12 lakh this year. The compilation work is on,” said chief executive of Chilika Development Authority (CDA), Sushant Nanda. Sources maintained that as the number of visitors to the lake has gone down drastically due to the various restrictions imposed because of the corona pandemic and there is almost complete ban on movement of boats, it ensures least possible human intervention and provides a perfect atmosphere for the birds to come to the lake. The migrant birds are coming to the lake from Siberia, Mongolia, China and greater Himalayas. They start their return journey with the onset of summer. As soon as the dawn descends more than 120 people divided into 21 teams move to different parts of the lake spread over 1100sqkm covering three districts of Odisha — Khurda, Ganjam and Puri — for the counting of birds. More than 184 different species of migratory birds come to the lake every year. “All the teams have been provided with walkie talkies, DHF sets, GPS system, binocular and high resolution cameras to count birds. As there is a perfect coordination among the team members, there is least chance of error,” said Nanda. Nanda said, “The birds come here to eat phytoplants, plans and fishes which are plentifully available. More than 375 species of fish are available in the lake.” The authority generally adopts two methods for the counting of birds. “One is simple counting and another is block method. The experts with country made boats go near the site of the birds. Sometimes they count the birds number wise and category wise. If there is a huge number of birds at a single point and it is not possible to count one by one they use binoculars to create a block. With this the experts succeed in counting the number. Later using the computer technology, the team arrived on the exact number of birds to arrive at the lake,” said officials. Compared to birds visiting the lake in 2011 to 2020, the number of birds visiting the place this year would around 3 lakh. “Only 7.91 lakh birds had visited the lake in 2011. Similarly. 8.68 lakh birds visited in 2013, 7.07 lakh in 2014, 7.46 lakh birds in 2015, 7.5 lakh in 2016, 9.24 lakh in 2017, 8.67 lakh in 2018, 10.47 lakh in 2019 and 11.05 lakh in 2020,” said officials. Officials also said that swell in the number of geese birds visiting the lake can be attributed to the availability of open spaces after the eviction of illegal prawn gherries by the Chilika Development Authority. “The evicted areas from the net gharries to the tune of 162 sqkm is not reconstructed and remain free. These areas have become the new place of congregation for the birds and the dolphin population. Areas like Gurubai and Parikuda etc have become Important Bird Areas (IBA) with presence of large numbers of migratory ducks and geese,” said Nanda. “Nalabana water bird sanctuary notified during 1987, spread over 15.53 sqkm has one of the largest congregations of birds inside the lake. Another famous bird spot in the lake is Mangalajodi in the lake. We have to wait till the final compilation of reports on the exact number of birds in the lake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Supreme Court of India doesn’t stop ‘vanity project’ in Delhi||The Supreme Court has in a split 2:1 majority verdict upheld the Narendra Modi government’s showpiece Central Vista Project that includes a new Parliament building in the capital, saying “the government is entitled to commit errors” as long as constitutional principles are not violated. The court asked the government to set up adequate smog towers (largescale air purifiers) for the proposed construction and make it mandatory for all future major development projects in the country. The dissenting judge, Justice Sanjiv Khanna, slammed the government for not making adequate disclosures and ignoring objections and concerns raised by environmentalists. However, it is the majority verdict of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that will prevail in the batch of petitions filed by Rajiv Suri and others. The petitioners had contended that the project at massive public cost was ignoring various environmental impact assessments and other statutory norms that caution against arbitrary change in land use and felling of thousands of trees. The Central Vista Project is expected to cost Rs 20,000 crore and cover a 3km to 4km stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. It envisages the construction of a triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, by August 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. Justice Khanwilkar, who authored the majority judgment, said: “We hold that there is no infirmity in the grant of a ‘no-objection’ by the Central Vista Committee, ‘approval’ by the Delhi Urban Art Commission and ‘prior approval’ by the Heritage Conservation Committee.” The court added: “We further hold that the exercise of power by the central government… is just and proper and thus the modifications regarding change in land use… stands confirmed. The recommendation of environmental clearance… is just, proper and in accordance with law.” In the 611-page judgment, the majority noted: “The government is entitled to commit errors or achieve successes in policy matters as long as constitutional principles are not violated in the process. It is not the court’s concern to enquire into the priorities of an elected government. “…Public participation is not to supplant the discretion of the government or to retard the development work. It is only for inviting constructive suggestions/objections from all stakeholders for effective implementation of the policy of the government, to subserve public interest.” The bench noted that in the present case, the petitioners wanted the court to venture into territories that are way beyond the contemplated powers of a constitutional court. “We are compelled to wonder if we, in the absence of a legal mandate, can dictate the government to desist from spending money on one project and instead use it for something else, or if we can ask the government to run their offices only from areas decided by this court, or if we can question the wisdom of the government in focusing on a particular direction of development.” The bench added: “In light of the settled law, we should be loath to venture into these areas. We need to say this because in the recent past, the route of public/social interest litigation is being increasingly invoked to call upon the court to examine pure concerns of policy and sorts of generalised grievances against the system.” The court said the petitioners, despite their best efforts, had not been able to demonstrate a case of deprivation of life or personal liberty of any individual on account of any of the impugned executive actions. Taking note of the rising pollution problem across the country, the court asked the Centre to set up smog towers of adequate capacity and use smog guns at the construction site. The court called upon the environment ministry to “consider issuing similar general directions regarding installation of adequate capacity of smog towers as an integral part in all future major development projects whilst granting development permissions, particularly in cities with bad track record of air quality — be it relating to government buildings, townships or other private projects of similar scale and magnitude, including the use of smog guns during construction.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Adanis halt ad featuring Ganguly promoting Fortune rice bran oil for a healthy heart||The Adanis are temporarily halting an advertisement in which Sourav Ganguly promotes Fortune rice bran cooking oil for a healthy heart. The decision came after Sourav suffered a mild heart attack and it coincided with barbs at the endorsement on social media. Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO of Adani Wilmar, said in a statement that the company had not dropped Sourav as the brand ambassador of Fortune rice bran cooking oil. “We shall continue to work with Sourav and he will continue to be our brand ambassador. We have only taken a temporary break in our TV commercial till we again sit with Sourav and take things forward. This is a very unfortunate incident and can happen with anyone,” he said. “Recently, we heard about a senior IT executive who collapsed on the treadmill while exercising. Does that mean treadmill is bad?” Mallick asked. Sourav was appointed the brand ambassador in January last year and Ogilvy & Mather was the creative agency for the brand. Mallick defended rice bran oil. “Rice bran oil is one of the world’s most healthy oils. It contains natural antioxidants. Rice bran oil is not a medicine but only a cooking oil. There are several factors which affect heart ailments, including dietary and hereditary issues,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Farmers allege Centre of jeopardising India’s democracy||The Narendra Modi government has jeopardised not just the farming community and India’s food security but also the country’s democracy, farmer leaders said on Tuesday, accusing it of following Pakistan’s example of using container trucks to block off protesters. Haryana police have positioned cargo containers on the road in Rewari to cut off protesters who had broken through the barricades near the state’s border with Rajasthan on December 31 and were headed to Delhi, Rajneet Singh Raju of the Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Ganganagar, said at the daily news conference at the Singhu border. Trucks ferrying food and firewood for the group in Rewari were being stopped, he said. Tear gas shells were also fired at the farmers, he added. Raju likened the police action to the handling of protests in Pakistan, where use of container trucks to isolate protesters is routine. “If this is the way the government is behaving in a democracy, then it shows that democracy is also in danger. After all, we have the constitutional right to protest peacefully,” Raju said. “Independent India has never seen such a huge and long protest that has been so peaceful,” he underlined. Yudhveer Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said it was the Prime Minister’s arrogance that was preventing a resolution and added that the farmers would fight this. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner the farmers are protesting, said they were going ahead with their plan to intensify their agitation. The tractor rally planned for Wednesday has been rescheduled to Thursday in view of the rains. The rally is being planned as a dress rehearsal for the Kisan Republic Day Parade. Farmer leaders from Haryana have decided to follow the Punjab example and appealed to all families to send at least one member to participate in the farmers’ parade on January 26. All villages are being asked to send 10 tractors to join the parade, Joginder Singh Nain of the BKU (Nain) said. “From the day the farm ordinances were promulgated in June, we have been asking for repeal and yet it took the government seven months and seven rounds of talks to acknowledge that we are serious about our demand; that we will not settle for anything less than repeal,” said Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the Morcha. On Tuesday, BJP leaders Surjit Jyani and Harjit Grewal were quoted by PTI as saying after a meeting with Prime Minister Modi that the farmers should stop being adamant about repeal of the three laws. They also alleged that “Maoists have entered the agitation” and were not allowing a resolution. As with previous such statements by BJP leaders trying to discredit the protest, no proof was offered. Farmer leader Raju said at the media conference that efforts were being made by troublemakers to infiltrate the protest sites. A dozen such men have been handed over to the police, farmers said. Philanthropist and founder of Khalsa Aid, Ravinder Singh, urged the Prime Minister to treat this as a humanitarian issue and not a political one. “I urge @narendramodi to personally intervene and have open dialogue with the #Farmers! Every farmer deserves a secure future and every government needs to provide this security! Treat this as a humanitarian issue and not a political one! @PMOIndia.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Health ministry contradicts Serum Institute's claim of vaccine export ban||India has not banned the export of Covid-19 vaccines, the Union health secretary said on Tuesday, contradicting a claim by the head of the Serum Institute that the government would not allow exports for several months. The fresh flank was opened on a day a joint statement sought to suggest that a truce has been called overnight after an unseemly and public corporate spat over the vaccines. “The Union government has not banned the export of any of the Covid-19 vaccines — that is something that should be absolutely clear,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, adding that none of the government agencies that could hypothetically do this had initiated any such move. The Serum Institute’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawala, had told the Associated Press on Sunday that India would not allow the export of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India by Serum and exports would not begin until March or April. Poonawala’s claim had stirred concerns because his company — the world’s largest vaccine maker — is bound to supply half the Covid-19 vaccine doses it produces to poor countries worldwide through Covax, an initiative by international health agencies to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The Associated Press had quoted Poonawala as saying Serum plans to give 200 million to 300 million doses of the vaccine to Covax by December 2021, balancing distribution of vaccines between India and Covax. A member of the national Covid-19 task force told The Telegraph it was unclear why Poonawala had claimed there was an export ban. Health secretary Bhushan, contesting the claim, said: “We should be on guard when such misinformation is sought to be spread.” Another task force member who is also guiding the vaccination strategy had told this newspaper that there would be no private sales in the early months of the government’s immunisation campaign, but a decision on sales in the private market would need to be taken “at some point”. Bhushan referred to a statement jointly released by the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday pledging their vaccines to India and the world. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has made an Indian vaccine that, like the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, has received approval from regulators for restricted emergency use in India. In their joint statement, the two companies which had appeared to question the credentials of the other’s product, said they had a “combined intent to develop, manufacture, and supply the Covid-19 vaccines for India and globally”. “Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of the vaccines,” the statement signed by Poonawala and Bharat Biotech head Krishna Ella read. Poonawala had on Sunday told a television channel that only three vaccines — from Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca — had been proven as effective, the others had thus far been shown as safe as water. His remarks had prompted Ella on Monday to question the quality and quantity of trial data on the AstraZeneca vaccine. Their comments on the other’s vaccine had stirred worry among sections of scientists who said such remarks threatened to erode the public’s faith in the vaccines. “Their utterances give an impression to the public that neither vaccine is worth taking — this is really unfortunate,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Vista: dissent judge alleges govt of ignoring statutory provisions||Justice Sanjiv Khanna, the dissenting judge in the Central Vista case, on Tuesday quashed the Centre’s gazette notification for the construction of the project, saying several statutory provisions such as “change of land use” and “environmental clearance” were ignored by the government despite massive public objections. Although the majority verdict by Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari has upheld the construction of the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project, Justice Khanna’s stinging rebuke is an embarrassment for the Centre as the dissenting judge has slammed it for lack of transparency. “Citizens’ right to know and the government’s duty to inform are embedded in the democratic form of governance as well as the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. Transparency and receptiveness are two key propellants as even the most competent and honest decision-makers require information regarding the needs of the constituency as well as feedback on how the extant policies and decisions are operating in practice. “This requires free flow of information in both directions. When information is withheld/denied, suspicion and doubt gain ground and the fringe and vested interest groups take advantage. This may result in social volatility,” Justice Khanna noted. The dissenting judge, however, said it did not mean that consultation should be open-ended and indefinite, or the government must release all information, as disclosure of certain information may violate the right to privacy of individuals, cause breach of national security and impinge on confidentiality. “Information may be abridged or even denied for larger public interest. This implies that there should be good grounds and justification to withhold information. Boundaries of what constitutes legitimate withholding can at times be debatable; but in the present case, there is no contestation between transparency and the right to know on the one hand, and the concerns of privacy, confidentiality and national security on the other,” Justice Khanna said. The judge said “it would be hypothetical and incongruous to accept that the L&DO (land and development officer) had applied its mind to the objections and suggestions even before the public hearing, and therefore the court should assume that the central government had considered the objections and suggestions”. The government had argued that the court must assume that the Centre had addressed the concerns although it could not place the relevant materials in the public domain. “The final decision must be conscientiously and objectively taken by the competent authority post the hearing. The central government has not placed on record even a single document or minutes to show that the objections and suggestions were considered by the central government…,” Justice Khanna said. The dissenting judge noted that the Board of Enquiry for Heritage (BoEH), apart from noting the submissions, objections and suggestions of those who appeared at the hearing, did not deliberate or record specific reasons. Having interacted with the public, the BoEH did find merit in the objections regarding the absence and lack of information in the public domain and took specific note of the public anxiety and “misgivings”. Justice Khanna noted that the minutes of the BoEH meetings were an “incontrovertible acknowledgement” of the fact that regarding the present and proposed land use, “no plans, layouts, drawings etc., or written matter explanatory or of descriptive nature to illustrate or explain the proposed changes and project were put in the public domain”. “The BoEH had therefore thoughtfully recommended the need to address lack of transparency concern by all departments”, which was not considered by the government, Justice Khanna said. According to the dissenting judgment, “intelligible and adequate disclosure of information” in the context of the Development Act and the Development Rules means and refers to the degree to which information should be available to the public to enable them to have an informed voice in the deliberative decision-making legislative exercise before a final decision is taken on the proposals. “In the present matter this lapse and failure was acknowledged and accepted by the BoEH, which had recommended disclosure and furnishing of details,” Justice Khanna noted. “Intelligible and adequate disclosure was critical given the nature of the proposals which would affect the iconic and historical Central Vista. The citizenry clearly had the right to know intelligible details explaining the proposal to participate and express themselves, give suggestions and submit objections. “The proposed changes, unlike policy decisions, would be largely irreversible. Physical construction or demolition once done, cannot be undone or corrected for future by repeal, amendment or modification as in case of most policies or even enactments,” Justice Khanna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Central Vista an autocrat’s whims: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday asserted that the Central Vista construction and beautification project in the capital was not a “legalistic” issue but a case of “misplaced priorities of a whimsical autocrat”. The Opposition party iterated its position that precious national resources should not be wasted on a “vanity” project at a time when the country was grappling with its first-ever economic recession and a pandemic that has scarred the world. After the Supreme Court cleared the project on legal grounds on Tuesday, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “The Rs 13,450-crore Central Vista project is not a legalistic issue but a case of misplaced priorities of a whimsical autocrat seeking to etch his name in the annals of history with cement & mortar. Ironical that in times of the corona pandemic and economic recession, Delhi has Rs 14,000 crore for Central Vista & Rs 8,000 crore for buying aircraft for the Prime Minister.” Surjewala added: “But the same BJP government imposes cuts of Rs 37,530 crore in allowances of 113 lakh armed forces & central government employees & pensioners. The Prime Minister must not forget that he has imposed cuts of Rs 11,000 crore on 15 lakh soldiers & 26 lakh military pensioners. And the same BJP government at the Centre has no time to provide ‘heated tents and equipment’ to our soldiers braving brazen Chinese incursions in Ladakh.” The Congress’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, said in a series of tweets: “We are living in strange times. No relief for the migrant labour, no justice for India’s farmers fighting for their rights in bitter cold, pouring rain, tear gas and braving lathis. “As we approach Republic Day, need to reflect on the state of the republic. Saddened by the Supreme Court endorsement of the government’s misplaced priorities during the pandemic and clearing the Central Vista project — an unnecessary and colossal waste of public money. Grand buildings of brick and mortar do not strengthen parliamentary democracy but only a healthy functioning Parliament that upholds the Constitution and defends citizens’ rights.” The Congress has for the past few months repeatedly raised objections to the project, arguing that the priority should be to provide financial assistance to the poor, migrant workers, and small and medium enterprises that have been devastated by the lockdown. Along with economists and independent observers, the Congress has demanded a cash inflow into the system to rev up economic activity at a time recovery has been erratic and slow. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few months ago, demanding suspension of the Central Vista project, along with other austerity measures to cut wasteful expenditure. The letter was in response to the Prime Minister’s telephone conversation with her in which he sought suggestions on how to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and the resultant financial stress. Sonia had written: “Suspend the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista beautification and construction project forthwith. At a time like this, such an outlay seems self-indulgent to say the least. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings.” “There is no urgent or pressing requirement that cannot be postponed until this crisis is contained. This sum could instead be allocated towards constructing new hospital infrastructure and diagnostics along with equipping our frontline workers with personal protection equipment (PPEs) and better facilities.” Although her suggestions fell on deaf ears, Sonia had tried to exert moral pressure on Modi by saying: “Every single Indian has made great personal sacrifices to fight this disease. They have complied with every suggestion, instruction and decision taken by your office and the central government. It is time that the legislature and the executive reciprocate this trust and good faith.” The Modi government has even suspended MPLAD (MP local area development) funds for two years in view of a financial crunch, triggering widespread discontent among parliamentarians as it has affected work in their constituencies. After the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Parliament building under the Central Vista project a few days ago, Surjewala had said: “Dear Prime Minister, Parliament is nt mortar & stones. It envisions democracy, it imbibes the Constitution, it is economic-political-social equality. It is compassion & camaraderie. It is the aspirations of 130 crore Indians. What would a building built upon trampling of these values represent? “Modi ji, history will record that when lakhs of farmers were fighting on the streets for their rights, you were building a palace for yourself in the garb of the Central Vista project. In a democracy, power is not for fulfilling personal whims but a medium of public service and welfare.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh had commented on the government’s rigidity in proceeding with the project despite difficult times, saying: “It is not just insensitive but obscene to be thinking of the new Central Vista project now. It should be put on hold indefinitely. There are more pressing uses for the thousands of crores of rupees that will be spent to satisfy one man’s ego.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||All you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination drive||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign that seeks to initially immunise healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 with underlying chronic health disorders could begin next week, the health ministry said on Tuesday. “Based on feedback from the dry run (last week), we’re fully prepared to introduce Covid-19 vaccines within 10 days of the emergency use authorisation (by drug regulators),” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The regulatory authority had approved the vaccine on January 3. The government hopes to immunise around 300 million people from these priority groups over the next seven months. The Telegraph asked health officials and experts guiding the vaccination strategy about the steps towards immunisation. A national expert panel has identified four priority groups based on two risks — occupational risk to the Covid-19 infection and the risk of severe Covid-19 because of either age or underlying health disorders. The Centre, in consultation with states, has estimated that the numbers of beneficiaries are 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people aged above 50 years or those below 50 with health disorders. The Centre has yet to announce details of the vaccination schedules but has indicated that the vaccines will be offered first to healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 50 years, followed by those below 50 years with health disorders. The priority group of above 50 years may be further subdivided into those above 60 years to be vaccinated first, and then those between 50 and 60 years. The government for now has the option of two vaccines — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called Covishield and made by the Serum Institute in India, and Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. The government has not yet indicated how much of which vaccine it would use where. Immunisation involves two doses and both doses have to be the same vaccine. Not at the moment. In the early months of the campaign, the vaccines will be available only through the government. However, vaccine expert panel members have indicated that the vaccines could be available in the private market, possibly towards the end of the government campaign. Much would depend on the number of vaccines and doses available. To vaccinate 300 million people, the campaign would require 600 million doses. The government has not specified its inventory. But the Serum Institute has said it has stockpiled 50 million and could supply 100 million doses every month from February or March. Bharat Biotech has said it will have 20 million doses by February and could provide up to 500 million doses during the year. Lists of healthcare workers and frontline workers have already been “populated” on a digital platform called Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network. Members of the two other priority groups would need to register themselves as beneficiaries to receive the vaccines. The health ministry is expected to provide details of this registration process in the coming days. An expert medical panel is expected to recommend clinical criteria — quantified thresholds for high blood pressure, blood sugar, kidney disease, lung disease, cardiovascular disease, or cancer — that would determine whether they are eligible for the immunisation. The criteria would seek to ensure that all people at high risk of severe Covid-19 would get immunised. The vaccine is voluntary, but it is advisable to take the complete vaccine schedule to protect ourselves and near and dear ones and co-workers. The eligible beneficiaries would be informed through the registered mobile number about the health facility where the vaccination will be provided and the time. After registration, the beneficiary would receive an SMS on the mobile number specifying the date, time and place for vaccination. Driving licence, bank or post-office passbook, voter ID card, PAN card, MGNREGA card, passport, pension document, service identity card issued by central or state governments. A photo ID would be mandatory for the registration and at the vaccination site. People with active Covid-19 or symptomatic illness should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms. All beneficiaries irrespective of past history of the infection should opt for the vaccine as it is expected to bolster the immune response against future infections. After the vaccination, beneficiaries would be expected to remain at the vaccination site for observations for 30 minutes. This is important because in the event of a rare severe allergic reaction, they would receive prompt treatment. After the vaccination, some people may experience common side effects such as mild fever, pain at the site of the injection or body ache. Antibodies are expected to emerge around two weeks after the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Hilly Sikkim seeks small vehicles to carry vaccine ||Sikkim government has urged the Centre to provide smaller refrigerated vehicles to transport Covid-19 vaccines — as and when they are made available — since bigger vehicles cannot reach every nook and cranny of the Himalayan state. Pempa T Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of the Sikkim health department, said, in the past, the Centre had provided huge vaccine-carrier vans that were not able to negotiate the twists and turns of the roads in Sikkim. “This time, we have urged the government of India to give us five Boleros to carry the vaccines since smaller vehicles can reach anywhere. If the Centre expresses its inability to provide smaller vehicles, the government of Sikkim has already committed to providing them,” he said. Bhutia, who has been helming Sikkim’s fight against Covid-19, has said the state is adequately equipped to store and administer Covid vaccines, once available. “We had established storage facilities like ice-lined refrigerators during the HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccination drive that we can make use for Covid vaccination,” he said. The health secretary said unlike the pulse polio drive where health workers used to administer drops at the homes of the recipients, the Covid vaccination drive would require setting up of booths at different places to administer the jabs. “Such booths are already in place and we are confident of starting the vaccination drive from very day the vaccines are made available to us,” he said. According to the directive of the Centre, the inoculation drive would be carried out in a phase-wise manner. “The first to be covered will be the health workers, who number about 9,000 in our state, followed by between 14,000 and 15,000 frontline workers. Thereafter, those above 50 years of age and persons with comorbidities will be covered,” he added. Till Monday, the state had recorded 5,221 cases of coronavirus with 129 deaths. Sikkim was the last state in the country to be afflicted by Covid. It was almost four months after the first case was reported in Kerala in late January, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Glare on Kerala journalism student bail rejection ||The cancellation of bail of a journalism student accused of Maoist links has come in for scrutiny from a senior Supreme Court lawyer who found the judgment of Kerala High Court a “big blow to liberty jurisprudence”. Senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj made the remark on Monday’s high court order cancelling the bail of Thwaha Fasal, 23, in which the division bench of Justices A. Hariprasad and K. Haripal observed that “individual rights should subserve the national interest”. The court, however, did not cancel the bail of first accused Allan Shuaib, 20, a law student, considering mitigating circumstances like his young age and health issues for which he is under treatment. Students of Kannur University, the two were arrested from Kozhikode on November 1, 2019, for alleged links with the proscribed CPI (Maoist). The Left Democratic Front government of Kerala had drawn severe flak from rights organisations and writers for referring the case to the National Investigation Agency that slapped provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, on the two youngsters who languished in prison for more than 10 months before being granted bail in September 2020. In considering an appeal filed by the Centre, the division bench found fault with the NIA special judge’s decision to grant bail after the accused argued that there was no evidence against their alleged links with Maoists. “The principle that bail is the rule and jail the exception has no application in such a case, especially when the offences under chapter IV and VI of the Act are alleged against the accused,” said the high court citing the UAPA. Both UAPA chapters highlighted by the bench relates to terrorist activities. But Raj noted that the court had already stated there was no evidence against the two accused. “Even while stating that ‘the prosecution could not prove that the respondents are members of an unlawful association’ the court found fault with the special judge for examining the materials on record for granting bail to the accused, that too after about 10 months of incarceration. This is absolutely wrong,” he said. “The fact remains that the youngsters were enjoying freedom that did not annoy anyone. This ought to have been taken into consideration while dealing with the appeal filed by the Centre. The cancellation of bail should rest on stringent test and justifiable reasons, which the high court judgment does not reflect,” said Raj. “The court has mechanically applied the draconian provisions of UAPA like Sections 13, 38, 39 dealing with offences and punishment and Section 43D prohibiting bail,” he observed. “The high court bench blamed the special judge for allegedly acting like a court of record and for referring to the names of the Supreme Court judges. There is no law that prohibits judges of the subordinate judiciary from referring to the names of judges of the constitutional courts,” Raj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Student suicide over school fee ||A 16-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh died by suicide after being allegedly disallowed from writing her exam as her labourer father, who has had hardly any work during the pandemic, failed to deposit three months’ advance school fees. Sanjana Kumari, a student of Class XII at Vidya Mandir Inter College School in Banda district, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her home on Monday evening. “She had written two papers last week but the office staff on Monday asked her to go back home when she went for the third paper of the internal semester examination,” Sanjana’s father Anant Kumar told reporters. Anil Dwivedi, the school principal, denied the allegations. “We don’t disallow any student from appearing in internal examinations on the ground of non-payment of fees,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Theatre owners ask Mamata to lift cap on cinema hall occupancy||Single-screen theatre owners in Bengal wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urging her to allow full occupancy, while citing huge losses in business and “no instance of the spread of Covid-19 through cinema halls”. In the letter shot off to Mamata on Tuesday evening, said that they have suffered huge losses while complying with the rule of 50 per cent occupancy in cinemas since the reopening of the establishments in the third week of October. “There has been no report on the spread of the pandemic by way of screening of films in cinema halls in and around the country since the time the halls reopened,” the letter signed by Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) president Piya Sengupta read. She said theatre owners are suffering huge losses as no new Hindi or Bengali films are being released due to the occupancy restrictions. “If the occupancy restrictions are relaxed, several Bengali and Hindi movies waiting in the pipeline will be released and exhibitors may be benefited and get a chance to survive,” she said in the letter. The letter referred to a notification issued by the Tamil Nadu government, which allowed full occupancy in cinemas with adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. The Palaniswami government’s decision came a day before the letter was issued. Ajanta theatre owner and EIMPA office-bearer Ratan Saha had earlier said that many cinema hall owners are regretting their decision to reopen theatres in October last year as several releases since Durga Puja and the passage of Christmas-New Year season have failed to draw the audience. Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema, had said that the iconic theatre did not witness more than five per cent occupancy during the Christmas-New Year season. Striking a different note, Navina Cinema owner Navin Chokhani, however, said, “I will welcome the increase of theatre occupancy to 100 per cent only when I am sure that it won't affect the safety of our audience and employees.” The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a notification allowing hundred per cent occupancy in movie halls, after getting requests from film stars who urged the state to do so ahead of Pongal. However, the Centre on Wednesday asked the government to revoke the decision, giving the state a reminder that the Home Ministry has issued its guidelines till January 31. “State/UT governments shall not dilute these guidelines... in any manner and shall strictly enforce the same,” the letter, as quoted by NDTV, read, referring to the guidelines. “In view of the above, the GoTN (Government of Tamil Nadu) is requested to immediately issue necessary orders to bring their guidelines in line with the MHA guidelines dated 28th December 2020 and inform compliance to this ministry,” it further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav fit, to be discharged tomorrow||BCCI chief and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty following a mild heart attack, is now stable and will be discharged from the hospital on Thursday, an official at the facility where he is admitted said. The former India skipper was supposed to be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday, but he expressed the desire to stay there for one more day, the official said. Sources close to the cricket icon said Ganguly wanted to avoid the crowds gathered outside the hospital and his residence at Behala. "Mr Ganguly is clinically fit. He slept well and had his meal. He wanted to stay in the hospital for one more day. So he will go home tomorrow. It is his personal decision," Woodlands Hospital MD and CEO Dr Rupali Basu told reporters. Hospital sources said the necessary formalities to discharge Ganguly were completed, and he and his family members were briefed about the medicines which he needs to take after returning home. "He is fine and has no chest pain or any other complications. Our team of doctors monitored his health condition thoroughly this morning," a senior official of the facility said. Ganguly was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday last week, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. Doctors at the private hospital had on Monday reached a consensus that 48-year-old Ganguly, who has been diagnosed with 'Triple vessel disease', would be discharged on Wednesday, and the second angioplasty, which he might have to undergo, could be performed at a "later stage". Noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, who had joined the team of doctors attending to the BCCI president, said on Tuesday that Ganguly is an "asset" to the nation, and the mild heart attack that he experienced did not cause any damage to his health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||CPM, Congress take out joint motorcycle rally||The CPM and the Congress jointly took out a motorcycle rally that covered 105km and nine gram panchayats of Bolpur-Sriniketan to campaign for the farmers’ movement on Delhi borders to demand a repeal of the farm laws. The rally was taken out a day after the Congress high command formed a four-member committee headed by its state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury for talks with the Left Front to share seats and chalk out joint political programmes for Bengal polls. Around 150 motorbikes went around the villages and campaigned against the BJP’s alleged anti-farmer policies. “The areas we covered are rural pockets as we wanted to reach out to the farmers on the issue of farm laws,” said CPM state committee member Gautam Ghosh. President of the Bolpur unit of the Congress, Tapan Saha, said: “We kicked off the campaign to inform people about our poll alliance too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Teachers back Binay, rally on Sunday||A number of teachers’ organisations, most of them affiliated to Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, announced that they would hold a rally and public meeting at the motor stand in Darjeeling on Sunday. The announcement is significant at a time hill politics is in a flux with Bimal Gurung’s faction of the Morcha dumping the BJP and aligning with Trinamul. Anil Sharma, president of the teachers’ outfit Sanjukta Madhyamik Sikshak Sangathan, said it was time for “intellectuals” to give direction in the present political situation. “Many hill people are in a state of confusion and deliberating who is right and wrong (in hill politics). At this moment, if intellectuals cannot provide the right direction, we suspect that all of us will suffer,” said Sharma. “We want to give direction to the confused people of the hills.” Gurung decided to join hands with Trinamul in October 2020 for the Bengal elections. The Binay-Anit camp has been an ally of Trinamul since September 2017. Since Gurung resurfaced in the hills last month, after a gap of more than three-and-half years, each rival Morcha factions is trying to outwit the other, either by holding public meetings or forming new units. Gurung’s party held public meetings in Kurseong, Siliguri, Darjeeling and Sitong so far. The Binay-Anit camp held rallies at the same venues within the next two to three days to assert their presence. However, the decision to bring teachers on the street seems to be a new strategy. “Teachers are looked up by society and have a relatively good image. The Binay-Anit camp is probably looking at reaching out to the ‘intellectual’ lot by bringing teachers on the streets to create a new narrative and perspective,” said a hill observer. Tamang camp spokesperson Keshav Raj Pokhrel, however, said that though some teachers’ organisations were affiliated to the faction, the decision to organise the public meeting was not directed by his party leadership. “It is their (teachers’) decision. They will probably not use our party flag during the event and may only bring their associations’ flags,” said Pokhrel. Sanjukta Madhyamik Sikshak Sangathan president Sharma said through the rally they wanted to send out a message not just to people of the region but also to political parties. “This is because education is also affected by the politics of the region,” he said. Gurung on Tuesday tried to reach out to the Gorkha population of Siliguri. He met people in Pradhannagar area and lambasted the BJP for failing to meet its promises. He told the media that during his tenure in the GTA, he did not have a proper relationship with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “But during the past three years, I noticed she keeps her commitments, unlike Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I decided to reach out to people and tell them why they should vote for Trinamul,” he said. State compensation State tourism minister Gautam Deb and chairman of the board of administrators of GTA Anit Thapa on Tuesday reached Kalimpong to hand over compensation of Rs 2 lakh each provided by the state government to family members of Anita Chhetri,40, and Banita Gurung,46, residents of Chandraloke who died during a stampede at a musical event at Kalimpong on Sunday evening. The two leaders also paid their last respects to the deceased. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Eateries near tourism hub raided||A group of 50 youths carrying firearms, sharp weapons, iron roads and sticks rampaged through an area outside Mamata Banerjee’s pet tourism project “Bhorer Alo” at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri district on Monday night, vandalising eight-10 eateries, assaulting the owners and robbing them of cash. The raid was a sequel to an altercation between around 10 drunk youths and a horse cart owner near the tourism hub spread across 208 acres near the Teesta Barrage. Sources said 10 youths who were suspected to be drunk had taken a ride on a horse cart at Gajoldoba on Monday evening. After the ride, there was a quarrel between the group and the horse cart owner over the fare. “The youths assaulted him and barged into roadside food stalls. They also abused local women verbally. The stall owners and local people chased the youths away,” said a source. The youths were from a place which is around 25km away from Gajoldoba in Rajganj block. After sometime, four-five vehicles screeched to a halt at Gajoldoba and around 50 men got off. They were carrying firearms, sharp weapons, iron rods and sticks. “The youths ransacked our eateries and whoever went to stop them were assaulted. The attackers took away whatever cash we had at our shops,” said Bibhuti Biswas, a shop owner. Another eatery owner said: “The attackers claimed they were Trinamul Congress workers. They claimed to be associates of Krishna Das, the Jalpaiguri district president of Trinamul’s SC, ST and OBC Cell, and dared us to stop them. We are feeling insecure and have filed a police complaint.” Bhorer Alo is located between the Baikunthapur forest and the Teesta and is around 25km from Siliguri. The 373-crore project had been inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee in October 2018. BJP leaders, including Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy, visited Gajoldoba on Tuesday morning and raised a road blockade, along with the affected shop owners and local people. After sometime, they lifted the blockade on the road that connects the tourism hub with Siliguri and the Dooars. Most of the shops remained shut in the area on Tuesday. “Anti-socials backed by Trinamul are responsible for the incident. The state government should give compensation to the affected traders and take action against the vandals,” said Roy. The police have detained two persons while searches are on to round up others. Krishna Das has brushed aside the charges. “The BJP is trying to malign me my by falsely dragging my name to the vandalism. None of my associates was involved in the incident,” Das, who is away in Chennai for medical treatment, said over the phone. Tour operators said the government should take steps to ensure that such incidents didn’t recur near tourism sites. “Otherwise, tourists will keep away from destinations,” said a tour operator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Two held with banned cough syrup, Rs 14 lakh||Two men were arrested allegedly with 100 bottles of banned cough syrup which was suspected to be set for Bangladesh and over Rs 14 lakh in cash in North Dinajpur on Monday night. Sources said Karandighi police had received a tip-off and accordingly intercepted a car near the bus stand at Tungidighi. “There were three people, including a woman, in the vehicle. The woman managed to escape, but the police arrested two men,” a source said on Tuesday. The arrested were Rabiul Islam, a resident of Kamartor in Karandighi, and Mobaraq Sheikh from Mojampur near Kaliachak in the neighbouring Malda district. “We searched the vehicle and found 100 bottles of a banned cough syrup and Rs 14,43,870 in cash. We suspect they are members of a racket that was planning to smuggle the bottles into Bangladesh. The vehicle has been seized,” said a police officer. The police produced Islam and Sheikh in a court here on Tuesday and pleaded for their custody for five days. The police are in search of the woman. The source said the cough syrup laced with codeine had a high demand in Bangladesh where it was consumed in large quantities. “This has made the smuggling of syrup a lucrative option for rackets involved in illegal activities along the India-Bangladesh border,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Six die after speeding truck rams pick-up van on NH12||Six members of a family from Nadia’s Ranaghat, on their way to a picnic at Hazarduari, were killed when a speeding truck rammed into their pick-up van on NH12 in Rejinagar, Murshidabad before daybreak on Tuesday. Samir Malakar, a pandal-maker, who lost both his son and wife in the accident, had organised the picnic for 14 members, said sources. The family had hired the pick-up van and covered it with tarpaulin to protect themselves against cold. They left their Ranaghat home around 1am on Tuesday and reached Rejinagar-Dadpur village on NH-12 around 5am when the driver of the pick-up van took a break to relieve himself. With the van parked along the highway shrouded in fog, visibility was poor. The speeding Berhampur-bound truck could not see the parked pick-up van and rammed into the vehicle from behind, killing four persons on the spot, police said. Two others of the family succumbed to their injuries later at the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore. Eight other injured members are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Rejinagar police have seized the truck but the driver remains absconding. The six deceased have been identified as Shilpi Mandal, 40, Ila Sarkar, 50, Soma Malakar, 35, Suraj Malakar, 13, Shila Das, 52, and Samir Das, 28. All the victims are close relatives and resided at Ainshtala and adjacent areas of Ranaghat town. Murshidabad’s superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “Preliminary investigation indicates that fog-induced poor visibility led to the accident. A search has been launched to nab the absconding truck driver.” Basudeb Sil, a neighbour of the Malakar family, said they were all shocked at the news. “The family had planned a family get together in Hazarduari and were scheduled to return late tonight (Tuesday). I was shocked to receive a call from the police around 5.30am informing me about the accident,” Sil said. Residents of Rejinagar-Dadpur village said the stretch of NH12 near their locality was too narrow and had thus become accident-prone. They said widening of the stretch into a four-lane road was yet to be taken up even though the widening work between Nadia’s Bahadurpur and Berhampur had been completed. An officer of Rejinagar police said that many drivers often fail to control their speeding once they enter the narrow stretch. Speaking on this particular accident, he said: “It could have been averted had the driver parked the pick-up van a little away from the highway. There was heavy fog cover on the road and the pick-up van did not even have tail lights (to alert other vehicles of its presence).” Ranaghat panchayat samity president Tapas Ghosh said they had all learnt about the accident from Murshidabad police. “We later took up the matter through our district administration and requested the police to hand over the bodies soon after post-mortem to the relatives of the deceased,” Ghosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||CBI calls 6 cops, kin of Vinay for questioning||The CBI on Tuesday summoned for questioning six Bengal police officers and a few family members of the Trinamul Congress’s youth wing leader, Vinay Mishra, in connection with its probe into alleged smuggling of coal and cattle. They were all asked to appear before CBI officers in Calcutta this week, said an investigator who refused to speak further on the summoning. Trinamul said the summons were politically motivated. “Several police officers who were earlier posted across Murshidabad and Hooghly districts have been summoned since it appears smuggled coal and cattle used to travel down parts of national highways of these two districts with their support,” said a source. Among the summoned are police superintendent of Hooghly, a former deputy commissioner of police of the Chandernagore police commissionerate, a former deputy inspector general of police of the Murshidabad range and a former additional police superintendent of Murshidabad. Besides, a deputy commissioner of police with the Asansol-Durgapur police commissionerate has been summoned. A circle inspector of Bankura police and an inspector-in-charge of a police station in Purulia were also summoned. Trinamul dubbed the summons as an extension of the “politically drafted probe” that was aimed at maligning the ruling party in Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections. “We expect more summons to follow in the following weeks from the CBI. A plot has been drawn up and the central agency is merely trying to fill in the blanks at the behest of the government at the Centre,” said a senior Trinamul leader in south Calcutta. The CBI had earlier carried out raids and searches at three homes of Mishra in Alipore and Rashbehari in Calcutta and Lake Town and seized several documents, pen drives and laptops. Mishra, however, was not to be found. The CBI believes he is in the Gulf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
06-01-2021||West Bengal||HC seeks CBI affidavit on Narada chargesheet||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday awarded two weeks to the CBI for filing an affidavit before it, stating why the central investigation agency was yet to file a chargesheet in the Narada “sting” operation case despite the completion of its probe. The division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan issued the order on a petition by Congress leader Amitabha Chakraborti who requested the court to ask the CBI to file the chargesheet immediately. In the sting operation made public before the 2016 Assembly polls, people resembling Trinamul leaders were seen accepting wads of cash from a journalist who posed as a businessman. Moving the petition on behalf of Chakraborti, CPM Rajya Sabha member and senior lawyer Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya told the bench on Tuesday: “After completion of its probe in the matter, the CBI had claimed that since some MPs were the accused in the case, it had sought permission from the Lok Sabha Speaker for proceeding.” “But, as a matter of fact, the Speaker (Om Birla) is yet to give his permission. Why is the Speaker mum on the issue?” asked the former Calcutta mayor. Bhattacharyya said his client, Chakraborti, was apprehensive of Speaker Birla’s action being “politically motivated”. “The common people want to know the truth,” said Bhattacharyya. Chakraborti, the petitioner, accused the BJP of trying to influence the probe by making Speaker Birla withhold his approval as some of the key accused in the Narada case — such as Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari and Sovan Chatterjee — had deserted Trinamul to join the BJP. The counsel appearing for the CBI said he was yet to obtain instruction from his client and the court should give him time. The bench then granted the CBI’s prayer and fixed the matter for hearing after two weeks, when the agency would have to file a chargesheet informing the court about the progress. Bhattacharyya later told this newspaper that he had personally met Speaker Birla in Delhi and urged him to give approval to the CBI. “It was on the basis of my petition that the Supreme Court had handed over the Narada probe to the CBI in 2016. In five years, the CBI did precious little. But we want to know the truth,” said Chakraborti. “The BJP is trying to manipulate this, to protect Trinamul turncoats,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Tagore-era Samity row||Members of Alapini Mahila Samity on Tuesday accused Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his administration of trying to destroy the socio-cultural women’s organisation set up at Rabindranath Tagore’s behest in 1916. The varsity on January 1 sealed its office on the campus after an “arbitrary notice” asking the Samity to vacate the space. On Tuesday, Samity members protested against a meeting called by the varsity on Monday to break the “impasse”, saying office-bearers had not been invited. Samity president Aparna Das Mahapatra called it a “dirty game”. Varsity authorities said they had no intention to exclude anyone. The varsity’s Karmi Parishad claimed on Monday that it held a meeting with a “few members of Alapini Mahila Samity” and adopted four resolutions. People considered close to the VC and the varsity administration took part in the meeting, sources said. Visva-Bharati officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar posted the resolution of the meeting with names of 36 people, including those of varsity teachers, Karmi Parishad members and a “few members of the Samity”. A furious Das Mahapatra, 86, said: “We had no information about the meeting and learnt only one of our members took part in it where the varsity authorities adopted four resolutions. This is a blatant attempt by the VC and his administration to form a separate committee...We could never imagine that they would resort to such a dirty game.” Karmi Parishad members, however, claimed that they had no plan to exclude the present Alapini committee. “It was a primary meeting. Only a few members of the Alapini Mahila Samity took part in it. We respect the organisation as it is associated with Santiniketan since the time of Tagore. We hope the dispute is resolved soon,” said Kishore Bhattacharya, joint secretary of Karmi Parishad. Samity members suspect that varsity authorities plan to form a new committee and register it under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and exclude present members opposed to the “whims” of varsity authorities. Samity members plan a protest rally from Amartya Sen’s house to the VC office on January 8 to protest the “conspiracy to demolish the culture of Santiniketan”. “We have already requested all women’s organisations and cultural outfits connected with Santiniketan to join our protest. We demand a meeting with the VC and want to question him about his intention regarding our organisation,” said Manisha Banerjee, an executive committee member of Alapini Mahila Samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Day’s new infections 812, active cases 9,293||Bengal on Tuesday logged 1,166 Covid-19 recoveries, 812 new infections and a toll of 24, including four from Calcutta, leading to a drop in total active cases for the 71st consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total active cases is 9,293 now, having improved by over 75 per cent from 37,190 on October 26. With 4.09 per cent of the country’s active cases, Bengal is now sixth among states with the most active cases. That’s an improvement from a month ago when Bengal had 7 per cent of active cases and ranked third among states with the most active cases. “We are looking to drop out of the top 10, within this month. We will be very well placed by the time the vaccination process takes off,” said a minister. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate has risen for 75 consecutive days, by over 9 per cent, to 96.56. The national rate is now 96.32 per cent. Calcutta High Court had intervened with directives to prevent crowding and a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, the fewer number of infections during and after the festivities proving the instructions were effective. Before New Year, the court gave a similar set of instructions to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over revelries. Since Dashami, the state reported over 2.27 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.02 lakh new infections detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.56 lakh cases includes over 5.37 lakh recoveries and 9,841 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, behind the 1.44 per cent nationally. The state government attributed 8,254 (83.9 per cent) deaths of the total toll to comorbidities. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.66 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. The state’s total test count went past 72.66 lakh, at 80,734 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||An innings ends, Howrah games go on ||Laxmi Ratan Shukla on Tuesday stepped down as the Bengal minister of state for sports and the Trinamul Congress chief of Howrah (Sadar), fuelling speculation on his political future and bringing to the fore  again the problems within the bitterly divided ruling party in Howrah. The development came amid the BJP’s whisper campaign on the possibility of several leaders deserting Trinamul when Union home minister Amit Shah would be in Calcutta later this month. In a letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the 39-year-old retired cricketer urged her to relieve him of his responsibilities, although he expressed his willingness to complete his term as the Howrah North MLA, as a gesture of respect to the 2016 mandate. Shukla did not issue a statement, but Mamata lauded him, attributing the decision to his wish to devote more time to sports. “He wrote to me and said he wanted to devote more time to sports and would like to step away from politics for the sake of sports…. There is nothing else to this. There is no misunderstanding… he is a good boy. I wish him all success for his future,” said the Trinamul chief in the afternoon. However, others Trinamul leaders were not as kind towards the former Bengal captain in their interactions with the media. Shukla, known in the Bengal cricket fraternity as “Bittu”, was a right-handed batsman and a right-arm medium pacer who represented not only Bengal in first class cricket but also Kolkata Knight Riders, Delhi Daredevils and Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL. He also represented India in three ODIs. Sources close to Shukla said he had been “very displeased” for some time with both the internal dynamics of Trinamul’s politics in Howrah and the lack of actual importance of his portfolio. “What the chief minister said is not true. Laxmi does not want to focus on sports. He retired from all forms of the game years ago. He doesn’t want to start anything new in that arena, as of now,” said a source. “He had been a minister for over four-and-a-half years. Not one file ever reached his office, seeking his approval. He never got any opportunity to work there…. Also, his life had been made hell by Trinamul’s intensely vicious internal rivalry in Howrah,” he added. The source said Shukla remained undecided on his immediate future. Trinamul Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya  issued a stern statement in support of Shukla, urging the leadership to wake up before “termites” destroy the party from within. Agri-marketing minister Arup Roy, the chairman of the party’s Howrah unit that many are allegedly opposed to, was critical of Shukla. “This is akin to desertion by a general just before a war,” he said. The BJP was publicly ebullient with the developments. “It is evident that these people are being suffocated in Trinamul and are hence looking for an alternative. We have given them that. We will think about it if and when they want to join us,” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said on Shukla.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Kerala painter gifts colour to tribal kids ||Paintings by tribal children of a village 5km from Santiniketan were exhibited on the foundation day of the local club on Tuesday, thanks to the efforts of painter and Kala Bhavana alumnus Anoop M. Gopi. Sona Murmu, secretary of the Bidyadharpur Adibasi Bikash Kendra — the club at Bidyadharpur village set up in 1998 — said they never expected their children would “paint even a bird”. “Every year, we celebrate the foundation day of our club but it is special this year because of the exhibition of paintings by our boys and girls,” a proud Murmu said. Around 30 paintings painted by tribal children aged between six and 14 depicted the rural landscape, trees, birds and pet animals. Murmu said the credit for this went solely to their “Anoopda”. “Anoopda taught 35 tribal boys and girls how to paint during the lockdown,” Murmu said. Anoop, 36, who received the prestigious Lalit Kala Akademi award from President Ram Nath Kovind,in March last year, said it happened by chance. “I travel to tribal hamlets to catch various moods of tribal life and culture, and paint sitting on the ground. One day in July this year, three or four boys and girls from this village asked me if I could teach them how to paint. I could not refuse them,” said Anoop. A junior fellow under the Union ministry of culture, Anoop, who hails from Thrissur in Kerala, came to Santiniketan in 2007 to pursue his masters’ degree in fine arts. After completing his two-year degree, he refused to leave Santiniketan and confessed to have fallen in love with Rabindranath Tagore, Baul songs and the life and culture of tribal people here. The bearded, Bengali-speaking youth from Kerala whizzing by on an old motorbike is a familiar sight in Santiniketan and Bolpur now. His free drawing class for tribal children has been a relevation, he said. “On the first day of class, I discovered that the tribal children were full of temperament and talent but it was financially impossible for them to buy papers or colours,” he said. He started buying papers and colours for them from his own pocket, curbing other costs from his monthly scholarship of Rs 10,000. “I gave them my crayons, and papers too when I found out that they had a lot of ideas in their heads. There were only five students when I started the class and now there are 35. It gives me immense pleasure to know that I reached out to first generation painters,” said Anoop. Rabindranath Murmu, a Class IX student of a local high school who painted a landscape for this exhibition, was so excited that the whole village would see it that he spent a “sleepless night”. “Anoopda taught me how to paint and sketch a portrait or landscape. I was so excited when I first painted a tree. I’ll never miss any of his classes,” said Rabindranath. Nowadays, children like Rabindranath literally “chase” Anoop when he reaches Bidyadharpur on his bike and waits till he hands them drawing sheets and colours. “I have financial limitations but I am still happy to teach a group of boys and girls how to paint,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||West Bengal||Tanker rate rift sucks north Bengal pumps dry||Over 200 petrol pumps in north Bengal have run dry and fuel supply to parts of neighbouring Nepal and Bhutan is severely hit as oil tankers have not been able to move out of the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL) terminal in New Jalpaiguri for three days with protesters blocking the terminal gate. The trigger behind the impasse is a disagreement among tanker owners and drivers with IOCL authorities over the “low rates” that oil tankers are paid per kilometre to ferry fuel. With Trinamul’s labour arm Inttuc (Indian National Trinamool Trade Union Congress) throwing its weight behind the protesting tanker owners and drivers at the gate, no tanker could move out of the terminal in three days. Though no one said this on record, sources the gate was blocked in view of a rift among tanker owners and drivers. Some among them wanted to ply the tankers, but the protesters stopped them. Prasenjit Roy, an Inttuc leader in New Jalpaiguri who led the protests, blamed the IOCL. According to Roy, the IOCL had floated tenders for tanker services for the period of 2015-20. Then, a rate of Rs 3.46 per kilometre had been fixed, and accordingly, private tankers had been providing services across north Bengal based on that rate, he said. The problem started, he said, when recently, after five years, the authorities decided to float a fresh tender. “We have come to know that the rate per kilometre in the new tender is Rs 2.81. Logically, the rate should have been higher as costs of every kind have increased during the past five years. Besides, the new rate, which is lower, would remain in force for the next five years. We are supporting tanker owners and drivers because the IOCL is not handling the matter of rates fairly,” said Roy. Against this backdrop, tanker services from the terminal have come to a halt across north Bengal and to some locations of Nepal and Bhutan too. Throughout the day, negotiations continued between the striking tanker owners and drivers and IOCL authorities, with spurts of skirmishes in the terminal area as a section of the protesters agreed to IOCL terms but others protested. There was no consensus. “The owners and drivers will hold a meeting with IOCL authorities on Wednesday afternoon too and take a final call on their next course of action,” said a source. “We all are waiting for Wednesday’s meeting where a final decision would be made. The tanker service should continue or else, the fuel-supply situation would turn critical. Already, a large number of pumps are closed without fuel supply,” said a petrol pump owner-based in Siliguri. IOCL authorities could not be contacted by this reporter to confirm the new “lower” rate as alleged by Roy. “The situation is already alarming,” said a senior state government official. “We need a speedy resolution as panic buying of fuel is being reported from parts of north Bengal,” he added. Bikash Agarwal, general secretary of North Bengal Petrol Dealers’ Association, said there were around 490 petrol pumps in the region, with 250 being IOCL outlets. “Because of this disruption, some 90 per cent of the IOCL outlets have gone dry. Even the HPCL pumps are facing problems as they get their supplies from the IOCL terminal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-246
06-01-2021||North East||ASI in Dzukou Valley fire-fight team dies||The Nagaland government on Tuesday evening moved the ministry of home affairs seeking additional NDRF teams to join the ongoing fight to control the Dzukou Valley wildfire after an aerial survey during the day revealed the blaze was spreading to multiple locations because of strong winds. The requisition for reinforcement was made on a day the NDRF lost one of its “fit and healthy” official, assistant subinspector Nongthombam Binoy Meetei. He was an integral part of the firefighting team from the Manipur side. He was staying at the base camp set up on Sunday to cut down trekking time to the affected areas in the picturesque valley located along the NagalandManipur border. The fire started on December 29 from the Nagaland side. “The postmortem report is awaited. Meetei did not wake up for breakfast this morning. He was brought down and rushed to the Senapati hospital but to no avail. He was one of our best and had been actively participating in all the operations,” an NDRF official said. Johnny Ruangmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority, told The Telegraph that they have requested the home ministry for three additional NDRF teams and the state government is also scaling up the number of its personnel from the police and homeguards, besides local volunteers, who are playing a key role in these operations with government personnel. The requisition was made soon after a joint aerial survey conducted by the IAF, NDRF and the NSDMA. The four choppers of the IAF will continue with their Bambi bucket (pouring water) operations in inaccessible areas while NDRF personnel will be accompanying air force personnel to further enhance the effectiveness of the exercise by getting specific information from its teams on the ground. The NDRF has till now deployed seven teams to fight the fire, of which three teams are in Nagaland. However, reports from both sides suggest that the wildfire was spreading to fresh areas because of strong winds and dry conditions. On the Manipur side, the flames were visible on the eastern side of Mt Iso, an official said. Those involved in the operations or monitoring it said that the weather is pretty rough at the top of the valley. “Very gusty wind and very cold, almost minus 2 degrees Celsius in the winter. We are operating in very rough weather but thankfully both the state governments, frontline firefighters and volunteers are very proactive and cooperative,” an official said. Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio could not land in the valley owing to the rough weather and interact with the frontline personnel on Tuesday morning. Rio later tweeted, “Made an aerial survey of the latest forest fire situation at Dzukou valley today. Seeing the tremendous joint efforts by all concerned to tackle the situation, I am hopeful that the fire will soon be doused. The destruction of Godgiven beauty and resources of the Dzukou valley is sad. I hope we will all strive to support the efforts of preserving and promoting the rich biodiversity of the valley and learn to live in harmony with nature.” Rio was accompanied by one of his advisers Mmhonlumo Kikon, who is also a BJP national spokesperson. Kikon said a massive effort is being made jointly by all government agencies and Southern Angami Youth Organization (SAYO) to “contain the spread & stop the fire”. Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh expressed shock and deep sorrow over the death of Meetei. He was attending a foundation stonelaying function at Bishnupur Bazar when he conveyed the news to the gathering. He requested them to stand up and observe a minute’s silence as a mark of respect to the departed soul. A resident of Luwangshangbam Maning Leikai in Imphal East district, Meetei was a committed officer, an official statement said. “His dedication to duty and zeal for accomplishing objectives was exceptional. Sadly, on January 5 morning, he failed to wake up from sleep... He died in the line of duty serving his people. Binoy was a dedicated member of the group, which is currently camping at two different base camps braving the cold winter at high altitudes... His work and sacrifice for the State will ever remain as an inspiration to his fellow citizens,” the statement said. At least 50 NDRF personnel were staying in the base camps along with over 50 SDRF and police and volunteers. “If not controlled on time, Dzuko wildfire could create huge environmental impact destroying vast areas of forest cover, wildlife and their habitats and thousands of plant species having precious medicinal values,” Biren Singh said. On Monday night, the Opposition Naga People’s Front in Nagaland too expressed its anguish over the ravaging wildfire at Dzukou Valley. The inferno cannot be considered a natural disaster but is a manmade fire that is causing a great harm not only to the beauty of the valley but also to our environment, the NPF said. It requested the chief minister to take all possible steps in containing the fire as well as to protect the valley. While lauding Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi for promptly visiting the valley, the NPF also appreciated the Indian Air Force (IAF), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Kohima deputy commissioner and superintendent of police, forest department, Southern Angami Youth Organization (SAYO) volunteers and others involved in helping douse the blaze.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
06-01-2021||North East||Debabrata Saikia loses Assam Opposition leader status||The Congress on Tuesday contested the Assam Assembly speaker’s “shocking and unfortunate” decision to withdraw the leader of Opposition status accorded to Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Debabrata Saikia from January 1. Assembly Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami’s decision came to light on Monday.` According to the official notification, the Opposition Congress does not have the requisite one-sixth House strength in the 126-member Assembly to hold the post of the leader of the Opposition. Saikia, 56, is a two-time MLA from the Nazira constituency in Upper Assam Congress at present has 20 MLAs in the House, but it needs 21 to hold the post. The party had won 26 seats in the 2016 Assembly elections to emerge as the single largest party. Two of its members died, while two others have resigned. It lost two seats held by it in the bypolls. CLP secretary Durga Bhumij, in a letter to Goswami, said it was “unfortunate and shocking” that at the fag end of the 14th Assam Legislative Assembly, the Speaker considered it “appropriate” to withdraw the Leader of the Opposition status from the Congress, which is “without any ambiguity” the single-largest Opposition party in the Assembly. “Due to the sudden demise of few members and defection of few others belonging to the INC, the number of members has decreased but we are still the single-largest Opposition in the House,” Bhumij said. The notification withdrawing Saikia’s status had said: “The present strength of the Indian National Congress Legislature Party, Assam Legislative Assembly, is not equal to the quorum fixed to constitute a sitting of the House that is one-sixth of the total number of Members of the House as required... therefore, the Hon’ble Speaker, Assam Legislative Assembly, has been pleased to withdraw the recognition of Debabrata Saikia, MLA, as Leader of the Opposition, with effect from January 1, 2021.” Bhumij has cited two Assembly regulations in his letter to justify his point. According to Section 2 of Salary and Allowances of the Leader of Opposition in the Assam Legislative Assembly Act, 1978, “Leader of Opposition” denotes that member of the Legislative Assembly who, for the time being, is the Leader of the Opposition party having the greatest numerical strength in the House and recognised as such by the Speaker. “Further, as per the Rule 2(1)(p) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Assam Legislative Assembly, it is stipulated that “leader of the Opposition” means the leader of the largest recognised party in the Opposition and recognised as such by the Speaker.  So, there is no scope of any 1/6th rule of quorum being applicable for the purpose of deciding the position of “Leader of the Opposition”, when the Act as well as the Rule have amply clarified the definition,” Bhumij contended. Bhumij cited the examples of Chhattisgarh (BJP with only 14 out of 90 Assembly seats), West Bengal (Congress with 23 seats out of 294), Delhi (BJP with only 8 seats out of 70) Opposition leaders are being bestowed with the status despite having far less seats than so-called 1/6th rule of quorum. “In essence, the matter boils down to discretion of the Speaker and it is evident from the example of other Legislative Assemblies of our country that the norm is to go by parliamentary tradition rather than numbers,” Bhumij said. Urging Goswami, who belongs to the BJP to “rise” above party line and revoke the notification withdrawing Saikia’s status, Bhumij said there was ample scope to assert that an error of judgment has been made in this case, perhaps because the Secretary of the Assam Legislative Assembly “lacks” legal acumen. “It is a point to ponder that the notification dated 1st January was issued only after office hours on 4th January. I, therefore, call upon you to rise above the party line and desist from doing something which is not only arbitrary, but also unlawful and against the statutory provisions,” Bhumij said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
06-01-2021||Opinion||Shrinking size: core economic sector||The core sector of the Indian economy comprising eight infrastructure industries has been contracting continuously since March 2020. Undoubtedly, the disruptions due to the pandemic have taken their toll on almost all industries. However, the depth of the contraction and its persistence bode ill for the prospects of economic recovery in the near future. Industries like steel, cement, natural gas and refinery products have sunk to alarming levels. Within the core sector, growth in only coal, fertilizers and electricity has been just about positive. In March 2020, the sector had shrunk by 8.6 per cent. Next month, it fell to negative 37.9 per cent. In September 2020, it had recovered to a negative 0.1 per cent, but fell again in November 2020 to negative 2.6 per cent. During the period between April and November 2020, the cumulative growth rate of the core sector was a negative 11.4 per cent. It may be noted that the eight industries mentioned constitute 40.27 per cent in terms of weight in the index of industrial production. Apart from being important in total size, the core sector is significant in another way: it supports general manufacturing by producing universal intermediaries. Coal, cement and steel, for instance, are required in so many different productive activities. If the economy is down in terms of demand, the derived demand for these goods would be low too, leading to excess capacity and contraction in production. On the other hand, if the economy is growing fast, the derived demand will be brisk, leading to rapid growth in this sector. The continuous contraction in the core sector is clearly indicative of the poor demand conditions for manufactured goods and services. The demand for consumer goods being low implies that capacity building will also be low. Hence the demand for new plant and machinery will be poor as well. This situation is also indicative of the fact that easy and cheap credit available for industrial units, as has been the policy stance of the Government of India in providing a stimulus for economic recovery from the effects of the pandemic, is not working. Production is simply refusing to grow. It will not pick up as long as final demand is sluggish. The point is to get more purchasing power in the hands of the poor and the lower middle class. Hopefully, the finance minister will address this vital issue in the forthcoming Union budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||New hope: India ready for Covid vaccines||Sir — It is heartening to note that India is ready to use two coronavirus vaccines for emergency cases. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Covishield, made in this country by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are thus going to play a key role in the vaccination programme. Covishield, for one, can be stored at normal fridge temperatures, making its transportation easier and cheaper than, say, the Pfizer vaccine. India’s experience of conducting general elections on a large-scale can come in handy for carrying out this massive programme without too many hiccups. But since the approvals were fast-tracked on account of emergency requirements, there is need for close monitoring of the entire process. Full cooperation of the people can be achieved only by promoting proper knowledge and right information about the vaccine. People must be made aware that the vaccine is an important weapon in the war against the coronavirus. But it is not the only weapon. Precautions to stop the spread of the virus must be continued. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The new year could not have started on a brighter note as the drug regulatory body of India recommended the Covishield vaccine for emergency use on the first day (“Oxford vaccine cleared in India, wait for others”, Jan 2). Now, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, along with the one manufactured by Bharat Biotech, can be administered to around 300 million people. When more vaccines are approved, one hopes that better coverage for the entire country can be achieved. But considering the population and the complexities of our nation, the government would do well to pull up its socks so as not to repeat the mistake of last year, where it failed miserably in providing proper public healthcare when the pandemic broke out. Since the Serum Institute of India has itself suggested that it can produce 100 million doses per month, people should be ready for the long haul. They should be patient and follow all protocol as they have been doing for the past one year. One should wait for patients who need it most to get the vaccine dose first. The government must work closely with the key stakeholders in this case to ensure seamless inoculation. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — While the Centre is quite euphoric about the drug regulatory authority approving conditional use of two vaccines, concerns expressed by a host of independent experts, questioning the process of approval of Covaxin in spite of pending efficacy data from its Phase 3 trials, cannot be brushed aside. Efficacy data are an indication of how effective the vaccine is in preventing the virus attack. One expert has pointed out that the regulator’s own draft guidance underlines the importance of safety data. According to another expert, even emergency use authorization requires efficacy data. In effect, they have raised questions about the way the approval has been rushed through without adequate thought on the part of the regulatory body, based simply on the recommendations of the expert panel. Such action could lead to people losing confidence in the regulatory system that affects millions of lives. Scientists also seem concerned about the regulatory authority’s silence on the mechanisms through which it would continue to review the performance of these vaccines (“Vaccine review method riddle”, Jan 4). The government must address these issues at once. The drum-beating over the approval of the vaccines might have temporarily drowned out the sound and fury of farmers at the threshold of the national capital, but it would be imprudent of the Narendra Modi-led government to think that it can sustain this effect without offering more clarity. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Safe flight Sir — India is a treat for bird-watchers especially in winter, as avians from across the borders land up in states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bengal. But this time their trips could be cut short by the sudden outbreak of a contagion. Recently, hundreds of migratory birds were found dead at a lake in Himachal Pradesh on account of avian influenza. The flu has been spotted in three other states in India. A lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 worked for humans. But it is difficult to regulate the free flight of birds. Urgent steps must be taken to ensure the safe return of these winged guests. Shraddha Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||Unclear shot: India Covid-19 vaccine roll out||Rolling out vaccines in the time of a raging pandemic in a nation as populous as India was bound to be accompanied by attendant challenges. But the lack of transparency and public anxiety regarding the effectivity of these medicines were not expected to be among the obstacles. Yet, that is exactly the situation that India is dealing with after the Drugs Controller General of India, which is responsible for approving drug licences, gave its nod to ‘Covishield’ and ‘Covaxin’, the two drugs that have been developed by the Serum Institute of India — the manufacturer of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine — and Bharat Biotech, respectively. It must be noted that the DCGI approval pertains to ‘restricted use in emergency situations’. Additionally, both companies have been asked to submit information related to safety, efficiency and immunogenicity from ongoing trials. These stipulations are not unwarranted. The SII has furnished Phase III trial data from Brazil and the United Kingdom, but the results of tests on Indian respondents are still awaited; as for Bharat Biotech, it has received the DCGI’s nod in spite of not finishing its Phase III trial data. The absence of this information is worrying for two — one medical, the other ethical — reasons. First, science’s triumph over Covid-19 is not complete yet. Already, there are signs of the emergence of at least two highly contagious strains. Expediting vaccination — India’s Covid load notwithstanding — without adequate knowledge of their impact on indigenous recipients warrants caution. Second, this is not the first time that medications have been pushed through in India; influenza vaccines had received the green signal during the H1N1 outbreak sans efficacy data. This only goes to show that democratic India is yet to learn to demand accountability from manufacturers and regulatory institutions even in the arena of public health. A bit of the blame must lie with the prevailing populist model of politics. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is already making suitable noises in a bid to gain political mileage out of the vaccination exercise. Characteristically, it has targeted those who are raising legitimate concern about the relaxation of standard protocols — Phase III trial data, for instance — as part of the initiative. The prime minister has described the vaccine roll out as a shot in the arm for the nation. His admirers would be hoping that it would be a boost for his party too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||Partition of India: memories for the future||Nations have their own ways of dealing with memories of trauma. For the newly independent India, a project of silence seemed necessary for the project of the nation-state. Indeed, there may be some sense in arguing that the devastations of the Partition didn’t rattle the national imagination beyond the first few years. From childhood memory of the early Sixties, it seems to me that Independence Day celebration referred more to the new nation than the severed nation. Of course it would be wrong to say that the Partition died out from popular memory. Communal flare-ups are, above all, sore reminders of an unresolved past — till, of course, they became organized, calculated pogroms. In recent decades, the more the national narrative of stability, growth and statist secularism proved untenable, the more has been the interest in the Partition, taking it as the dividing line of our national life, a line that holds the secret of much of our present misery. The new kind of scholarship that emerged in the late 1990s started asking new kinds of questions: how did people undergo the experience of Partition — as a group, as a family, as an individual? How did Partition become part of ourselves? What does it mean to live with poisonous memories that cannot be shared even with intimate relations? What is it to witness? This scholarship paralleled, tied up and, at times, drew intellectual sustenance from the emergence of a self-conscious discourse of memory in history writing, made possible by the Holocaust discourse and the emergence of cultural studies as a discipline. Partition archives are, at long last, coming into existence in India. The Amritsar Partition Museum heralded the beginning three years back. Richly funded, it is an imaginatively conceived museum and enjoys close ties with the Punjabi diaspora, especially in Britain. Sadly, Bengal’s presence is just about marginal there, a kind of ‘also-happened’ add-on. Interestingly, a two-part BBC documentary on the partition of India televised on August 14 and 15, 2017 — precisely the time the Amritsar museum was opened to the public — hardly mentioned that India was partitioned in the eastern flank as well. It was an all-Punjab affair. Rituparna Roy, a city scholar, has been working hard for the past three years towards establishing a similar museum in Calcutta. But lacking funds, her initiatives have remained restricted to organizing talks, symposia and international conferences, film festivals and art exhibition in different venues of the city. No archive is innocent, neither is it completely open-ended. How one reads the upcoming archives of the Partition is a challenge that the organizers must undertake. For instance, there could be a whole different way of conceptualizing the Bengal Partition, one that would suggest that while the British design to partition the province on communal lines remained an important provocation, as was the slow rise of an orthodox Islamic streak particularly in eastern part of Bengal from the nineteenth century, the main share of blame goes squarely to the upper-caste Hindus and the virtual apartheid they practised with the Bengali Muslim peasants and workers. That even after seven decades of the Partition, when it is mostly the Dalits and other lower castes among Hindus who are left in Bangladesh, oppression and quotidian harassment continue is yet another twist to history’s kaleidoscope, offering an intimate insight into the ways the triangle of caste, religion and power works in realpolitik. A collective, popular recollection can unobtrusively become a national recollection. The numerous memoirs, written or oral, in recent times of refugees from erstwhile East Pakistan seem to have already acquired standard generic protocols: the lush green villages where Hindus and Muslims lived harmoniously, the sudden eruption of the Partition owing to the connivance of the British rulers and some misguided and opportunistic leaders, the enormous hardship and bravery in the initial decades of re-settlement aiding, paradoxically, the formation of a new solidarity among the refugees and, finally, the gradual upward journey on the economic and social curve. In the last seventy years, the Partition has clearly acquired three generations of progenies. For the first generation — those who crossed the border soon after the Partition leaving a chunk of their lives behind — objects that survived were matters of everyday continuity and also occasions for active mourning for those that got lost. The primary source of anguish was the loss of landscape and desh. For the second generation like me, those objects were mnemonic items, ones that were still in use, but had a second life through reminiscences. In the process, they acquired a halo of earlier shades, a pentimento, a sad intimacy scripted into their very materiality. The objects, no matter how humble, invented a time for us, which was neither of Bengal that existed before the Partition nor of our present but at the interface of the two. The third generation’s Partition is a construct from representational sources like television serials, novels, textbooks, political party speeches and only, very marginally, from family sources. The dialects — the most vibrant link to the past — are rarely heard today even among refugee colony youth. If the second generation is post-memory, may we call the third generation, post-forgetting, remembering after it has been ordinarily forgotten? What would the museumization of objects open to all viewers from all lands — objects that were once tightly located in history’s mess — mean culturally and politically? This is a point to ponder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||An original choice||In the American West, a ration of reverence is usually given to the grizzled Anglo rancher who rises at a public hearing and announces that his people have been on the land for five generations. So what are we to make of Rep. Deb Haaland, a citizen of the Laguna Pueblo, who says that her people have been in the Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico for 35 generations — dating to the 13th century? “Native history is American history,” she told me. “Regardless of where you are in this country now, you’re on ancestral Indian land, and that land has a history.” As Joe Biden’s choice for interior secretary, Haaland is poised to make a rare positive mark in the history of how a nation of immigrants treated the country’s original inhabitants. She would be the first Native American cabinet secretary — a distinction that has prompted celebration throughout Indian Country. “I haven’t been the one making policy,” she said. “But I’ve been the one on the receiving end of it.” There will be plenty of sniping, second-guessing and disappointment among the tribes by people who expect much of Haaland having a seat at the big table. But for now, we should let this moment breathe. I spoke to her on the anniversary of a day of infamy. On December 29, 1890, the US army slaughtered men, women and children at Wounded Knee in South Dakota. Government policy was to strip Indians of their language, culture and religion, with children sent off to boarding schools where they were taught that the old ways were wrong. At the end of the 19th century, the popular view was that indigenous people would soon disappear. And yet here is Haaland, one of more than five million Native Americans, ready to knock down some of the last barriers of time and terrain in this country. Her personal story alone makes Haaland an anomaly in the parlours of power. Soon after graduating from college, she became a single mother. She was sometimes dependent on food stamps, and she once ran a small business selling homemade salsa to make a living and support her child. As a freshman representative in 2019, she was still paying off her student loans. When she ran for office, her slogan was, “Congress has never heard a voice like mine.” Now the person with that voice could soon be overseeing one-fifth of the land in the United States of America. As interior secretary, her portfolio would include national parks, wildlife refuges, the US Geological Survey and the vast acreage of the Bureau of Land Management. Interior, for good reason, is known as the Department of Everything Else. As such, she would also be overseeing millions of acres taken from Indians in treaties broken over the past several centuries, and would be the top government liaison with 574 federally recognized tribes — the nations within a nation. This is quite the compass — from a deep slot in the earth near the Grand Canyon, wherein dwell the Havasupai, to the rainforest of the Olympic Peninsula, home of the Makah Nation, to urban neighbourhoods that house Indians struggling with healthcare access. “I wish we could right some wrongs,” she said of the centuries-old saga of sorrow. But she seems content to try to right the many wrongs that Donald Trump’s administration has inflicted on the land. Trump’s first interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, literally rode into office on a horse named Tonto and then promptly launched a campaign to make it easier to drill on public land. The current secretary, David Bernhardt, was an oil and gas lobbyist whose public service on behalf of his former clients was warmly received by his old friends. Biden has pledged to end all new oil and gas drilling on these rangelands, forests and plains — an enormous change that will be fought fiercely by those who profit from land owned by all Americans. He has also promised to restore Bears Ears National Monument — a marvel of sandstone, mountains and Native sacred sites in the Southwest — that was gutted by Trump, who reduced the size of the protected area by 85 per cent. Haaland is eager for the opportunity to do something lasting. “I’ll be fierce for all of us, for our planet and all of our protected land,” she said in December. But it’s the weight of Native history that makes the choice of Haaland so extraordinary, as she acknowledged. “This moment is profound when we consider the fact that a former secretary of the interior once proclaimed it his goal to, quote, ‘civilize or exterminate’ us’.” She was referring to Alexander H.H. Stuart, the secretary of the interior in the early 1850s, in the Fillmore administration. “Exterminate” was no exaggeration. The census of 1900 counted more than 237,000 Native Americans, a population collapse of nearly 90 per cent in the estimate of many ethnohistorians, from the time of first European contact. Some of the atrocities are well known. But less well known is how the government made it a crime for Natives to practise their religion. It was a violation of the First Amendment to lock people up for enacting the rituals of faith — unless they worshipped Native gods through certain dances and ceremonies deemed criminal by the government. A consistent plea from Indian Country today is a request that fellow Americans consider Native people as much more than living relics locked in a tragic past. Haaland aims to ensure that. “I’ll never forget where I came from,” she said. But, she added, “ I love this opportunity.” Even if she can’t reverse history, she is poised to make some. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||State  to exit tripartite agreement with power ministry, RBI for DVC power||Jharkhand will exit from the tripartite agreement signed with the  Union power ministry and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by the former chief minister Raghubar Das. The agreement was signed to purchase power from Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) to prevent the arbitrary deduction of money from the state’s coffers. Describing the agreement as lopsided, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved its cancellation. Announcing the decision later, state energy secretary Avinash Kumar said a cabinet nod was being sought to prevent auto-deduction of money from Jharkhand’s account in RBI. “Despite repeated requests to the Centre to clear outstanding dues, the Union ministry last year invoked tripartite agreement clause to auto-debit the money from our accounts in RBI. Considering all aspects, the state government is of the view that the agreement made in the past is lopsided and hence, we shall exist from it,” said Kumar. In 2017, Raghubar Das government entered into a tripartite agreement to give payment security to DVC for procuring power. However, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre invoked the tripartite agreement in October 2020 to auto-deduct Rs 1,417.50 crore in lieu towards the outstanding dues. DVC has been claiming Rs 5,608.32 crore dues from the state government for supplying power between March 31, 2015, to August 23, 2017. But Jharkhand has challenged it, saying that after re-assessment, the pending dues were Rs 3,919.04 crores. The auto-deduction, however, deepened the tussle between state and Union government with chief minister Hemant Soren accusing the Centre of deliberately harassing the state, which was hard-pressed for funds amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year seeking his intervention. Speaking to reporters outside Project Building post-cabinet meeting, Hemant said, “This is one of the many faulty policies and decisions taken by the previous BJP government which wasn’t in the interest of this poor state. In our RBI account, we get funds under different heads for the overall development of the state. To prevent further auto-debit by the Centre, we have finally decided to exit from the agreement.” The cabinet has also approved new regulations to hold Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examinations replacing the earlier rules framed in 1951. “Now, recruitment exams will be held under fresh rules and regulations which are in sync with today’s time. It is surprising that the previous government didn’t do anything to addressing the problems in recruitment bodies to simply things and are continuing with the decade-old rules,” said Soren. According to the new rules, there will be a requirement of educational qualification and age for candidates for all exams. In preliminary examinations, the number of candidates will be selected 15 times higher than the actual vacancies to shortlist the eligible ones through a comprehensive screening process. “If any aspirant from the reserved category qualifies on merit, he/she can have the option of choosing whether to opt for the reserved and unreserved category for the final selection of service,” department secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau police arrest Maoist insurgent from Gujarat||Palamau police have arrested a Guddu, a Maoist insurgent carrying Rs one lakh reward on his head, from Kosamba in Gujarat on January 2, said SP Sanjeev Kumar on Wednesday. Kumar said a police team went to Gujarat to arrest him. The 40-year-old was evading arrest since 2009 when he joined the squad of Arvind Mukhiya, a subzonal commander of the CPI (Maoist). The SP said Guddu remained highly active from 2009 to 2012. Around eight cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and fighting with police were filed against him in these three years. From 2012 to 2015, Guddu was not much active but he remained in constant touch with the rebel group. Guddu was hiding in Kosamba where he was doing some odd jobs, the police said. Kumar said Guddu had no information about their arrival in Kosamba. Chhaterpur SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh tracked him. Singh said after getting SP’s order, they were tracking Guddu since November 2020. Singh said a small police team went to Kosamba last year to ascertain Guddu’s whereabouts. When they found him, another team went there and finally arrested Guddu. The SDPO said it was not an easy operation. They took the help of local police to arrest him. The police team was staying in Kosamba for over four days. Kumar said Guddu was remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Providing security, rescuing minors, RPF does it all||The South Eastern Railway's Railway Protection Force ( RPF)  personnel have been playing a significant role in providing security to passengers as well as in guarding railway property and its vital installations, as suggested by Railway data. According to the records, in December the RPF conducted regular drives against miscreants involved in theft of passenger belongings. During the month of December, a total number of 31 miscreants were arrested under the Railway Property (Unlawful Possession) Act, 1966 and property worth Rs 21 lakh was recovered from Tatanagar, Ranchi, Rourkela and several other railway stations under SER zone. Moreover, 300 offenders were booked under different sections of the Railways Act and Rs 97,575 was realised as fine from Chakradharpur, Ranchi and Kharagpur divisions. Regular drives were also conducted by RPF and commercial department and 688 ticketless travellers were caught and Rs 2,09,960 was realised as fine. The records further show that 34 left-behind luggage of passengers were recovered by the RPF during the month and 21 cases of smoking in train were detected by RPF under the Tobacco Act and fines amounting to Rs.4,200 were realised. Apart from this, RPF personnel of South Eastern Railway have taken active part to conduct 145 cleanliness drives and also removed 51 encroachments at various divisions, including Ranchi and Chakradharpur under SER jurisdiction. They have also rescued six  minor boys and 23 minor girls in December, who were handed over to their relatives with proper verification and acknowledgement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||2 police officers suspended for attack on CM’s pilot car||Two police officers were suspended on Wednesday for Monday’s attack on the pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren’s entourage when a mob took to the streets at Kishoreganj to protest against the murder of a young girl whose headless body was found at Ranchi’s Ormanjhi area. The move to suspend the OCs of Kotwali and Sukhdevnagar police stations came a day after the state government formed a two-member committee, comprising senior IAS and IPS officials, to probe the incident. Police have also filed cases against 68 named and several unnamed individuals. On Tuesday, the chief minister’s office also indicated that showcause notices had been served on Ranchi SSP S.K. Jha and deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan for their inability to tackle the protest. The body of the young girl, believed to be between 18 and 22 years of age, was recovered from a forest in Ormanjhi on Sunday, triggering a public outrage and political slugfest between the ruling and Opposition camps. Sources said the medical board that conducted the post-mortem on the body had ruled out rape. But police were yet to confirm the finding. They had also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for anyone with information on the case as the girl’s identity was yet to be established. A five-member special investigation team (SIT) has been set up to probe the incident. Wednesday’s suspension orders were issued by DGP M.V. Rao in the morning while he was reviewing the law-and-order situation at Jha’s office at the district collectorate. Rao told the media that action was taken against the OCs _ Sunil Tiwari of Sukhdevnagar and Brij Kumar of Kotwali _ for failing to gather accurate intelligence regarding the scale of the protest. He also added that action was being taken against those who were involved in Monday’s protest, calling it a ploy to attack the chief minister’s convoy. “Police will not spare anyone for Monday’s violent protest. Continuous arrests are being made since Tuesday based on CCTV footage. No one is allowed to take the law into his own hands,” Rao said. Both JMM and Congress have accused the BJP of orchestrating the violent protests. On the other hand, the police action prompted the BJP to criticise the state government for “silencing dissent” and deliberately targeting its workers on Tuesday and Wednesday. Leader of the BJP legislative party and former chief minister Babulal Marandi said that no BJP flags were carried by anyone during the Kishoreganj protest. The public outburst, he said, was spontaneous because of the pent-up anger against the government’s failure to control law and order. “It is the failure of police in the first place. Whenever CM passes, roads are secured properly by road opening parties. How come so many protesters descended on the CM’s route without police knowledge?” Marandi said on Wednesday. The administration, he said, was acting out of political vendetta to arrest innocent people. “We also learnt about kids being picked up by police along with their families. Even some BJP cadres were reportedly nabbed. Protest is a democratic right of everyone. We would have welcomed if police had shown such promptness to probe the beheading incident,” Marandi said. The JMM launched a counter-attack again. Party spokesperson and general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee claimed on Wednesday that those who attacked the chief minister’s pilot car and injured a policeman were linked to the BJP and had criminal antecedents. “Some of the suspects who were caught on CCTV are seen to be taking pictures with senior BJP leaders on that day. This establishes BJP’s connection in the whole episode,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad reels under power cuts as DVC supply is disrupted||The problems faced by Dhanbad residents reeling under the impact of electricity crisis due to power cuts being carried out by Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) since December 23  has further increased from Wednesday. The Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Limited has started to further regulate the power supply from the 220 KV Kandra grid substation of Dhanbad. The Maithon- Dumka Circuit of the Kandra Grid substation, used for drawing 60 megawatts of power from Dumka Grid, has undergone shutdown from Wednesday till January 14, restricting the power supply to 30 megawatts only. A letter in this regard has already been issued by the manager of the Kandra Grid Substation to assistant engineers of the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited at Govindpur, Barwaddah and Hirapur, informing them about the shut down and consequent lesser supply of power to their respective divisions from the Kandra Grid. Confirming the reduction of power supply, Executive Engineer of the Dhanbad Electric Supply area of the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam, Ajit Kumar said, “We have launched the power scheduling in view of shutdown of the Maithon Dumka Circuit.” Power regulation is being carried out during the day hours,from 7 am to 4 pm, while it is normal during the evening and night hours, from 4 pm to 7 am, Kumar added. The Kandra Grid Substation, installed and commissioned in 2019, has helped a lot in decreasing the dependence of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam on DVC for power supply in Dhanbad. Out of 172 MW, around 60 MW is drawn from Kandra Grid station in Dhanbad. Dhanbad, Govindpur and Barwaddah are the main beneficiaries under the new system  and thus even during the power cuts carried out by DVC the supply in these subdivisions remain largely unaffected. The shutdown carried out from Wednesday to January 14 for maintenance work however affected the power supply in Dhanbad, Barawaddah and Govindpur areas as well. Talking to The Telegraph Online, patron of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Rajesh Kumar Gupta, said, “The town area of Dhanbad largely remained unaffected due to  the load shedding launched by the DVC since December 23 but the problem started  from Wednesday. We can’t understand the timing of maintenance as it is coinciding with the DVC power cut.” Sanjay Kumar, a Cyber café operator of Dhanbad said “Our entire business is dependent on regular electricity. Long hours of power cuts will adversely affect our business as we will have to incur extra cost on operating generators.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand spared severe cold wave this season ||Frequent western disturbances across the northern parts of the country, coupled with changing wind patterns, have ensured that Jharkhand did not have to endure a cold wave this winter. “Frequent western disturbances in December and in January has, so far, resulted in adverse conditions for a cold wave (when at least three Met observatories record minimum readings five notches below normal). Usually, western disturbances result in a rise in night temperatures. It blocks the flow of crisp north-westerly winds from north India to the plains,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, on Wednesday. The cold wave usually sends shivers down Jharkhand’s spine from December last week to mid-January. Met statistics revealed that the cold wave conditions will probably not continue this winter. According to the statistics, 2018 witnessed the longest spell of the cold wave for nine days at a stretch in December. Met records suggest that in 2017, cold wave conditions eluded the state in December. According to Met data, in 2016, cold wave conditions prevailed at several places in Jharkhand including Ranchi, Daltonganj and a few other districts from December 22 to 25. Similarly, in 2015, cold wave conditions prevailed in Ranchi and its adjoining districts only on December 21. Met department said a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed in the northern parts of the country on Thursday, which will again stop the flow of northwesterly winds. The long-range forecast suggests that Jharkhand will witness the minimum temperature from January 12. On Wednesday, both Jamshedpur and Ranchi have recorded 13 degrees Celsius, while Daltonganj recorded 15 degrees Celsius at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||BJP attacks Hemant government over increasing crime||Launching a scathing attack on the state government over increasing incidents of crime including rape and murder of a girl in Khunti, district unit of the BJP has organised a massive protest at Randhir Verma Chowk on Wednesday. The protestors led by district MP PN Singh and MLA Raj Sinha raised a slogan against the state government. Singh said, “The BJP has organised the protest against the deteriorating law and order situation in the entire state including the increasing incidents of rape, murder, kidnapping and robbery.” “The incidents of crime have increased ever since the new government under the leadership of Heman Soren came to power,” said Singh. “Going through the newspapers daily, I come across various news on abduction, threatening, extortion, etc. This indicates the growing criminal activities in the state,” Singh said. “Common people are afraid because of the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. They are living under constant fear,” said Singh, adding that maintaining law and order in the state should be the top priority of the government. District MLA Raj Sinha, who also participated in the protest, said: “The law and order situation is worsening in the state. If BJP workers are raising the issue, they are being sent to jail.” “This will not be tolerated at any cost. We will intensify the protest against the worsening situation,” said Sinha. Raising the issue of extortion demand from some computer traders and other coal excavators, Sinha said, “The criminals are now sending videos to traders and people’s representatives demanding money from them and threatening with dire consequences.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro airport expansion work to be completed by March||Construction of the Bokaro airport boundary wall, which was delayed due to trespassing, has been speeded up from Wednesday following the intervention of the district administration. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) has aimed to complete the airport expansion work by March 2021 to start the operation of commercial flights soon. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said the construction work of the airport should now be done on war-footing. They are ensuring better coordination between the authorities of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), AAI, forest department, police and administration.  Construction of the boundary wall is being done without any hindrance. The AAI has asked for the district administration’s support so that they can complete the construction work in Sector-12 area by March 2021. Sources said almost 90 per cent of the work has been completed. The AAI is also facing huge trouble to complete the work as hundreds of people residing in the slum, which is adjacent to the airport, enter the premises to relieve themselves. Sometimes they also leave their cattle inside it. Because of this reason, it has become really difficult for the workers to continue the work. Moreover, the trees in the nearby areas are also a cause of concern. Singh said the airport is owned by the BSL. Therefore, it should deploy more security to facilitate construction work. The guards will stop the people from entering the premises. On Wednesday, deputy superintendent of police Gyan Ranjan visited the spot. He ordered the local police station to intensify patrolling and prevent any unauthorised entry into the airport premises. The DC had also instructed AAI officer of Bokaro airport Priyanka Singh to accelerate the work. He also asked the forest department officers to cut down trees near the airport. The trees with a diameter of more than 7 inches will be removed, while those with less than 7 inches of diameter will have to be replanted, he said. “BSL officers and district-level officials should coordinate with each other to complete the construction work,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||New approach road to Dhanbad railway junction soon||The construction work for the 600m new approach road to the south side of the extension complex of Dhanbad railway junction is almost over, said Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, senior divisional commercial manager of Dhanbad division of the East Central Railway, on Wednesday. The project, worth Rs 2 crore, was started from October 2018. The passengers coming from Jharia, Patherdih, Digwadih, Sindri, Joraphatak etc will now enjoy a smooth ride to the railway station. He said the upcoming approach road also has a subway which will help the passengers to skip the railway crossing. The construction work will be completed by March 31. While speaking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Pandey said, “The construction work for the 600m new approach road to the south side of the extension complex of Dhanbad railway junction is almost over and it will be opened to the public soon.” He said, “March 31 is the deadline to finish the construction work of the subway.” Inspector of works of Dhanbad division of railway PK Singh, who is supervising the construction work, said, “We have joined almost 24 casting pieces to complete the work. We are now trying our best to finish it as soon as possible.” President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce Md Sohrab said, “The approach road is situated near the market. So, being the community stakeholder, we regularly visit the spot to supervise the work.” “The new approach road will greatly reduce the difficulties of the passengers, who struggle daily to reach the station through severely congested Bank More bridge,” said Sohrab. He said the unauthorised parking of the heavy vehicles at the entry point of the approach road may cause traffic congestion. The south side extension the complex will have a slew of new facilities including waiting hall, shopping outlets, a circulating area for vehicles, pay-and-use toilets, among others, very soon. In 2014, Dhanbad division had developed a large parking area at the cost of Rs 4.5 crore to make it easier for the passengers to reach the main station complex situated in the north side. It receives an average footfall of more than 20,000 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid cases decrease after almost a month, remains below 50||New infections of Covid-19 cases in Ranchi remained below 50-mark for the first time after at least a month as the state capital registered 47 confirmed patients in the last 24 hours, health department's bulletin issued on Tuesday night has suggested. As many as 151 got recovered while one death also came fore in Ranchi during this period. Statewide, a total of 155 new cases got registered, 255 recovered and two deaths surface. Besides Ranchi, one death was reported from Hazaribag taking the total fatalities in the state to 1038. Jharkhand cumulative caseload now stands at 1,15,840 of which 1,13,380 patients have recovered so far while 1,422 are active cases. Other districts with double-digit single day growth came from four places namely Dhanbad (17), Palamau (16), Bokaro (14), and East Singhbhum (12). Sixteen districts reported single-digit cases while Chatra, Godda, Pakur and Sahibganj remained free of new infections in the last one day. State's recovery rate with 97.87 percent remains higher than the national average of 96.30 percent. The mortality rate is 0.89 per cent vis-a-vis 1.40 nationally. State's seven day growth rate is 0.12 percent, lower than the national average of 0.16 per cent whereas seven days doubling rate 578.81 days in comparison to 445.30 days in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
06-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren's convoy attacked, DGP sniffs plot||Jharkhand DGP M.V. Rao has sniffed a conspiracy behind the attack on chief minister’s convoy by a mob at the Kishoreganj Chowk area at Harmu in Ranchi on Monday evening. Speaking to the media at a programme in Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), Rao hinted at tough action against the perpetrators of violence. “The CCTV footage seems to indicate that it was a conspiracy to attack the CM’s convoy by a section of the protesters who were bent on taking law into their own hands. We will not tolerate such goonda gardi on roads of Jharkhand. We know to give a befitting reply to the conspirators of violence and teach them a lesson which will not make them even think of committing such acts in future,” said Rao. Significantly, Hemant Soren’s convoy going from secretariat to his residence was attacked by a mob protesting against the murder of a woman whose beheaded body was recovered from near Ormanjhi earlier on Sunday suddenly turned violence when a police vehicle of the chief minister’s carcade was trying to clear the road for his movement on Monday evening. A section of the crowd, allegedly led by right wing organisations under patronage of the opposition party, started pelting stones at the CM carcade causing injury to several police personnel, including Gonda thana in-charge Naval Kishore. Later, the CM’s convoy was diverted through another route to his Kanke residence. The DGP further claimed that they were waiting for a medical report of the body of the woman. “We are yet to establish if the woman was raped before being murdered. The identity of the woman is also not yet established. We assume that she might have been murdered somewhere else and body thrown at Ormanjhi to hide evidence. We are investigating it and would soon get to the truth,” said the DGP. Meanwhile, Ranchi SSP Surendra Jha said that they have detained over a dozen persons for interrogation in the Kishoreganj violence. “Based on evidence we have rounded up over 12 persons and if their involvement is proved then they will be sent to jail. The holding of agitation in a place like Kishoreganj which falls in the route of the CM’s carcade and the mob suddenly growing in number during evening turning violent seeing the carcade seems to point that there seems to be a conspiracy. However, we are not in a position to say anything conclusively at the moment,” the SSP said. The SSP also said that the woman’s identity is yet to be established and the medical report of the body will be arriving soon to ascertain if she was sexually assaulted or not. However, he ruled out that the woman belonged to localities near Ranchi. The perpetrators of the violence are being identified jointly by police teams from Kotwali and Sukhdeonagar thana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-182
