07-01-2021||Calcutta||Cheap, fast & true, the Feluda kit||A scientist with family in New Town’s AD Block is one of the two leaders of a team that has gifted the country a paper strip test for Covid-19 that gives out an accurate result in under an hour but is as precise as qRT-PCR. Debojyoti Chakraborty of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s laboratory in Delhi, has invented the diagnostic kit which has been named Feluda, along with his colleague Souvik Maiti. It is an acronym for FNCAS9 Editor Limited Uniform Detection Assay. The kit uses the CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology which earned Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer A. Doudna the 2020 Nobel Prize in chemistry. By this technology, a protein found in bacteria, on being given a specific instruction, can target and bind with a sequence in DNA. Earlier, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of California Berkeley had developed different Covid-19 diagnostic kit using other variants of CRISPR. “They were named Sherlock and Detectr respectively. Since both the inventors of this kit are Bengalis, we thought of naming our invention after a Bengali detective.” The toss-up was between Byomkesh and Feluda. “My wife Isha suggested the full name to fit the Feluda acronym,” he said. Three musketeers Like Satyajit Ray’s sleuth, the Covid-catching Feluda too comes with two assistants. “We created a smartphone app which can automatically detect the result from a picture of the test strip. We named it Topse or True Outcome Predicted via Strip Evaluation. Also a web server through which a Feluda assay can be designed for diagnosing pathogenic sequences has been created, called Jatayu or Junction for Analysis and Target Design for Your Feluda Assay.” The paper in which they wrote about their invention is in a top journal and is getting peer reviewed. As it awaits publication, it is available in an open source journal depository called Med RXIV. Chakraborty and his team had been working on the technology for the past couple of years. “We had been trying to invent a diagnostic kit to detect sickle cell anaemia, a blood disorder. When Covid-19 came up, we realised it would be more effective in detecting it.” The Covid-19 work commenced in January 2020. The name Feluda was given in March. The technology was licenced in May to Tata Sons which formed a company called Tata Medical and Diagnostics. The invention received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India for commercial launch in September. It was launched in November and has started use in Delhi and elsewhere. It is now available for purchase on the Government E-marketplace (GeM), hosted by the Directorate General of Supplies and Goods. The kit is available online for about Rs 580. “We have no idea how much the testing centre will charge as the costs are regulated and fixed by individual state guidelines,” he said. Endgame The new British variant of the coronavirus strain, he said, cannot be detected by RT-PCR alone. “They have to do it by sequencing. We are currently working so that the Feluda kit can specifically detect the other variant,” he said. The main difference with RT-PCR, which is considered to be the gold standard test in Covid-19 detection, is in the machine that is used for the test. “RT-PCR requires a quantitative real-time PCR machine which costs close to Rs 20 lakh. It is not available everywhere. With a single machine in, say, 100km radius area, the turnaround time to generate the report becomes long and the cost too escalates. Feluda requires a simple PCR machine, which costs about Rs 60-70,000. Thus testing can be scaled up 20 times. In fact, in the advanced version of Feluda no machine will be required and it will become equipment-free. The time taken is less as well. A standardised and simple workflow means testing will not need highly skilled manpower.” The next step of advancement will make it a game-changer in day-to-day life in a Covid-afflicted world. “We are trying to make it available at point-of-care, like in a doctor’s chamber, in schools and colleges when they re-open, in airports and malls…” Chakraborty is happy that a diagnostic kit developed by his team is making Covid-19 detection more accessible to his countrymen. “What we do normally happens inside a lab and the journey from the lab to the market is a long and tedious process. In this case, the transition was fast as there was a demand in the market,” he signed off. ⚫ Named Feluda in April ⚫ Technology licenced in May to Tata Sons ⚫ Drugs Controller General of India approval for commercial launch in September. ⚫ Launched in November ⚫ Available on the Government E-marketplace (GeM) portal ⚫ Price: Rs 580||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Chronicle of masked era||Few motorists driving by Akankha More spare a glance at the concrete pillars lying by the Major Arterial Road. These are waste material generated from the piling of the piers for the New Garia-Airport Metro track. Hidden from the public eye behind yellow plastic sheets, on the island adjacent to the one with the Mangaldeep installation, 20 such pillars are being hewn into unique works of recycled art. The person whose brainchild the project is stays a stone’s throw away from the site, at Anahita Housing Complex. He, Rupchand Kundu, is also behind the planning and designing of the Seven Wonders at Eco Park. “I was looking for something to do once the lockdown brought life to a standstill. These pillars, made of costly concrete but of no further use, caught my eye. One day, I sent a mail to the chairman (of Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation, Debashis Sen) seeking permission to create installations out of them. The response came within a few hours, greenlighting the project,” said Kundu. Kundu’s installations are somewhat reminiscent of the carved stone human figures of Easter Island in being a similar collection of heads placed on pedestals. Incidentally, Kundu had replicated the figures, called the moai, as part of the Seven Wonders. But the biggest difference is in the masks that the faces at the Akankha crossing wear. “I want to give the message that wearing a mask is necessary till there is effective vaccination. These statues will serve to create that awareness. And years down the line, they will remain as a chronicle of the Covid era,” said Kundu, applying layers of cement on a concrete pillar to bring yet another face to form. The pillars range in height from six feet to seven feet and are not identical. He has been at work on the project for close to five months. “In another 10 days, they should be ready. The island will have to be beautified with hedging, grass turf and lights,” he said. Sen has named the collection Twenty Pillars in a video he has posted on the installation. “I chose 20 to connect to the year 2020,” Kundu explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Mask that cools, breathes and lasts||Go out to the streets and you’ll see masks hanging from people’s chins, necks, ears... After a while people wear masks anywhere but over their nose and mouth. Students of SN Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences studied this phenomenon and have come up with an all-in-one solution that they have patented and which you can now avail of. “We realised that there are four main reasons why people resist wearing masks,” began Samir Kumar Pal, senior professor, chemical, biological and macromolecular sciences at the JD Block institute. “Keeping a mask on continuously means inhaling the carbon dioxide you exhale and denying the brain fresh oxygen. Over a long time, this makes people tired, dizzy and unable to perform regular work.” Next comes temperature. “Since our body temperature is higher than room temperature, the mask we exhale into becomes very hot. The moisture released fogs up spectacles the person may be wearing and finally, masks hinder communication as words spoken behind a mask seem unclear and the wearer feels like removing it for clarity.” As a solution, the students have come up with a mask with an active respirator attached. This is a small unit on the mask that comprises a tiny fan, valve and grill to control air flow. It is attached to a power bank that the wearer keeps in his pocket and when turned on, expels exhaled carbon dioxide out of the mask along with moisture and sweat. “This reduces the temperature in the mask by 7- 10ºC,” said Pal. Named BoseShield, this mask has an N95 filter but its safety mechanism is more advanced. It ensures that the exhaled air only escapes through a portion of the mask that is padded with anti-bacterial and anti-fungal cloth. “This will trap Covid-19 germs in case the wearer is infected and exhales any out.” In fact, the wearer’s voice will also flow out smoothly from the mask alongside the air stream, making his words clearer to listeners. “And the cavity in the mask has been designed in a way that allows the phonetic muscles of the face to move without restriction,” said Pal. The power bank would need to be recharged about once in two days and if the wearer sweats profusely the mask may be washed (after removing the respirator) once a month. The life of the mask, that costs Rs 800  including the power bank, would be about five years. Skin-friendly sanitiser While killing germs, regular sanitisers are also blamed for removing moisture from our hands. “This leads to cracks and leaves the door open to bacteria and fungi. We have used nano technology and developed a sanitiser that uses nano particles with omega 9. This means that besides retaining moisture in the skin, the sanitiser also addresses common skin problems of Indians like daad (ringworm) and eczema,” said Paul. The scientist recommends four puffs of Bosetizer to be rubbed from the palms all the way up to the elbows. “Even if an infected person coughs on your hand after this, the germs will be killed. You are ensured protection for up to 40 minutes,” said Pal, a resident of Purbachal Cluster X. His team comprised PhD students Animesh Halder, Soumendra Singh, Riya Ghosh, Neha Bhattacharya and Aniruddha Adhikari. A 100ml bottle of this sanitiser costs Rs 110. Once the products were ready and patented, National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) brokered a deal between the institute and a private company Paulmech Infrastructure. “A scientist’s job is not just to conduct experiments but also to work for people and with these products we have achieved that goal. But technology has no value unless marketed and in this aspect NRDC has been a huge help,” said Samit Kumar Ray, director of the institute, at the launch of the products on November 25 at the CII auditorium, City Centre. Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya launched the products as well as their websites Bosetizer.com and BoseShield.com through which they will be sold. “The world is going through a crisis now and there is no room for complacency. We shall support products like this and together overcome the challenges,” Bhattacharya said. “We have paid a licence fee for this technology and will now be selling these items across the world. Nigeria, the UK and Canada have already shown interest, besides different states of India. The institute will receive a royalty  percentage on the sales,” said Shanti Ranjan Paul, director of Paulmech Infrastructre and a resident of CL Block. The products will be available across the city soon and is now available on e-commerce websites. “The lockdown had initially posed some problems. The fan in the mask, for instance, had to be imported from Taiwan. Now we are looking for local manufacturers,” said Paul, whose company would thus far deal with rubber items. A host of other academicians attended the launch. “Our GE Block institute has been sending teams to slums of Salt Lake and New Town to conduct medical camps all through the lockdown and it would have been great had we known about and used these masks and sanitisers,” said Subhas Singh, director, National Institute of Homeopathy, who was one of the guests present. ⚫ Ensures moisture is retained in the skin upon application ⚫ Also addresses common skin problems of Indians like daad (ringworm) and eczema ⚫ Apply four puffs and rub from the palms all the way up to the elbows. ⚫ Even if an infected person coughs on your hand after this, the germs will be killed. You are ensured protection for up to 40 minutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Duped: auto dealers and online buyers||A man has been arrested for allegedly posing as a “seller” on an online trading portal and cheating prospective buyers by pretending to sell them new four-wheelers displayed in showrooms at used-car rates. Police said Abhishek Das, 32, the accused, would book a car from a showroom in the name of a prospective buyer saying that it was a gift for his friend and pay the booking amount with a cheque. Then he would quote a lesser price to the prospective buyer for the same car. The buyer, thinking that he was getting a new car at a price lesser than the showroom rate, would agree and make the payment to the “seller”. Later, the showroom would find that the cheque had bounced and hence, the car would not be handed over to the buyer. Based on a complaint lodged by a resident of Behala, police had started an investigation and found prima facie evidence against Das. According to the complaint, Das had struck a deal to sell two cars – a Hyundai Venue and a Toyota Fortuner - to the complainant through an online portal. “Das had told the complainant that his office had gifted him two cars. He said he wanted to sell them at a lower price since he already had a car. On the other hand, he had booked the two cars at a showroom by handing over two cheques,” said an officer. Das had allegedly arranged a meeting between the dealer and the complainant at a place near the showroom, where the dealer had taken the two cars. “The customer was satisfied after seeing the cars and paid a token amount of Rs 9.11 lakh to Das for both cars. However, a few days later, when the dealer found that the cheques had bounced, the deal was called off. By then Das had stopped taking calls,” the officer said. Through the cheque leaves, the police located Das’s bank accounts and collected his details. Officers of Behala police station posed as customers and contacted Das through the same online portal and offered to buy a Volkswagen Polo. Das was arrested when he took the “buyer” to a spot near Garia to inspect the cars on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners starts health check of flyovers ||A health check of five flyovers — including Gariahat, Park Street and AJC Bose Road flyovers — is under way, officials of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC), the custodian of the structures, said. Railways consultancy firm RITES has been hired by the HRBC to do the health study and submit a report on the repairs that are required and how to go ahead with them. The Kidderpore flyover and the New Lockgate flyover in Cossipore are also undergoing health check-up that began in December. The five flyovers were built in the 2000s. An officer of Calcutta police said HRBC had sent them an application to allow RITES to conduct a radiography test, a non-destructive test and inspection of the expansion joints, among other procedures. “We have started a health check of five flyovers in Calcutta, of which we are the custodian. We will conduct necessary repairs if required,” said Ajoy Kumar Dutta, the chief project manager of HRBC. Dutta, however, did not say when RITES would submit its report. An engineer working with a private infrastructure company explained the tests that the HRBC has mentioned in its letter to the police. A radiography test is like an X-ray that will detect any crack or porosity in the steel components of the flyover. In the non-destructive test, the sound waves generated after hammering a point in the flyover are tracked to understand whether the waves are rebounding normally or there are any defects inside the structure. In the axle load survey, loaded vehicles are lined up along a flank to see whether the deflection occurring in the concrete and steel components are within safe limits. “The traffic-volume survey helps gauge if the flyover can take the volume of traffic that will use it after five or 10 years without any damage to the structure,” said the engineer. The website of the HRBC mentions that the 3-km AJC Bose Road flyover was inaugurated in August 2003 and the 571-metre Gariahat flyover was opened in April 2002. The website does not mention the length and opening date of the Park Street, New Lockgate and the Kidderpore flyovers. Sources in the Calcutta police’s traffic department said the Park Street flyover, which was inaugurated in 2005, would be approximately 500 metre long; the New Lockgate flyover, inaugurated in 2004, is about 700 metre long and Kidderpore flyover, inaugurated in 2007, about 500 metre in length. Amitabha Ghosal, a bridge engineer who has been involved with construction and health audits of several elevated corridors, said it was good that the health check of the flyovers were being conducted. “Some basic health checks should be conducted every two years. It is good that the HRBC is doing the health check of all these structures.” Though all these flyovers are less than 20 years old, it is still necessary to conduct health audits, said Ghosal. Comprehensive health audits of flyovers were rarely done in the city earlier, admitted engineers who built flyovers in Calcutta and government officials. The collapse of the Vivekananda Road flyover in 2016 and the Majerhat bridge in 2018 jolted the government out of its slumber. The state urban development department began a health check of several flyovers maintained by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) from 2019. The CMDA will start repairs of Baghajatin and the Ultadanga flyovers soon, based on reports of the health audits. The PWD, too, started health audits of some of its flyovers in Calcutta. The health audit of the Tallah bridge revealed its precarious condition and it was demolished. A new bridge is under construction now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Crooks on the prowl with a carload of tricks||Three men who had allegedly duped the driver of a private car and stolen a bag, containing cash and a diamond necklace worth Rs 4 lakh, from the front seat have been arrested. Police said the gang would stop a car and raise a false alarm that fuel was leaking from the vehicle. As the driver would step out to check, the gang members would swiftly steal the belongings from the dashboard or the front seat — whichever was accessible. On the afternoon of December 24, the driver of the complainant was allegedly tricked in a similar way on Jadunath Dey Road in central Calcutta. “The complainant told officers of Bowbazar police station that the driver, on being told about the purported fuel leak, stepped out of the car to check. By the time the driver had returned to his seat, the gang had stolen a leather bag that was lying on the front seat and fled,” said an officer of the detective department, which has taken over the case from Bowbazar police station. Once the theft was reported to Bowbazar police station, footage of CCTV cameras installed at the spot was analysed. The identity of the three accused was established based on the footage and source information. “A watch was mounted on the suspects for a few days before they were nabbed by the cops from a location in Kalighat. Following their interrogation, the cops recovered the bag containing the diamond necklace worth around Rs 4 lakh,” said the officer. The accused were identified as Akash, 24, and Sahil, 18, residents of Ambedkar Nagar in South Delhi and Mariappa, 35, from Indrapuri in North Delhi. They have been operating in various cities across the country, the police said. “The accused used to come to Calcutta on and off to dupe people. In Calcutta they stayed in Kalighat. We have learnt they have duped several people in the city over the past few months,” the officer said. The three have been charged under the Indian Penal Code sections related to cheating and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Unruly buses make VIP Road dangerous||Rash driving, jumping signals, picking up and dropping passengers in the middle of the road, bus drivers on VIP Road flout traffic rules at will. And these make one of the most important connectors to the airport one of the most dangerous roads in the city. Hawkers and jaywalkers near key intersections, including Kestopur, Baguiati and Joramandir, add to the chaos. A 38-year-old man died in November after a bus rammed into his motorcycle at high speed before bursting into flames near Kestopur flyover The driver even after hitting the two-wheeler rider stepped on the accelerator and dragged the bike for around 50 feet before both the vehicles caught fire. There are at least six designated bus stops along the both the airport-bound and the Ultadanga-bound flanks of VIP Road that include Lake Town, Kestopur, Baguiati, Joramandir and Haldirams before the airport on one end and Ultadanga on the other. However, bus drivers tend to pick up and drop off passengers in the middle of the road. The worst stretches are on the airport-bound flank of VIP Road near the Baguiati pedestrian subway complex and near the Kestopur crossing on the Ultadanga-bound flank of the road. Metro visited several stretches along VIP Road and saw buses flouting rules at will putting other road users at danger. A government bus on the Ultadanga-bound flank stopped in the middle of the road at Kestopur crossing to pick up passengers, forcing vehicles behind it to stop abruptly. The bus did not even enter the bus bay at the crossing. A minibus, also headed towards Ultadanga, moved to the extreme right of the road, overtook the other government buses and stopped right in front of them to pick up passengers. The designated bus stop in Kestopur is on a raised pavement in front of a government school but buses rarely stop there. “We have to run to catch buses every day. Often, other buses try to overtake from the left making it risky for us,” Samaresh Ghosh, a resident of Baguiati, said. The buses on both the flanks of VIP Road accelerate as soon as the traffic signal turns green. Despite regular accidents, the bus drivers seem indifferent. On the airport-bound flank of the VIP Road, a private bus raced to reach some passengers waiting near the Baguiati subway complex while another bus, headed in the same direction, overtook it and stopped diagonally in the middle of the road to pick them up. The bus bay in front of Baguiati subway had a deserted look. “None of the buses enter the bus bay so why should we walk upto there,” said Debabrata Shome, who was heading to Rashbehari Avenue. Metro did spot a single traffic policeman prosecuting any bus driver despite the violations. “If we prosecute every bus then it will lead to a traffic chaos,” said a traffic policemen of Baguiati traffic guard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Bird flu outbreak prompts watch on winged guests in Bengal||The outbreak of bird flu in Himachal Pradesh, which has led to the death of more than 2,500 migratory birds at Pong Dam, has promoted the Bengal forest department to start monitoring the health of migratory birds in the state. A senior forest department official said they had issued a directive to all ranges as well as beat offices asking personnel to visit the places where migratory birds have arrived and check if any has died. “Forest officers will visit the locations in their respective areas where migratory birds have arrived and check on their health. In case any is found dead, they have been asked to report to a nodal officer,” the officer said. According to the officer, the foresters will form teams and visit at regular intervals the water bodies and grasslands where migratory birds are roosting. “We will be keeping an eye on the birds on a daily basis,” the officer said. They will report bird death, if any, collect the viscera or carcass and send samples for analysis. The foresters will have to wear gloves and other protective gear to handle the carcasses. The department will also coordinate with local birdwatchers’ groups as well as NGOs to track the birds, the officer said. “If any dead bird is found, the forest department will send the carcass to the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases to find out whether it died of bird flu,” the officer said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said they were being extra-vigilant and had alerted all teams stationed across the state to monitor the health of migratory birds very closely. “We have put all our offices and officers on alert and we will regularly monitor the health of the migratory birds,” said Yadav. Tapas Das, the field director of the Sundarbans Tiger Reserve, said they conducted a survey on Wednesday inside the mangroves, which are now home to thousands of migratory birds. “We went around various sandbanks near Sajnekhali and saw thousands of birds, including Red Crested Pochards, Eurasian Wigeons, Grey Herons and Lesser Whistling Teals. We did not spot any dead bird. The vigil will continue daily,” Das said. During winter, many wetlands in the city as well as on the fringes attract a large number of migratory birds, mainly from central Asia and Trans-Siberian region. According to foresters as well as birdwatchers, Rabindra Sarovar has attracted hundreds of birds. Many migratory birds are roosting at the East Calcutta Wetlands and at Mudiali Nature Park in Taratala. The grasslands of Rajarhat and New Town are also home to several species of migratory birds. Santragachhi Jheel in Howrah is currently home to nearly 5,000 birds, including a “near threatened” trans-Himalayan migrant, birdwatchers who have visited the water body have said. “About 10 Gadwalls and one Ferruginous Pochard are at the jheel nowadays. Both of them are trans-Himalayan migrants,” said birdwatcher Prosenjit Dawn. The birds breed in central Asia, China and Mongolia and travel thousands of miles to reach the subcontinent to escape the harsh winter there. The Ferruginous Pochard, also called Ferruginous Duck, is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The website of IUCN said: “The species is currently listed as Near Threatened as it is suspected to be undergoing a moderately rapid overall decline.” Migratory birds are also roosting in the Sunderbans. In North 24-Parganas, many birds are nesting on the mudflats of Bortir Bill in Nilgunj. Some of the birds that have been spotted there include the Glossy Ibis, Eurasian Coot, Pacific Golden Plover and Wood Sandpiper. Migratory birds also flock to Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri distinct and several water bodies in Burdwan and Nadia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Hit by car, scooterist run over by bus near Park Circus ||A 50-year-old man died after the scooter he was riding was allegedly hit by a car and he came under the wheels of a bus near the Park Circus seven-point crossing on Wednesday afternoon. Police said Mohammad Shamim, 50, and wife Shakila Shamim, 45, who was on the pillion, were both wearing helmets. Officers of the traffic department said the couple, residents of Dr Suresh Sarkar Road, were plying down AJC Bose Road when they came between a car that had landed from the Parama flyover and a bus. “The scooter came between a car and a bus. People who saw the accident said the four-wheeler hit the scooter and the scooterist came under the rear wheels of the bus,” said an officer. The bus driver told the police that he had not initially realised that the bus had run over a person, an officer said. However, when the bus was at a signal near Don Bosco School, a motorcyclist alerted the driver about the accident, after which he returned to the spot and courted arrest, the officer said. The four-wheeler that allegedly hit the scooter could not be identified till Wednesday evening. Senior officers said such accidents involving buses were common in the city, especially because bus drivers failed to see the rear part of their vehicles that was part of the “blind spot”. “The driver cannot see the blind spot through the looking glass. Unless alerted by the conductor, the driver cannot know what is going on in the rear,” an officer said. However, as the scooterist died after coming under the wheels of the bus, the driver has been arrested and charged under sections related to rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence. A private car overturned on the Parama flyover on Tuesday, police said. Five occupants of the car were injured .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Sealdah-Sector V Metro by end-2021||Metro trains should run between Sealdah and Sector V in the East-West corridor by the end of 2021, general manager Manoj Joshi said on Wednesday. “Sealdah station should be ready and commercial trains would be extended to Sealdah by December this year,” Joshi, also the general manager of Eastern Railway, said at the Fairlie Place headquarters. After finishing one leg of the East-West Metro tunnelling between Esplanade and Sealdah on October 9, a tunnel boring machine took a U-turn and started boring the remaining 800m stretch of the west-bound tunnel on Monday. Two boring machines had started moving from Esplanade towards Sealdah in early 2019. But work was stopped for around six months after a number of buildings in Bowbazar developed cracks or subsided when one of the machines hit an aquifer in August 2019. The remaining 800m stretch should be completed in five months, if there are no further problems, said officials of East-West Metro. “A bulk of the work is complete in the upcoming Sealdah station...,” said Joshi. The East-West corridor will link Sector V and Howrah Maidan when fully operational. For now, only one stretch, connecting Sector V and Phoolbagan, is operational. In the North-South corridor, Metro trains should run up to Dakshineswar by the end of February, Joshi said. On December 23, a train undertook a trial run on the Noapara-Dakshineswar extension stretch of the North-South Metro network for the first time. The two new stations, Baranagar and Dakshineswar, are ready. “We will conduct some more trial runs from the middle of January and then have a CRS (commissioners of railway safety) inspection. A clearance from the CRS would allow us to start commercial services till Dakshineswar...,” Joshi said. Once operational, the new Metro link will be the hope for thousands of office-goers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas on the northern fringes. Since the closure and subsequent dismantling of the Tallah bridge, a large section of these commuters has been using Noapara Metro station, which is not easily accessible via road. Construction of the upcoming Airport Metro station has also picked up pace, Joshi said. A pipeline to provide aviation fuel had to be shifted for construction work. “The issue has been sorted out. Indian Oil has agreed to temporarily shift the pipeline to facilitate the Metro work,” Joshi said. An underground Metro station connected to three lines — New Garia-Airport, Noapara-Airport and Airport-Barasat — is being built on the airport premises, around 150m from the new terminal. “Once ready, it will be India’s largest underground Metro station,” Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Himalayan Mountaineering Institute aims for record in yoga||The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) is looking at creating a world record by organising a 75-hour relay yoga event involving more than 200 participants to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence. Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal, HMI, said such a feat had never been attempted anywhere in the world before. “I conceived the idea to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence and also be part of the National Youth Festival which is being organised under the aegis of ministry of youth affairs and sports,” said Group Captain Kishan. The yoga event will be part of the ongoing youth festival. Around 200 participants from Darjeeling will perform surya namaskar— a set of 12 yogic postures — from 9am on January 9 till noon of January 12. Fitness instructors Shraddha Rai and Sikha Rai of Studio 360, Darjeeling, have been conducting selection and training sessions for the participants at the HMI here for the past three days. Two arenas, one at the auditorium and another outdoors, have been set up for the event. “Even tourists can join in the outdoor arena,” said Group Captain Kishan. “Besides, people can post pictures of them performing surya namaskar from anywhere in the country and we will provide them with digital certificates,” said Group Captain Kishan. At any given time, 15 to 20 individuals will be participating in the event through day and night. Participants will be between 6 to 65 years. “Taking into account the cold weather, we have made proper heating arrangements at the auditorium” the principal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||SRK to attend Kolkata International Film Festival inauguration virtually||Shah Rukh Khan will attend the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival virtually, chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Wednesday. The inauguration of the 26th edition is scheduled to take place on Friday at Nabanna Sabhaghar in the presence of only the members of the festival committee. “Together we will overcome this pandemic. But the show must go on. We are going ahead with  #KIFF 2021 virtually, on a smaller scale. Glad that my brother @iamsrk will join us virtually at the inaugural event on Jan 8, 4pm. Watch Kolkata International Film Festival live,” the chief minister tweeted, referring to King Khan’s twitter handle. Shah Rukh, who was made Bengal’s brand ambassador after Mamata became chief minister, has been a constant presence at the inauguration ever since the 17th edition in 2011, when he had come with Sharmila Tagore. That was six months after the Trinamul government was sworn in. On Friday, LED screens will be installed in front of each venue to telecast the virtual inauguration live, festival officials said. The film festival, which was pushed back from the original November schedule, has been scaled down to maintain the Covid protocols but will have physical screenings at eight venues with 50 per cent seating. Tickets have to be booked online. Delegate registration is still under way at kiff.in. “Last year, we had about 2,500 applications. This year we have to bring the number down,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Fluffy mane and dark lines: Chance encounter on road with striped hyena||A chance encounter between a wily scavenger with an unsavoury image and members of an NGO in Purulia has resulted in one of the first documentary evidence in many years of the animal’s presence in the region. The animal in question was a striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena), spotted by the occupants of a car on the night of January 2 on a patch of grassland in Baghmundi, between Jhalda and Matha forests in Purulia, over 250km from Calcutta. The members of the Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL) in the car could not identify the animal at one go. “It is only after we got off the car and turned on a torchlight that the animal was identifiable,” said a member. The animal crossed the road and turned back at the group before disappearing in the dark. During the encounter that lasted around five minutes, one of the members took some pictures of the animal on a Nikon D500. The use of the torchlight has lent a monochromatic character to the pictures, which the members shared with this newspaper. The picture shows fluffy mane and dark lines along its light fur. Animal Diversity Web (ADW), an online database of animal natural history, distribution, classification and conservation biology at the University of Michigan, describes the geographical range of striped hyenas as “Northern and Eastern Africa, the Middle East, India and Asia extending north to the Caucasus and Siberia”. In India, they are said to be found in the semi-arid and dry fringe forests of Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram in Bengal, apart from the Deccan plateau, Rajasthan and Gujarat. “Carcasses of other animals are their main food. As scavengers, they play a crucial role in the food chain and help prevent the spread of diseases by eating every bit of an animal,” said a researcher with the Wildlife Institute of India. Hyenas have always been here in Bengal but have not been studied enough. “The extent of their distribution is largely anecdotal. Their population count is also unknown so far. There has been no scientific documentation of their presence,” said a forest official. A study to assess the habitat and distribution of hyenas, wolves and some other animals, started two years ago by the Zoological Survey of India, has picked up pace after being stalled by the pandemic. Striped hyenas are smaller and more solitary creatures than spotted hyenas of Africa. “Spotted hyenas are famed scavengers and often dine on the leftovers of other predators. But these hardy beasts are also skilled hunters that will take down a wildebeest or an antelope,” says nationalgeographic.com. In comparison, striped hyenas are much more docile, mostly spending the days in the burrows and coming out in the night, said the WII researcher. Literature, traditional folklore and popular culture have not been kind to the hyena. In Disney’s popular animation film, The Lion King, hyenas are sidekicks of the villain, Scar. “Several locals, especially people who steered cows and goats back to the villages from grazing in the evening, have seen hyenas. But many of them know hyenas as boro sheyal (large fox),” said Meghna Banerjee of HEAL, who was part of the group that chanced upon the animal and spoke to several residents of the area. The lack of knowledge leads to man-animal conflict, she pointed out. A hyena was allegedly killed, beheaded and chopped into pieces by some residents of a village in Purulia in July last year. Forest officials had suspected it to have been a retaliatory killing after the animal strayed into the village and lifted some livestock. The ZSI study, commissioned by the state forest department, aims to stop such conflicts. Camera traps laid in the forests of Purulia over the past couple of months have also captured pictures of multiple hyenas alongside other animals, said ZSI officials. “This is the first time that we have clicked pictures of hyenas in south Bengal,” said Kailash Chandra, the director of ZSI. “The ZSI report will be the first scientific documentation of the habitat and distribution of animals like hyenas, wolves, golden jackals and leopard cats. The first step towards any conservation effort is a scientific documentation,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav extends hospital stay by a day||Sourav Ganguly, who was set to be discharged from Woodlands Hospital on Wednesday, decided to stay on for one more day, officials and doctors at the hospital said. The former Indian cricket captain was hospitalised on Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while working out on a treadmill. He had a stent implanted in the right coronary artery on Saturday afternoon. Sourav, 48, was scheduled to be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after the doctors treating him concluded that he was fit to go home. Doctors and officials said the formalities for discharge were complete in the morning and the car to take Sourav home had arrived at Woodlands. However, at the last moment, Sourav told doctors that he wanted to stay at the hospital for one more day, “Ganguly will be discharged tomorrow (Thursday) as he wanted to stay back one more day,” Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, said on Wednesday. “All his parameters are normal but since he wanted to stay back, we agreed. There are many patients who often defer discharge,” said an official of the hospital. Metro reported on Wednesday that cardiac surgeon and the chairman of Narayana Health, Devi Shetty, visited Sourav. He later said Sourav would be able to lead a normal life and take part even in a marathon. Sourav still has blockages in two more coronary arteries. Doctors, including Shetty, have said angioplasty to remove the blockages could be done at a later date. “He will be under medical observation at home. Doctors from Woodlands will visit him,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine dry run tomorrow||The second dry run for Covid vaccination will be held on Friday across 23 districts of Bengal. Each district will have three vaccination centres. The first dry run was restricted to three centres in North 24-Parganas. The second round will take place in 69 centres. Health department officials said over 10,000 personnel at different tiers of the healthcare system — from block primary health centres to medical colleges and hospitals — would be involved in the process, which will test the state government’s preparedness before the vaccination drive starts. The Centre has proposed to roll out Covid vaccines from next week. “The first dry run was restricted to Bidhannagar, Madhyamgram and Amdanga in Barasat. This time we have centres even in far-flung areas to see how the chain is functioning,” said Tapas Roy, the chief medical officer of health of North 24-Parganas, which has been hit hard by Covid. On Wednesday, senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan met the chief medical health officers of all districts and asked them to prepare 25 candidates for each vaccination centre where the dry run would be carried out. The district superintendents of police have been asked to provide personnel who will act as guards at each of the centres. A team of doctors is being readied to supervise the process. Over 150 such teams will be in place during Friday's dry run and each vaccination centre will have an ambulance ready to take care of any emergency. “Apart from the teams that will directly be involved in the dry run, a large number of health employees in the district will witness the proceedings at each of the three centres so they get conversant with the process,” said Prakash Mirdha, the chief medical officer of health of Jhargram. “Around half of the 500-odd vaccinators of the district will be involved directly or indirectly with the trial run.” In Jhargram district, the trial run will be held at a nurses’ training school in Jhargram town, a primary health centre in Silda's Binpur II and a block primary health centre in Gopiballavpur. The chief medical officers of health have been asked to choose centres across three categories — medical college and hospital, district hospital located in an urban pocket, and block primary health centre and rural hospital. Over the past few weeks, over 20,000 vaccinators have been trained in injecting Covid-19 jabs. Separate training sessions have been held for cold chain handlers and those who will handle data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University exam chief on ‘long leave’||Jadavpur University’s controller of examinations has gone on a “long leave” at a time his office has been pilloried by students over allegations of errors in results and delay in the publication of results. In the absence of Satyaki Bhattacharya, Subarna Das, a professor of library and information science department, has been told to function as the controller of examinations from Thursday. The letter by vice-chancellor Suranjan Das requesting Das to take over as officiating controller of examinations says: “The controller of examination is going on a long leave. It will be highly appreciated if during the absence of the CoE you can officiate as the controller of examinations. I make this request for the interest of the university and do hope that you will kindly accept the request.” Bhattacharya told Metro: “I had sought leave earlier on health grounds and the university has granted me leave.” JU officials said Bhattacharya had indeed sought leave but the leave was granted in the wake of the many allegations that have dogged the publication of results. Although the letter issued to Bhattacharya does not say what would be the period of leave, an official said he would be on leave till his retirement in September. “The delay in the publication of results and errors in them were at the heart of the latest students’ unrest on the campus. The university had to take moral responsibility for the lapses. So at a time like this, when his leave application was pending, the university immediately granted him a long leave,” said an official. On December 27, JU had decided to “accept moral responsibility” for the loss of scholarships that students might have suffered because of a delay in the publication of semester results and pledged to raise funds “to compensate for the loss of such scholarships/fellowships” at a meeting attended by senior officials and representatives of the students’ union of the engineering and technology faculty. Referring to the delayed publication of results, a BTech student said the results of the odd semester examinations, which ended on December 22, 2019, were published in November 2020. Results are supposed to be published within two months of the completion of an examination. Listing the flaws, he said two results with separate scores had been issued to one student and there were instances of one student having been issued another’s result. “Marks had been erroneously entered. Because of delayed publication of flawed results, many students could not upload their marks on designated portals to renew scholarships,” the student said. A JU official said underprivileged students get a slew of scholarships offered by the state government and the Centre. “A student has to upload marks of the two previous semesters and parents’ income certificates on a portal by the end of a year to renew a scholarship. Since the results of the odd semester exams, which were held on December 22, 2019, were published in November 2020 and the grade cards contained errors, students missed out on scholarships,” the official said. The matter came to such a pass that VC Das had to appeal to the state government to keep the scholarship portals active beyond December 31. When Metro sought to know from the VC whether lapses in the publication of the results prompted the university to send the controller of examinations on leave, he said: “He had sought leave.” Teachers’ organisations submitted a memorandum to the university on Monday saying: "We feel the delay in holding examinations and the publication of faulty results is largely due to the non-functional state of affairs in the examination section of the university.” Two posts of assistant controller of exams that have been lying vacant will be filled, said an official. The JU executive council had in April 2019 set up a three-member committee to look into allegations that Bhattacharya had been taking “unauthorised” result publication fees for various courses. The allegations could not be substantiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-182
07-01-2021||Business||Sensex slips 81 points to end at at 48,093.32||Equity benchmark Sensex slipped 81 points on Thursday, weighed by selling in IT, banks and consumption stocks despite a firm trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 80.74 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 48,093.32. The broader NSE Nifty fell 8.90 points or 0.06 per cent to 14,137.35. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Nestle India, HUL, HCL Tech, Infosys, ITC and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv and L&T were among the gainers. "After the US Democrats won the Georgia Senate, global cues were positive in morning trade. Afternoon trade, however, saw profit-taking in FMCG stocks despite which we saw a close above 48K led by financials and metals," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.02 per cent lower at USD 54.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
07-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 270.69 points or 0.56 per cent higher at 48,444.75, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 80.95 points or 0.57 per cent to 14,227.20. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, IndusInd Bank, L&T, Axis Bank, ONGC and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Titan, TCS, HUL and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 263.72 points or 0.54 per cent lower at 48,174.06, and Nifty fell 53.25 points or 0.38 per cent to 14,146.25. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 483.64 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be firm at the moment. Notably, FPIs turned net sellers after a considerable gap, which suggests profit-booking or sector rotation given sharp returns generated by select sectors like IT, pharma and metals. US equities witnessed sharp recovery mainly on increased prospects of higher fiscal stimulus and capital expenditures towards infrastructure developments as Democrats' control in both houses of Congress will help Biden to push his agendas, said Modi. "Notably, yesterday's rebound clearly overlooked the concerns of reversal of lower tax rates and disruption created by Trump's supporters in the US Capitol where a joint session of Congress was convened to certify Biden's victory over Trump," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude, was trading 0.79 per cent higher at USD 54.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
07-01-2021||Business||SBI asked to maintain status quo on Anil firm accounts||The Delhi high court on Wednesday asked SBI to maintain status quo with regard to the accounts of Anil Ambani’s firms — R-Com, Reliance Telecom and Reliance Infratel — which have been declared by the bank as fraud accounts. Justice Prateek Jalan passed the order on a plea by erstwhile directors of the three companies, challenging a 2016 circular of the RBI regarding declaration of accounts as fraud by banks. According to the plea, the circular allows banks to declare an account as fraud without giving any prior notice or communication to the account holder against the principles of natural justice. Their lawyers told the court that several similar petitions against the circular have been filed since 2019 and the petitioners in those matters have been protected by the high court. In view of the orders passed earlier by the high court in similar matters, Justice Jalan directed State Bank of India to “maintain status quo till next date of hearing”with regard to the accounts of the three companies. The court said the respondents were at liberty to file their replies to the petition by January 11 and listed the matter for hearing on January 13. The court said the SBI and the RBI were at liberty to take any steps in the nature of an investigation or filing of complaint proceedings against the erstwhile directors and the three companies independent of the  impugned action of declaring the accounts as fraud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
07-01-2021||Business||Bengal election shadow on realty||The pick-up in home sales after the lockdown restrictions were eased has tripped in Calcutta as builders and buyers have again slipped into a wait-and-watch mode ahead of the Assembly elections in Bengal later this year. Sales of apartments by the top builders were down 48 per cent during October-December compared with the preceding three months as Calcutta turned out to be the only city other than Chennai which failed to maintain the post-lockdown sales momentum, data captured by Knight Frank showed. While buyers stayed away from the market, builders also put the brakes on launches in the fourth quarter (October-December). Launches were down 30 per cent compared with the July-September period. “Launches by reputed developers create a buzz in the marketplace, often leading to a jump up in sales. However, there have not been too many big banner launches recently. This may explain why sales were down in the last three months,” Swapan Dutta, branch director of Knight Frank, Calcutta, said. Fresh investment often takes a backseat ahead of an important election especially when the outcome is unknown and the launch of large real estate projects are counted among them. Dutta predicted that the second half of 2021 would be a good period for the city. However, Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, the builder lobby in the state, claimed his company Merlin had done better in the fourth quarter than the third. “We have surpassed pre-Covid levels,” Mohta said. He pointed out that developers known to deliver quality projects in stipulated time were gaining customers’ preference over others. The Knight Frank study also reported that micro markets such as south and north Calcutta fared better than Rajarhat, which used to be the mainstay of the city. A large volume of residential units under construction coupled with buyers resistance to buy unfinished units are the prime reasons behind low sales growth in Rajarhat. Office market Gross annual transaction of office space took a beating in 2020 as many corporate houses deferred decisions to take up new leases during the pandemic. The city also witnessed net vacancy inching up to 41.7 per cent, the second highest in the country, compared with the single digits recorded in Bangalore, Pune and Hyderabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Services sector drops to 3-month low in December||The country’s services sector activity dropped to a three-month low of 52.3 in December but remained in the expansion zone . However, hiring came to a halt as the resurgence in coronavirus infections weighed on new business and employment, a private survey has showed. The seasonally adjusted India Services Business Activity Index fell from 53.7 in November to 52.3 in December. The index was above the critical-50 mark that separates growth from contraction for the third month in a row during December but pointed to the slowest pace of expansion in the three months till December. “The news that the services sector remained in expansion mode during December is welcome but the fact that growth lost momentum yet again should not be disregarded,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Companies indicated that growth was supported by new work, though curbed by competitive pressures and the Covid-19 pandemic, the survey noted. Global Covid-19 restrictions, particularly travel bans, restricted international demand for Indian services at the end of 2020. “A spike in Covid-19 cases was reported as a key factor restricting growth of new work among service providers, which in turn curbed the rise in output and led to increased business uncertainty about the outlook,” Lima noted. On the employment front, staff hiring came to a halt because of liquidity concerns, labour shortages and subdued demand, while business optimism faded. “Given the damaging impact of the pandemic on the service economy, some companies are facing financial difficulties, which is preventing staff hiring. December saw the ninth round of job shedding in 10 months,” Lima said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Maruti widens subscription scheme offerings||Maruti Suzuki is offering its vehicles — the S-Cross, Ignis and Wagon-R — for subscription, wherein a customer can enjoy and drive a brand new vehicle for a fixed tenure on the payment of a monthly subscription charge. The largest car maker had launched its subscription model — Maruti Suzuki Subscribe — in major cities such as Delhi-NCR, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Pune, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad last year in July. On Wednesday, the company added the additional models under the existing Maruti Suzuki Subscribe offering. The company has logged 5,000 enquiries for its subscription scheme till now. “Subscription has become more affordable with the inclusion of the Wagon-R in the Maruti Suzuki Arena and the Ignis in the Nexa sales channels,” said a Maruti Suzuki spokesperson. “Customers will pay an all-inclusive monthly subscription charge, starting Rs 12,722 for WagonR Lxi and Rs 13,772 for Ignis Sigma in Delhi (including taxes) for a tenure of 48 months,” he added. Other models offered under the plan include the Swift, Dzire, Vitara Brezza and Ertiga, Baleno, Ciaz and XL6. “The unique initiative allows a customer to use a brand new car without owning it. The customer needs to pay an all-inclusive monthly fee that covers maintenance, 24x7 roadside assistance and insurance for the complete tenure,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Just 19, Titagarh scion joins board as a non executive director||Prithish Chowdhary, the 19-year-old son of Titagarh Wagons vice-chairman and managing director Umesh Chowdhary, has been inducted on to the company’s board as a non executive director. The youngest member on the company’s board follows in the footsteps of his father who had become a director at a very young age, company officials told The Telegraph. The diversified engineering and fabrication firm said Chowdhary’s induction was made with the hope that he would assume a bigger role within the group in the coming years. In the past couple of years, Chowdhary — a qualified international baccalaureate from Le Rosey Institut, Geneva (Switzerland) — has gained insight into the areas that Titagarh is present in. The company said on Wednesday he is looking to incorporate new ideas in the future. His appointment is effective from January 1, 2021. “Prithish has been a quick learner, an extremely keen observer and his joining the board will provide a young and welcome modern perspective. It will also prepare Prithish to take up larger responsibilities in the group in the coming years,” said Manoj Mohanka, chairman of the nomination and remuneration committee. Former Sail chairman Sushil Kumar Roongta has been appointed as an additional director (independent) on the board. Roongta (70), an electrical engineer from BITS, Pilani and PG Diploma in Business Management (International Trade), is chairman of Balco and also serves as director on the boards of several reputed companies. Roongta has also served as the chairman, board of governors, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bhubaneswar, and as chairman of the panel of experts on reforms in the central PSEs constituted by the erstwhile Planning Commission. “I am very happy that Roongta is joining our board and am sure that TWL will immensely benefit from his rich experience and expertise in the coming years,” said J.P. Chowdhary, executive chairman of TWL. Global changes Enrico Grigliatti has been appointed as the as MD & CEO of Titagarh Firema SpA (TFA), Italy with effect from December 29, 2020, in place of Luigi Corradi who has moved onto another challenging role as CEO of a government owned enterprise in Italy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Nirav Modi’s sister turns approver in PNB case||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi’s sister and brother-in-law have been allowed to turn approver or a prosecution witness by a special court in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. The special judge for cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), V. C. Barde, accepted the pleas of Purvi Modi and Mayank Mehta to turn an approver on Monday. The “position of the accused (Purvi Modi) in this case after tender of pardon is that she shall be marked as approver”, the court said. Purvi, a Belgian national, is an accused in the case registered by the Enforcement Directorate. “The accused staying abroad at present shall be directed to present herself before the court, for which purpose the prosecution shall take necessary steps,” the court order said. A PTI report said that in her application for pardon, Purvi Modi said she was not a prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role by the investigating agency. She has so far fully co-operated with the ED by providing all the requisite information and documents, she added. On account of being Nirav Modi’s sister, she was in a unique position to provide “substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings”, the plea said. Nirav Modi has been lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since March 2019 following India’s extradition request.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Coal India sets sights on big auction||Coal India has set its sights to auction 120 million tonnes (mt) of coal by March 2021, the most in a year with the previous high being 114mt recorded in 2016-17. Coal India officials on Wednesday said the miner has auctioned 81.4mt under five windows till December 2020, higher by 35.2mt compared with 46.2mt sold in the same period a year ago. Beginning October 2020, Coal India  introduced a special spot auction for importers, under which it had already booked 7.3mt in three months. Premium price Apart from increased volume bookings, the sales have fetched a premium of 15 per cent in prices during April-December 2020. Among the subsidiaries, Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) clocked a 40 per cent increase over the notified prices with Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) and Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) registering 23 per cent and 22 per cent rise, respectively. “Auction sales have surpassed our previous estimates and we feel sure of allocating 120mt of coal by the end of the current financial year,” a senior official of the company said. “We have identified specific mines in ECL, BCCL, CCL and SECL from where the response has been positive in the e-auction and there is potential for further increase,” the official added. The demand through e-auction is primarily from the non-power sector consumers, who under the exclusive auction window booked 19.8mt during the first nine months of the ongoing fiscal. This is more than a three-fold increase against 6.8 million tonnes bought by the sector on a year-on-year basis. However, demand is gradually picking up from the power sector as well. In December, there was a significant increase in bookings under the special forward auction at 5.1mt compared with 0.5mt in the same month year ago, fetching a premium of 12 per cent. Meanwhile, the coal ministry has said the government is taking several initiatives to augment the evacuation infrastructure, including laying new railway lines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Airtel seeks review of AGR arrears||Telecom major Airtel on Wednesday filed an application seeking the recalculation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues as it has already shelled out Rs 18,000 crore towards the arrears and now wants a fresh appraisal of the dues. In its application, which is yet to be formally listed for hearing, Airtel has pleaded that while passing the judgment in October last year and the subsequent direction in September this year, the apex court bench led by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired) had failed to consider several crucial contentions raised by the telecom companies. “Payments made weren’t factored in by the DoT while raising demands for the circle/year. Duplication in revenue by adding it twice from different audit reports led to a rise in AGR dues,” the application had said. Airtel has claimed errors of omission/commission and incorrect interest rate to raise demands for spectrum usage charge (SUC) led to a rise in AGR dues. According to Bharti Airtel, it had already paid Rs 18,000 crore out of its Rs 44,000-crore AGR dues calculated by the DoT but wanted a recalculations in view of certain wrong assessments made by the DoT. In October 2019, the apex court had rejected a batch of petitions filed by various telecom companies and insisted that they must together pay Rs 1.47 lakh crore in arrears to the government as AGR dues. However, subsequently in September last year the apex court, following a batch of fresh applications, allowed the telecom operators to pay the annual gross revenue (AGR) dues over a 10-year period. It had directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide within two months whether the telcos can resort to insolvency proceedings to avoid payment of AGR dues and whether financial creditors can lay a claim over the spectrum dues to government. The modified order was passed in September last year as the telcos had sought a recall of the October 2019 order on the ground that payment of Rs 1.47 lakh crore AGR dues in one go would lead to their bankruptcy and had instead sought a 20-30-year staggered payment schedule. The Centre and the DoT, while citing possible massive disruption in telecom services, had urged the apex court to grant a 20-year period for the payment of dues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||Business||Spectrum sale faces price test||The sixth round of spectrum auctions will start from March 1 with the government performing a balancing act on the reserve prices across various spectrum bands, drastically slashing the price for the bands that were a washout in the previous auction in October 2016 while raising it for those that fetched bids. Telecom operators may not bid aggressively as the reserve prices for the metro circles in several bands such as 1800, 2100 and 2300 MHz have been increased from the last auction held four year ago. However, the reserve price of 700 MHz, which did not get any bids in 2016, has been reduced to attract operators. Analysts said Reliance Jio may bid for spectrum in the 700MHz band, which is most suited for 5G. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, has said Jio plans to roll out 5G in the second half of 2021. The 3300-3600 MHz bands most suited to 5G has been kept out of the auction. However, analysts fear the auction may be a repeat of the 2016 fiasco when large chunks of airwaves remained unsold due to high minimum prices. Four years ago, the government had raised just Rs 65,789 crore through the auction, a fraction of the Rs 5.63 lakh crore worth of airwaves put on sale. Spectrum in the 700MHz and 900MHz bands were completely unsold in 2016. Pricing of spectrum has been an issue, with top executives at Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea repeatedly demanding that the government lower prices. Market analysts have indicated the upcoming auction will get bids in the range of Rs 30,000 crore-Rs 50,000 crore. The Union cabinet on Wednesday had approved the proposal to auction 2,251.25 megahertz (MHz) of spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore in seven frequency bands — 1700 Mhz, 800 Mhz, 900 Mhz, 2100 Mhz, 2300 Mhz and 2500 Mhz - at the base price recommended by the telecom regulator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-178
07-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Health Secretary writes to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Bengal on rising cases ||The Union Health Secretary wrote to the Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Bengal governments on Thursday to underline the need for "strict vigil" and "prompt action" to arrest the recent spike in coronavirus cases in each of the states. These four states account for 59 per cent of all active Covid cases in the country, the Health Secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, said in his letter. The state governments were also warned against allowing testing rates to drop - particularly in light of the spread of a mutated (and considerably more infectious) strain of the virus - and to aggressively implement the 'Test-Track-Treat' strategy deployed by other states. Mr Bhushan also reminded state authorities to urge people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and follow all other Covid-appropriate behaviour. The letter comes after Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan singled out three of the above four states - Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra - and said a surge in cases served as a warning that the war against the novel coronavirus is far from over despite the presence of multiple vaccines. "Maharashtra, Kerala and Chhattisgarh have seen a sudden spike in coronavirus cases recently. This gives us a warning that we shouldn't forget precautions and (must) continue our fight against COVID-19," Dr Harsh Vardhan told news agency ANI earlier today. Maharashtra remains the worst-affected state with around 52,000 active cases and nearly 50,000 deaths linked to the virus. Chhattisgarh and Bengal have around 9,000 active cases each; Bengal has reported nearly 10,000 deaths while Chhattisgarh has recorded around 3,500 so far. Kerala has seen an average of over 5,000 new cases per day in the past week. Maharashtra has seen over 3,700 in the same period, while Chhattisgarh saw an average of 1,006 and Bengal 908. Kerala has also seen a worrying surge in infections, with active cases shooting up past 65,000 this morning. On Monday the southern state also reported its first case of the UK strain of the virus - six have been detected so far. Across India more than 70 cases of the new strain have been reported so far. Overall India has 2,29 lakh active cases and has reported over 1.5 lakh deaths since the pandemic began in December 2019. Dr Vardhan has said the government is in the final stages of vaccine roll-out and that around 30 crore people will be injected in the first phase. The government has already conducted one national dry run to proof the vaccine delivery system and a second will be held Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||JEE-Advanced exam on July 3, says Education Minister||The JEE-Advanced test for admission to Indian Institutes of Technology will be conducted on July 3, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Thursday. The relaxation in the eligibility criterion pertaining to class 12 marks will be offered this year too, he said. "JEE-Advanced will be conducted by IIT Kharagpur on July 3. The relaxation in admission requirement of 75 per cent marks in class 12 which was announced last year in view of Covid-19 pandemic will be offered this year as well," Nishank said. For admissions to IITs, apart from qualifying the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced, the candidates are required to secure either a minimum 75 per cent marks in class 12 board exams or rank among the top 20 percentile in their qualifying examinations. While JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, it is considered as a qualifying test for JEE-Advanced. Last week, the minister had announced that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold the examinations for Classes X and XII students in May-June, almost two months behind the usual schedule. "The board exams for class 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10. Schools will be allowed to conduct practical exams from March 1. Date sheet for both the classes will be issued soon. The results will be declared by July 15," Pokhriyal had announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||GDP to contract by 7.7 per cent in 2020-21, says NSO report||Indian economy is estimated to contract 7.7 per cent in 2020-21 compared to 4.2 per cent growth in the previous fiscal, mainly on account of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the first advanced estimates of the national income released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday, there was a contraction in almost all sectors with the exception of agriculture. "Real GDP or GDP at Constant Prices (2011-12) in the year 2020-21 is likely to attain a level of Rs 134.40 lakh crore, as against the Provisional Estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 145.66 lakh crore... The growth in real GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at -7.7 per cent as compared to the growth rate of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20," it said. In the current fiscal, the manufacturing sector is likely to see a contraction of 9.4 per cent whereas growth was almost flat at 0.03 per cent in the year-ago period. The NSO estimates significant contraction in 'mining and quarrying', and 'trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting'. The agriculture sector is estimated to see a growth of 3.4 per cent in 2020-21. However, it will be lower than 4 per cent growth recorded in 2019-20. The economy contracted 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Arnab Goswami, two other accused fail to appear before Raigad court||TV journalist Arnab Goswami, an accused in abetment of suicide case, failed to appear before a court in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, prompting the prosecution to seek a warrant against him. Alibaug Police had arrested Goswami and two others in the case related to interior designer Anvay Naik's alleged suicide in November 2020. They were later granted bail by the Supreme Court. On Thursday, as the case came up before Alibaug sessions court, Goswami's lawyer sought exemption from appearance. The court granted an exemption for the day. The other two accused -- Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda -- also did not appear. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat took a strong exception, saying the accused should have been present for the purpose of identification as this was the first hearing after the court took cognizance of the charge sheet. He also sought the issuance of warrant against Goswami and the other two. While keeping Gharat's plea pending, the court noted that as restrictions on account of coronavirus are in place till January 31, no coercive action can be taken. The court posted the matter for hearing on February 6. On that date, the accused will need to appear in person or through video conference, the prosecutor told PTI. After taking cognizance of the police's charge sheet, the court had asked all the accused to appear on January 7. The trio is facing a case under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 109 (punishment for abetment). The charge sheet claims that Naik killed his mother, a partner in his business, and hanged himself at their Alibaug house in May 2018 as he was under stress due to non-payment of dues by the firms of the three accused. Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, alleged that the police reopened a case which had been closed in 2019 as the state government wanted to harass him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Varavara Rao to remain in hospital till next week, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said that jailed Telugu poet-activist Varavara Rao will continue to stay at a private hospital in Mumbai till January 13. Rao, 80, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was admitted to Nanavati Hospital in the city owing to his health issues in November following the court’s orders. A division bench of Justice S S Shinde and M S Karnik on Thursday extended Rao’s stay at the private hospital after adjourning the hearing on his bail plea to January 13. The Maharashtra government submitted a fresh medical report which said his health was “much better” and he “has recovered and is able to walk”. On December 21, the state government and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the prosecuting agency, had requested the HC to transfer Rao from Nanavati Hospital to the Taloja prison hospital or state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai. The bench, however, had said it would need to see his latest medical reports. Rao has been in and out of hospital since he was arrested in June 2018 and lodged in Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. On July 16, 2020, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital and discharged on July 30 after recovery. In December he was admitted to Nanavati Hospital again when his lawyers moved the court citing his deteriorating health. Besides his bail plea on medical grounds, the bench is also hearing a writ petition filed by Rao's wife Hemlatha, alleging violation of his fundamental rights due to continued incarceration without adequate medical care. Rao and several other Left-leaning activists and writers were arrested for alleged links with Maoists following the December 2017 Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||States set to receive first supply of Covid vaccine shortly, informs Centre||The Union health ministry has informed states and union territories that they are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine shortly and asked them to remain prepared to accept these consignments. In a communique, the ministry said the vaccines will be supplied to the identified consignee points of 19 states and union territories -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- by the supplier. The vaccine for remaining 18 states and union territories -- Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Daman and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand -- will be received from their respective government medical store depots. "All the states and UTs are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine shortly. "In this regard, you are requested to ensure the advance preparation and readiness for the acceptance of forthcoming supply of the vaccine," Dr Pradeep Halder, advisor, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) in the health ministry, said in the letter dated January 5. The further distribution of vaccine to the districts will be done as per the registered beneficiaries, for which a separate communication will be done shortly, the letter stated. The country's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The Health Ministry on Tuesday said it is prepared for COVID-19 vaccine roll-out within ten days of the vaccines getting approved for restricted emergency use on January 3, but a final decision on the launch date would be taken by the government. Meanwhile, as a simulation of actual execution of COVID-19 vaccine roll-out, another round of dry run will be conducted in all districts of all states and union territories, except Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, on January 8 to ensure efficient planning and management for vaccine delivery in each district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||SC expresses concern over large gathering of farmers during pandemic||The Supreme Court Thursday expressed concern over large gatherings of farmers protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi borders and asked the Centre whether they were protected against the spread of Covid-19. The top court was hearing a plea seeking various reliefs including CBI probe into the matter related to assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizammudin Markaz in the national capital after the nationwide lockdown was announced last year to contain the pandemic. "The same problem is going to arise in farmers' agitation. I do not know if farmers are protected from COVID. So, the same problem is going to arise. It is not that everything is over," said Chief Justice S A Bobde, heading a bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The top court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, whether protesting farmers are protected from Covid-19. Mehta replied, "Certainly not." Mehta said that he will file a report within two weeks on what has been done and what needs to be done. The plea, filed by lawyer Supriya Pandita, alleged that Delhi police had failed to control the congregation of people and the Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad was still evading arrest. Advocate Om Prakash Parihar, appearing for the petitioner, said no statement has been made by the Centre about the whereabouts of Maulana Saad. The bench told Parihar, "Why are you interested in one person? We are on the issue of Covid. Why do you want controversy? We are interested that Covid guidelines should be there." The top court issued a formal notice in the matter after which Mehta said that he will file a report in the matter. The Centre had on June 5 last year told the top court that probe into the assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in east Delhi during the nationwide lockdown and the Tablighi Jamaat event is being conducted on a day-to-day basis by Delhi Police and there was no need for CBI investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Farmers on a tractor march to protest farm laws||Ahead of talks with the government, thousands of farmers on Thursday took out tractor-march from protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders and Haryana's Rewasan against the three agriculture laws amid heavy police deployment. According to the protesting farm unions, this is just a "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 tractor parade that will be moved into the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Bharati Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that farmers participated in the march with over 3,500 tractors and trolleys. Ugrahan, whose union is one of the largest farmer organisations in Punjab, said that they will not accept anything less than the repeal of the three farm laws. The eighth round of talks between protesting unions and the central government is scheduled to be held on Friday. The last meeting remained inconclusive on Monday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of the three laws, while the government listed out various benefits of the new acts for the growth of the country's agriculture sector. On Thursday, farmers started the tractor march around 11 am and moved towards Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway amid heavy deployment of Delhi Police personnel and their counterparts from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Perched on their tractors, protesting farmers moved slowly through the protest sites, with speakers on their vehicles belting out music keeping their spirits high. Other protestors lined the path providing fellow farmers with all kinds of supplies, including peanuts, fritters, tea, and newspapers. At Ghazipur protest, the tractor march, led by senior BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, moved towards Palwal. "In the coming days, we will intensify our agitation against the three farm laws. Around 2,500 tractors from Haryana have participated in today's march. "We want to warn that if the government doesn't not accept our demands, farmers' protest will get intensified further," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, told PTI. The tractor march started from four different points -- Singhu to Tikri Border, Tikri to Kundli, Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal. "The government has been hosting meeting after meeting. They know what we want. We want the laws to be repealed, but all we get are futile talks. With this rally, we want to give them a glimpse of what we can do, and what we will do on January 26. "Today, the rally is happening on the periphery of Delhi, but when our farmer leaders decide that we need to enter the capital, we will do that," Harjinder Singh, a participant of tractor march from Punjab's Hoshiarpur, said. Braving the severe cold and sporadic rains, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of the farm laws, a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops and other two issues. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Covid recoveries cross one crore mark as India logs more than 20,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,95,278 with 20,346 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of recoveries surpassed one crore, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,50,336 as 222 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,16,859, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The number of active COVID-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 17th consecutive day. There are 2,28,083 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for 2.19 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,84,00,995 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till January 6, including 9,37,590 on Wednesday. The 222 new fatalities include 66 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 22 from West Bengal and 16 from Delhi. Of the total 1,50,336 Covid-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra has accounted for the highest of 49,825, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,188), Karnataka (12,124), Delhi (10,625), West Bengal (9,863), Uttar Pradesh (8,441), Andhra Pradesh (7,125) and Punjab (5,412). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Foggy morning in Delhi as minimum temperature rises to 14.4 degree Celsius||"Moderate" fog in parts of Delhi lowered visibility to 300 meters on Thursday, even as the minimum temperature in the city rose to 14.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in around four weeks. Visibility levels dipped to 300 meters at Palam and 500 meters at Safdarjung due to "moderate" fog, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 14.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in the city has risen over the last few days as a result of cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. Delhi witnessed rainfall on four consecutive days till Wednesday under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting northwest India. The precipitation has increased the moisture content in the air. Dense fog is predicted in the city over the next two days, an IMD official said. A fresh WD may lead to "very light" rain in the city on January 9. The weather will remain cloudy, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. Thereafter, Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by four to five degrees Celsius with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains. The IMD said Delhi has already recorded 56.6 mm rainfall in January, the maximum for the month in 21 years. Sporadic rains drenched the city for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. Clouds blanketed the capital on Thursday as well. However, only a drizzle is expected, the IMD said. On average, Delhi records 21.7 mm in January every year. It had gauged 48.1 mm rainfall in January last year, 54.1 mm rainfall in January 2019 and 59.7 mm in January 1999. The city had registered 69.8 mm rainfall in the month in 1995, according to IMD data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: What Modi ‘has not got’||The rain has swept away the dust but not the farmers’ resolve. Retired army captain Dhop Singh, a 75-year-old veteran of the 1971 war, sat in a chair inside a tent on Tuesday afternoon amid the bitter cold. Gazing at the road outside, pockmarked with rainwater-filled potholes, he said the path before the agitating farmers was clearer than before. “Farmers have a strong association with rain and cold. When it rained, it was a happy feeling. Rain is good for crops. At least there was no hailstorm,” he said. He said the rain — which fell intermittently from Saturday morning till Tuesday evening — had had “little impact inside the tents” although he admitted spending the last three nights sitting in a chair since the floor had got damp. It’s no surprise that Dhop loves the rain. Since retiring from the army in 1995, he has been trying to squeeze an yield out of his 42 acres of arid farmland in the Haryana village of Baganwala. Poor rainfall and lack of irrigation have forced him to cultivate crops like chana (gram), moong dal (green gram), bajra (pearl millet) and mustard, which he grows during the wet season. “Now the government is ignoring our demand to repeal the three new farm laws. The agitation will become stronger now, with more farmers joining us. We are ready for a longer fight,” he said. “Even if (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi brings in cannons to block our way, we shall march ahead,” declared the old soldier, who said he had been posted in forward areas during the 1971 war. Dhop, who owns a buffalo that cost him Rs 1 lakh, scoffed at the government’s claim that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act would benefit farmers by allowing them to sell outside the government mandis (wholesale markets). “How much money will I get if I sell my buffalo in Gujarat? Will Modi ensure that I get more than Rs 1 lakh for my buffalo if I sell it in Gujarat?” he said. Pavan Hindustani, a farmer in his late 40s from Dhop’s village, owns 10 acres of farmland. He said the main threat was the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Act, which facilitates contract farming. “All the conditions in the law are loaded in favour of corporate groups that enter into agreements for contract farming. The farmers will become tenants on their own land. These laws will destroy them,” Hindustani said, sitting inside his polythene-sheet-covered tent and smoking a hookah. He said Modi lacked the knowledge that family men acquired through experience. “One thing common among family men is flexibility. Modi has not got it. But the farmers won’t give up; this is a struggle for our lives and livelihood,” Hindustani said. Daljeet Kaur, a fiftyish woman who has a transport business in Amritsar, has been protesting in solidarity with the farmers at the Tikri border between Haryana and Delhi since November 26. She was on a relay hunger strike on Tuesday — every day, 11 farmers sit in a relay hunger strike here. Kaur said: “The corporate groups have realised that people can live without almost anything but food. They want to focus their business on food now. The government is taking their side.” Women’s participation here seemed higher than the about 10 per cent witnessed at the Singhu border. Kaur said half the agitators at the Tikri border were women from Punjab and Haryana. Kaur used her rental service vehicles to bring groups of farmers free of charge to the protest site. Onkar Singh Randhawa, 30, sat inside one such vehicle, a school minibus, where he had slept the last three nights. “Yes the rain caused hardship. It’s not pleasant spending nights inside a bus. But we have been forced to start this agitation, and now there’s no going back,” the farmer from Mehta village near Amritsar said. Twenty-something Virendar Singh and Nirmal Singh, small farmers from Rure Ke Khurd village in Punjab’s Barnala district, have been sleeping inside small climbers’ tents. When it rained, they covered their mattress with extra layers of polythene sheet. “The agitation is going on with the blessings of Guru Nanak. The Guru’s langar is going on. The agitation will not stop,” Virendar said. Chaitanya Manjrekar, a mango grower from Pune, censured the government for damaging public property like roads to stop the farmers from entering Delhi. “The government is saying the agitating farmers are a small group of people. If so, why are the police digging up roads and hurling tear gas?” the 50-year-old said. “More farmers from Maharashtra are on their way to join the agitation here. The police are damaging roads, which are public property.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Indian regulators overlooked 'sloppy science' relating to Covishield: Experts||Indian regulators overlooked “sloppy science” relating to Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, when they approved its restricted emergency use, multiple experts have said. The simultaneous regulatory approval to the home-grown Indian vaccine, Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, without any data on its efficacy has so far attracted a torrent of criticism. The experts, however, believe the regulators also made allowances for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, made in India by the Serum Institute of India. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, on Sunday accepted an expert panel’s recommendations to permit conditional and restricted emergency use of both vaccines. Health officials have said the approvals were justified under emergency conditions. “We are in a war-like situation — we need innovative strategies,” Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex health research agency, told The Telegraph. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has shrunk from a peak of over a million active patients in mid-September to less than 228,000 on Wednesday. But Covid-19 remains a public health emergency with an average 18,000 new cases recorded daily over the past week. More than 150,000 people have died since the epidemic started. National drug rules, pencilled in March 2019, allow regulators to approve vaccines on the basis of their capacity to generate immune responses, or immunogenicity, without efficacy data to address “serious or life-threatening disorders”. “Safety, immunogenicity and efficacy are required in a non-emergency situation,” Bhargava said. “The existing pandemic, the mortality, available science, and lack of definitive treatment were considered (by the regulators) for accelerated approval.” Bharat Biotech head Krishna Ella, a scientist turned entrepreneur, has accused critics questioning Covaxin’s approval of trying to “throw stones and bash an Indian company” while ignoring issues relating to Covishield. Two members of India’s national task force on Covid-19 too have said the CDSCO panel’s approval to Covishield reflects a concession to poor science and incomplete data. One task force member has described the approval as an “opaque process”. Both members requested anonymity. The Serum Institute, while seeking approval for Covishield, had submitted data from AstraZeneca-Oxford’s trial in other countries and safety and immunogenicity data from India. Under Serum’s clinical trial protocol, it was to assess safety in 1,600 volunteers and immunogenicity in 400 volunteers. However, a senior government researcher told The Telegraph that the company had submitted immunogenicity data on only 185 volunteers, implying incomplete data. A Serum spokesperson declined to say from how many volunteers the company had submitted the immunogenicity data to the Indian regulators. “But we submitted all data that were required,” the spokesperson told this newspaper. Paul Offit, professor of paediatrics at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and member of the US Food and Drug Administration’s vaccine advisory panel, is among researchers who believe that the trial data for the current AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine are not strong enough for a reasonable assessment. In its interim analysis, AstraZeneca pooled the results of two dosing regimens — one involving two full doses on 8,895 volunteers that showed 62 per cent efficacy, and the second involving a half dose followed by a full dose on 2,741 volunteers that showed 90 per cent efficacy. The pooled data showed 70 per cent efficacy. “The trial involved two dosing regimens, two time intervals between the two doses, and two placebos,” Offit told this newspaper over the phone. “You shouldn’t combine data, but they did it. It is sloppy science and the data isn’t sufficient for efficacy assessments.” A member of India’s national task force on Covid-19 expressed surprise at how the CDSCO had assigned an efficacy level of 70 per cent to the AstraZeneca vaccine. “The 70 per cent is a pooled average — when you approve a vaccine for use, you need to specify the expected efficacy for the dose approved.” With existing data, Offit said, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine would not get US FDA approval. “The strategy of using an adenovirus to generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus may be perfectly viable, but needs to be convincingly demonstrated,” Offit said. The vaccine would need to be shown as effective through larger trials. The efficacy trials of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines — both approved for emergency use authorisation by the US FDA in December — had involved over 30,000 and 43,000 volunteers. The home-grown Covaxin’s efficacy trial in India has recruited around 24,000 volunteers and, scientists say, the efficacy results can be expected only after March this year. The vaccine was approved only on the basis of its safety and its capacity to generate a robust immune response. “Ultimately, Covaxin’s data from India will be much larger and stronger than Covishield’s,” Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology and a vaccine expert at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said. “But at the moment, the data package for Covishield includes efficacy; Covaxin’s does not.” Kang, however, said that while the AstraZeneca trial data from the UK are “messy”, they show efficacy. The national task force member said the CDSCO panel’s approval process remained “opaque”. What data the panel had reviewed and what was discussed remains unknown — the minutes uploaded show only the outcomes. For instance, it is unclear what made the expert panel change its stance on Covaxin within 24 hours. In a January 1 meeting, the panel had asked Bharat Biotech to provide “interim efficacy analysis” for consideration for emergency use. The interim efficacy analysis is likely possible several weeks away. But on January 2, the panel granted emergency use approval, raising a question from critics — what extra input had the panel received over the course of a single day to change its stance. “For the sake of transparency, the drugs controller-general of India (the head of the CDSCO) should respond to the questions being asked,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana). “The DCGI and CDSCO are silent. This (silence) has muddied waters, not people raising questions.” The UK, Argentina and India have approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, widely described as the “vaccine for the world” because of its low cost and the relative ease of transporting it compared with the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Covishield, developed by researchers at the University of Oxford, uses a chimpanzee adenovirus containing the genetic sequence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Covaxin contains an inactivated (killed) strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by researchers at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech developed the strain into a vaccine and is conducting clinical trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Cong assigns Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel central observers for election-bound Kerala and Assam||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel central observers for election-bound Kerala and Assam, triggering a debate within the party on the propriety of assigning poll work to serving chief ministers. While some leaders analysed this as a pragmatic move and the party’s willingness to put its best foot forward, others frowned upon the decision, wondering if there was a talent deficit that had forced the central leadership to engage chief ministers in election management. The Congress said the observers would oversee election management and coordination. The appointment of observers — a set of three leaders for each state — is a new arrangement aimed at bolstering electioneering, which is largely viewed as a weak point of the Congress in comparison with the BJP’s carpet-bombing. While Rajasthan chief minister Gehlot will look after Kerala along with Luizinho Faleiro and G. Parameshwara, his Chhattisgarh counterpart Baghel will oversee Assam along with Mukul Wasnik and Shakeel Ahmed Khan. Senior leader B.K. Hariprasad has been entrusted with the responsibility of Bengal along with Alamgir Khan and Vijay Inder Singla. While Khan is a cabinet minister in Jharkhand, Singla is a minister in Punjab. Veerappa Moily and M.M. Pallamraju will look after election-bound Tamil Nadu along with Nitin Raut, who is a minister in Maharashtra. A senior Congress functionary, defending the choices, told The Telegraph: “While the party has been facing a severe resource crunch, the chief ministers and ministers can at least look after themselves instead of looking up to Delhi for logistics as well. They can also deploy persons from their states to carry out election work. We didn’t do this earlier but look at the BJP’s brazen deployment of central and state ministers in elections. The concept of propriety has been blurred in the Narendra Modi regime.” The leader added: “What is Union home minister Amit Shah doing in Bengal? He is managing the BJP’s election there even as there is a general secretary in-charge. The home minister of India led the BJP’s charge in the Hyderabad municipal election as well. Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains the chief campaigner in every state, addressing dozens of rallies in elections. The tradition of the Prime Minister’s participation in state elections being symbolic and restricted to a couple of meetings has been demolished by Modi. In every state election, the BJP sends 20-25 central ministers to camp there for weeks.” Even Congress chief ministers and central ministers have campaigned in state elections but never have they held the formal responsibility of managing elections. It is an unstated fact of Indian politics that resources come from the states where the party is in power but the chief ministers are never engaged formally in election work. Asked if the strong teams put in place to oversee state elections won’t undermine the institution of general secretary, another Congress leader said: “These teams will work in coordination with the general secretary. They are to work as support systems, not parallel authorities. We are trying to ramp up our efforts to match the BJP at least in manpower, if not in resources.” But the decision has caused anguish among a large section of Congressmen who believe this new practice of relying on ministers and MLAs for party work is damaging the organisation and having a demoralising effect on the workers. “If only a few persons get tickets to fight elections and then they capture the organisation space as well, are the millions of workers supposed to be mere cheerleaders? Isn’t the party advertising a talent deficit despite a huge pool of experienced and loyal leaders?” a former minister said, arguing against the “oddity” of engaging chief ministers in election work. This leader went on: “Chief ministers have enormous responsibilities in their own states. The Congress anyway is ruling barely a few states and our focus should be to strengthen the party position there. We have already lost Madhya Pradesh due to poor political management and the Rajasthan government was almost gone at one point. The absence of Ahmed Patel has started telling on organisational management. We don’t know who is giving the wrong advice to the party president or if somebody else is taking decisions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC sees no progress, gives time||The Supreme Court on Wednesday again stressed the Centre’s failure to break the deadlock with the protesting farmers but conceded the government’s plea to adjourn till Monday the hearing of a petition challenging the new farm laws’ constitutionality. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta had urged the bench not to take the matter up on Friday — as the court had suggested — claiming there were chances of a settlement by then. The next round of talks — the eighth — is scheduled on Friday. The farmers want the three new farm laws repealed. “There is absolutely no improvement in the situation,” the bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian had earlier observed, referring to the six-week-old siege of Delhi’s borders by agitating farmers. The bench was dealing with a public interest petition moved by advocate M.L. Sharma challenging a 1954 amendment to the Constitution that put key agriculture-related issues on the concurrent list. This had allowed the Centre to enact the new farm laws. Agriculture and marketing per se are on the state list while matters like trade and commerce in — and production, supply and distribution of — foodstuff are on the concurrent list. Both the Centre and the states can enact laws on subjects on the concurrent list. However, in case of a conflict, a central law prevails over a state law. Justice Bobde said that since multiple petitions on the farmers’ agitation had already been filed before the court, it would club all of them with Sharma’s and hear them on Friday. Mehta tried to dissuade the court, saying: “We are discussing the issue with the farmers….” Venugopal backed him, saying: “There is a good chance that parties may come to some conclusion in the near future.” He requested that no orders be passed on the matter so the talks could continue. He added that the filing of a response by the Centre “could foreclose avenues of negotiations under way between farmers and the Centre”. Justice Bobde said: “We understand the situation. We want to encourage the talks.We will keep matter on Monday and will adjourn if you say so.” However, the bench issued a notice to the Centre on Sharma’s petition. It added that Sharma had a habit of filing “startling petitions”. Venugopal said the challenge appeared a futile exercise as the states had for the past 75 years had no objection to agriculture-related issues being on the concurrent list. “Mr Sharma feels the Centre and the states are in collusion for the last 75 years,” Justice Bobde said. Some of the petitions filed in the apex court on the farmers’ agitation seek quashing of the new farm laws, while others seek eviction of the protesters from Delhi’s borders on the ground of hardship to residents and commuters. At the last hearing, the bench had chastised the Centre for its failure to resolve the dispute and proposed to form a high-level committee with all stakeholders to negotiate a settlement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||200 women in Haryana train for tractor rally||Several rural women in Haryana’s Jind district are receiving training to drive tractors for taking part in the “tractor parade” protesting farmers have planned in New Delhi on January 26 against the three new farm laws. The farmers protesting against the legislation had announced on January 2 that if their demands remained unmet, they would take out a “tractor parade” towards Delhi on January 26, when the country would be celebrating Republic Day. Women hailing from three villages — Safa Kheri, Khatkar and Pallwan — in Jind are learning to steer the tractor wheel. “Around 200 women are being imparted training to drive tractors,” Sikim Nain Sheokant, the president of the Jind-based Kisan Ekta Mahila Manch, said over the phone. She said that though some of the women can drive tractors in the fields for farm operations, they do not have experience of driving on the road. “We want women to drive tractors on the highway on January 26 without any help,” Sheokant said. She said several villagers were also helping them out by offering their tractors and providing the women training. Women are undergoing training at a toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala National Highway for handling tractor-trolleys on road. The protesting farmers are not allowing toll to be collected at the plazas in protest against the farm laws. “We are receiving training to drive a tractor for participating in the parade,” said a woman. Sheokant said the new farm laws were not in the interest of the farming community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||40% people aged 45 years and older with lung disease: Study ||A nationwide study of people aged 45 years and older has found 40 per cent with lung disease and that one in five need help for activities of daily living. The study, probing health in a manner never before and also the first in India that plans to track a large sample of an ageing population over time, has also found that one in 10 persons above 45 years has sleep problems and that one in 10 practises yoga. The Longitudinal Ageing Study of India, released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday, has found that 19.5 per cent of people, or nearly one in five, had undiagnosed high blood pressure. One in four (26 per cent) had at least one chronic health disorder. It found that 6 per cent reduced sizes of their meals and 5 per cent went hungry for lack of enough food and 4 per cent had gone without a meal for a full 24 hours at least once because they had nothing to eat. In three states — Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh — 10 per cent or higher reported going hungry. “The real wealth of this study lies in some measurements never done before,” said Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, a senior health researcher at the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai, and a study team member. The observation made through lung function measurements that nearly 40 per cent of people above 45 years have restricted lung disease is a “major finding”, Mohanty told The Telegraph. “These findings are in line with independent data pointing to lung disease as the second leading cause of death in India after cardiovascular diseases,” Mohanty said. The LASI study proposed over eight years ago by researchers at the IIPS and other collaborating institutions seeks to provide insights into the picture of life for ageing Indians that researchers and policy makers could use to propose interventions. In the study, supported by the health ministry, the US National Institutes of Ageing and the United Nations Population Fund, researchers visited 40,000 households across India to create datasets on over 72,000 people, aged 45 years or older. “What we now have is a first snapshot — the goal is to follow up on these people in the years to come,” Mohanty said. Such a study has not been done in India before. Among the measurements not performed nationwide earlier are the levels of abuse faced by people aged 60 years or older. It found 5 per cent of the elderly face abuse. Sons-in-law and daughters-in-law were a slightly smaller source of abuse than children and grandchildren. Among those abused, 37 per cent reported abuse from children or grandchildren, and 35 per cent reported abuse from sons or daughters in-law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||SC doesn’t stay ‘love jihad’ laws of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments on petitions challenging the constitutionality of legislation they had passed or promulgated criminalising interfaith marriages if conducted for the ostensible purpose of religious conversion. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, however, refused to stay the controversial laws without hearing the two states, which have four weeks to respond. One of the petitioners, Vishal Thakre, had sought the stay. The other petitioner is Citizens for Justice and Peace, an NGO founded by Gujarat-based activist Teesta Setalvad. The two BJP-ruled states have introduced the legislation as a shield against what their ruling party calls “love jihad” — Muslim men marrying Hindu girls with the alleged intention of converting and radicalising them. Initially, the bench had asked advocate Pradeep Yadav, representing Thakre, to approach Allahabad High Court which is dealing with several petitions on the matter. People cannot directly approach the apex court instead of moving the high court concerned, Justice Bobde said. “We are not saying you have a bad case…. We are asking and saying that you go to the high court and then come here,” he said. However, Yadav argued that since several other states like Madhya Pradesh and Haryana too proposed to bring in similar legislation, it would be appropriate for the top court to lay down the law on the subject. The bench then relented. Thakre has alleged that “couples are being harassed and are being taken away from marriage venues”. The two laws are the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020, promulgated in November end, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act 2018. On Wednesday, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind moved an intervention application in the Supreme Court through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, saying the two laws were being used to assail Muslims’ rights. Muslim youths are “being targeted and demonised by using the impugned ordinance, which in itself is unconstitutional being violative of Articles 14 (equality before law), 21 (life and liberty) and 25 (religious freedom)”, the Jamiat said. Among the points the Jamiat has raised are: ⚫ The ordinance violates Article 21 by trying to regulate what should be an individual’s personal choice  — the freedom to decide what religion to adhere to. ⚫ The ordinance makes it a criminal offence to convert a person through “allurement”, defined “very broadly” as “any temptation in the form of: 1. Any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind; 2. Employment, free education in reputed school run by any religious body; or 3. Better lifestyle, divine displeasure or otherwise”. “This means if a person belonging to one religion, say Islam, gifts a non-Muslim a book concerning the teachings of Islam and the said non-Muslim person who received the book after reading it decides to convert to Islam, the said conversion could be said to have taken place by ‘allurement’ since it occurred after a gift was given to the convert,” the application says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Shaktisinh Gohil asks to be taken off Bihar charge||Congress Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil has requested the high command to relieve him from the position and give him “lighter work”, blaming ticket distribution by the Grand Alliance, lack of cohesion and attempts by vested interests to divide the secular votes for the party’s poor performance in the recent Assembly elections. “Due to personal reasons, I have requested our party high command to allocate me lighter work for the next few months and to relieve me as soon as possible as the Bihar in-charge,” Gohil tweeted on Monday night. On Wednesday, Gohil was relieved of his duty as Congress’s Bihar in-charge but was retained as the AICC in-charge for Delhi. Senior Odisha Congress leader and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das has been appointed the AICC in-charge for Bihar. He is also the in-charge for Manipur and Mizoram. Gohil, a 60-year-old Congress leader from Gujarat who was made the Bihar in-charge of the party in April 2018, tested positive for the coronavirus in the first week of November last year while Assembly elections were being held in Bihar, and had to remain under treatment for around two months. He has almost recovered but the infection has left him weak, he said. “I don’t want to hold the position if I cannot put in hard work or contribute to it. I also believe that the party should change its state in-charge after every poll. This was the reason for which I had offered my resignation after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but the high command asked me to continue and I obeyed,” Gohil told The Telegraph. “We worked hard for the Assembly polls despite the coronavirus pandemic. However, the party could not do well due to various reasons. I am also responsible for it, and I accept it,” Gohil added. The Congress had contested 70 seats as part of the Grand Alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties but managed to win just 19. This led to much acrimony within the party. Even the allies, especially the RJD that led the alliance, accused the Congress of being the reason behind the failure of the Grand Alliance to come to power. “As many as 38 seats out of the 70 that were given to us were those where the Grand Alliance parties had never won in the past three decades. The seats that we had identified, where our party was strong and we had good candidates, were not given to us,” Gohil said without taking the name of any party. “I am not indulging in a blame game, but there were people who made concerted attempts to compromise our political equations and divide secular votes in seats we contested. Maybe our panellists (candidates) were also not up to the mark and the selection of candidates had some faults,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||India prods Sri Lanka on Tamils||India on Wednesday sought to impress upon Sri Lanka that it is in the island nation’s interest to implement the contentious 13th Amendment to the Constitution on devolution of power to provinces that has been hanging fire since it was enacted in 1987 as a consequence of the India-Lanka Accord signed earlier that year. The issue was publicly raised by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar during his three-day visit to Colombo. In a media statement in the presence of his Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena, the visiting minister said: “It is in Sri Lanka’s own interest that the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled. That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. The progress and prosperity of Sri Lanka will surely be advanced as a consequence.’’ Jaishankar prefaced the intervention by pointing out that India’s support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is longstanding, as “indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony’’. Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had delivered a similar message in the presence of his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa, who in his statement to the media did not touch upon the subject. India has been pushing for the full implementation of the 13th Amendment that was conceived in the Accord as a way to resolve Sri Lanka’s ethnic conflict, which resulted in a bloody civil war with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Elam (LTTE) spearheading the Tamils’ right to self-determination and a separate state. The 13th Amendment led to the creation of provincial councils but the promised devolution of power never took place. Last year, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa told European Union envoys that certain areas of the 13th Amendment cannot be implemented, urging politicians to explore other alternatives. In particular, he is not in favour of handing over policing powers to the provincial councils set up as a result of the partial implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. His contention is that handing over police powers to the provincial councils would result in their politicisation. Add to this the fact that all non-Tamil parties of Sri Lanka are opposed to transferring powers relating to land from the central government to the provincial councils. This apart, Jaishankar also said that Sri Lanka had evinced interest in accessing Covid vaccines from India and assured Colombo that New Delhi sees international cooperation in this regard as its duty. As India and China try to increase their influence in the region, Jaishankar sought to highlight New Delhi’s track record as Colombo’s development partner, adding that Indian business is strongly interested in investing in Sri Lanka. Some of the avenues being considered include special zones for pharmaceutical manufacturing and tourism. There was no official word on the stalled East Container Terminal project that India and Japan were to develop at Colombo port. Though an agreement was signed in May 2019 by the previous federal government in Sri Lanka, it got stalled after the Rajapaksa brothers were elected to office later that year with Opposition parties and port workers stepping up their resistance to the project in which Adani Ports is also reported to be interested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India|| Sadhu, accomplices allegedly gang rape and murder anganwadi worker in UP||A 42-year-old anganwadi worker was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by a sadhu and two accomplices when she had gone to worship at a temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district. A hard object, possibly an iron rod, had been inserted into her private parts and one leg had been broken. Baba Satya Narayan, the mahant of the temple in Ughaiti, is absconding. His driver Jaspal Singh and disciple Ved Ram have been arrested. The family of the woman accused police of sending the body for a post-mortem more than 24 hours after they lodged a written complaint, which allowed the main accused to escape. The officer in charge of the local police station has been suspended. The post-mortem report has confirmed gang-rape and brutalisation, according to the police. An uncle of the woman said Satya Narayan, Ved Ram and Jaspal brought the body of the woman home in the mahant’s Mahindra Bolero around 11pm on Sunday and claimed that she had died after falling into a dry well. “Satya Narayan told us that they had tried to rescue her. When we asked why he had not informed us earlier, he said he did not want to cause any tension. The three stayed at the temple till Tuesday morning and ran away when they realised that they could be arrested,” the uncle told reporters in his village on Wednesday. He said the arrests were made after TV news channels flashed the incident on Wednesday. “As soon as we got her body, we went to Ughaiti police station but the officers there accused us of making wild allegations against the mahant,” the uncle said. Sources in the police corroborated this. “She was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. An officer visited the hospital on Monday afternoon and said a case would be registered only after the post-mortem report confirmed the crime we were claiming had been committed. They registered the FIR on Monday night but didn’t visit the spot of the crime. The three criminals easily sneaked out of the village on Tuesday,” the uncle said. Siddharth Verma, the superintendent of police of Badaun Rural, said Satya Narayan was absconding while the other two accused had been arrested. He said the office in charge of the local police station had been suspended. A special task force of Uttar Pradesh police has been formed to arrest the main accused. Senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma said: “The post-mortem report has confirmed rape, and there are injuries in her private parts and a fracture in the leg.” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that there was “something wrong” in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women’s security. Also referring to the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen in Hathras and her forcible cremation by the police, Priyanka tweeted: “In Hathras, the government administration did not listen to the voice of those pleading. The government saved officials and suppressed the victim’s voice. In Badaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government’s intentions on women’s security.” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed the incident “horrific” and “shameful for humanity”. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Karnataka High Court dismisses B.S. Yediyurappa’s plea to quash criminal proceedings against him ||Karnataka High Court on Tuesday dismissed the state chief minister’s plea to quash criminal proceedings against him in an illegal land denotification case. The single bench of Justice John Michael Cunha also slapped a penalty of Rs 25,000 on B.S. Yediyurappa who had approached the court in 2017 seeking to quash the FIR against him. It is the second such setback for Yediyurappa in about two weeks after the same court on December 22 dismissed another plea to quash an FIR in a different land denotification case. This has come as a major blow to Yediyurappa who is already under pressure from his own party lawmakers over cabinet berths and inadequate funds for their constituencies. The Congress immediately demanded his resignation citing the penalty slapped by the court. In 2010, Yediyurappa, as the then chief minister, had illegally denotified 1.1 acres of land in Matadahalli in Bangalore allegedly for the mother-in-law of his predecessor and Janata Dal Secular leader H.D. Kumaraswamy. The case was based on a complaint filed with the police wing attached to Karnataka Lokayukta in 2015 by social activist Jayakumar Hiremath. “I had filed the complaint with substantial evidence of Yediyurappa illegally denotifying the land in favour of Kumaraswamy’s mother-in-law, Vimala, who then transferred it to her son (T.S.) Channappa,” Hiremath told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Apart from Yediyurappa, who is the first accused, the FIR named Kumaraswamy, Vimala and Channappa and the officials concerned who facilitated the deal. They were slapped with several sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and relevant sections of the penal code. “The high court’s decision to dismiss his (Yediyurappa) plea is really a boost to my case,” Hiremath added. Denotification is a process of regularising government land so that it can be sold to a private person or a business establishment. There are many instances of illegal denotification of land to palm off undervalued land to friends and relatives of politicians. Justice Cunha had on December 22 dismissed another plea to quash an FIR in a case related to denotifying government land in the tech corridor of Whitefield in east of Bangalore. As the then deputy chief minister in a JDS-BJP coalition headed by Kumaraswamy, Yediyurappa had denotified large tracts of land. State Congress spokesman and senior lawyer V.S. Ugrappa on Wednesday said Yediyurappa had no moral right to continue in office after being slapped with a fine by the high court. “Not only did the court dismiss his writ petition, but also slapped a fine on him in a clear sign that there is substance in the case,” Ugrappa told The Telegraph. “The chief minister tried to misuse the process of law by filing a petition to quash the criminal case. This whole thing is in breach of his oath to uphold the law and Constitution. What right does he have to stay in office after violating every bit of the oath?” Ugrappa said. While there was no official comment from the BJP, a party functionary said it was up to the chief minister to comment. The dismissal of his two pleas came at a time he is under tremendous pressure from within the party over his leadership and the involvement of his son B.Y. Vijayendra who has become the “eyes and ears” of his father. Frequent meetings by disgruntled BJP lawmakers over the rising influence of Vijayendra had rankled the chief minister, especially after some of them called for a change of leadership. In an effort to calm disgruntled party lawmakers, Yediyurappa on Tuesday announced he would grant Rs 25 crore for the development of each BJP MLA’s constituency. This was preceded by an ugly spat between him and lawmaker Basangouda Patil Yatnal at a conciliatory meeting on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||India||Sadhus divided over Kinnar Akhara||Serious differences have cropped up within the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the highest body of sadhus in the country, over recognising the Kinnar Akhara, a group of transgender sadhus, as an independent sect for the Haridwar Kumbh in March-April. Such recognition allows an akhara to take out its own procession with its members, accompanied by horses and elephants, for the Shahi Snan (royal bath) in the Ganga, for which a separate time slot is allotted. Akharas that are not recognised have to tie up with other akharas for the march and the holy bath. A section of sadhus from the Parishad — recognised by all akharas as their supreme body — are vehemently opposed to the Kinnar Akhara being recognised as a separate sect and allowed an independent procession at the Kumbh, while others do not have a problem with such an arrangement, accepting it as a sign of changing times. “There are only 13 akharas (sects of sadhus) in Hindu religion and the Kinnar Akhara is a recent creation that can never be accepted as an independent sect,” Baba Hathyogi, a representative of the Digambar Ani Akhara, said in a statement in Hardwar on Wednesday. He attacked the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the umbrella outfit of the 13 akharas, for the decision of some of its sadhus to recognise the Kinnar Akhara as an independent sect. “I refuse to recognise the Parishad if it accepts an akhara of transgenders,” Hathyogi said. “Adi Shankaracharya had founded seven akharas. Six more were formed after a few years. Later, the Vairagi Ani Akhara (of Sikh sadhus) was formed. But it was never considered an independent akhara. Members of the Vairagi Ani Akhara take the holy dip in the Ganga during Shahi Snan after joining the procession of one or the other recognised akharas. Unfortunately, some members of the Parishad have allowed the Kinnar Akhara to have their separate procession and bath. A large number of sadhus, including me, have refused to accept it,” Hathyogi said. Narendra Giri, the president of the Parishad, said: “We have no problem if the Kinnar Akhara goes with the Juna Akhara to take bath, like it did during the Ardh Kumbh in Allahabad in 2019. But it cannot be allowed to go on its own as the 14th Akhara.” But Sri Mahant Hari Giri, the general secretary of the Parishad, threatened to resign if the Kinnar Akhara was not recognised as an independent sect so that it could take out its own procession during the royal baths at the Kumbh. Mahant Hari Giri said: “Let the time come and the Kinnar Akhara will certainly take the holy baths independently. If needed, I will accompany them. The times are changing and we should also change. They are a new akhara and I recognise them. I may resign to support them.” Hathyogi demanded that Hari Giri resign immediately. “He can ask the Kinnar Akhara to join the Juna Akhara for the bath in the Ganga but it will not be allowed to move independently at any cost because we don’t allow the existence of a 14th akhara,” Hathyogi said. “Mahant Gyan Das, who was the president of the Akhara Parishad in 2010, had refused to grant recognition to the Kinnar Akhara as the 14th akhara,” he added. Mahant Ravidev Shashtri, the general secretary of the Yuva Bharat Sadhu Samaj, said: “The Kinnar Akhara had taken out its procession in Allahabad along with the Juna Akhara. It can continue to do so in Hardwar.” Swami Alok Giri, the head of the Narmadeshwar Mahadev Temple, Haridwar, said: “We cannot recognise the Kinnar Akhara. It can be a part of the Juna Akhara and take the holy baths.” Deepak Rawat, the officer in charge of Kumbh, said: “We will allot land for the camps of the akharas and fix their slots for the holy baths only after a discussion with the Parishad. We don’t know about any controversy with regard to any akhara.” The Kumbh is held every 12th year but this time it will be organised after 11 years because of early alignment of certain planets. The first Shahi Snan will take place on March 11. The remaining three royal baths will be held on April 12, 14 and 27. Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, the head of the Kinnar Akhara, said: “We have our own sect and it had been recognised by all 13 akharas in the past. There is no dispute over our independent identity.” Adi Shankaracharya, the 8th century philosopher, had founded seven akharas — Mahanirvani, Niranjani, Atal, Avahan, Agni, Ananda and Nirvani. Six more akharas were formed later — Nirmal Panchayati, Nirmohi, Digambar, Juna, Udasin Bara and Udasin Naya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||India||Odisha steel plant gas leak kills four workers||Four contract workers died and some were taken ill after inhaling a toxic gas leaked from a unit at Rourkela Steel Plant in Odisha on Wednesday. The victims were engaged by a private firm in the maintenance work at the coal chemical department of the plant which is managed by the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), a central PSU. Sources said preliminary reports suggested the four workers died because of emission of carbon monoxide from the unit. The four workers were admitted to the ICU of Ispat General Hospital (IGH) where they died during treatment. The deceased were Ganesh Chandra Paila, 55, Rabindra Sahu, 58, Abhimaya Sahu, 33, and Brahmananda Panda, 51. The other affected workers were treated at the plant’s dispensary. Ten workers were on duty when the accident took place around 9am. Plant authorities have ordered a high-level probe into the incident. The plant is around 500km from here. Senior police officers reached the spot. The functioning of the plant has not been affected because of the accident, sources said. Similar incidents have occurred at the plant in the past as well. Plant employees’ union leader, Himanshu Shekhar Bal, alleged that the private company engaged in the maintenance work at the coal chemical department had not followed the security protocols. He demanded adequate compensation for the deceased and the workers affected by the gas leak. “Accidents are taking place frequently at the plant. Authorities should take steps to prevent such accidents in future. The next of kin of the of the deceased should be immediately rehabilitated. Action should be taken against the agency which violated safety protocols, leading to the accident,” said Bal. The management suspended two deputy general managers for dereliction of duty in connection with the mishap. The sources said plant authorities had also taken rehabilitation measures, including jobs for one family member each of the four workers who lost their lives in the accident. Monetary compensation will also be provided to the affected families. The suspended officials are N. Das, DGM of coal chemical department, and G. Barik, DGM of energy management department. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted: “Deeply saddened to know about the tragic loss of lives in the gas leak incident at the Rourkela Steel Plant. My thoughts and prayers are with bereaved families in the hour of grief and pray for the speedy recovery of those who are hospitalised.” Plant chief executive officer Dipak Chattaraj expressed deep sorrow over the mishap and assured that all possible support would be extended to the bereaved families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||India||Retraction glare on misconduct in science||The year 2020 was a year of great scientific misconduct. The late British physicist Stephen Hawking had said that “science is not only a disciple of reason but also one of romance and passion”. The vast majority of scientists work with passion to discover or invent, design experiments and generate data, using reason as the cornerstone, and draw conclusions using logical reasoning. These conclusions are published in scientific journals, after the methodologies and conclusions are deemed acceptable and appropriate by peers. Some work leads to the invention of tools, from submersible pumps to diagnostic tests for diseases. In this pursuit, scientists can make errors. When these errors are detected after publication, the papers are “retracted”. The journal announces the retractions. Such retractions play an important role in retaining only valid scientific inferences and in preventing the repetition of similar errors. Competition in science has increased fiercely. Many scientists often work independently to solve a problem. Whoever publishes first wins laurels. Consequently, there is often a great rush to publish. This rush has resulted in many papers being retracted. While most of these retractions are due to honest errors, some are due to scientific misconduct — the violation of standard codes of ethical conduct of research. These include data fabrication, falsification of methods or results, and plagiarism, that is, publishing work done by others as one’s own. Scientists who indulge in misconduct are abhorred. Of concern is a recent surge in retractions, due especially to fraudulent scientific practices. To stamp out bad science, two veteran health journalists — Ivan Oransky and Adam Marcus — began to catalogue retractions, with an investigative report on the cause of retraction. In 2010 they created a database called Retraction Watch. On December 15, 2020, Retraction Watch listed 24,561 retracted scientific publications. A large proportion of these retractions is due to scientific misconduct; manipulation of images of scientific experiments usually to suit a pet scientific hypothesis being very popular. This year has witnessed a flood of scientific publications on various aspects of the coronavirus. Among about 1,650 articles during 2020, about 40 per cent pertained to the coronavirus. The founders of Retraction Watch have stated that this is an “exceptionally high” rate and is “alarming”. Most retractions don’t impact our lives. Some do. Among these, the most prominent is a series of scientific publications by a once-renowned anaesthesiologist, Joachim Boldt. He led research in a hospital in Germany, Klinikum Ludwigshafen. In 2009, Boldt published a paper that came under scrutiny. It contained fabricated data. Subsequently, 96 of his 98 publications were retracted for scientific misconduct. Boldt asserted in many of his publications, using flawed and fabricated data, that hydroxyethyl starch, or hetastarch, if used in a form containing synthetic molecules called colloids, can be safely used to stabilise the blood pressure of patients during surgery. Hetastarch with colloids was widely used. Later studies carried out carefully by other scientists showed that hetastarch with colloids often caused deaths. Thus, scientific misconduct placed the lives of patients in danger. It is important that scientists remain vigilant against misconduct of their peers. We have contributed a fair bit to retracted publications; At least 25 publications from India in journals were retracted during 2020. Lives of scientists are tied to the quantity and quality of their publications. In science, employment, promotion, awards and other recognitions, all depend on what we publish. Therefore, in our zeal to obtain these rapidly, we sometimes take recourse to foul means. That discredits the entire profession. The science academies of India and elsewhere have started to play a leading role against scientific misconduct. The eminent US geologist Thomas Chamberlain had said: “Falsity in intellectual action is intellectual immorality.” Science is an integral part of our social fabric. All citizens have a role to play in retaining standards of high intellectual morality of our society by being vigilant against scientific misconduct. Otherwise, our lives may be in peril. The author is a National Science Chair and president of the Indian Academy of Science||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly discharged from hospital||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly was on Thursday morning discharged from a hospital in Calcutta, five days after suffering a "mild heart attack". The 48-year-old cricket icon, who had to undergo a stent insertion, was declared stable and clinically fit by doctors. "I am absolutely fine," Ganguly said before boarding his private vehicle to return home. "I thank all the doctors, the nurses and everybody in the hospital for treating me," he added. The former Indian cricket captain was hospitalised on Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while working out on a treadmill. He had a stent implanted in the right coronary artery on Saturday afternoon. Sourav, 48, was scheduled to be discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after the doctors treating him concluded that he was fit to go home. Doctors and officials said the formalities for discharge were complete in the morning and the car to take Sourav home had arrived at Woodlands. However, at the last moment, Sourav told doctors that he wanted to stay at the hospital for one more day. “Ganguly will be discharged tomorrow (Thursday) as he wanted to stay back one more day,” Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, had said on Wednesday. “All his parameters are normal but since he wanted to stay back, we agreed. There are many patients who often defer discharge,” said an official of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajbanshi outfits float forum, back Didi||Rajbanshi outfits in north Bengal have come together to float a common platform to support the Trinamul regime and raise their key demands, which include separate statehood and inclusion of Rajbanshi language in the eighth schedule of the Indian Constitution. “The state government has done a lot for different communities of north Bengal but the Centre has ignored us. Whether it is the Kamtapuris (Rajbanshis) or the Gorkhas, the central government has not met any of our demands. That is why we have floated a common forum. We are with Mamata Banerjee,” said Atul Roy, president, Kamtapur Progressive Party. The forum, he said, has been named as Bhumiputra Aikya Mancha. On Wednesday, Roy, who is a joint secretary of the Mancha, reached here with hundreds of supporters and submitted to the Jalpaiguri district magistrate’s office separate memoranda addressed to the Prime Minister and the chief minister. Such a move by the Rajbanshis, who can determine poll results in almost half of the 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, has come as a fresh challenge for the BJP, which suffered a jolt after Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung severed ties with the saffron camp. The problems for the BJP may compound as the Rajbanshis have invited the Gorkhas to join their forum. “In the Lok Sabha elections of 2019, the BJP had the support of a considerable section of Rajbanshis and the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha. If Gurung and the Rajbanshis join hands, it will be definitely a concern for the BJP that has been eyeing a majority of north Bengal seats,” said a political observer. Trinamul, he said, has taken a series of initiatives to woo the Rajbanshi community in the past few months, which include constitution of separate welfare and development board and language academies. Even on Tuesday, the state Cabinet decided to work on the proposal to grant recognition to around 200 informal schools in north Bengal where Rajbanshi language is used as a medium of instruction. That the Rajbanshi leaders are unhappy with the BJP was evident from the KPP leader’s remarks. “Time and again, we were assured that our language would be included in the eighth schedule and we supported the BJP. I have spoken with Bimal Gurung and he is also aggrieved with the BJP. Both Rajbanshis and Gorkhas have been used as vote banks by the saffron party,” said Roy. Bangshibadan Burman of the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association is in the Mancha. An outfit of Rajbanshi Muslims also joined the Mancha. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul could not win any of the eight seats in north Bengal and was ahead only in 12 Assembly segments. “While the BJP will have to toil hard to retain its support base, both factions of the Morcha and Rajbanshi organisations will surely give an extra edge to Mamata Banerjee’s party,” said an analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||CM's take on provincialism and political parachutists||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee told industrialists on Wednesday that she always considered people from Rajasthan, Gujarat and other parts of the country settled in Bengal as children of the soil, making a clear distinction between them and political parachutists. “You are all Bengali. I don’t call you outsiders.… We have got so much support from you. Those who suddenly come here before the polls, I call them outsiders,” Mamata said during her first interaction with industrialists in the state since Covid-19 struck the country. “Please don’t get bothered about this debate on outsiders…. I refer to the invaders, who come with the objective of creating riots and division among people, as outsiders,” the chief minister said during a 90-minute interaction. “Please don’t misunderstand me.… I know that you all are more than Bengali,” Mamata added, drawing a huge round of applause. Trying to establish that she was above narrow provincialism, Mamata called out the names of top civil and police administration officials and asked them about their states of origin. “Did I ever ask anyone about their surnames? I only ask whether the work is done,” she said. The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation had organised the interaction at an auditorium near Nabanna. Seventy-five business leaders from across the state participated. Sources close to the chief minister said that since the objective was to broad-base the interaction, the list of invitees included not just the known faces from Calcutta but also businesspeople from north Bengal and remote areas like Purulia. The meet-and-greet session began with the chief minister outlining the growing business opportunities in Bengal because of the Deocha-Panchami coal block in Birbhum, oil and gas reserves at Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas, deep-sea port at Tajpur in East Midnapore, Silicon Valley at Newtown in Rajarhat, and the leather complex at Bantala in South 24-Parganas. The predominant takeaway from the interaction was, however, Mamata’s assurance that came against the backdrop of her hanging the “outsider” tag on BJP leaders hotfooting to Bengal from elsewhere, often betraying their lack of familiarity with local sensibilities and culture. “We are all the same, the only difference is that we speak different languages. Some people coming from outside are trying to create divisions among us,” she said. “Some people from Gujarat will come before the election, go to Bhowanipore and tell people not to vote for me. I don’t mind, but I have a sister-brother relation with you and that relationship should remain intact,” Mamata added, making it clear she wanted the support of non-Bengalis in the Assembly elections. The chief minister used the session to prod the business leaders to invest in the state before gauging their perceptions about the debate on outsiders, the state of industry in Bengal and the problems they encountered in pursuing their projects. All the business leaders who got an opportunity to speak told Mamata they had never felt discriminated against in Bengal although they were originally from states like Rajasthan or Gujarat. Seeking to explain why the Trinamul government was business-friendly, Mamata reminded the business leaders of the problems they had had to face because of measures like the demonetisation. Referring to one of the business community’s pet peeves, the chief minister said: “I never disturb you, but I know they disturb you with ED (Enforcement Directorate), CBI or income-tax raids. I know people have to pay every month.… I never asked for money from you.” Sources close to Mamata said the interaction was significant in the context of the shrill exchange on “outsiders” between the BJP and Trinamul. Over the past month or so, several BJP leaders have accused Mamata of defying the spirit of the Constitution by bringing up the issue of “outsiders”. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar waded into the debate on Wednesday, saying it was unfortunate that some people were describing those coming from other states as “outsiders”. He said this was “against the idea of the Constitution”. Mamata went to Raj Bhavan in the evening on what sources said was a courtesy call. Before that, she had accused Dhankhar of parroting the BJP line. “Even today, the governor said that I call everyone an ‘outsider’…. How can someone holding a constitutional post make a comment like that?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Official: Bengal can store 6 crore vaccines||The Bengal health department on Wednesday said the state had the capacity to store around six crore Covid-19 vaccine ampules at 941 cold-chain points across the state and six lakh health care providers would be given jabs in the first phase. A senior health official said while several states did not have adequate infrastructure, Bengal was well equipped to implement the vaccination programme. “We have sufficient cold chains and there is no scarcity of infrastructure. We can store six crore vaccines at 941 cold chain points at a time,” said the senior health official posted in Calcutta adding that the Centre had promised to send adequate equipment like freezers before the vaccination process began. According to him, six lakh health care providers will be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the first phase. The Union health ministry had earlier said the country was equipped and ready to start vaccination with around 29,000 cold-chain points across the country. Sources said six states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat, had together around 13,900 cold-chain points — that was more than half the existing infrastructure in the country. Another official of the state health department said the vaccination could start as early as next week. In keeping with the directive of the Centre, he said, dry runs for the vaccine roll-out would be conducted in all districts of Bengal on January 8. “The health department has chosen three centres in each district to carry out the dry run. At the three centres in Birbhum, the entire process for vaccination will be followed,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer of health in Birbhum. The sources said training of vaccinators had started at around 1,000 points chosen as vaccination centres in each district. Asked how the process would begin, health officials said those selected for vaccination would be informed about their venue and date. The officials added that a police officer would be the first “vaccination officer” at a vaccination centre. The cop would check the individual’s identity and clear him for the next step. “It is a central directive to post police personnel to man entrances to vaccination centres. The cop will have hard copies of the list of beneficiaries and enlisted persons will be required to carry identity proof when they come to the vaccination centre,” said a health official. Other than the cop, there will be four vaccination officers, including a vaccinator, at every centre. After verifying the beneficiaries online, the vaccinator will administer the first dose. The beneficiary will then have to wait for 30 minutes in a dedicated room to monitor if the person was having any adverse reaction following the vaccination, the official added. “We have primarily decided to vaccinate 100 persons at a centre every day,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Animal alert for trains||Officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) are working on a proposal to install sophisticated sensors along the Dooars rail route to curb accidental deaths of wild animals on tracks. The 158-km-long route starts from Siliguri Junction and ends at Alipurduar Junction, moving through stretches of reserve forests, including the Buxa Tiger Reserve. V. K. Yadav, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state, welcomed the move to install sensors. “This railway route is a risk for wild animals. Many animals, including elephants and leopards, have been mowed down by trains while crossing tracks. We have time and again taken up the issue with the railways, and it is good that finally they have come up with a plan to install sensors that would enable the railways to alert the loco pilots to reduce the speed of trains and avert collisions with wild animals,” he said. On Tuesday, senior railway officials, including Anshul Gupta, NFR general manager, and state forest department officials held a meeting at the Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary of Jalpaiguri on the sensor project. According to railway sources, there are reserve forests along 82km of the route, which include animal crossing zones. Under the proposed plan, sensors, which work through optical fibres, will be installed alongside the tracks. In case any animal comes near the sensors, a signal would be sent to the control room of the nearest railway station and also to the drivers of trains moving along the tracks. “The sensors would alert the control room and drivers concerned and the trains would run more slowly so that the wild animal does not get hit,” said a source. The proposal has been sent to the railway ministry and is likely to be approved soon, said an official. “There is a plan to take up a pilot project for the installation of the sensors from the next fiscal year,” he said. Wildlife conservationists in north Bengal have pointed out that these tracks became more risky for wild animals since 2004, when the route was converted to a broad gauge from a metre gauge. “To the best of my knowledge, over 70 elephants, leopards, gaurs and even pythons died on these tracks in the past few years. There are specific instructions on speeding from courts, including the Supreme Court, but train hits keep happening. We hope the new sensor plan mooted by the railways will work effectively,” said Animesh Bose, a wildlife conservationist based in Siliguri. A railway official, however, said over 100 train collisions with wild animals could be avoided in the past few years “as drivers were alert”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s active cases dip below 9,000||Bengal’s number of total active Covid-19 cases fell below 9,000 on Wednesday — to 8,868 —  back almost to where it was 150 days ago on July 9. With 1,271 recoveries, 868 new infections and 22 deaths, including six from Calcutta, on Wednesday, the state has seen a drop without a break — in total active cases since Dashami on October 26, an improvement by over 76 per cent from 37,190 over these 72 days. Since Dashami, Bengal logged over 2.28 lakh recoveries and 2.03 lakh new infections. Bengal has 3.95 per cent of India’s active cases, down from over 7 per cent in a month. “At this rate, we may get our total active cases below 5,000 by the time vaccination properly takes off. During Durga Puja, if anybody had told us we would reduce by over three-fourths our total active cases in 10 weeks, we would not have believed it,” said a minister. “This almost-impossible turnaround will probably be a subject for research eventually,” he added. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 76 consecutive days by over 9 per cent to 96.64, ahead of the national rate by around 0.3 per cent on Wednesday. As of now, the state’s Covid-19 total of 5.57 lakh cases include over 5.38 lakh recoveries and 9,863 deaths. The state government attributed 8,275 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.76, compared to 1.44 per cent nationally. “Reduction of mortality rate, despite the drastically reduced daily toll over the past few days, is the only area where we have not been able to achieve our targets on time,” the minister added. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.63 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Total test count went past 73 lakh, at 81,113 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court’s instructions against crowding, among others, over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and before New Year, seemed to have worked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Turtles in trucks||Police seized 3,396 Indian softshell turtles, apparently meant to be smuggled to Bangladesh, from two mini-trucks at two spots under the Barrackpore police commissionerate on Wednesday. Titagarh police recovered 1,559  turtles hidden under potato sacks from a mini-truck at Chiria More on BT Road. Belgharia police found 1,837 more while checking a vehicle on Neelganj Feeder Road. Four persons — two in each case — were arrested. Probe is on. Both vehicles have Uttar Pradesh registrations. “A probe has begun, but it is not yet clear where the turtles were scheduled to be supplied,” Mitra said. A Barrackpore Commissionerate official said that prima facie it appeared that the turtles were going to be handed over to members of a smuggling racket before heading to Bangladesh. All the turtles were handed over to the state forest department. However, 278 turtles were found dead. Barasat divisional forest officer Niranjita Mitra told The Telegraph that the Indian softshell turtle group is included under Schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List also considers the Indian softshell turtle vulnerable because of the threats it faces such as shrinking habitat, poaching and illegal trade. However, smugglers find turtle trade lucrative as they are considered a delicacy in Bengal and Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Train kills boys glued to games||Two Class XII boys died and another was critically injured when a train hit them while they were playing mobile games sitting on railway tracks at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday evening. Atanu Biswas, 17, Subhojit Pal, 18, and Joy Dey, 18, were playing games on their mobile phones with earphones on, oblivious that a Bongaon-bound train was approaching fast. GRP sources said Atanu and Subhojit, who were scheduled to appear in the higher secondary examination this year, had died on the spot. Local sources said Joy, who is also scheduled to take the HS exam this year, was rushed to Chandpara rural hospital. He was later shifted to a hospital in Calcutta. The sources said the boys did not notice the fast approaching train and when they tried to move away, it was too late. “They used to play games sitting on the tracks. We had told them many times not to play mobile games while sitting on the tracks, but they cared little. Today, they could not even hear the sound of the approaching train as they were wearing earphones. We tried to alert them but failed to draw their attention,” said Sudip Mandal, a resident of Simultala in Thakurnagar where the two boys lived.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Few tankers move, fuel supply erratic||A few tankers started ferrying petro fuels from the IOCL terminal of New Jalpaiguri from Tuesday night, their numbers increasing on Wednesday as talks between the oil company and tanker owners and drivers somewhat eased the deadlock over transport rates, but fuel supply was far from normal. Although supply is limping back — a fourth of the 350-odd tankers are moving as of Wednesday — as IOCL authorities held talks with protesting tanker owners and drivers and promised to look into their transport rate demands, 150-odd pumps in north Bengal are still dry, owners said. Petrol dealers have now threatened to go on strike. “We have written to IOCL authorities, saying that if fresh supplies do not reach these pumps latest by tomorrow (Thursday), all IOCL pumps (dealers) of north Bengal will observe a two-day strike from Friday. Also, if the situation does not become normal even then, all pumps across the region will go for another two-day strike, starting January 10,” said Bikash Agarwal, general secretary, North Bengal Petrol Dealers’ Association. “We heard that supply resumed but it seems erratic as hardly 50-odd pumps received fuel.” “The IOCL authorities should ensure that equal supply reaches all pumps at the earliest,” Agarwal added. In all, north Bengal has around 490 petrol pumps, among which around 250 are IOCL pumps. Of these, around 200 pumps of IOCL went dry with the sudden halt in supply when many tanker owners and drivers stopped carrying fuels as they did not see eye to eye with IOCL authorities over the rate the oil company pays private tankers per kilometre to transport fuels. Trinamul’s workers’ union front Inttuc backed the protesters. However, some tanker owners and drivers had sided with IOCL, which intensified the rift and led to protests on Tuesday. In New Jalpaiguri, where the terminal is located, authorities of the fuel company held a meeting with tanker owners and drivers. “At the meeting, officials told us they would look into our demand of paying us the earlier rate fixed in 2014 instead of the new proposed rate that is less. They will speak with their senior officials. The tankers are again moving and we hope the situation gets normal soon,” said Inttuc leader Prasenjit Roy, who is at the forefront of the protests. The dispute, sources said, cropped up after IOCL authorities floated a tender for tanker services, offering Rs 2.81 per kilometre, lower than the old rate of Rs 3.46 per kilometre. On Tuesday, differences cropped up among drivers and owners. While some of them, backed by Inttuc, insisted on the old and higher rate, others agreed to work at lower rate. Both sides attacked each other with bricks and stones. Police had to rush to the spot to bring the situation under control. To protest the attack, Inttuc, under the banner of an association of tanker drivers and cleaners, held a march on Wednesday from Netaji More of New Jalpaiguri to the terminal. The BJP blamed Trinamul for the impasse. BJP leader Jaydeep Nandi alleged some Trinamul leaders were trying to ensure dominance over the area. “They unnecessarily created a situation that disrupted fuel supply from the terminal. After Tuesday’s violence, people in nearby areas are panicky,” he said. Police have been deployed at the terminal area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
07-01-2021||West Bengal||Push for Rajbanshi school recognition||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the school education department would inspect 200 informal schools, where education was imparted through Rajbanshi language, to find out whether those could be converted into formal schools. “We received requests from various corners to convert these schools into formal ones. The school education department would carry out inspections at these schools,” said the chief minister after a cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Tuesday. Sources said those schools were located in some districts in north Bengal and the state cabinet had agreed to allow inspections at the schools accepting the local demands. In north Bengal, Rajbanshis form a considerable portion of the population. For years now, the demand to introduce the Rajbanshi language as a medium of instruction in primary classes has been raised by the community. “There were reports that a number of informal schools have been opened by some Rajbanshi organisations. It seems the state intends to regularise these institutions now,” said an observer. Mamata also said that there were requests to carry out inspections at some informal schools where education is imparted through Kamtapuri language. “But they are yet to fix a curriculum like the Rajbanshi informal schools already did. The education department would carry out inspections at two such schools within a year as it would take a few months to prepare the curriculum,” she added. Kamtapuri is a variant of the Rajbanshi language and in north Bengal, a section of the Rajbanshi community introduces themselves as Kamtapuri. This has made the state announce separate language academies — even though both are believed to be the same language — and allot funds to these bodies and instruct the office-bearers to prepare syllabus and schoolbooks so that the languages could be introduced at primary schools. The chief minister has further taken the initiative to name the university of Cooch Behar in the name of Panchanan Burma, the most revered statesman of Rajbanshis, announce a second campus of the varsity in his name and renovation of his ancestral house. Land for ONGC The state cabinet also approved a proposal to hand over 13.49 acres of land at Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas to the ONGC as the utility has found an oil reserve. “They (ONGC) wanted to pay Rs 6.5 crore for the land. But we are giving the land at Re 1 as it would serve the state’s interest. I will pay Re 1 on behalf of the agency,” said the chief minister. The state cabinet on Tuesday also agreed to give clearance to 28 leather units to function at the Bantala Leather Complex. Moreover, the cabinet agreed to the proposal of regularising more than 230 refugee colonies set up on central government or private land. “We have already regularised 94 such colonies set up on state government land and the residents have been given free hold land rights,” Mamata said. “Remaining colonies set up on either central government land or private land would also be regularised. Work is on to regularise 119 colonies on central government or private land. The rest would be taken up soon,” added the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-245
07-01-2021||North East||Winds worsen Dzukou valley wildfire||Strong winds worsened the Dzukou Valley wildfire on Wednesday forcing Nagaland and Manipur governments to change strategies to effectively combat the blaze and check irreparable damage to the popular trekking and tourist destination located along the inter-state border. The fire started on December 29 on the Nagaland side before spreading to Manipur. Officials from both sides, including National Disaster Response Force, Indian Air Force and government, told The Telegraph that fire-fighting teams are taking the help of volunteers familiar with the lay of the land to find alternative trekking routes to the affected areas bypassing the steep terrain. This has become imperative because some of the affected areas are inaccessible. If alternative routes are not found, the fire will keep spreading to newer areas. Nagaland has also requested the IAF to deploy four more choppers for the fire-fighting operations in addition to the four already deployed. Its request for three additional NDRF teams has been accepted, taking the total number of teams deployed to 10 — four in Manipur and six in Nagaland. “We need more choppers for ferrying men and equipment besides Bambi bucket (pouring water on affected areas) operations. The situation turned worse with the fire spreading towards the western range falling under Peren district on Wednesday,” said Johnny Ruangmei, officer on special duty, Nagaland State Disaster Management Authority. After Manipur, Nagaland too has deployed 300 personnel at the camp so that they cut down on trekking time to reach the affected areas. The IAF choppers on Wednesday dropped NDRF personnel, food and equipment to the base camps set up on the top to check the fire from spreading to the valley. Kohima deputy commissioner Mohammed Ali Shihab A. on Wednesday deployed three officers to assist the Jakhama subdivisional officer (civil) for fighting the wildfire and shall be stationed at the base camp, Dzukou Valley, for coordinating with the various teams engaged in the fire-fighting process. About 3,310kg of fire-fighting equipment and NDRF personnel were airlifted to Dzukou Valley from Jakhama on Wednesday by IAF helicopters. Operations to assist fire-fighting will continue on Thursday, IAF official Ratnakar Singh said. An aerial survey along with a drone survey will be carried out on Thursday for rational deployment of fire-fighting teams in the affected areas to cut fire-lines to check the spread. “Rational deployment for effective results. Mapping of vulnerable and affected areas is a must for an effective outcome,” Ruangmei said. A senior Nagaland forest official said the operation will start at 5.30am on Thursday because as the day progresses the wind not only gets strong but also blows in different directions, hindering operations. “Since the fire has intensified, our efforts too have to be intensified,” a senior Nagaland forest department official said. Chief ministers of both states have already conducted aerial surveys, hailing the efforts of the fire-fighting teams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
07-01-2021||North East||Assam vaccine dry run from tomorrow||Assam will carry out a dry run for Covid-19 vaccination in the state’s remaining 30 districts from Friday to iron out any apparent loose ends in the delivery system before the actual rollout of the vaccine later this month. Officials associated with the drive said the dry run was necessary to test the preparedness in all districts so that there are no last-minute hitches during the actual vaccination drive. Assam has recorded over 216,381 Covid-19 cases and 1,057 deaths. The officials pointed out that the dry run had been conducted successfully in “well-manned, well-equipped and well-managed” centres in Nalbari, Sonitpur and Kamrup (metro) districts. “Once we go deep, we will learn about the overall preparedness level or the challenges which we may have missed during the dry run so that it could be promptly fixed,” an official said. He said it should not be seen only as a drive by the health department and that only a collective and synchronised effort will help reach the last man in the line. Some of the challenges identified during the dry run include Internet connectivity, access to the centre, absenteeism on the assigned day, power back-up and additional temporary infrastructure. Above all, the administration will also have to factor in elections and floods and plan accordingly so there is no drop in momentum once gathered after the launch. Vaccination will be restricted to primary health centres which on an average could serve up to 20,000 people and will be within a 5-km radius. “There are Internet issues in the interior areas. The service providers have to be roped in so that data can be uploaded in real time. Otherwise two-three hours will be lost in moving from one place to another to upload details of patients. Another challenge is the Assembly elections followed by the annual floods. We have to plan for all these things. During the dry run we felt the need for a  bigger observation area because one may have to wait for at least 30 minutes after getting the jab. There may be more people inside than in the waiting area,” an official said. Another official said these were interesting challenges which could be easily surmounted with collective effort, especially with the support and proactive role of the district administration, transport department, police, panchayats, local volunteers and the media. “A publicity blitzkrieg too has to be launched so that people adhere to deadlines, feel motivated enough to get to the transport. Schools and colleges too have to be targeted so that students, their parents and neighbours come to the vaccination centre on the assigned day. A huge role will have to be played by the deputy commissioners, considered the eyes and ears of the government. During the vaccination drive, they will also have to serve as the government’s hands and legs,” the official said. According to officials, it will take almost two months to inoculate nearly 3 lakh Covid warriors, including doctors. Arrangements are likely to be made at 2,000 centres across the state with five persons manning each centre vaccinating 100 people a day. “We will also have to involve private hospitals and centres in the vaccination drive so that we can complete the process within stipulated deadlines,” another official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
07-01-2021||Opinion||Project P: Modi's Central Vista||The nod from the Supreme Court has removed the hurdles on the path of the Central Vista project. The Narendra Modi government is eager to portray the initiative — it includes a plan to build a new Parliament building — as one of its crowning achievements. In its response to petitions that had challenged the undertaking on account of such concerns as arbitrary changes to land use and the government’s alleged indifference to environment impact assessments, India’s highest court stuck to the legal technicalities of the matter at hand. The two judges who delivered the majority judgment found no infirmities in the approvals that had been granted by the powers that be. The court was also prudent enough to reiterate the boundaries between the judiciary and the executive, saying that it had been “called upon... to venture into territories that are way beyond the contemplated powers of a constitutional court”. However, it must be borne in mind that the judgment was not unanimous. The dissenting judge raised serious objections, arguing that several statutory provisions had been ignored in spite of public reservations. The criticism is likely to take some of the sheen off Mr Modi’s enterprise. The apex court’s prioritization of environmental concerns must be welcomed. It has also reminded the petitioners that enquiring into the priorities of an elected government is not the court’s concern. The proverbial doubting Thomases — their tribe continues to swell — however, are not obliged to honour such probities. There is bound to be concern with the Centre’s priorities when an elected dispensation deems it fit to spend Rs 20,000 crore on the Central Vista while remaining tightfisted when it comes to alleviate the economic sufferings of the poor, the migrants as well as of small enterprises. Monetary relief remains a pipe dream for these constituencies; there have also been cuts in the allowances of India’s brave soldiers, the Congress has pointed out. The project, critics suggest, is also rich in a dark symbolism: that of a pluralist, representative India making way for an ambitious but far less inclusive or tolerant nation. It is now up to Mr Modi and his party to dispel these doubts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
07-01-2021||Opinion||Shaky Indian start-up ecosystem||Narendra Modi has a peculiar penchant for fustian bluster. He said Indian start-ups of today would become the multinationals of tomorrow. Sloganeering is glib; it is much harder to deliver on a gilded dream. Start-ups have had a pretty messy ride in India because the government has not been able to create a nurturing ecosystem. The biggest challenge for a start-up is the compulsion to raise funds to scale up operations as young investors slog through the Sisyphean task of meeting exacting milestones to bag investors. This creates enormous pressure on young managements, which tend to work within a collegial atmosphere of brainstorming and camaraderie, to focus on outcomes and valuations. The fear of failure and the frustration of grappling with whimsical policy pronouncements and taxation issues continue to snuff out dreams of creating India’s response to a Facebook or an Amazon. Venture Intelligence, the research and analysis firm that tracks developments in the start-up space closely, estimates that India has 36 Unicorns at present. Unicorns are start-ups that have achieved a valuation of over $1 billion, determined by multiple rounds of funding. Flipkart — acquired by Walmart — stands at top of the heap with a valuation of $21 billion. It has still some way to go before it becomes a multinational. There can also be quibbles over whether it has retained its ‘Indian’ character after the exit of its original founders, raising questions about India’s ability to throw up its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos who can battle through challenges and retain control to ensure the firm hews close to its original vision. Funding for start-ups comes mainly from investors in the United States of America and China. The pandemic and the frosty relations with Beijing mean that there is no clarity over whether start-ups will continue to be able to source funds from Chinese investors. Last September, the parliamentary standing committee on finance published a report that made suggestions on how to reduce dependence on overseas capital by creating a pool of funds that could be funnelled to Indian start-ups. The Centre has not made things easy for start-ups with its tax policies. The parliamentary committee report said that the government should abolish the long-term capital gains tax on investments in start-ups for two years, after which a securities transaction tax could be imposed based on fair market valuation in the case of collective investment vehicles that route money into start-ups. Many start-up founders have been dismayed by India’s tax and bureaucratic hurdles and considered ‘flipping’ their corporate structures by creating holding companies in benign regulatory regimes like Singapore and the Netherlands. Several have transferred their intellectual property — the precious asset at the heart of any start-up — to these holding companies. Bureaucratic nitpicking over transfer pricing guidelines and the fierce determination to tax any transaction involving shares and IP wreck the environment, fanning the exodus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
07-01-2021||Opinion||Digital Bharat in federal India||The Bengal government has cancelled its authorization of the Common Service Centres (Tathya Mitra Kendras) that rendered online services to citizens against the realization of user charges. Instead, it has set up the Bangla Sahayata Kendra to provide digital services to people free of cost. Citizens can reportedly access all schemes of the state government through the BSK. The expenditure to set up and run the BSK centres will be borne by the state. The chief minister has urged people to visit BSKs instead of availing facilities on payment of user charges in CSCs sponsored by the Centre. The CSC project was envisaged by the United Progressive Alliance government to be implemented in a public-private-partnership model. The centres were to be run by tech-savvy, young entrepreneurs who would provide e-services to the rural population through a single delivery platform on payment of user charges. The bouquet of services included basic transactions of banks and post offices, payment of bills and insurance premiums, booking of travel tickets, access to e-forms, e-Nagarik and e-District services — birth/death certificates, caste/domicile certificates, PAN card, voter card, Aadhaar card enrolment, downloading and printing — passport applications, e-courts and result services, income tax return filings and so on. The CSCs were also thought of to provide access to skill upgradation, cost effective health services to rural masses, notification for recruitments and provide expert advice on weather/soil information to the farmers. The revenue support to the CSCs was to be borne by the Central and the state governments. Impressed by the success of the CSC model in its formative years, the National Democratic Alliance government decided to expand the scheme to each of the 2,50,000 gram panchayats and included it as one of the mission modes projects under Digital India. However, the success of the scheme is crucially dependent on healthy federal relations. Whatever may be the compulsions of competitive politics in an election year, Bengal’s parallel initiative undermines the premise that CSCs would be dependent on support from different layers of government in an ideal federal environment. The new initiative of the Bengal government, even though it may provide some employment opportunities, will jeopardize the viability of the CSCs. Did the CSCs fulfil the expectations of the policymakers? Did any state board venture to use the CSCs to reach students at a time when schools are closed because of the pandemic? Did the state health department explore the possibility of using CSCs for providing skeletal healthcare services to the rural population? There is always scope for introspection. Attempts were made to turn village entrepreneurs into banking correspondents of some private banks. Under this arrangement, the CSC was to function as the business facilitator of the bank to promote financial inclusion in rural areas. But there has been no visible impact of such efforts. Although the CSC model was not developed exclusively for rural areas, its impacts are mainly in gramin Bharat. If the CSC is to grow, it must ride piggyback on the rural postal network. Nearly 88 per cent of post offices in India are rural branch offices manned by gramin dak sevaks, who are well-versed in operating smartphones and hand-held devices connected to remote servers. Willing gramin branch postmasters must be roped in on a war-footing to provide services through the CSC portal outside their usual working hours in the post office. There is absolutely no point in having CSC in the departmental post offices that are mostly in the urban areas. The integration of gramin dak sevaks in the CSC system will lead to the expansion of CSC infrastructure and provide dak sevaks with a supplementary source of income. There was a time when trade unions and certain political parties were opposed to any form of computerization in offices. But the people’s perspective started changing, at least in urban areas, with the computerization of the railway reservation system. The computerization of the post office has had a similar effect. More than 26 crore digital transactions took place, involving an amount of Rs 30,473 crore, through hand-held devices in little more than a year. Admittedly, internet connectivity remains a concern in nearly 18 per cent of Indian villages. But if the CSC were to tie up effectively with the rural postal network, the two together may emerge as the engine of change in gramin Bharat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
07-01-2021||Opinion||Man for change||As India approaches yet another Republic Day, the political agenda — or, to be more accurate, the agenda that is projected as overriding by the media — is dominated by the issue of reforms. This is not unique. Since 1991, when an India crippled by political and economic mismanagement decided to change course — in the management of the national economy at least — the political agenda has been dictated by divergent attitudes to change. True, this was always the case since the first general election of 1951-52. The post-1991 difference was that unlike the era of total Congress dominance, competitive politics had evolved to the point where alternatives and options were available to the electorate at both the state and national levels. The stir that is being witnessed in and around the national capital, Delhi, with farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh teaming up with professional agitators has, predictably, attracted huge attention. Unlike the stereotype of ‘peasant’ agitations that fuelled the romantic imagination of an earlier generation, the protesters aren’t from the lowest and most impoverished sections of society. If the analysis of the economist, Surjit Bhalla, is to be believed, the sight of wizened old men and feisty ladies shivering in the winter rain but determined to fight for their entitlements is real but also deceptive. Using official data, Bhalla has reinforced the impression that the movement being witnessed on the electronic media isn’t really born of economic desperation but stems from a dogged defence of existing privileges. It is, in short, a movement against reforms. According to Bhalla, the top 2 lakh farmers of Punjab and Haryana have incomes that are among the top 8 per cent. More significant, the top 20,000 farmers have incomes that are in the top 2 per cent. Apart from the fact that agricultural income is free of income tax, wheat farmers enjoy a higher rate of return than rice farmers. Using data from the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the economist has calculated that “an average rice-farmer in India gets a return of 90% over costs excluding family labour; an average wheat farmer obtains a return of 161%.” Furthermore, the profits are markedly different across regions. “The Punjab farmer has the lowest cost of production, about 75% of average for wheat, and 59% of all-India average for paddy. The yields are also higher, with the net result that the Punjab-Haryana large farmer... earns Rs 1.25 lakh a year per ha from cultivation of wheat and paddy.” Additionally, the average holding of the 1,97,000 top farmers in Punjab and Haryana is 6.3 hectares. At “Rs 1.25 lakhs per hectare, this translates into an annual tax-free income of Rs 7.9 lakhs.” The largest farmers, with holdings of 12.6 hectares on an average, are estimated to have agricultural income of approximate Rs 15.75 lakh annually. The fact that those protesting on the Delhi border aren’t exactly peasants engaged in subsistence farming — as nearly 90 per cent of agriculturists in West Bengal are — does not necessarily make this movement illegitimate or less worthy of national attention. It has about the same measure of significance as the protests of diamond traders and cloth merchants in Gujarat against the goods and services tax prior to the Gujarat assembly election of 2017. The social character of the agitation, however, explains a few things. First, it explains why the movement is confined to what was once referred to as the Green Revolution tract. In other parts of India, where smaller farmers have the means of securing the minimum support price for wheat and rice, there is a natural attraction for the deregulation of the market and liberation from the middlemen who are the only real beneficiaries of the old APMC Act. The enacted reforms are also likely to spur investments in agro-industries, including cold storages. These investments have, so far, been patchy owing to earlier restrictions against ‘hoarding’ — restrictions that were put in place during the era of food shortages. Secondly, the support extended to the agitating farmers by a galaxy of economists who had earlier been pressing on governments to undertake the most challenging of economic reforms may seem puzzling. It confirms that the objection is less to the song than the singer. This may explain why a substantial body of the orphaned Left has rallied behind a cause that in earlier decades would have been debunked as kulak. The intellectual support for the agitation is intimately connected with the fact that — for reasons of its own — the Narendra Modi government has effected a tectonic shift in the composition of ‘experts’ whose views it values. Finally, the ongoing agitation, it is clear, is an instrument to put the Modi government on the back foot. This, again, is a natural goal of the Opposition, which is yet to fully recover from the drubbing it received in the 2019 general election. The Opposition had begun 2020 by instigating what was essentially a Muslim revolt against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. This fulfilled a short-term function during the Delhi assembly election that the Bharatiya Janata Party lost miserably but its all-India objective was stymied by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the lockdown and its immediate aftermath, there was also an attempt to use the panic among migrant workers for partisan ends. However, this too had limited success, as was evident from the absence of any backlash during the Bihar assembly election the Opposition Grand Alliance hoped it would win but lost narrowly. The farmer’s agitation in Punjab and Haryana is another roll of the dice. The calculation is that if Modi steps back, it will have a knock-on effect and reduce its appetite for future reforms. And, if the reforms come to a screeching halt, the Modi government will lose its momentum and merely go through the motions for the rest of its second term. The extent to which the prime minister has become a personal target for those who seek to put the quest for political power above reforms should not be underestimated. Whereas earlier governments had tried to manage reforms through stealth, Modi has expended his enormous political capital, particularly his image as a man of unimpeachable integrity, to accelerate the pace of change in India. Whether it is the expansion of banking services to reach the lowest layers of Indian society, managing the hiccups resulting from the introduction of GST and enlarging the quantum of tax compliance through a combination of carrot and stick, the prime minister has pushed through reforms relentlessly, believing that he has the political mandate to usher change. Nor has he been afraid of the political fracas that invariably results from change. Whether as chief minister in Gujarat and now as prime minister, he has a fanatical appetite to take risks in pursuit of a worthwhile objective. He has confronted challenges headlong, even if it has involved local difficulties — be it in Gujarat after the imposition of GST, in Assam and West Bengal after the CAA, and in coping with the understandable fear of rich farmers over losing their comfort zone. Modi, it would seem, has repeatedly threatened the cosy world of those who are comfortable in an unchanging realm where stagnation and political status quo go hand in hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Statewide dry run for Covid vaccination on Friday||Jharkhand is set to conduct its second round of dry run of Covid-19 vaccination protocols on Friday with state health minister Banna Gupta assuring Union health minister Harsh Vardhan that infrastructure and personnel arrangements were in order for the roll out of the immunisation campaign in the state. “We have identified about 1.25 lakh priority beneficiaries for the first phase of vaccination in the state. An equal number of syringes have been readied and health workers will get the doses in the first phase. For smooth execution, over 7,000 volunteers have been empanelled across the state and as many as 1,672 vaccination centres have already been identified and prepared. We are only waiting for a formal go ahead from the government and vaccine stocks, Gupta told Vardhan at a video conference on Thursday. Gupta said Jharkhand had performed well with the state recording high recoveries and low mortality compared to national rates. Later in the day, chief minister Hemant Soren took stock of the health department’s preparedness for Friday’s dry run, which health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said would be held in all 24 districts at 188 health centres. The first dry run in Jharkhand on January 2 was conducted in six districts, namely, Ranchi, Pakur, Simdega, Palamau, East Singbhum and Chatra involving 325 health workers. For Friday’s drill over 1,500 people would be involved. “We will cover all aspects of the vaccination covering transport and logistics to vaccine administration, crowd control and supervision,” said an official in the vaccination task force. He said special attention would be given to handling of the Co-Win app devised for the Covid-19 immunisation programme since it is to be operated on real time basis. “The Co-Win app will be the central platform for tracking the entire vaccination drive right from Centre to states and district levels. Hence, its usage will be key for ensuring a transparent vaccination programme. Equally important will be uninterrupted power and internet back-up to run the application for which all districts have been asked to keep alternative sources ready in case of glitches,” he added. Kulkarni said 99.89 lakh people had been identified so far in Jharkhand and put on various priority lists for administering the vaccine. “In the first phase about 1.25 lakh health workers will be given the vaccine, followed by about 2 lakh frontline workers comprising police, home guard jawans, civic body officials, disaster management officials, among others. Thereafter, 33.43 lakh people in the 50-plus age group with comorbidities will be given the vaccine followed by 62.97 lakh people in the 50-plus age group (without comorbidities),” he said. All beneficiaries would be provided digitised vaccination certificates. On cold storage facilities, Kulkarni said that 275 storage points had been earmarked in the state. “Besides one state and two regional warehouses, storage facilities have been set up in every district and at 248 community health centres across the state,” he said. In Ranchi, deputy commission Chhavi Ranjan also held a meeting with health officials and representatives of private hospitals in the morning. Civil surgeon V.B. Prasad said the purpose of calling representatives of private hospitals and nursing homes was to keep them in the loop and apprise them of standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre for the Covid-19 vaccine programme. “In future, we will also require support from the private health sector when the vaccination programme is carried out among the masses,” he said. Prasad said Friday’s dry run would be held across the state. “Sadar hospital and all community and primary health centres in Ranchi will hold dry runs tomorrow (Friday),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasaba condemns attack on chief minister’s convoy||Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasaba (JJM), a conglomeration of rights body, on Thursday condemned the attack on chief minister’s convoy on Monday evening and also appealed to the government to curb the rising incidents of sexual violence in the state. JMM said the violent attack on the CM’s convoy also showed the failure of police administration at large. Demanding the state government to take action in the alleged rape and murder case of a young girl in Ormajhi, whose body was recovered on Sunday, JMM has suggested to prepare a comprehensive strategy after a public discussion to curb sexual violence in the state. “The strategy can include improvements in law and order situation, training on gender equality and justice in educational institutions and government agencies and so on,” it said. “Violence against women continues unabated in Jharkhand. The recent incident of rape and beheading of a woman in Ormajhi has exposed this once again. Even after three days, the police are yet to identify the culprits. This incident also raises serious questions on the law and order situation in the state. It is worrying that despite the formation of a Jharkhandi government, violence against women has not yet reduced. Five rape cases per day (on average) have been reported in 2020 as compared to an average of four cases per day in 2019,” it added in a statement. The BJP Yuva Morcha had protested across the state on January 4 against the Ormanjhi incident, and in the same evening, the chief minister's convoy was stopped, stoned and vandalized by a mob at Kishoreganj chowk. “Many senior BJP leaders justified this attack as “violence by an angry public”. In a democracy, political opposition and protests demanding action from the state have their importance. But, the mob attack on the CM’s convoy in Ranchi and consequent justification by BJP leaders raises many serious questions,” it noted. The right’s body claimed that Manuwadi ideology is against the rights of women. “It is not surprising that right-wing forces which belief in Manuwad are raising the issue of violence on women in a violent, masculine and patriarchal manner,” it said, adding that such violence also increased widely in Jharkhand during the BJP’s double engine government at the Center and the state. “Lynching of Adivasis, Dalits and Muslims by mobs while chanting religious slogan is a glaring example. Today, the same mob opposed a tribal CM with religious slogans and hooliganism. The attack on the CM's convoy indicates the dissatisfaction of right-wing forces against Jharkhandi government based on the principles of Adivasi identity,” said JMM in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Minor girl rescued within four days of abduction by Facebook friend||Four days since the abduction of a 14-year-old girl by her Facebook friend from Dhanbad railway station, district police rescued her and arrested the accused, DSP headquarters Prakash Soy said on Thursday. Soy said the accused, identified as Bhuvanesh Tomar, 19, was arrested from his residence in Bulandshahar, Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday. He said the victim will be handed over to her family after a medical examination. The police said both Tomar and the victim have shared their numbers while chatting on Facebook. On Sunday, Tomar called her at Dhanbad railway station. When she came, he forcibly took her to Bulandshahar by train. The victim is a resident of Ramgarh district. Later, on the same day, the victim’s father had lodged an FIR with Gola police station. A case under section 363 and 366(A) IPC have been lodged against Tomar. A police team led by the DSP went to Bulandshahar to rescue the girl. Soy said, “The victim’s father had lodged an FIR with Gola police station on January 3. After getting the order from SP Ramgarh Prabhat Kumar, a police team went to Bulandshahar and rescued the girl.” He said, “We have sent the accused to Ramgarh Jail for trial.” Ramgarh police have arrested a member of an inter-state bike lifters gang and recovered a stolen motorcycle. The accused has been identified as Chandan Kumar, who is a resident of Gaya. Gola police inspector Santosh Kumar Gupta said they have stopped the bike during a routine check on Ranchi-Bokaro road. When Chandan failed to produce any papers, they have arrested him and seized the bike. Gupta said they have also recovered marijuana from his possession. During the interrogation, Chandan said he was about to sell the bike in Dhanbad. Gupta said they have filed a case against him under section 379/414 IPC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu: Birsa zoo collects samples for precautionary tests ||The state animal husbandry department collected swab samples of at least 30 birds of different species from the Birsa Munda Zoological Park in Ranchi on Thursday to test for avian influenza at the largest animal park in Jharkhand. “We are taking all necessary precautions to prevent the entry of bird flu in the zoo. Swab samples of birds from every cage were collected today (Thursday) for tests,” said zoo director Y.K. Das. “All bird cages are being cleaned regularly and entry of staff other than bird keepers has been restricted. We are also providing immunity-boosting medicines to the birds,” he added. The authorities at the Ranchi zoo have also started providing immunity boosters to more than 200 birds in the zoo in response to Tuesday’s state government  alert over H5N1 virus in all 24 districts after cases of bird flu were reported in parts of India. The zoo in Ranchi also houses large birds like ostriches and emus that need special care, said Das. The zoo administration, he explained, had to not only check the entry of bird flu in the zoo but also the transmission of the virus from birds to the staff working in the zoo. However, the fear of transmission of the virus from birds to visitors was minimum as the zoo has remained closed for visitors in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Das said. While no cases of bird flu have surfaced in Jharkhand so far, the animal husbandry department has sent samples of nearly 2,000 birds from different districts for tests to Calcutta, animal husbandry director Nancy Sahay said on Thursday. Carcasses of a few crows were found in Jamshedpur on Wednesday, and their samples had also been sent for tests. “The test results are awaited,” said Sahay. “We have sent samples of 1,977 birds for tests so far, and random testing in all the districts will continue in the days to come,” she added. Jharkhand had reported cases of bird flu in the past two years, but the virus only infected wild birds and not the poultry sector. While poultry birds are also being tested this time, the government has not imposed any restrictions on the sale of poultry products. The animal husbandry department has also asked commoners and poultry staff to maintain distance from birds that die suddenly and spot symptoms of the virus among birds in poultry farms and shops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||DGMS pledges to work towards betterment of nation||Directorate General of Mines Safety chief Prabhat Kumar on Thursday said that the organisation will work towards the development of the nation by utilising the Centre’s modernisation plan, as he addressed the 120th Foundation Day of the firm. Directorate General (officiating) of Mines Regulator was speaking at a formal event, which was attended by Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research director P.K Singh, as well as other DGMS officials including Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director (Central Zone); MK Malviya, Deputy Director (Electrical) and Snehlata Sethi, Deputy Director (Statistics). Talking to the media later on the sidelines of the event that highlighted the achievements of the organisation, Kumar said, “We will put our best effort to achieve the target fixed for us by the government.” “We will also try to come up to the expectations of the mining industry towards us,” he added. Kumar said they are highly indebted to their predecessors of the organisation, who have passed on a great legacy. “We assure the  people associated with the mining industry that we will continue to work hard to maintain the reputation of the organisation,” the DG said. He thanked the industries and other organisations that are associated with mining for helping in the strengthening of DGMS by providing them exposure. CIMFR director P.K Singh said that he “salutes” the hard work of the founders as well as other officers, employees and leaders of the organisation, who have served here at different points of time over 120 years. “It is due to the hard work of the employees, officers and leadership that the mining industry of the country is in secure hands,” Singh said, adding that the DGMS’ contribution in the sector is huge. “There is no doubt that the organisation is working continuously for the incessant development of the nation and we are thankful to them for not only maintaining but also contributing to the further flourishing of the rich legacy of the country,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||56-member squad chosen for national junior meet||A 56-member squad of boys and girls will represent Jharkhand in the 36th National Junior Athletics Championship to be held in Guwahati, Assam, between February 6 and February 10. The state squad also includes Lucky Kumari, the Seraikela girl who emerged as the fastest sprinter (under-18 age group) at the east zone junior athletics meet held in Guwahati last month. “I am looking forward to repeating my performance in the junior meet. I am confident and working hard,” Lucky (16), a trainee of Tata Steel Athletics Training Centre in Jamshedpur, said Jharkhand Athletics Association (JAA) has tried to give representation to almost all districts, keeping in mind that athletes were forced to sit idle for the most part of the year because of the pandemic. Their training schedule was also discontinued. Track and field athletes from East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Deogarh, Sahebganj, Gumla, Koderma, Giridih and Lohardaga have found place in the state squad. Cadets of Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society (JSSPS) have also been selected. The state association has planned a camp in Ranchi later this month. “A training camp is essential for keeping our athletes in good shape  in the lead up to the Guwahati championship. A good number of our athletes have claimed medals in national-level competitions and we want them to achieve more success. We will announce the dates of the camp in due course of time,” a JAA official said. “We are optimistic about a good show from our athletes who helped Jharkhand finish runners-up in the zonal junior meet. The athletes are fit and keen to display their prowess in Guwahati, an official said. According to him, the selected athletes will have to take along their RTPCR test reports with them in Guwahati. The athletes will also have to carry their date of birth certificates and address proof documents. “The original copy of RTPCR test report will be verified at the competition venue. All Covid-related precautions are being taken,” said JAA secretary CD Singh. Sanjay Ghosh and Shailesh Verma will accompany the boys and girls to Guwahati as coach and manager, respectively. The team will be assembled in Ranchi before leaving for Guwahati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Man wanted for attack on CM’s convoy surrenders||Bhariav Singh, a prime accused in the case concerning the attack on the pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren’s convoy at Kishoreganj chowk on Monday evening surrendered in Ranchi civil court on Thursday noon after which he was sent to 14-day judicial custody. Singh was among the 72 named in the FIR in the case. Ranchi police have been conducting raids since the last two days to nab culprits named in the case of rioting on the basis of CCTV footage. On Thursday, however, Singh appeared before the court of justice Abhishek Prasad and surrendered. On Monday evening, massive anti-government protests erupted at Kishoreganj on VIP Road in Harmu for deteriorating law and order after the headless body of a young girl was recovered in Ormanjhi the day before. During the protest, some turned rogue and resorted to vandalism. A police constable was also injured as a result. Talking to reporters at court premises after the surrender, Singh said, “No one intended to attack the CM’s convoy. In fact, I, along with others, participated in the protest to fight for justice for a young girl who was abused and killed in a brutal manner in Ormanjhi.” Singh, according to police sources, is associated with a rightwing outfit. But they would not confirm speculation that Singh was linked to the Bajrang Dal in Ranchi. Police said close to 30 people had been arrested since Tuesday in connection with the attack on the CM’s entourage. On Wednesday, DGP M.V. Rao also suspended officer in-charges of Sukhdevnagar and Kotwali police stations after criticism that the violence exposed poor security arrangements in the Jharkhand capital at a time when the Opposition BJP has been criticising the government for “growing lawlessness” across the state. Police are yet to make a breakthrough in the murder case. They have failed to establish the identity of the girl even after announcing a reward of Rs 50,000 for any information that may help crack the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||DVC outages prompt hard coke factory owners to petition Centre||More than 75 hard coke factory owners of the coal belt have written to the Centre against DVC, accusing the power utility of arm-twisting industrial consumers by resorting to prolonged power cuts in the name of recovering dues. On Thursday, their representative outfit, the Industries and Commerce Association, wrote to the Union Minister of State (independent charge) of Power, New and Renewable Energy, Raj Kumar Singh, pointing out that the regular power outage being resorted to by DVC was affecting industrial production and leading to massive financial losses. The chief of the association B.N. Singh equated the power cuts carried out by DVC to the behavior of a traditional money lender who uses threats to recover money. “This is highly unbecoming of a corporation which is supposed to be a model organisation,” said Singh in his letter. He added that resorting to power cuts puts all kinds of hardships on residents of Jharkhand who were also a part and parcel of the country, enjoying the same rights as that of people in other states. “The same applies to industrial units and corporations in the state for whom long hours of  power cuts cause massive disruption in the production process which ultimately affects economic development and growth of India,” said Singh. Objecting over the techniques being used by DVC against Jharkhand, where majority of its units are situated, Singh said, “Damodar Valley Corporation runs with coal from Jharkhand in a big way and its production unit is also based here. It is highly illogical that if a state government is not able to pay the dues of another government-owned company, the people of the state are made to suffer on this pretext.” “It seems as if Damodar Valley Corporation  is an entity that is independent of any control and can do anything it wants,” Singh said in his letter, adding that there are more civilised ways of recovering dues from a state, rather than resorting to arm twisting and threats that are usually done by unlawful elements. “The association seeks your intervention at the earliest at to take up the matter with Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) as well as the state government and sort out the problems amicably by arbitrating under the ambit of law rather than threatening a duly elected state government and punishing the people of the state who are caught in the crossfire,” Singh said in his letter. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Singh added, “At a time when hard coke factories are already passing through a difficult phase due to recession caused by the pandemic and lack of sufficient supply of quality coal by Coal India, long hours of power cuts will further affect our future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi's Covid cases keep rising as fresh infections outnumber recoveries||More than half of the people found infected by Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Wednesday were residents of Ranchi – a district that alone reported over 100 cases of infection on the day. As per government data, at least 104 of the state’s 194 fresh cases of infection were reported from Ranchi. The district also reported one of the two Covid deaths in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the Covid-19 toll in Ranchi up at 221 and that in Jharkhand to 1040, revealed a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). Ranchi was the only district in Jharkhand to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. Meanwhile, Dhanbad reported one more Covid-19 casualty on the day, taking the toll there to 106. While at least five districts did not report even a single case of infection, as many as 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases. As per government data, East Singhbhum and Bokaro reported 15 cases each, while 17 people were found infected in Dhanbad. Fresh cases outnumbered recoveries on the day, taking the number of active cases up at 1449, highlighted the NHM bulletin. Only 165 patients recovered on the day against the 194 fresh cases. The number of active cases shot up in Ranchi too as the district reported 104 fresh cases against 82 recoveries, the NHM bulletin further stated. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 17144 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 48.99 lakh people and tested 48.85 lakh of them. The Covid tally in the state, as per government data, was 116034. However, more than 97 per cent of the patients have recovered from the infection so far. As per government data, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.85 per cent against the national average of 96.40 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.44 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the NHM bulletin, it would take at least 608 days for the Covid-19 cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 462.86 days. The cases of infection grew at the rate of 0.11 per cent in Jharkhand in the past one week. The growth rate in India was 0.15 per cent during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
07-01-2021||Jharkhand||No ambulance, body towed on stretcher||Policemen had to tow the body of a road accident victim on a stretcher for over 1.5km from a health centre to the police station in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district in the early hours of Wednesday. According to report, a Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) employee, Rameshwar Ram, was returning home from duty around midnight along National Highway 33 when a truck hit him while he was trying to cross a roundabout near Government Middle School in Mandu, killing him on the spot. After the mishap, Mandu police took his body to the Community Health Centre in Mandu where the doctors declared him brought dead. However, the health centre could not provide an ambulance for taking the body to the police station for completing the formalities and then taking it for post-mortem to Ramgarh Sadar Hospital, around 20km from where the incident took place. The area is around 70km north of state capital Ranchi. After waiting for several minutes, the police personnel took the stretcher on which the body was laid and tied it to their vehicle (an SUV) and towed it to the police station, over 1.5km from the health centre, during the night to the surprise of all locals. The body was shifted to the Sadar Hospital in Ramgarh on Wednesday morning in an ambulance for post-mortem. Ramgarh superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar said he had learned about the incident. “I have come to know about the issue and ordered a probe to be carried out by Ramgarh subdivisional police officer Anuj Oraon on the factors which led to such an inhumane incident,” he said. Police officers, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that they had no alternative but to use a stretcher to tow the body which was in a very bad shape. “The body was in a very bad shape after the mishap and we requested for an ambulance several times but the doctor on duty expressed helplessness. We could have carried the body in our jeep had it been in a better condition. We had no alternative but to tow it on the stretcher to our police station,” said a policeman. Several attempts to contact Ramgarh civil surgeon Dr Neelam Choudhary on her phone went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-181
