08-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav Ganguly fit and fine||Sourav Ganguly outside Woodlands Hospital on Thursday, moments before he left for home. The former Indian cricket captain was admitted to the hospital on Saturday after suffering a heart attack. “Now I am absolutely fine. Hopefully, I will be ready to fly soon,” Sourav, 48, said after walking out of the hospital. “I thank Woodlands Hospital, the doctors and nurses for taking care of me.” Woodlands officials said one of the doctors, who was in the team that treated Sourav, accompanied him to his house. The doctor will call on him every day. A cardiac monitor to check his heart has been kept at his home. On Saturday, a stent was implanted in Sourav’s right coronary artery. There are blockages in two more coronary arteries, for which angioplasty will be performed later. “There were two challenges, meeting the expectations of fans and well-wishers and the responsibility to provide clinical care,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||JEE-Advanced exam to be held on July 3||The JEE-Advanced exam for admission to the 23 IITs across the country will be held on July 3 (Saturday). The announcement came from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, that will conduct the examination this year. The date was fixed at a meeting of the IIT Joint Admission Board on December 31. The mode of the examination will be announced in a day or two, an official of IIT Kharagpur said. Debashish Chakravarty, the organising chairman, JEE-Advanced 2021, said: “On July 3, the first paper of JEE-Advanced will start at 9am and end at noon. The second paper will be held from 2.30pm to 5.30pm.” A statement issued by IIT Kharagpur says that in 2021, apart from India, JEE (Advanced) centres are likely to be set up in Dubai, Dhaka, Kathmandu and Singapore. “The admission board decided that the final decision on conduct of examination at foreign center(s), if at all, will depend on the prevailing conditions at the time of JEE-Advanced 2021,” the statement reads. V.K. Tewari, the director of IIT Kharagpur and chairman of the admission board, said: “While the candidates might have missed the usual preparation and probably been in a more disadvantageous situation compared to those who appeared for the examination in 2020, looking at the aspirant community as a whole, the competition would remain the same considering the crème de la crème who will be appearing in the examination.” The board will shortlist 2,50,000 students (from all categories) from JEE-Main, who will appear in the JEE-Advanced. In 2020, IIT Delhi was the organising institute for JEE-Advanced in which a total number of 1,60,838 candidates registered for the exam. About 43,204 candidates qualified JEE-Advanced. The total intake was approximately 16,061. The figure is likely to remain the same. IIT Kharagpur had last organised JEE Advanced in2014. The board has decided to shortlist two lakh fifty thousand (250,000) students (including all categories) from JEE-Main to appear for JEE- advanced).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police commissioner lauds saviour of EM Bypass molest victim||Police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Thursday met the couple who had helped a molest victim on the EM Bypass in September. Nilanjana Chatterjee and her husband Deep Satpati were assured of all cooperation from the police. Sharma met the couple at the headquarters of the Calcutta police in Lalbazar and praised Chatterjee’s bravery. Close to midnight on September 5, a 31-year-old woman was allegedly molested by an acquaintance inside his car on EM Bypass and then thrown out. Nilanjana, who was travelling in another car with her husband and their daughter, had responded to the cry for help from inside the car and got off to help the victim, a bank employee. She was left with a fractured leg and gash in the head when the alleged assailant’s Honda City hit her during his hasty bid to flee. Police submitted a chargesheet against Abhishek Pandey, the accused, in October. He has been charged with attempt to murder, outrage of modesty of a woman, voluntarily causing hurt, rash and negligent driving, causing grievous hurt by doing a rash and negligent act so as to endanger human life or personal safety of others as the charges. If convicted, Pandey can be sent to jail for up to 10 years. “The police commissioner met us and assured us of all help. He even called the joint police commissioner (crime) and instructed him to find out the status of the case,” Satpati said. Senior officers in Calcutta police said Sharma was down with Covid when the incident happened and couldn’t meet Chatterjee and her family. Sharma, though, had called her up and congratulated her for her act of bravery. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had saluted Nilanjana’s bravery. The state government had paid all her medical expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Unity cry marks Park Circus vigil anniversary||Cries of “Hindusthan Zindabad” and “Awaaz do, sab ek ho (lend your voice, all of you be one)” rang through the evening air in Park Circus on Thursday after many months. The slogans came from a rally led by women against the citizenship regime and farm laws, which started from Mullickbazar and culminated in Park Circus. On January 7 last year, a small group of women started a 24X7 vigil against the citizenship thrust at the Park Circus Maidan. Slogans of amity and communal harmony, rising from the makeshift stage, were audible at every nook and corner of Park Circus every day. The vigil, the longest after Shaheen Bagh, was halted by the pandemic after completing 83 days. On January 7 a year later, some women who were at the forefront of the demonstration organised a rally, this time against the NRC-NPR-CAA combine as well as the new farm laws. The rally was attended by over 100 people — men, women and members of the LGBTQ community. Though not huge in terms of size, the marchers were upbeat and vocal. “The Park Circus movement was a defining moment in our lives. So many other demonstrations started in Calcutta inspired by Park Circus. The pandemic could not have come at a worse time,” said Sabina Rizvi, a homemaker who walked in the rally on Thursday. “The divisive forces have not been idle during the Covid-19 pandemic. They have jailed dissenters and brought more black laws. It is high time we hit the streets.” Sukhnandan Singh Ahluwalia, 80, had a prostate surgery in October. But he walked the full stretch on Thursday. “Over 50 people have died at the Singhu border. The government is busy convening one fruitless meeting after another. The lack of empathy is stark,” said Ahluwalia, a Mominpore resident who used to visit the Park Circus Maidan regularly when the vigil was on. Many marchers were carrying posters demanding the release of political prisoners — from Varvara Rao to Umar Khalid. Dipti Lahiri, 70, was walking at the tail of the rally, holding on to a poster of Khalid. “Umar is a brave young man with unflinching love for his country. He is having to go through so much at this age but his spirit is unbroken,” said Lahiri, whose daughter is a friend of Khalid. Asmat Jamil, who had started the Park Circus vigil along with a handful of other women, spoke at the culmination of the rally. All along the rally, she was bound to a wheelchair. Jamil had taken ill and had to travel to Mumbai for treatment in mid-March last year. “We had started the rally with only a few people. But with time, our impact was felt across Bengal. Similarly, today’s rally is just a fresh start. We will scale up our movement in the coming days. We want Gandhi’s India, not Savarkar’s,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Interest-free loans to restart lives||Some of the small roadside traders left penniless during the lockdown have been able to restart their businesses months later with interest-free loans. Many of them — including a woman who sells paratha and sabzi and another woman who sells fritters — took interest-free loans between Rs 2,000 and Rs 10,000 to get their lives back on track. They are repaying the loans from their everyday earnings, which had been reduced to zero in the months after the lockdown was announced as a precaution against Covid-19. Most of them had exhausted their savings to survive during the lockdown and had nothing left to restart their business with, however small. The traders think the interest-free loans, from the NGO Calcutta Social Project, have restored their “self respect” but helping them start their journey towards self-reliance afresh. Anita Nath, who took a loan of Rs 6,000, re-started her roadside stall of paratha and sabzi two months back and has paid back Rs 1,000 so far. “Business is not what it used to be before March. But at least I am able to make some money. On good days the sale goes up to Rs 100,” said Nath, who has been running the stall for nine years. Nath dreads to think about the lockdown days when she had “no money”. She would get up at 5am to sell tea outside her house, but would hardly get any customer. “I am better off now because of the loan. I need to repay,” she said. Many of the traders were wary of taking loans, however small the amount or even if it was interest free. For Jhuma Sardar, in her 60s, taking a loan of even Rs 2,000 for her ghugni stall was not easy. When the head of Calcutta Social Project asked her if she needed more to invest, Sardar’s response was a vehement no. “I have never taken a loan in my life. Let me pay back,” she said. Sardar’s husband is ailing and has been paralysed since suffering a stroke. The NGO started giving interest-free loans in September, by handing over money to two people in economic distress about whom Metro had written. Till now, 62 people have been given loans. The “repayment ethics” among small traders, Calcutta Social Project president Arjun Dutta said, is “high”. “We were not into micro-lending. We found many of them needed small amounts to restart their businesses, which would help them survive. About 97 per cent of them have already started repaying,” Dutta said. Anyone whose business was affected directly by the lockdown and who had “lost turnover” is eligible for a loan from the NGO. “It should be an existing business, and not something new that they want to start,” said Dutta. The NGO rejected some applications because Dutta and his team realised that the money would not be used to fund business but to repay the loans the applicants had taken during the crisis. Shyamal Pal sold tea and snacks and used to make “good business” before March. Then came Covid and his life collapsed. All that Pal needed was Rs 5,000 and he is “back in business”. Meghnath Mondal, a vegetable seller, said: “I did not have enough money to buy a cycle or a van to carry vegetables to neighbourhoods. I was not in a position to take a loan with a high rate of interest,” said Mondal, who has paid back Rs 1,000 of the Rs 7,000 he took from the NGO. Calcutta Social Project has so far disbursed Rs 3.90 lakh. “Even with a few de-faulters, we will have a substantial sum to provide loans to more people,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University admission effect on tech colleges||Jadavpur University’s decision to fill 487 BTech seats through an independent admission process has left several other engineering colleges down the ladder worried. Once JU opened its door, many of them lost their students to it. Now, at least one of the colleges wants a separate window to fill up seats. Kalyani Government Engineering College has applied for a window to admit students independently (not through any centralised counselling). Many others have to follow suit if they want to fill their vacant seats. The Kalyani college has appealed to the state technology university to extend the deadline for registration so that it could fill 100 seats that fell vacant after JU held its own counselling to fill up 487 vacant seats in late December, an official of the college said. Sourav Das, the principal of the college, said if the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology extended the period of registration, which ended on January 4, they could fill up the seats from a panel of waitlisted candidates. The college has 315 seats. One in three is vacant. The vacant seats are in five disciplines — computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, information technology, electronics and communication engineering and mechanical engineering. “It seems many of our enrolled students have joined JU,” Das said. A number of seats at Jalpaiguri Government Engineering College, too, fell vacant after JU conducted decentralised counselling. “Around 60 seats are now vacant,” said Amitava Ray, the principal of the college, which has 360 seats. The college has yet to decide on approaching the university about the vacant seats. Sources in the university said vacancies had cropped up at the government engineering colleges in Purulia and Cooch Behar. Calcutta University, too, has conducted independent counselling, to fill 89 seats, but the exodus from the various colleges was mostly triggered by JU’s counselling, sources in the tech university said. The state government had on December 1 allowed engineering institutions to conduct independent counselling because on an average 60 per cent of the BTech seats remained vacant after a three-phased centralised counselling. Saikat Maitra, the vice-chancellor of the tech university, said: “We have so far received an application from Kalyani Government Engineering College for extending the deadline for registration. No decision has yet been taken.” The university is expecting other government colleges to come up with similar proposals. “Since the UGC… has said second-year classes would have to start in August, extension of the registration process could come in the way of meeting the deadline”, said an official of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
08-01-2021||Calcutta||New Town pavements will have plastic||Broken plastic toys, used plastic buckets and plastic bags, among other things, will go into the making of paver blocks that will be used to construct walkways in New Town. The New Town authorities have decided to start using plastic waste collected from homes, offices and commercial establishments to make paver blocks in a bid to recycle plastic, which is otherwise extremely difficult to dispose of. An official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), which looks after civic amenities of the township, said they had given the go-ahead for a trial run, as part of which plastic items will be collected from the Patharghata landfill site, where the township's waste is dumped every day. The collected plastic pieces will be mixed with sand and stone chip dust. Plastic will comprise around 70 per cent of the mix, the official said. “Molten plastic will be added to the fine mix to make high-strength paver blocks,” the official said. According to the official, using plastic in paver blocks has another advantage - such blocks soak up less water when it rains compared with conventional blocks. As they absorb less water, they can last longer than the ones that don't have plastic in their mix. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they wanted to launch the project in a bid to upcycle plastic, which is considered to be one of the most challenging materials in solid waste management because they are extremely hard to disintegrate. “We will conduct strength testing of the blocks followed by a trial run,” said Sen. Once the blocks clear the strength test, another NKDA official said, they will be used to construct pavements as well as lay walkways in the parks of New Town. Metro had in November reported that the asphalt to be used in repair or construction of New Town roads would be mixed with plastic waste in an attempt to reduce the volume of such waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine venue should be nearest to address, health officials tell CMC||Recipients of Covid-19 vaccines should be able to get their shots at the site nearest to the address they will provide, health department officials told Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) representatives at a meeting to review vaccination preparedness on Thursday. The CMC has to hand over to the health department a complete list of all healthcare and frontline staff working with it by Saturday. The Centre has prepared a digital platform, Co-Win, where one has to register to get a Covid vaccine. There will be no on-the-spot registration. The Indian Medical Association will prepare a list of private practitioners in Calcutta and send it to the health department. The department will then register the private practitioners on the Co-Win platform, said a CMC official. The CMC is also sending copies of a form to private practitioners, which they need to fill in and mail scanned copies to an ID mentioned in the document to get registered for vaccination. An SMS will be sent to the registered mobile number of a recipient, mentioning the venue, date and time of the vaccination. “We have been asked to register the names of recipients so they are allotted a vaccination centre closest to the address mentioned,” said a CMC doctor who attended Thursday’s meeting. Sources said the CMC’s doctors and officials were told at the meeting that the health department as of now was planning to start the vaccination drive at teaching hospitals. “This is a new vaccine and we do not know what could be the adverse reactions, which is why this drive will begin from hospitals. Anyone developing adverse reactions can be admitted to the hospital immediately,” the CMC doctor said. The vaccination guidelines published by the Union health ministry say every recipient will have to wait for 30 minutes in an observation room after he or she is administered a vaccine. A vaccination officer will observe the recipient. If there are no reactions, the person will be allowed to go after 30 minutes. The CMC doctor said if a recipient is allotted the vaccination venue closest to the address mentioned, he or she can go back to the site and seek help at the earliest if some adverse reactions develop after the 30-minute window. Another CMC doctor asked officials at the meeting if healthcare workers will have the option of not taking the vaccine. “The health department officials said that anyone can refuse to take the vaccine,” said a CMC official. “We were also told that there would be a gap of 28 days between the two doses.” A dry run of vaccination will be conducted at three sites in Calcutta — NRS Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital and CMC’s health clinic in ward 31 — on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||April vaccine hope for people above 50||The process of Covid-19 vaccination for those above 50 and those younger but with comorbidities will possibly begin in end-March or early April, health department officials said, adding a crucial rider. The timeline can only be realised if Bengal continues to receive a steady flow of vaccines over the next few months and adequately increases the number of vaccination centres. To expedite the process of vaccination, the state health department is planning to involve private hospitals in the process. A senior official of the health department said they were ready to use some private hospitals as vaccination sites if they agreed to vaccinate healthcare workers in their areas who were not associated with the units. “We will allow private hospitals to be used as vaccination sites on some conditions. They cannot stop vaccination after vaccinating their own doctors and other healthcare workers. They must agree to vaccinate other healthcare workers not associated with their hospitals but live closeby,” the official said. The CEO of a private hospital in Calcutta said they were yet to receive any communication from the state government. “We have fully trained vaccinators. Once the government tells us, we can take part in the process,” he said. There are now over 10,000 vaccination centres across Bengal. Apart from that, arrangements are being made in 342 rural hospitals, 16 district hospitals, 42 sub-divisional hospitals and 18 government-run medical colleges and hospitals. Health department officials said the first batch of Covid vaccines being manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India is expected to arrive in Calcutta on Saturday and the vaccination is likely to start on January 12, Swami Vivekananada’s birthday. The initial target is around six lakh healthcare workers. Senior officials overseeing the vaccine roll-out said the process of offering the first jab can be wrapped up within 10 days. Next in line are frontline workers. With its existing infrastructure and storage facilities, Bengal can accommodate around six crore dosages. “Between the first and the second jab, there will be a gap of 28 days for each candidate. Since the set-up will remain, we can utilise the time to inoculate those above 50 years of age or those below 50 but with underlying health conditions, provided there is a steady supply of vaccine doses,” said a senior health department official. “That can happen around end-March and early-April. That will be only possible if we have clear data about those who have registered with the Co-Win app and there is no time lag in between.” Senior officials said there are several medical colleges and hospitals at the tertiary level in Bengal, where over 6,000 healthcare workers have been listed for the first round of vaccination. If a vaccination centre can accommodate 100 candidates a day, around 60-70 sessions will have to be held at a particular institution. Since that would be preposterous all medical colleges and hospitals have been asked to create more space if required by converting some of their lecture halls into vaccination centres so that more candidates can be accommodated each session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Man from Kerala kidnapped, rescued in New Town||A man from Kerala who was abducted from City Centre II on Wednesday was rescued in a few hours, police said. The man, a Kozhikode resident in his late 30s, had come to the city with Abdul Salam, 39, also from Kozhikode, to retrieve a large sum of money. Salam had allegedly lent the amount to Mussamil Mottemal, from Kerala, for a purported business venture several months ago, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Mussamil and his brother Mudassir had called the Kozhikode duo to City Centre II promising to return the money, the officer said. When the Kozhikode residents, along with another man from Kerala, reached the shopping mall around 3pm on Wednesday, they found a large group of men waiting for them. The Mottemal brothers were nowhere to be seen. An argument broke out. “In the scuffle, the group forced one of the Kozhikode residents into a car and sped away,” the officer said. Minutes later, Salam received a call and a man asked him to transfer Rs 2 lakh, failing which his friend would be killed. Passersby and tea stall owners helped the two find the nearest police station. They reached Eco Park police station and lodged a complaint. “We tracked the number from where the ransom call had come. Once we could pinpoint the location, we sent a team and rescued the friend within a few hours,” said the officer. Cops arrested six men from Baguiati and Narayanpur for abducting the man. It is not yet clear why Salam had lent the money to the Mottemals, a senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “We have started an investigation and are probing every angle. The nature of their business is also not very clear yet. We are trying to speak to them but are facing delays because of the language barrier,” said the officer. The police are trying to track down the Mottemals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Restored and renovated, Rawdon Square set to reopen after 30 years||The 94-cottah Rawdon Square will be a park again after remaining locked up for nearly three decades. During this period, there were attempts to build an entertainment hub and a parking lot in the complex. The newly-built park will be inaugurated on Saturday and then thrown open to people, Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said. The National Green Tribunal had asked the CMC to convert the place into a park in 2017, said activist Bonani Kakkar, who went to the tribunal opposing an attempt to build a parking lot there. “It is spread across 12,000sqm (94 cottahs). There is a water body inside that spans across 8,000sqm. We have cleaned the water body, built walkways, installed benches and also kept an open-air gym,” said an official of the CMC. “The park had been under lock and key for so many years. Its reopening is a significant development,” said the official. Rawdon Square, located near the intersection of Park Street and Rawdon Street, is a few metres from Parkomat, a multi-storey car park on Rawdon Street. Debashis Kumar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the parks and squares department, said the renovation and restoration cost around Rs 1 crore. “We have not used concrete or paver blocks to build the walkways, they are murram paths. We have installed diffused lights since bright lights are not good for the avian population,” said Kumar. The Park Street cemetery, next to Rawdon Square, invites a lot of nocturnal birds, said Kakkar. “The tribunal had ordered the use of low-voltage lights and murram paths,” she said. Rawdon Square was a park where people took a stroll or went for their morning and evening walks till the Left Front government planned to build an entertainment hub there. “In the 1990s, when Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was information and cultural affairs minister, there was a plan to create an entertainment centre in the place,” said Kumar. Kakkar said that the plan was shelved following protests and the place remained locked up for years. “About three years ago, I found a board outside the park saying that only cars ferrying students of the La Martiniere schools could park there. It was then that we approached the NGT to stop using the place as a parking lot,” said Kakkar, who is the founder of People United for Better Living in Calcutta (PUBLIC). The bank of the water body inside Rawdon Square has not been concretised. Only wooden planks have been used to fortify the banks. The civic body has also planted several trees like mango and debdaru inside the park. “The park will remain open between 6am and 6pm every day. All parks under CMC are remaining open for 12 hours every day because of the Covid pandemic,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||State Sabala mela starts in Kankurgachhi||If Saras Mela shifted from Salt Lake to New Town this year, Sabala Mela, another Central Park annual fixture, has found a new venue in Acharya Prafulla Chandra Park in Kankurgachhi. According to official sources, the fair had to be scaled down due to reduced budget and the pandemic situation. “In most years, we have about 250 stalls for which we need a bigger venue like Central Park. Here we have around 150. We also pushed back the dates from our usual Christmas-New Year period to avoid a big crowd,” said an official. There are two self-help groups each from 23 districts. “Besides this, district-level Sabala Mela is going on across the state,” pointed out minister Sadhan Pande.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Free sports camps for homebound children||Several football camps have started in neighbourhoods along VIP Road in recent months and the best part of them is they are free of coaching cost. Parents are making a beeline for these camps, seeking an outlet for children who are stuck at home for months. When Kestopur resident Tilottama Dutta heard of such a football coaching camp being organised for children in Bangur Avenue, Block A, she heaved a sigh of relief. Ever since her son Rayan’s school closed last March, owing to the lockdown, the child had barely gone out. “I decided that enrolling him in a football camp would do him a world of good. The classes are held four times a week and therefore he would get some good exercise while running around with the ball,” Dutta pointed out. Ever since the camp began in November, she travels from Kestopur to Bangur Avenue every week with her son. Asked about Covid-19 infection risk, she said: “Both physical and mental health are equally important for children. I know Covid is still a looming danger but we all need to take precautions while carrying on with our lives. We cannot stay cooped up at home 365 days a year.” The camp, which is free of cost, is a joint initiative of Bangur Avenue Child Welfare Organisation and Bangur Youth Forum Club. Joint secretary of the club Subhajit Dey said: “This is entirely free for children who have enrolled. We have also started cricket and karate classes from December. The entire venture is supported by the club. We pay the coaches from the money that we raise from the subscription fees paid by our members.” Another such camp is being organised by Kishore Mukherjee Football Academy since November in Baguiati. The camp is held on the ground just opposite the Lokenath Temple, en route to Chinar Park and Teghoria. Here too classes are held four days a week, mostly in the evenings. However these classes are not free of cost and each child is charged Rs 200 a month. As of now 80 students have enrolled for the camp. “Bengal has always had a football culture. But these days I have seen that children are so addicted to television, mobile phones and video games that the this culture is dying down. But we don’t want that to happen. Bangali chhele football khelbe na, eta ki kore hoy (How can it ever be that a Bengali boy would not play football)? That is the reason we have started this initiative,” said Anup Mukherjee, one of the organisers cum a trainer. For children who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, no fee is charged and football equipment is provided free. Asked how he was sourcing funds, Mukherjee said: “The academy doesn’t have a GST (Goods and Services Tax) number yet. Nor are we a legally registered body. We work with donations from guardians and neighbours.” Pointing fingers Club officials have denied any political funding being channelled into club finances to buy games equipment, but locals suspect otherwise.  “Football may need minimum investment but how can a game like cricket which requires expensive kit also be taught free?” said a local shop-owner, refusing to be quoted. “A lot of money has come to the clubs during Durga puja, when the chief minister sanctioned Rs 50,000 to each club. This is a good way to use those funds,” said Soumyadeep Banik, a resident of the neighbourhood. Others feel this might also be an election sop by local politicians to win over the middle class population living along the VIP Road stretch. Local MP Sujit Bose was tight-lipped about the issue. “There are several football clubs that are doing good work at the ground level. I am aware of them but I haven’t given them any funds. They must be gathering funds from other sources, which I am not aware of,” he said. Students and their parents, however, have no time for politics. “There are other football camps nearby but they are expensive and allow only elite students. The ones in Baguiati and Bangur Avenue are doing good work and so I am not bothered about where funds come from,” said Sneha Dasgupta, a resident of Lake Town. “I’m happy the kids can play and that too under good coaches. Otherwise they would have wasted their evenings watching television or on the internet.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Of Marigolds and Salvias||Her house bears a prominent plaque with her address but frankly, one doesn’t need to look at it. As one veers into FC Block one cannot but turn to the lush green bed in the midst of a concrete jungle and one is sure this must be the home of green thumb Mita Roy. The lawn has a hedge of pink Rangans, red Salvias and humungous potted Marigolds. No wonder locals know the house as the “niche gamlawala tob bari”. I grew up in Baguiati where our plot had tall trees, colourful flowers and even ponds. I grew up loving plants and so when we moved into Salt Lake in 2000 I knew I would have a cozy corner for them in front of the house. In winter, I gauge the temperature not by a thermometer but by my Marigolds. If they look sad I know it isn’t cold enough. But this year, they are smiling and I couldn’t be happier! The flowers have been in bloom for 15 days already and if the temperature remains low, will remain so for another fortnight. Every year, I send my Marigolds to the flower show and they always fetch prizes. I hope to do the same this year too. But along with seasonals like Marigolds and Salvias, I have some potted Chillies in my front yard. They will eventually be planted in the soil behind the house but that patch doesn’t receive sunlight in winter. So I’m keeping them in the front yard to soak in the sun during their nascent stage. The adult Chilli plants in the backyard bear so many fruits that we never need any from the market. There is also a Mankochu plant that bears vegetables round the year. I prepare tasty dishes with them, using narkol baata. I used to do up the terrace too but with the lockdown my gardener had got irregular and I couldn’t do it alone. But whenever I can, I shall redo the terrace with Tomatos, Brinjals, Lemons and Guavas. Brinjals used to grow very well under my care and we would eat delicious Begun Bhaja out of it. The taste of one’s own vegetables is way superior to the ones we get in the market anyway. My husband and son do not have time to toil behind the plants but appreciate them. Our friends are always admiring them too and whenever they come over, they click selfies with the Marigolds outside. My only worry is pilferage. Not just flowers but entire pots have gone missing from the garden and it breaks my heart. It’s become such a fear now that even if I wake up in the middle of the night, I go and peep outside to check if my plants are safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Flower and pet show coming up||A flower show and pet carnival are all set to take place in the plaza around the New Town clock tower between January 15 and 17. The show — New Town Carnival — is being organised by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), and is open to residents of New Town and beyond. The flower exhibition will be open on all three days. One can send pots of flowers in the following categories — Aster, Dahlia, Calendula, Chrysanthemum, Daisy, Marigold, Pansy, Petunia (single and bi-colour), Phlox, Poppy, Rose, Orchid varieties,  exotic flowers and a miscellaneous category. However, a maximum of three pots may be enrolled. The pots may be at most 12 inches (30cm in diameter) and must be labelled with the name of the plant. They must be sent to the venue between 10am and 3pm on January 14 and can be taken back after 7pm on January 17. Plant owners may assign a gardener to water the plants or provide personal attention during the show. For details on the flower show, contact 8282821515 by January 10 Pet show The carnival will feature a pet show on the final day. This will be open to cats and dogs, who are eligible for an obedience test, grooming contest and a ramp walk along with their owners on January 17. The show is open to pets of all breeds as well as “Indies” but each pet can participate in at most two events. Forms cost Rs 150 and are available at the three branches of Animel Planet at City Centre 2, Swapno Bhor senior citizens park and Salt Lake’s BD Block, and New Town Business Club. Registration ends 48 hours before the show. There will also be a talk by vets, groomers and trainers, free grooming sessions, cake-cutting etc. Pets (on leash) are welcome throughout the days and prizes for both the flower and pet show will be distributed at 6pm on the final day. For details, contact 9830808707.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Mahabharata to Makaibari in food quiz||A food quiz kept women entertained at Saras Mela on Saturday. The contest was exclusively for ladies and again, most of them, turned out to be stall keepers. The quizmaster was Siddhartha Chatterjee, best remembered as Topse from the Feluda movies and who also runs the Bhojohori Manna chain of restaurants. Assisting him was Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the panchayats and rural development department and administrative secretary of the state comprehensive area development corporation (CADC), that was organising the fair. The preliminary round had 20 women on stage and eight among them qualified to the final round later. Given that the quiz was for laymen, questions were fairly straightforward. Someone or the other managed to answer posers like “what are Makaibari and first flush types of?” (tea) and “what are arabica and robusta types of?” (coffee beans). The “biriyani” round had the women naming Wajid Ali Shah as the nawab credited for bringing the delicacy to Calcutta and they also guessed correctly that the word biryani itself was derived from Parsi. “The dish is called briyani and birani in different parts of the world, though I doubt the waiter at the restaurant here will understand if you ask by those names,” added Chatterjee. The “sweet” round did a tour of the state and the women got busy naming sitabhog as the famous dessert from Burdwan, lyangcha from Shaktigarh, mecha sondesh from Bankura and jilipi from Cooch Behar. But since most participants were from the districts not many could perform in the round on heritage eateries of Calcutta. Few could tell a Basanta Cabin from Anadi Cabin or a Mitra Cafe from Allen Kitchen but the multiple choice format saw them through. They weren’t too familiar with the dishes mentioned in the international round either — Pad Thai of Thailand, Doner Kebabs of Turkey or tacos of Mexico. “But don’t worry about it,” assured the quiz master. “Tacos are simply neemki with some sauce.” Finishing top of the class was Ruma Bera, a fair volunteer from Howrah. “I am most pleased that I could answer the question on cod. It was about which fish is a great source of vitamin A and D,” she smiled. Debakripa Das Ray, a Rajarhat resident who found out about the contest while exploring the fair, got a question about Satyavati correct. “I’ve read her account in The Mahabharata and knew she was called Matsyagandha. I’m glad I could recall the name when I needed to today.” Those who lost out didn’t mind either. “It’s all right; we learnt so much today,” smiled Mithu Chakraborty, a fair volunteer who bowed out after the first round. The prizes for the contest were distributed by M.V Rao, additional chief secretary, panchayats and rural development department, and the winners received vouchers to shop at Saras Mela itself. Q1. What kind of painting is this cat with fish on the right? Kalighat painting Q2. Who in the Mahabharata was also known as Matsyagandha? Satyavati, great-grandmother of the Pandava and Kaurava princes Q3. Which country grows a third of the world’s coffee? Brazil Q4. Which dessert is said to have created by Nabin Moira? Rosogolla Q5. What language does the word biryani originate from (in picture below right)? Parsi Q6. Which tiny heritage food joint was a favourite adda haunt of Uttam Kumar? Basanta Cabin Q7. Which sage is the Vishnu avatar Matsya said to have rescued from deluge (picture right)? Manu Q8. What is the old name of Coffee House? Albert Hall Q9. What are Makaibari and “first flush” associated with? Tea Q10. Which is the largest fish in the world? Whale shark Q1. What kind of painting is this cat with fish on the right? Kalighat painting Q2. Who in the Mahabharata was also known as Matsyagandha? Satyavati, great-grandmother of the Pandava and Kaurava princes Q3. Which country grows a third of the world’s coffee? Brazil Q4. Which dessert is said to have created by Nabin Moira? Rosogolla Q5. What language does the word biryani originate from (in picture below right)? Parsi Q6. Which tiny heritage food joint was a favourite adda haunt of Uttam Kumar? Basanta Cabin Q7. Which sage is the Vishnu avatar Matsya said to have rescued from deluge (picture right)? Manu Q8. What is the old name of Coffee House? Albert Hall Q9. What are Makaibari and “first flush” associated with? Tea Q10. Which is the largest fish in the world? Whale shark||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-180
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Prawn finale to chicken cook-off||Cream Chingri, Pop Corn Chicken and lots of Chicken Kosha. Twenty women rustled up their best dishes in a cooking competition in the final weekend of Saras Mela at New Town. The first round required them to cook any chicken item in half an hour. The basic ingredients and induction cookers were provided by the organisers, but participants were welcome to get other ingredients too. Most of the contestants turned out to be stall keepers taking a break from work and the most popular dish, hands down, was Chicken Kosha. “Had I known about this contest beforehand I’d have got additional onions and bhaja masala,” said Anjala Bibi, a jute artisan from Murshidabad. “This was my first time using an induction cooker but they taught me and it was quite simple to use,” she said. Sulekha Bibi of Mursidabad said her dish would have been even tastier if she had a sil nora to grind the spices with, Hasnamano Bibi of Behrampore would have preferred chicken that wasn’t boneless and Farida Bibi wished the meat was freshly chopped instead of being brought out of the freezer. “But we are not complaining. After months of difficulty we have witnessed excellent footfall at this fair. We made good sales and now this contest is a fun break for us,” said Yasmin Begum, who had a kantha stitch stall and said she enjoys cooking. The only fatigued face was that of the judge — Siddhartha Chatterjee. “After tasting chicken 20 times today I have decided not to eat it ever again in 2021,” he joked, explaining that his affinity was rather, with fish. “I was born under the Pisces zodiac sign, have the nickname Topse, have featured in a film with a character called Machhlibaba (Joi Baba Felunath), have started a raw fish-selling unit called Machhlibaba, run a chain of restaurants called Bhojohori Manna where our mainstay is fish. So certainly my favourite food must be fish.” Luckily for Chatterjee, the next and final round was on prawn. Sikha Roy made Bhapa Chingri, Rinku Manna Malaicurry, Tapasi Hazra Sorshe Chingri and Aloka Mondal, who finally bagged the Rs 1,000 shopping voucher, dazzled with Cream Chingri. “I run a home delivery in Dum Dum called Little Kitchen and the Chicken Pop Corn and Cream Chingri I made today are both best-sellers on my menu,” smiled the 20-year-old who had found out about the cook-off while buying a kurti at the fair the previous day. “I got my own additional ingredients like cream and sauce.” First runner-up Sikha Roy, who works at the district rural development cell, said she was used to rustling up innovative dishes for her daughter’s tiffin. “The kitchen is the center of the home and this contest was a celebration of the women who run kitchens,” said Soumyajit Das, special secretary to the panchayats and rural development department and administrative secretary of the state comprehensive area development corporation. “The ingredients and spices provided for the contest are marketed by us. They comprised the consolation prizes given to all participants too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Playwright departs||Theatre personality Nirup Mitra passed away in a private nursing home in south Calcutta on Monday. A resident of Purbachal Cluster IX, he was 89 years old. He is survived by his wife Jayanti and daughter Meghna. He had been admitted to hospital on January 3 with Covid-19. His wife is still under treatment there. Born in Patna, Mitra completed post-graduation with modern history and political science from Patna University. He wrote plays for All India Radio since the 1970s, working with producers like Ajit Mukherjee, Jagannath Basu, Papia Chakraborty and Biswanath Das. In the 80s, he started writing audio plays. Asked by The Telegraph Salt Lake six months ago how many plays he had written in his life, he had responded “over 300-400”. A part of his prolific output has been preserved in print with several compilations of his plays being published. He was also a poet, a novelist a lyricist and an editor. He used to edit a biannual theatre journal called Natyalipika. Nihsongota, his first play for the radio, is counted as one of best radio plays in Bengali. It was performed on air by Kali Banerjee and Jagannath Guha. Many group theatres, including Bohurupee, had staged his work. After retiring from his teaching career, he became culturally active in the locality too. “We founded the group Shruta-Sanglap at the start of the millennium with the aim of training budding talent. He used to act and direct, other than write plays,” said friend and neighbour Prabir Roychowdhury, 84. One of Mitra’s biggest contributions to theatre was popularising full-length audio plays. “Actors do not dare to stage audio plays longer than 15-20 minutes. He took the challenge of writing and staging plays over an hour long,” Roychowdhury said, choosing Pratidwandi, on a widowed mother’s dilemma over remarriage, as his favourite Nirup Mitra play. No Durga puja in Cluster IX was complete without a Nirup Mitra play being staged. Even in 2018, neighbours had staged one of his plays. In 2013, he founded another group called Srutisroyon. “He had a rare talent for turning plays into audio plays,”  said Parthapratim Seal, a group member. “We performed his last play Louhabhuk in July. Ironically, it is on a virus that consumes iron and seals the fate of a space-exploring family,” Seal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
08-01-2021||Calcutta||Name change proposal for Metro stations||The New Garia-Airport Metro stations coming up in New Town are likely to get renamed. The previous names, assigned long back, were proving to be misleading and confusing and so a proposal has been made to rename them. A station coming up near City Centre 2 was to have been called Rabindra Tirtha, for instance. And the one near Nazrul Tirtha was previously called Bidhannagar. So in a letter dated December 23, the state transport department informed Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) about their intention. “Hidco had sent us the proposal of renaming the upcoming Metro stations in New Town, which has been approved  by us,” said a senior transport department official. The final go-ahead will come from the ministry of railways. Metro projects are developed by the railways and it is they who name the station after the site or the locality to help identify them. The state government however may choose to rename them. A proposed name requires to be vetted by the home ministry if it is named after a personality but none of the nine stations in New Town have been renamed after any personality. Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, said that the old names had been assigned long back, before the township got iconic landmarks like Biswa Bangla Convention Centre and Nazrul Tirtha. “I have received formal petitions claiming that this is quite misleading, for instance, for a station in New Town to be named Bidhannagar,” said Sen. A Metro spokesperson, however, said that they were yet to receive the notification about the name change. “We have not received any request for renaming the stations. We will look into it once we receive the request,” he said. All the stations are being built by the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) on behalf of the Metro Railways. The Metro will approach New Town from Wipro stretch, keep going till it takes a right turn at VIP Road after Chinar Park. It will culminate at the airport. Before entering Salt Lake Sector IV, the stations in the stretch along the EM Bypass are named after personalities like Satyajit Ray (SRFTI), Ritwik Ghatak (Kalikapur) and Hemanta Mukherjee (Ruby General Hospital). “Work on nearly all the stations on the New Garia-Airport line have started and the one near City Centre 2, Nazrul Tirtha and the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre are almost complete,” said a Metro official. “Only the interior and fitment work in these stations remain, such as escalators.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-181
08-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 689 points to end at fresh high||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 689 points to end at a fresh all-time high on Friday, led by Infosys, TCS and Reliance amid strong buying sentiment in global equities. The 30-share BSE index closed 689.19 points or 1.43 per cent higher at 48,782.51. It touched an intra-day record of 48,854.34. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rallied 209.90 points or 1.48 per cent to close at its record high of 14,347.25. During the day, the index scaled a life-time peak of 14,367.30. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 6 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, UltraTech Cement, PowerGrid and NTPC. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, SBI, ITC and HDFC were the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, growing expectations of stronger fiscal stimulus in the US after Congress confirmed President-elect Joe Biden's victory have fuelled equities rally globally. "Markets completely downplayed earlier concerns of reversal of lower tax rates in the scenario of Democrats taking control of both the houses of Congress," he added. A sustained rebound in key economic data for December 2020 and likely commencement of vaccination drive shortly in India augur well for domestic equities, he said, adding that the underlying strength of domestic equities is intact, which essentially can propel benchmark indices to witness fresh highs in coming weeks. "FPIs are unlikely to turn net sellers barring select weeks of days considering the status of the global economy, stance of global central bankers and a weak dollar," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.59 per cent higher at USD 54.70 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Friday, helped by gains mainly in index majors Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index was trading 328.75 points or 0.68 per cent higher at 48,422.07. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 101.15 points or 0.72 per cent to 14,238.50 in opening deals. On the Sensex chart, Sun Pharma was the top gainer, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, PowerGrid, TCS, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Dr Reddys and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, HDFC, Titan, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finserv were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex had ended 80.74 points or 0.17 per cent lower at 48,093.32, and the Nifty had slipped 8.90 points or 0.06 per cent to 14,137.35. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 382.30 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look steady and firm at the moment. A sign of fatigue is visible in the benchmark indices for the last couple of trading days despite key economic data indicated a continued rebound in December 2020, he added. Similarly, a sharp dip in FPIs net flows in recent days indicate a kind of profit booking and sector rotation given a sharp return generated by select sectors, Modi said. Domestic markets are, however, following the global investor euphoria around American politics. US markets recorded fresh highs as investors continue to focus of stronger fiscal stimulus after Congress confirmed president elect Joe Biden's victory. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.26 per cent higher at USD 54.52 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||TCG to acquire Garden Silk Mills ||Garden Silk Mills Ltd, the maker of the once-famous Garden Vareli printed silk sarees, is being acquired by Bengali entrepreneur Purnendu Chatterjee for Rs 747 crore through an insolvency resolution process. A bench of the National Company Law Tribunal approved the resolution plan submitted by MCPI Pvt Ltd, a company under The Chatterjee Group (TCG), paving the way for the acquisition of the Surat-based textile maker promoted by Praful Shah and his family. Garden Silk Mills is a publicly listed company whose shares are traded on the stock exchanges. Following the completion of the transaction, it will be delisted from the bourses, merged with MCPI and also become a private company, court records showed. The process to complete the transaction will take about 90 days. The company’s products encompass the entire value chain in textiles, specialising in the manufacture of polyester filament-based yarns, textile-grade polyester polymer and fashion fabrics for women’s wear in polyester and pure cotton. The company is one of the largest sellers of branded sarees and dress materials in India. It posted a turnover of Rs 2,877.09 crore in 2019-20 and a loss before tax of Rs 207.6 crore. The company has two plants, both located in Surat, Gujarat. It is also a large exporter of polyester chips. Garden went into bankruptcy court under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code after it failed to pay creditors. The corporate resolution insolvency process was initiated by Invent Asset Securitisation & Reconstruction Pvt Ltd, who took over the debts from a clutch of banks and financial institutions in February 2020. The financial creditors will receive Rs 717 crore compared with their admitted claim of Rs 2,090 crore. The court approval marks the third publicly known big ticket acquisition made by TCG in the recent past. In the midst of a raging global pandemic, it acquired Lummus Technology, a US-based top notch material technology firm, in partnership with Rhone Capital  for $2.725 billion in July 2020. In 2016, Chatterjee founded TCG had acquired the chronically loss making Mitsubishi Chemical’s PTA plant at Haldia for around Rs 300 crore and within a short span of time, turned around the fortunes of the company. The business he acquired from the Japanese was later renamed as MCPI Pvt Ltd, that produces purified terephthalic acid (PTA), one of the main raw materials for the makers of polyester products such as Garden Silk Mills. MCPI was one of the suppliers of Garden Silk Mills too. “This is a very good acquisition. The company had some issues which can be sorted out. After all, Purnendu is a man with the Midas touch,” a source aware of the development said on Thursday. Before MCPI, Chatterjee in 2015 brought back Bengal’s showcase industrial project Haldia Petrochemicals from the brink of bankruptcy, took majority control of the company by buying out the Bengal government’s stake, and made it so profitable that it powered the big ticket acquisition of Lummus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||SAP to invest Rs 500cr in India operations||SAP SE, the market leader in enterprise application software, on Thursday announced it will invest Rs 500 crore in India to localise and offer customers a multi-cloud choice. SAP India began its operations in 1996 with headquarters in Bangalore and offices in Mumbai, New Delhi, Calcutta and a presence in nine other cities in the country. Underscoring its commitment to India, SAP said in a statement it will make available its multiple cloud solutions to the data centres in the country. SAP India is a leading cloud company that is working toward addressing local customer demands, the statement said. “SAP’s commitment to support India’s growth vision remains a top priority and we are determined to achieve this with deeper collaboration with our customers, ecosystem and the government,’’ said Scott Russell, president, SAP Asia Pacific Japan. Kulmeet Bawa, SAP Indian subcontinent president and managing director, said at present, customers are seeking scalability, faster deployment, data compliancy and cost-effective solutions to enable innovation and achieve prompt business outcomes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
08-01-2021||Business||SBI raises $600m selling dollar-denominated bonds at 1.8% rate||State Bank of India (SBI) on Thursday raised $600 million from selling dollar-denominated bonds to international investors at a coupon rate of 1.80 per cent. The issue, subscribed 2.1 times, is part of the lender’s $10-billion medium-term note programme (MTN). On Wednesday, rating agency Moody’s Investors Services had withdrawn the short-term foreign currency programme under MTN, citing business reasons. In a statement, the bank said that its 5.5-year bond denominated in dollars was priced at 140 basis points over the US treasury. It added that this is the lowest pricing for any “Reg S/144a” issue from the country with such a maturity. Regulation S bonds are sold by foreign issuers in the US and other overseas markets but cannot be subscribed by resident American investors. The bonds issued through SBI’s London branch will be listed on Singapore Exchange and India INX, the country’s international exchange located at the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) in Gujarat. India INX is a subsidiary of the BSE. SBI disclosed that strong demand helped it tighten the pricing by 35 basis points from the initial guidance of 175-140 basis over the US treasury, arriving at a coupon of 1.80 per cent per annum, which is the lowest coupon achieved by a domestic issuer for a 5.5-year issuance to date. This is the first public US dollar bond sale by a domestic bank since the onset of the pandemic last year. The lender said the transaction was well received and saw strong interest from investors across geographies with a final order book of more than $1.9 billion. Earlier this week, Exim Bank had raised $1 billion at a coupon of 2.25 per cent. SBI shares closed with gains of 1 per cent at Rs 287.75 on the BSE on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||BMW to open bookings for Gran Limo from January 11||BMW India will open bookings for the new BMW 3 Series Gran Limousine from January 11 online on payment of Rs 50,000. The vehicle will be officially launched in India on January 21. With a longer wheelbase and enhanced space, the new BMW 3 Series Gran Limousine will be the longest sedan in its segment. BMW-owned Mini India has introduced a special edition of the Mini three-door hatch, the Mini Paddy Hopkirk Edition in India. Offered as a completely built-up unit (CBU), only 15 units are available and can be booked exclusively online. The limited edition car is a tribute to Northern Irish rally driver Patrick Paddy Hopkirk who drove the iconic No 37 Mini Cooper S to win the Monte Carlo rally. It is priced at Rs 41,70,000. Vikram Pawah, president, BMW Group India, said, “The car is a reflection of Mini’s racing genes.” 2021 Jeep Compass Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) India on Thursday unveiled the 2021 Jeep Compass. The new Jeep Compass will continue to be locally manufactured in India at FCA’s joint venture manufacturing facility at Ranjangaon, near Pune. Production of the new Jeep Compass has begun. MG Motor MG Motor India has launched the Hector 2021 range starting at Rs 12.89 lakh. MG Motor India president and MD Rajeev Chaba said, “For the Hector 2021, we have made changes taking into consideration the feedback of customers and automotive experts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Centre mulls excise duty cut to ease oil ache||The oil ministry on Thursday indicated that the government could consider a cut in duties to provide some relief to motorists if global crude prices continue to spike. Petrol prices in Delhi scaled an all time high of Rs 84.20 per litre on Thursday while diesel in Mumbai touched a record high of Rs 81.07. Data showed that a motorist in Calcutta would have to pay Rs 85.68 for a litre of petrol and Rs 77.97 for a litre of diesel. The price of petrol rose 24 paise per litre and diesel by 27 paise a litre in Calcutta in a day, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. Oil ministry sources said they have suggested that an excise duty cut can be considered. However, the finance ministry would have to take a call given its fiscal and inflationary impact. Petrol had last touched Rs 84 in Delhi on October 4, 2018. On that day, diesel too had scaled an all-time high of Rs 75.45 a litre. The government had then responded by cutting excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 1.50 per litre in a bid to ease inflationary pressure and boost consumer confidence. Alongside, state-owned fuel retailers had cut prices by another Re 1 a litre, which they recouped later. As excise duty is one of the two major components of the prices of fuel, a cut in the duty will provide relief to people who are facing the heat of economic slowdown and income disruption because of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the survey conducted by Local Circles, a community social media platform. After the festive season, retail fuel prices saw an upward trend at the end of November 2020 and starting December 6, 2020, there was a month-long pause on prices. Even though retail rates are connected to international product prices and are calculated on a 15-day lag, starting January 6 the retail prices began to increase across India. The Centre had raised excise duty on petrol by Rs 13 per litre and diesel by Rs 16 per litre in two tranches in March and May of 2020, when the global crude prices plunged because of the Covid-19 lockdown, impacting demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||India’s digital services tax faces discrimination charge against US companies ||India’s 2 per cent digital services tax (DST) on e-commerce supply discriminates against US companies and is inconsistent with international tax principles, a US Trade Representative (USTR) investigation has said. The finding paves the way for potential retaliatory tariffs but the USTR did not immediately specify actions to counter these taxes. In its report on India’s digital services tax, the USTR said its investigation showed the levy discriminates against American companies, unreasonably contravenes international tax principles and burdens or restricts US commerce. The report says its investigation also indicates that India’s DST discriminates against US digital services companies. However, India has defended the DST or Google Tax as it seeks to ensure a level playing field between local and foreign e-commerce companies. The tax does not discriminate against any US company and has no retrospective element as the levy was enacted before April 1, 2020 which is the effective date of the levy. It does not have extra territorial application as it applies only on the revenue generated from India. Commerce ministry sources said the purpose of the ‘Equalisation Levy’ is to ensure greater competitiveness, fairness, reasonableness and exercise the ability of the governments to tax businesses that have a close nexus with the Indian market through their digital operations. It is a recognition of the fact that in a digital world, a seller can engage in business transactions without any physical presence and governments have a legitimate right to tax such transactions. The USTR report says there are three aspects of India’s digital service tax that are inconsistent with international tax practices. The text of the tax is “unclear and ambiguous” and there is no official guidance to resolve these ambiguities. It provides no tax certainty to investing companies The DST taxes companies with no permanent establishment in India, contravening international tax principle that companies should not be subject to a country’s corporate tax regime if they have no territorial connection to it. The DST taxes companies’ revenues rather than income (profits), again flouting international tax practices. The tax covers players such as Google, Uber, Udemy, Zoom, Expedia, Spotify, and eBay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Indian economy double trouble forecast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on course to achieving the unenviable feat of shrinking the economy this year in both real and nominal terms. None of his predecessors had achieved that distinction in over 70 years. The National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday came out with its first advance estimates of the national income for 2020-21, projecting that the real GDP would contract by 7.7 per cent this fiscal — a lot worse than the Reserve Bank of India’s early December forecast of a 7.5 per cent contraction. The economy had grown 4.2 per cent last year. What is particularly worrying is that the nominal GDP — which is calculated at current prices — will contract by 4.2 per cent. The nominal GDP in 2019-20 came in at Rs 203.40 lakh crore, according to the provisional estimate put out in May last year. In the current fiscal, the overall size of the economy is projected to shrink to Rs 194.82 lakh crore. This number is important and will feed into the calculations for the revised estimates for 2020-21, when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the budget on February 1. In the budget last year, the nominal GDP — which anchors budget calculations — had been estimated to grow about 10 per cent in 2020-21 to Rs 224.89 lakh crore. “This estimate, however, has a shelf life of only two months and is only used as an input for budget arithmetic,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, at the State Bank of India. “The NSO will release the first revised estimate of FY18, FY19 and FY20 on January 31 and we believe that GDP and gross value added (GVA, which strips out the impact of taxes and subsidies) for FY21 would be revised further downwards in estimates for FY21 in February and May. This could impart an upward bias to the FY21 real GDP estimate of 7.7 per cent.” D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said: “A sharp contraction in nominal GDP growth has significantly adverse implications for central and state tax revenues, which may both contract. Do not expect the final numbers to be significantly different as the inflation is not that high to significantly impact it.” However, N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University, presented a radically different view. “The first half of the year was impacted by the Covid-19-led lockdown and its impact on economic activity. Moreover, these estimates are based on the wholesale price index number. The provisional GDP numbers for the fiscal, when released in May, will be based on the consumer price index (CPI) numbers,” he said. “Given the huge difference between the two inflation indices and the spike in economic activity seen from high frequency indicators, the expectations are that nominal GDP for the current fiscal would be zero or in the positive zone.” The lower nominal GDP figure will mean that the fiscal deficit in 2020-21 -- which was projected at 3.5 per cent in last year’s budget -- will shoot to well over 7 per cent, according to some estimates. The widening fiscal deficit will need to be covered through larger gross borrowings. The government has already revised its borrowing forecast to Rs 12 crore against the projection of Rs 7.8 lakh crore in last year’s budget. This may rise as tax collections have stumbled in a pandemic-battered year. “We assess that the government may revise upwards its borrowing target so as to exceed 7 per cent of 2020-21 nominal GDP and signal a move towards restoring fiscal consolidation in a limited way in the budget estimates for 2021-22,” Srivastava said. The Centre will seek refuge in the fact that the global recession induced by Covid-19 is to blame for the present situation. But it cannot escape criticism that its poorly cash-funded stimulus package failed to reignite the economy at a time other nations were pouring big bucks to jump-start growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Brokerages bet big on tech show||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will kick-start the third-quarter earnings season on Friday amid robust estimates forecast by brokerages on the sector’s revenue and profit growth. Analysts also expect these companies to give a positive commentary on the road ahead, citing the continuation of strong deal wins and clients adopting cloud and other digital services. The quarter is likely to see not only improved performance in various geographies but also growth across verticals with even beaten-down sectors showing a pick-up. While IT stocks have rallied, it is felt that there is still some steam left with companies forecasting even better growth for the next fiscal. Despite being a seasonally weak period, it is estimated that the five frontline firms — TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL Tech and Tech Mahindra — will see a cumulative revenue growth of 2.46 per cent on a trailing quarter basis, while the cumulative net profit is expected to rise around 6 per cent sequentially. Analysts at Edelweiss said in a report that the October-December 2020 period will be the best third quarter in a decade for the sector because of the large order books, marked revenue acceleration and margin expansion. “Our multiple analyses suggest a structural demand uptick driving industry-wide acceleration in revenue growth from 9-10 per cent pre-pandemic to 12-13 per cent in 2021-22 and 14-16 per cent thereafter through 2026-27,” it  added. The brokerage estimated that for the third quarter, Infosys and TCS will lead the pack with 5-6 per cent sequential growth, followed by HCL Tech and Wipro (3-4 per cent), and Tech Mahindra (1.8 per cent) in dollar terms. It also expects Infosys to again revise the revenue guidance. The Bangalore-based company had forecast that its revenues will grow 2-3 per cent this fiscal compared with its earlier estimate of 0-2 per cent growth. While Infosys is expected to post a net profit of Rs 5,178 crore, the bottomline of its larger peer TCS is expected to be at around Rs 8,784 crore. However, the quarter could be marked by a sequential drop in margins because of wage hikes. A Motilal Oswal report forecast that operating margins of TCS could slip by 60 basis points over the preceding three months to 25.6 per cent. Infosys, however, is likely to see its margins rising by 40 basis points to 25.7 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||Business||Economy forecast to shrink 7.7%||The economy is officially expected to contract 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal — the worst performance since Independence — paving the way for a range of measures to boost growth in the forthcoming budget. The estimate released on Thursday by the Central Statistics Office shows contraction to be more than the RBI’s projection of 7.5 per cent but much less than the World Bank’s forecast of 9.6 per cent contraction for the fiscal and the IMF’s forecast of 10.3 per cent contraction. The IMF will review its forecast on January 26. The economy had grown 4.2 per cent in 2019-20 but entered a recessionary phase with two successive quarters of sharp contraction — 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter — triggered by the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown from March. The statistics ministry said GVA or “gross value added”, which strips out indirect taxes and subsidies, is expected to contract 7.2 per cent. “Real GVA at basic prices is estimated at Rs 123.39 lakh crore in 2020-21 against Rs 133.01 lakh crore in 2019-20, showing a contraction of 7.2 per cent,” the CSO press release said. “The growth in nominal GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at -4.2 per cent,” it added. The release said the numbers must be read with caution as the data has been extrapolated for various sectors over different time periods of seven to eight months, and they could be revised later. The finance ministry said the GDP estimates suggested a continued resurgence in economic activity in the second half of the current fiscal and pointed at a post lockdown sustained V-shaped recovery. Arun Kumar, Malcolm S Adiseshiah Chair Professor at the Institute of Social Sciences, said: “The numbers do not reflect the reality as slowing economic growth was further pulled down by the Covid-19 pandemic. The high frequency numbers do not give the complete picture of the economic scenario and the estimates do not take the effect on the unorganised sector.” “Our expectation is that the Indian economy will contract 7.8 per cent in 2020-21 in real terms, with the recession ending in the current quarter with a mild YoY (year-on-year) growth. We expect the nominal GDP to contract by 4.5 per cent in 2020-21,” Aditi Nayar, the principal economist of Icra, said. Sector wise, manufacturing is expected to see a contraction 9.4 per cent against a growth of 0.03 per cent in the year-ago period, while the agriculture sector is estimated to grow at 3.4 per cent in 2020-21 versus 4 per cent in 2019-20. Mining and quarrying and trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting sectors are expected to see a massive contraction of 12.4 per cent and 21.4 per cent, respectively, versus a growth of 3.1 per cent and 3.6 per cent in the year ago period. Among the other sectors, electricity is likely to grow at 2.7 per cent versus 4.1 per cent in the last fiscal, while financial services and public services are estimated to contract 0.8 per cent and 3.7 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-177
08-01-2021||India||Chaos at Delhi airport after Kejriwal govt issues fresh guidelines for UK travellers||Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Delhi airport on Friday as many passengers arriving from the UK vociferously complained against the national capital government’s belated decision to make seven-day institutional quarantine compulsory for them irrespective of their Covid-19 test results. Passenger flights resumed from the UK to India in limited numbers from Friday onwards after remaining suspended for 16 days due to the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in that country. Air India’s AI112 flight from London landed at the Delhi airport at around 10.30 AM. It was the only UK flight to land in Delhi on Friday and it had 256 passengers in it, said Gauri Agarwal, founder of the Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, which is handling coronavirus testing of all passengers at the Delhi airport. "This is ridiculous. You cannot tell people the rules have changed after they land. Some notice must be given! Chaos at Delhi Airport with this flight, families with small children, pregnant woman howling," Vistara's former Chief Strategy and Commercial Officer Sanjiv Kapoor said on Twitter. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday afternoon that travellers coming from the UK to the national capital will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival. Air India, however, claimed on Twitter on Friday evening that it had informed the flight's passengers about the new advisory of the Delhi government before the plane took off from the Heathrow airport last night. "Around 20 passengers opted to cancel their flight on being informed by Air India's London team of this advisory. The announcement was repeated during the flight as well," the carrier added. A passenger of the flight, named Harpreet Takkar, tagged Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Twitter and said, "Just came from London AI112, it's absolutely maniac at Delhi Airport. Asking us to go for institutional quarantine even with a Negative PCR test. Didn't mention this on your SOP (standard operating procedure)." Another passenger, Mohit Wadhwa, tagged Kejriwal on Twitter and said, “I am one of the passengers of flight AI112 from London with my 2 months old son. You locked every one of us.” Sources said there were heated arguments between the passengers and security personnel who were present at the airport. Air India said it had mobilised all available resources to expedite RT-PCR tests for passengers of the flight and extended "every possible support to facilitate them". One Vistara flight with 291 passengers will come from London to Delhi on Saturday and two flights -- one of British Airways and another of Air India -- with a total of 481 passengers will land at the Delhi airport on Sunday, Gauri Agarwal stated. Aviation Minister Puri had announced earlier this month that only 30 flights per week will operate between India and the UK between January 8 and January 23. Indian and UK carriers will each be operating 15 flights per week during the period. Earlier this month, the Union Health Ministry stated that a passenger coming from the UK can board a flight to India only when he has a negative test report from a sample taken 72 hours prior to the journey. Moreover, as per the rules, the passenger also has to take the RT-PCR test on arrival at the entry airport in India. India had suspended all passenger flights between the UK and India from December 23 to January 7 as a new variant of coronavirus emerged in the UK. Over 60 passenger flights per week were flying between India and the UK in December before the suspension. Meanwhile three UK returnees were among 5,142 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in Kerala, which also recorded 23 deaths, taking the total infection count to 8,01,075 and the toll to 3,257.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||Sharad Pawar says Sena leader joined NCP, deletes tweet later||A tweet on NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s Twitter account on Friday informed about a former Shiv Sena leader from Solapur joining the party, but it was deleted later. Mahesh Kothe, a former Sena leader, and his associates met Pawar here but did not join the party, sources said. As Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra, workers and leaders of one party crossing over to another has created tensions in the alliance in the past. Media reports said Kothe on Thursday announced that he was leaving the Shiv Sena. On Friday, the Sena’s Solapur unit announced his expulsion. Pawar, in a tweet in Marathi on Friday, said, “Leader of Opposition in Solapur Municipal Corporation Mahesh Kothe and his colleagues joined the Nationalist Congress Party today. Welcome all into the party and the Maha Vikas Aghadi.” But later the tweet disappeared. “Kothe met Pawar, but did not join the party. So the tweet was deleted by Pawar’s social media team,” said an NCP source. In another tweet, Pawar said that Solapur city used to follow the ideology of leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, but its face "changed' due to some people inspired by the BJP’s ideology. Kothe and his associates are working to solve issues faced by the people, Pawar said. Last year, five Shiv Sena councilors from Parner in Ahmednagar district joined the NCP, creating a flutter within the ruling alliance. The councilors, however, returned to the Shiv Sena later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||Narendra Modi to meet chief ministers to discuss vaccine rollout||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with chief ministers of all states on January 11 to discuss the Covid-19 vaccination roll out process, his office said on Friday. The PM will also discuss the pandemic situation in each state, it added. This will be Modi’s first meeting with chief ministers following the recent approval of the two coronavirus vaccines for restricted emergency use by India's drug regulator. The prime minister has spoken with state chief ministers several times following the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. India is preparing for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines and the second nationwide mock drill on the drive was conducted on Friday. The notification from the Prime Minister’s Office comes hours after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said soon it would be a reality to vaccinate the entire population in the country against Covid-19 after prioritising risk groups. India, he said, has done extremely well in developing vaccines in the shortest possible time, and presently two vaccines have been given emergency use authorisation. “In the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in the public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things,” the minister had said on Friday morning. In a country that is vast like India with a population of 1.35 billion, everything was done smoothly and meticulously without any glitches, he said. “We started the preparation for the impending vaccine drive against Covid four or five months ago after prime minister Narendra Modi ji constituted the national expert group for vaccination. We worked all the minute details and shared the information with those at grassroot level,” Vardhan said. Earlier, the government used to track the vaccine in terms of the temperature it was stored. “Now we started the new Covid platform in tracking the details of potential beneficiaries, places where they are likely to get the shots, pre and post-vaccination including giving an electronic certificate and follow it up with the second dose with detailed text messages and reminders,” the minister said. Meanwhile, the India’s aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country. “If vaccines packed in dry ice are being transported in the passenger cabin of an aircraft, then the flight crew should be properly trained on the hazards and risks of its transportation,” it noted. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “Adequate number of carbon dioxide detectors should be available in the cabin. Such detectors should be located at locations for timely and reliable detection of a dangerous concentration of carbon dioxide.” “All operators while engaging in the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines packed with dry ice shall establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in a given cargo hold or the main deck (passenger cabin) when a passenger version is deployed for all cargo operations,” it said. India’s drugs regulator has approved the Oxford vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||Rainfall likely in several parts of the country this month: IMD||There is a possibility of cold wave conditions over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan on January 11 and 12, and above normal rainfall in south India from January 14 to 28, the IMD said.  For the week starting January 7 to 13, cumulatively, above normal rainfall is very likely over the south peninsula and central India and below-normal rain/snow is likely over the western Himalayan region.  Under the influence of cyclonic circulation over the southeast Arabian Sea and another cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu coast and neighbourhood, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls and moderate thunderstorm and lightning are very likely over southern peninsular India during next 2-3 days.  Under the influence of a trough in low-level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places very likely over Maharashtra during the next two days.  Thereafter, under the influence of a fresh spell of the easterly wave, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe on January 10 and 11.  Due to the prevailing dry north/northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, minimum temperature will fall gradually by 3-5 degree Celsius during next 4-5 days causing cold wave conditions over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan during January 11-12.  “Due to abundant moisture available in lower tropospheric levels and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog at isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and west Uttar Pradesh and dense fog over Delhi, east Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh in the morning hours of January 9 and 10,” the IMD said.  No significant rainfall is likely over remaining parts of the country during the week, the IMD added.  For the week from January 14 to 20, due to the absence of any active western disturbance, below-normal rain/snow also is likely over the western Himalayan region. In south India, from January 21 to 28, rainfall is very likely to be above normal over extreme southeast peninsular India and below normal rainfall over the western Himalayan region. There will be dry weather over the rest of the country, the IMD added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||DGCA issues guidelines on transportation of vaccine packed in dry ice||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country. “If vaccines packed in dry ice are being transported in the passenger cabin of an aircraft, then the flight crew should be properly trained on the hazards and risks of its transportation,” it noted. “Dry ice transforms into carbon dioxide gas at temperatures higher than -78 degrees Celsius under normal atmospheric pressure and, therefore, it is classified as “dangerous goods” by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO),” it said. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “Adequate number of carbon dioxide detectors should be available in the cabin. Such detectors should be located at locations for timely and reliable detection of a dangerous concentration of carbon dioxide.” “All operators while engaging in the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines packed with dry ice shall establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in a given cargo hold or the main deck (passenger cabin) when a passenger version is deployed for all cargo operations,” it said. The country is preparing for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines and the second nationwide mock drill on the drive was conducted on Friday. India’s drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Nadda coming to Bengal tomorrow to meet farmers||BJP president J P Nadda will reach out to farmers in poll-bound Bengal on Saturday by addressing them in Burdwan and also kickstart his party's door-to-door rice collection, aimed at underlining its "commitment" to peasants' growth, progress and prosperity. Party chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said Nadda will spend most of the day with farmers of Jagdanandpur village during his day-long trip to the state. The BJP chief will hold a roadshow from Burdwan Clock Tower to Lord Curzon Gate in Burdwan and address a press conference too. His address at "Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha" (Farmers security village meeting) in Jagadanandpur will mark the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections, Baluni said. As part of its plan to collect a fistful of rice from farmers, the BJP plans to reach out to the homes of all the 73 lakh villagers across the state. The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in the state in its bid to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state. With Banerjee, also the head of the Trinamool Congress, backing the farmers who are protesting against the three agri laws, the BJP has gone all out to convince farmers about the "benefits" of these Acts and asserted that a large number of them support them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||No ‘ghar wapsi’ until ‘law wapsi’, farm talks end in deadlock||The eight round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre yet again ended on Friday in a deadlock, sources said. The next meeting is likely to be held on January 15. The farmers stuck to their key demands of repealing the agri laws as the only way to end protests, saying their “ghar wapsi” will happen only after “law wapsi”. However the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. Not much discussions could take place on Friday as both the sides refused to bow down to each other, sources said. The next date has been decided after keeping in mind a scheduled hearing of the Supreme Court on January 11. The government sources said the apex court may look into the legality of the three laws, besides other issues related to farmers' protests. At the outset, Tomar appealed to unions for discussions on the laws, while farm leaders reiterated their demand that the new Acts must be withdrawn, sources said, adding that the agriculture minister stressed on protecting the farmers’ interest of the entire country. “Our ‘ghar wapsi’ (return to home) can happen only if you do ‘law wapsi’ (repeal of laws),” a farmer leader said at the meeting. Speaking to reporters after the meeting that lasted for little over two hours, Tomar said the government is still hopeful that union leaders will come with alternatives to discuss in the next round of talks on January 15. But, he virtually ruled out repeal of the laws saying many other groups across the country are supporting these reforms. On whether the government made a proposal to farmers to join a pending case in Supreme Court on issues related to farmers' protest, Tomar said the government did not make any such suggestion but it is always committed to follow whatever is decided by the Supreme Court. Asked whether the government would consider any proposal for allowing states to decide whether to implement the laws or not, Tomar said no such proposal was made by any farmer leader in this regard, but if such a suggestion is made the government will take a call at that time. After the meeting, union leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the meeting was inconclusive and it was unlikely that any resolution could happen in the next round of talks as well. “We do not want anything less than the repeal of laws,” he said. “Government is testing our strength, but we will not bow down. It seems we will have to spend Lohri and Baisakhi festivals here at protest sides,” he said. Another union leader Hannan Mollah said farmers are ready to fight till death and going to court was not an option. He said the farmer unions will meet on January 11 to decide their next course of action. Jai Kisan Andolan union leader Ravinder Kaur was seen crying after the meeting and said many mothers have lost their sons and many daughters have lost their fathers. At the eighth round of negotiations with the 41-member representative group of protesting farmers, the government asserted the farm reform laws have been welcomed by a large section of farmers in various states and asked the unions to think about the interests of the entire country. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, held talks with unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital. “Ideally, the Centre should not interfere in agriculture matters as various Supreme Court orders have declared farming as a state subject. It seems you (the government) do not want to resolve the issue as talks have been happening for so many days. In that case, please give us a clear answer and we will go. Why to waste everyone's time,” a leader said during the meeting. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti, who was also present in the meeting, said the government has told unions that it can not and will not repeal these laws. Around one hour after the meeting, the three ministers stepped out of the discussion hall for their own internal consultations, after union leaders decided to observe silence while holding out papers with slogans including ‘Jeetenge ya Marenge’ (We will either win or die). The union leaders, however, refused to take a lunch break and stayed put in the meeting room, a source said. Earlier during the day, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury expressed hopes that a resolution will be reached after Friday’s meeting. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting,” he told PTI. Choudhury said during the first round of talks, there was no demand for repeal of the three laws. Just before the meeting, Kuruganti said: “If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26.” “Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There has been no change in our stand since beginning,” she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. The government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions last month, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||No option but to repeal the farm laws, Congress tells govt||On a day farmers are holding the eighth round of talks with the government, the Congress on Friday said there is no solution except repealing the three farm laws. The Congress also stepped up the offensive against the government by launching an online campaign in support of the farmers' agitation, with party leader Rahul Gandhi accusing the government of betraying the farmers for benefitting their 'corporate friends'. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also met the party's MPs and MLAs from Punjab who are sitting in protest at Jantar Mantar demanding the repeal of the farm laws. "The only solution is to repeal the three farm laws. There is no other solution," she told the protesting legislators during her meeting with them. "We have always stood by the farmers and we will not step back," she also said while reiterating the party's support for farmers. Punjab MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurjit Singh Aujla, along with some of the party MLAs including Kulbir Singh Zira have been sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar for the last 32 days in support of the farmers and seeking repeal of the farm laws. The meeting of protesting Punjab leaders with Priyanka Gandhi took place at Rahul Gandhi's residence. Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to seek the support of party leaders in favour of farmers. "The Modi government has betrayed the 'Annadata' of the country for the benefit of their capitalist friends. The farmers have spoken through their agitation. It is the duty of all of us to raise the voice of the 'annadata' and support their demands," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Peaceful agitation is an integral part of democracy. The farmers' movement is getting the support from all over the country. You too should raise your voice in support of them and strengthen the voice of farmers so that the anti-agricultural laws are repealed," he said in another tweet. Congress leaders participated in the online campaign in support of the farmers by putting out their videos on Twitter and sought support for the agitating farmers. Farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi for the past over 40 days in support of their demands, which mainly includes the repeal of the three farm laws. They are also engaged in talks with the government to find a solution to their demands and held the eighth round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan on Friday afternoon. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State Som Prakash are among those holding discussions with leaders of various farmer unions at Vigyan Bhawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Our ‘ghar wapsi’ after your ‘law wapsi’, farmers tell Centre||Protesting farmers on Friday stuck to their key demands of repealing the agri laws as the only way to end protests. During the eighth round of the meeting between the representatives and the three central ministers, the farmers said their “ghar wapsi” will happen only after “law wapsi” but the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. At the eighth round of negotiations with the 41-member representative group of protesting farmers, the government asserted the farm reform laws have been welcomed by a large section of farmers in various states and asked the unions to think about the interests of the entire country. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding talks with unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital, while thousands of farmers have stayed put at various Delhi borders to protest against the three laws they find pro-corporate and against the existing mandi and MSP procurement systems. At the outset, Tomar appealed to unions for discussions on the laws, while farm leaders reiterated their demand that the new Acts must be withdrawn, sources said, adding that the agriculture minister stressed on protecting the farmers’ interest of the entire country. “Our ‘ghar wapsi’ (return to home) can happen only if you do ‘law wapsi’ (repeal of laws),” a farmer leader said at the meeting. “Ideally, the Centre should not interfere in agriculture matters as various Supreme Court orders have declared farming as a state subject. It seems you (the government) do not want to resolve the issue as talks have been happening for so many days. In that case, please give us a clear answer and we will go. Why to waste everyone's time,” another leader said. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti, who was also present in the meeting, said the government has told unions that it can not and will not repeal these laws. Around one hour after the meeting, the three ministers stepped out of the discussion hall for their own internal consultations, after union leaders decided to observe silence while holding out papers with slogans including ‘Jeetenge ya Marenge’ (We will either win or die). The union leaders, however, refused to take a lunch break and stayed put in the meeting room, a source said. On January 4, the seventh round of talks ended inconclusively as the unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three farm laws, while the government wanted to discuss only the “problematic” clauses or other alternatives to end the deadlock. Before that, in the sixth round of talks held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Earlier during the day, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury expressed hopes that a resolution will be reached after Friday’s meeting. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting,” he told PTI. Choudhury said during the first round of talks, there was no demand for repeal of the three laws. Just before the meeting, Kuruganti said: “If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26.” “Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There has been no change in our stand since beginning,” she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Delhi bound passengers from UK to undergo mandatory, self-paid Covid tests ||Travellers coming from the UK to the national capital will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. "To protect Delhiites from exposure to the virus from the UK, the Delhi government has taken important decisions. Travellers coming from UK will have to mandatorily undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport," the chief minister said. "All those arriving from the UK who test positive will be isolated at an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine," he said. Kejriwal had on Thursday urged the Centre to extend the suspension of flights to and from the United Kingdom as the country now battles a variant strain of the coronavirus first detected there. On December 23, the central government suspended flights from the UK, with all passengers coming from there having to be tested on arrival at airports. The suspension of UK flights was later extended up to January 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Eighth round of talks between farmers and Centre underway||Representatives of protesting farmers’ unions and three central ministers have begun their eighth round of negotiations on Friday afternoon to solve the impasse over three agri-marketing laws in New Delhi. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions, who have been protesting for over a month now, at the Vigyan Bhawan. On January 4, the seventh round of talks ended inconclusively as the unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three farm laws, while the government wanted to discuss only the “problematic” clauses or other alternatives to end the deadlock. Before that, in the sixth round of talks held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Tomar met senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah, just before the start of the eighth round of talks with protesting farmer unions on the three farm laws, sources said. The meeting continued for about an hour, they said, but what issues came up for discussion in the meeting could not be ascertained. Earlier during the day, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury expressed hopes that a resolution will be reached after Friday’s meeting. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting,” he told PTI. Choudhury said during the first round of talks, there was no demand for repeal of the three laws. Just before the meeting, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti said: “If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26.” “Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There has been no change in our stand since beginning,” she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. Owing to the farmers’ protest since late November last year, several routes connecting Delhi with its neighbouring states have been closed for traffic movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Mandatory Covid tests for all international travellers to UK||International arrivals from anywhere in the world, including India, will now be required to prove a negative Covid-19 test taken up to 72 hours prior to departure for the UK, as part of new measures announced on Friday to contain the spread of new variants of coronavirus circulating internationally. Passengers will be subject to an immediate fine of 500 pounds if they fail to comply with the new regulations on pre-departure testing. Starting next week, inbound passengers arriving by boat, plane or train will have to take a test up to 72 hours before departing the country they are in and could be denied boarding without this. We already have significant measures in place to prevent imported cases of COVID-19, but with new strains of the virus developing internationally we must take further precautions, said UK Transport, Secretary Grant Shapps. Taken together with the existing mandatory self-isolation period for passengers returning from high-risk countries, pre-departure tests will provide a further line of defence helping us control the virus as we roll out the vaccine at pace over the coming weeks, he said. Prior to departure, passengers will need to present proof of a negative COVID-19 test result to carriers, as well as fill out a passenger locator form, which was already in force. The UK Border Force will conduct spot checks on arrival into England to ensure that passengers are fully compliant, the government said, adding that the test could be either in the form of PCR tests or lateral flow tests currently available to detect coronavirus but that further details will be laid out in the coming days. The move is intended to further bolster existing protective measures, with self-isolation for new arrivals and travel corridors remaining critical in reducing the risk of imported cases from high-risk countries. Passengers arriving from countries not on the government's travel corridor list must continue to self-isolate for 10 days regardless of their pre-departure test result. The UK remains under a nationwide lockdown since Wednesday, requiring everyone to stay at home unless travelling for a very limited set of reasons. Permitted international travellers will need to take their test up to 72 hours before departure, and this will apply irrespective of whether a country is on the travel corridor list, which includes India. The government will set out further details on the standards that the tests will need to meet in the coming days and what proof passengers will need to present. Those not on the UK's travel corridor list will still have the option to reduce the self-isolation period from 10 to as little as five days by paying for a second test through the Test to Release scheme. The scheme requires a test to be taken on or after the fifth full day since leaving a country not on the travel corridor list. Passengers will be required to show their negative test result before boarding, and transport operators will deny boarding if necessary. And with the South African variant of the deadly virus now of major concern, anyone travelling indirectly from South Africa must self-isolate for 10 days. The Scottish government has confirmed it will adopt similar rules to England and said this would not affect current restrictions making non-essential travel to and from Scotland illegal. Wales and Northern Ireland would follow similar control measures as they remain in lockdown. It comes after a further 1,162 deaths were reported in the UK on Thursday the second consecutive day of more than 1,000 recorded fatalities. There were also 52,618 new cases. At a Downing Street press conference on Thursday evening, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said nearly 1.5 million people in the country had now received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, but warned there would likely be "lumpiness and bumpiness" as the rollout continues. He has promised hundreds of thousands of jobs in coming weeks as the Army joins in the logistics drive to assist the National Health Service (NHS) with the vaccination programme. "Let's be clear, this is a national challenge on a scale like nothing we've seen before and it will require an unprecedented national effort, said Johnson. "Of course, there will be difficulties, appointments will be changed but... the Army is working hand in glove with the NHS and local councils to set up our vaccine network and using battle preparation techniques to help us keep up the pace," he said. The UK PM has promised daily rolling updates on vaccination figures starting Monday as a means out of the country's lockdown, which is expected to last until March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||India's entire population to get vaccinated against Covid shortly, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday said soon it would be a reality to vaccinate the entire population in the country against Covid-19 after prioritising risk groups. The Centre has started a new Covid platform to track particulars of potential vaccine beneficiaries and also issue electronic certificates to them, he told reporters after reviewing the dry run of administering COVID-19 vaccine at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here as part of a state-wide programme. India, he said, has done extremely well in developing vaccines in the shortest possible time, and presently two vaccines have been given emergency use authorisation. "In the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in the public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things," he added. The Minister also visited the Government Omandurar Hospital here and a few other centres here. In a country that is vast like India with a population of 1.35 billion, everything was done smoothly and meticulously without any glitches. "We started the preparation for the impending vaccine drive against Covid four or five months ago after prime minister Narendra Modi ji constituted the national expert group for vaccination. We worked all the minute details and shared the information with those at grassroot level," he said. In the process, several lakhs of health workers have been trained adequately. Earlier, the government used to track the vaccine in terms of the temperature it was stored. "Now we started the new Covid platform in tracking the details of potential beneficiaries, places where they are likely to get the shots, pre and post-vaccination including giving an electronic certificate and follow it up with the second dose with detailed text messages and reminders," the Minister said. The details of this 150-page document has been shared with all stakeholders to make the vaccination drive successful, he added. India was the first country in the world to take note of the pandemic on January 6, 2020 and launch into action. A year of action has led to the country having one million testing kits per day from a mere one when the pandemic started. India has the highest recovery rate and the lowest fatality rate and almost all those infected got treated and returned home. The scientists and medical fraternity besides those in diverse fields rose to the occasion and displayed exemplary dedication and commitment. "We are able to export PPE kits, N95 masks and ventilators - almost everything that people used to talk about shortage then. Things transformed for the better due to the inspiration given by the prime minister for the development of Atma Nirbhar Bharat," Harsh Vardhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Govt hopeful of resolving farmers' issue in today's talks||Hours before the eighth round of formal talks between the Centre and the farmers' groups agitating against three recent farm laws, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped that a resolution will come out of Friday's meeting. The eighth round of talks between three Union ministers -- Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash -- and the 40 protesting farmer unions to end the farmers' agitation is scheduled to begin at the Vigyan Bhawan here at 2 pm. Just before the talks, Union Agriculture Minister Tomar is likely to call on Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the issue, sources said. Talking to PTI, Choudhury said, "I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting." There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, he added. Asserting that the new laws enacted by the Centre are in the interest of farmers, Choudhury said the legislations are just a beginning and added that the unions are agitating against the laws under the "influence of arhtiyas (commission agents)". "Next, the Pesticide (Management) Bill and the Seed Bill will come. At that time too, farmers can be misguided," he said. Asked if the Centre would encourage religious leaders from Punjab to mediate between the government and the protesting farmers, Choudhury said, "We welcome everyone. We want a resolution. If they are ready to talk in that direction, we welcome them." Punjab's Nanaksar Gurdwara head Baba Lakha, a renowned religious leader of the state, met Tomar on Thursday and wished to mediate between the Centre and the protesting farmers. The last seven rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers remained inconclusive, although there was some breakthrough at the December 30 meeting when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble-burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Main accused of Budaun rape and murder case held and questioned by police||The priest, who is the main accused in the alleged gangrape of an Anganwadi worker in this Uttar Pradesh district, was quizzed throughout Friday night after his arrest in a late-night crackdown that ended his five-day run. The "mahant", Satya Narayan, was hiding in a forest area near the house of one of his followers in a village under the Ughaiti police station, from where he was picked up, the police said. The priest, who is in his 50s, was immediately arrested and interrogated by a police team. Four teams were formed to nab the accused, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said. He will be taken for a medical examination and produced before a local court for seeking remand, the police said. The 50-year-old woman, who had gone to a temple, was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Sunday. Her family members accused the temple priest and his accomplices of raping and killing her. A case was registered against the accused and two of them were arrested on Tuesday night, while the priest was absconding for almost five days before he was held. The incident triggered an opposition outcry and a comparison with Delhi's 2012 Nirbhaya case after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, a broken rib cage, a fractured leg and injuries in the private parts of the victim. The incident took place on Sunday and the matter came to light that night itself when the priest and his accomplices took the body of the victim to her house, saying it was found in a dry well on the temple premises. The FIR was registered on Tuesday after an autopsy confirmed rape and the two accomplices of the priest were nabbed. The station house officer (SHO) of the Ughaiti police station has been suspended for a "delay in informing higher authorities, laxity in taking action, dereliction of duty and failure in taking speedy action". Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered "strongest possible action" in the case even as opposition parties have launched an attack on his government, terming the incident "horrific" and "shameful", with the Congress comparing it to the Nirbhaya case. Following the incident, Bareilly ADG Avinash Chandra had visited the crime spot and announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on the arrest of the priest. "Based on complaints from the family members and the post-mortem report, a case has been registered under sections 376D (gang-rape) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC," he had said. The ADG had said a second opinion on the post-mortem report was being sought from medical experts and only after that, any conclusion could be drawn. Budaun Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Yashpal Singh said the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding. Endorsing the CMO's opinion, District Magistrate Kumar Prashant said, "Whatever help can be given from the department will be given. She was an anganwadi sahayika (helper). We are also paying attention to the security of the family." The victim's son said his mother had gone to offer prayers at the temple on Sunday but did not return home within the expected time. It was only around 11 pm that the priest and his two aides came to their house and handed over her body, he added. Before the family members could ask how she died, the accused left the house saying she had fallen into a dry well and her body was pulled out subsequently. The victim's son said the police were informed of the incident on Monday. Amid the opposition uproar, the Chief Minister's Officer said in a tweet: "The UP CM @myogiadityanath has taken cognisance of the Badaun incident and instructed to take strongest legal action against the accused." The chief minister has also instructed the ADG, Bareilly zone to submit a detailed report on the incident and directed the Special Task Force (STF) to assist in the probe, it said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is also in charge of the party's affairs in Uttar Pradesh, hit out at the Adityanath government, alleging that there is something wrong in its intention on the issue of women's security. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati too have condemned the incident. The Budaun incident comes months after a Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped by four men on September 14 last year. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken note of the Budaun incident and sent a team of its members for a probe. NCW member Chandramukhi Devi, who met the victim's family members on Thursday, said the incident could have been avoided had the woman not stepped out in evening. She, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the police action in the case. "I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone's influence. "I think had she not gone out in the evening or if she was accompanied by any child of the family, perhaps this incident could have been avoided. But this was pre-planned as she was called through a phone call. She went (out) and then returned in such a state," she told reporters at the victim's village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||India reports 18,139 Covid cases, 234 casualties in a day||India's daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 19,000 for the fifth time this month, taking the country's caseload to 1,04,13,417, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,37,398, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Friday. A total of 18,139 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,50,570 as 234 more people succumbed to the disease during the same period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,37,398, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.39 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below three lakh for the 18th consecutive day. There are 2,25,449 active coronavirus infections in the country, which account for 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,93,36,364 samples have been tested for COVID-19 till January 7, including 9,35,369 on Thursday. The 234 new fatalities include 72 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 19 from Delhi and 18 from West Bengal. Of the total 1,50,570 Covid-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra accounted for 49,897, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,200), Karnataka (12,131), Delhi (10,644), West Bengal (9,881), Uttar Pradesh (8,452), Andhra Pradesh (7,126) and Punjab (5,422). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Eighth round of farm law talks today||The eighth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and the government is scheduled to be held on Friday afternoon as both sides look for a resolution to the over one-month-long deadlock on the issue of the three new farm laws. Both sides have stuck to their respective positions, with agitating farmers taking out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for rollback of the laws, and the Centre asserting it is ready to consider any proposal other than their repeal. The latest round of talks to be held at Vigyan Bhavan at 2 pm on Friday is crucial as the previous meeting on January 4 remained inconclusive. There was some breakthrough in the sixth round of talks on December 30 when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble burning. The previous rounds of talks had failed to make any headway. Thursday's tractor rallies were taken out from protest sites near the Singhu, Tikri and the Ghazipur borders and also from Haryana's Rewasan as the unions asserted they would not accept the Centre's offer of amendments to the farm laws. According to them, these marches were a "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 "Kisan Parade" to the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Owing to the farmers' protest since late November last year, several routes connecting Delhi with its neighbouring states have been closed for traffic movement. According to Delhi Traffic Police, Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed on Friday as well. It advised commuters to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road, the traffic police force said, asking commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44. It said Chilla and Ghazipur borders were closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi, and advised people to take alternative routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra and Loni borders instead. The traffic police said Tikri and Dhansa borders were also closed for traffic movement. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature dips below 10 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday, a day after it rose to 14.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in January in four years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). A cloud cover persisted over the national capital, preventing a steep decline in the minimum temperature, an IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius as against 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Delhi witnessed rainfall for four consecutive days till Wednesday under the influence of a strong western disturbance affecting northwest India. A fresh western disturbance may lead to "very light" rain in the city on Friday. The weather will remain cloudy, officials said. Thereafter, Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by four to five notches with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains. The IMD said Delhi has already recorded 56.6 mm rainfall in January, the maximum for the month in 21 years. On average, Delhi records 21.7 mm rain in January every year. It had gauged 48.1 mm rainfall in January last year, 54.1 mm rainfall in January 2019 and 59.7 mm rain in January 1999. The city had registered 69.8 mm rainfall in January 1995, according to IMD data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India|| National Commission for Women's answer for rape: ‘Don’t step out’||The Uttar Pradesh woman who was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by a priest and two of his associates when she had gone to worship at a temple could have averted the crime had she not stepped out of home at night or had been accompanied by a family member, a member of the National Commission for Women said on Thursday. Chandramukhi Devi told reporters after meeting the family members of the victim at her village in Badaun: “Main sochti hun ki agar woh utni raat mein bahar nahin gayi hoti ya uske saath koi parivar ka saath hota toh shayad yeh ghatna nahin hui hoti (I think this incident wouldn’t have happened had she not ventured out of home late at night or someone from her family had accompanied her).” The 42-year-old anganwadi worker was gang-raped allegedly by mahant Baba Satya Narayan, his driver Jaspal Singh and disciple Ved Ram when she had gone to the temple on Sunday evening. A hard object, probably an iron rod, had been inserted into her private parts and her leg fractured. The trio dumped the woman at her house around 11pm and claimed before her family that she had fallen into a dry well. She was declared dead on arrival at a hospital. Chandramukhi, who became a member of the commission in 2018, was previously the president of the women’s wing of the BJP in Bihar. Before that, she was the Bihar chief of the Durga Vahini, the women’s wing of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. She had been elected as an MLA of the BJP in 1995. “The police could have saved her life had they acted swiftly. Police officers have told me that she was unconscious and not dead when dumped outside her house,” Chandramukhi said. The victim’s family has accused the police of sending her body for a post-mortem over 24 hours after they had lodged a police complaint and trying to protect the accused, allowing them time to flee on Tuesday. While Satya Narayan is absconding, Ved Ram and Jaspal were arrested on Wednesday. The family of the accused have also accused the police of acting only after the media reported the crime. Two local police officers have been suspended. Reacting to Chandramukhi’s comments, Uttar Pradesh State Commission for Women chairperson Vimala Batham said: “I don’t know what the member of the NCW has said. Everything would be clear when the investigation is done.” Asked by reporters whether it was wrong for women to go out of their houses in the evening, Batham said: “There are working women who go to office or return late at night. They should feel safe in any situation. I cannot say that their movements should be restricted by time.” She said the Badaun woman had gone to the temple at 5pm, not late at night as Chandramukhi has claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Supreme Court denies leaks on  ‘in-house’ inquiries||The Supreme Court on Thursday denied media reports about selective leaks from within the top court on purported “in-house” inquiries being conducted against certain sitting judges. In an official statement denying the claim, apex court spokesperson Rakesh Sharma particularly censured the reports’ attribution of their content to Supreme Court sources. The reports were filed by journalists based in Andhra Pradesh and Chennai. It is rare for the Supreme Court to issue a denial against media reports. “Media has recently been reporting about complaints making insinuations against members of the higher judiciary, and the action likely to be taken by the Chief Justice of India,” Sharma said. “Supreme Court is being quoted as the source of the information. It is clarified once and for all that inquiries under the ‘in-house procedure’ being totally and wholly confidential in nature, Supreme Court never releases information in matters incidental thereto.” According to a handful of media reports from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde has asked Andhra chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to file an affidavit in support of his allegation that Andhra Pradesh High Court was biased against him. The allegation was aired by Jagan’s principal secretary Ajey Kallam at a news conference on October 10. Jagan, who faces a slew of corruption cases, also alleged that Justice N.V. Ramana of the apex court, a Chief Justice of India-in-waiting, was interfering in the affairs of Andhra Pradesh High Court. The media reports claimed that Justice Bobde had sought a report from Justice Ramana on the matter. Justice Ramana currently heads a bench that is monitoring the top court’s 2018 judgment mandating the completion of criminal trials against lawmakers in special courts within one year. Several advocates have moved contempt petitions in the Supreme Court against Jagan in connection with the October 10 allegations. Andhra Pradesh High Court too has chided the chief minister and noted that he faces 30-odd cases relating to alleged corruption, money-laundering and other criminal offences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Plea to free up minority panel ||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre on a petition seeking the removal of government control over the appointment of the chairperson and members of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Navin Sinha and Indu Malhotra sought the government’s response on the Jamiat Ulema-I-Hind’s plea that the power to appoint the chairperson be vested with the Chief Justice of India, akin to the appointment process adopted for a number of quasi-judicial tribunals. The commission advises the central and state governments on questions relating to the education of minorities that may be referred to it. It may enquire, suo motu, or on a petition presented to it by a minority educational institution or any person on its behalf into complaints regarding deprivation or violation of rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice and any dispute relating to affiliation to a university. The commission has to report its findings to the appropriate government for its implementation. It also has the power to intervene in any court proceedings involving deprivation or violation of the educational rights of the minorities, with the leave of the court. The petition filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq pleaded that “…it is expedient in the interest of maintenance of independence of the judiciary that appointment of the chairman and the members of the said commission are done by the respondent on the recommendations of the committee to be constituted by the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India”. As per Section 3 of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004, the commission shall consist of a chairperson and three members. The chairperson should be a retired high court judge, while the members should be persons of eminence, ability and integrity. According to the Act, the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions enjoys all the trappings of a civil court trying a civil suit, including the power to execute its own orders as decrees of a civil court. It also enjoys the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. Under Section 12 of the Act, proceedings before the commission are judicial in nature. The orders passed by it are final and can only be challenged before the Supreme Court or high courts under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. The petition pointed out that the commission is not amongst the 19 tribunals, like the NHRC or the NCLAT, which are dealt with under the Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal and other Authorities (Qualification, Experience and other Conditions of Service of Members), Rules 2020. To ensure independence of their functioning and insulate them from bureaucratic or extraneous influence, most of these commissions’ chairpersons are appointed by a panel headed by the Chief Justice of India. The petitioner has sought a similar arrangement for the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||China mum on border talks||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is said to have hardened its stand and continues to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in Ladakh and wants India to accept the new Line of Actual Control, sources in the defence ministry said. A ministry official said the PLA had also not been responding to India’s request for the ninth round of military talks between the two sides. It has been two months since India and China held the eighth round of military talks on November 6, which failed to achieve any breakthrough. Both sides had then agreed to continue the dialogue process to resolve the border standoff. “The Chinese side is yet to agree to the ninth rounds of military talks that was supposed to take place by mid-November. They have hardened their stand and have not yet confirmed the dates for the corps commander-level meeting. We are still waiting for their confirmation,” the official said. There is a growing feeling in the security establishment that the PLA is working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow the Chinese army to hold on to its newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. Although there is no official word from either the government or the Indian Army on the specifics of the disengagement plan discussed during the eight round of talks, military veterans have questioned the Centre’s silence on the Indian demand for the restoration of status quo ante. “It’s shocking that the government is no longer talking about our demand for restoration of status quo. It is high time the government comes clean on the specifics of the purported disengagement plan being discussed with the Chinese side,” said a veteran. He pointed out that defence minister Rajnath Singh had last month spoken of China’s “unprovoked aggression” in eastern Ladakh but did not say where the two sides stood on disengagement. Another veteran said: “Some media reports earlier had suggested that the Chinese side, during the eighth round of military talks, had indicated that India should accept the new status quo. The government’s silence on this is deafening.” Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May. As many as 19 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground, an official of the Intelligence Branch said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Modi labels Capitol siege as 'unlawful protests'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined world leaders on Thursday in urging a smooth transition of power in Washington but his label of “unlawful protests” for the Trumpist rampage in the US was seen here as a comment on the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “Distressed to see news about rioting and violence in Washington DC. Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue. The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,” Modi tweeted as India woke up to news of the storming of the Capitol Hill overnight. Modi’s choice of words stood out particularly because US President-elect Joe Biden had specifically said the storming of Capitol Hill was not a protest. Asking President Donald Trump to call an end to the siege, Biden had in his address said: “It’s not protest. It’s insurrection.” The subtext of Modi’s second sentence was clear to Indians across the political divide, given how his government had repeatedly projected its ability to win elections as a stamp of popular approval for its policies, and used it to silence critics. While Modi’s supporters quickly underlined that one such protest was going on right outside Delhi’s borders, his critics stressed that protests were an integral part of democracy and that what had happened in Washington was an attempt to violently overturn an election result. The Modi government’s ecosystem has for weeks been maligning the farmers’ movement, which has remained unrelenting but peaceful, and his remark was seen as yet another instance of verbal manipulation by the master of the medium. The protesting farmers too asked how it could be all right for the Prime Minister to comment on America’s internal matters after his government had castigated Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for backing Indian farmers’ right to protest peacefully. Reacting to Modi’s tweet, CPIML Liberation general secretary Kavita Krishnan said: “Hey @PMOIndia @narendramodi — white supremacists out to overthrow US Govt is not ‘protest’ — it’s a coup. No ‘protest’ is ‘unlawful’. Farmers’ & anti-CAA protests are peaceful. The white supremacists in the US are the brothers of Kapil Mishra & your Hindu-supremacist brethren.” Poet Husain Haidry tweeted: “Of course it will be called ‘Unlawful Protest’. That’s what one is scared of the most right now. Also, actual comparison is: RSS members being violent in Delhi when BJP loses in 2024 and Modi has to resign as Prime Minister.” Haidry was trolled for his optimism. The sighting of an Indian Tricolour among the American flags and pro-Trump banners held up by the mob that stormed Capitol Hill also became a subject of debate as it drew attention to the commonalities between the core vote banks of the US President and the Indian Prime Minister. BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi attracted flak by tweeting “Why is there an Indian flag there??? This is one fight we definitely don’t need to participate in...,” the debate throwing into relief how Modi had hosted two election-style rallies for Trump: HowdyModi and NamasteTrump. “Unfortunately, @varungandhi80, there are some Indians with the same mentality as that Trumpist mob, who enjoy using the flag as a weapon rather than a badge of pride, & denounce all who disagree with them as anti-nationals & traitors. That flag there is a warning to all of us,” tweeted Congress MP Shashi Tharoor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Supreme Court airs Covid concern over farmers||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to clarify whether adequate safeguards and Covid-19 protocols were being followed by the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and feared that “problems” similar to those that arose during the Tablighi Jamaat event last year could recur. “You must tell us what is happening. I don’t know if farmers are protected from Covid,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the hearing into an appeal for a CBI probe into the allegedly illegal Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi during the Covid-induced lockdown in April-May 2020. “Same problem may arise at the farmers’ protest too,” CJI Bobde said. The bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told Mehta: “We are trying to ensure that Covid does not spread, ensure guidelines issued are followed.” The Tablighi Jamaat gathering at the Nizamuddin Markaz had been subjected to a vilification campaign by the government, the BJP ecosystem and sections of the media, with the participants being blamed for the initial spread of the pandemic in India and efforts being made to tarnish the minority community as a whole. The detentions of the participants have not withstood legal scrutiny in courts across the country. On Thursday, Mehta agreed to the Supreme Court’s concerns and said he would revert after verifying the situation from the authorities concerned. The bench made the observation while dealing with a PIL by Jammu and Kashmir-based petitioner Supriya Panditya seeking a CBI probe into the circumstances leading to the alleged illegal assembly at the Tablighi Jamaat convention when the entire country was under a lockdown. The petitioner has questioned the role of the Centre, the Delhi government and Delhi police in risking the health of millions of citizens by allowing the huge congregation that also had many foreign delegates. The apex court at that time had issued notice to the government in connection with the same PIL. The government had opposed the plea for a CBI probe, saying Delhi police were investigating on a day-to-day basis. According to the Centre, besides prosecuting the alleged offenders under various IPC sections and for violation of the Passports Act, the government had blacklisted 960 foreigners from future travel to the country. Advocate Omprakash Parihar, appearing for the petitioner, told the court during the brief hearing that one of the main organisers of the Jamaat, Maulana Saad, was untraceable. The court adjourned the matter till Monday to enable the Centre to file its response on the Jamaat probe plea and the steps taken to ensure that the protesting farmers observe all Covid protocols. The bench also posted for hearing on Monday another petition for declaring the provisions of the three new farm laws as unconstitutional, illegal and void. The petition has been filed by P. Ayyakannu, state president of the National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Sangam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Farmers snub Centre on state leeway ||The government on Thursday purportedly floated a proposal that would allow state governments the final say on the implementation of the three contentious farm laws, a day ahead of the eighth round of talks with protesting farmers. The suggestion, however, was dismissed by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation of the protesters, as another attempt by the Narendra Modi government to put up a show of accommodation. As of Thursday evening, the SKM had not received any such proposal, which was reported by the Punjabi media after spiritual leader Baba Lakha Singh met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the SKM, said the proposal was just an attempt at media management by the Modi government so that attention is diverted from the successful tractor rally taken out by farmers along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on Thursday as a rehearsal for their parade planned for Republic Day if the farmers’ demand for repeal of the three laws are not met. “They did the same thing on December 8, after our successful Bharat Bandh. Home minister Amit Shah called us for a discussion in a skilful exercise of headline management, and the focus of coverage shifted from the bandh to the meeting he had convened,” Yadav said. As for the proposal that is being talked about, there appears to be a consensus among the farmers that it should be rejected as all the 450-plus farmer unions in the SKM are unanimous that the three laws cannot be accepted in any form. Add to this the experience of the amendments introduced by the Modi government to the land acquisition law in 2015. Though the central government put it on the backburner in the face of resistance, several state governments have been tweaking the law to dilute the provisions of the original law. Given the political divide over the farm laws, the farmers fear that BJP-ruled states would implement them in keeping with the party policy and Prime Minister Modi’s diktats. And, the Modi government could also arm twist Opposition-ruled state governments to fall in line or an election in non-NDA states could bring in the BJP. “Repeal is the only way out or these laws will always be hanging over our heads like the Sword of Damocles,” said a union leader, pointing out that it would not be easy to mobilise the farming community in this manner again if the momentum is allowed to fizzle away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Soldier faces stick over farmers' protest||The army will discipline a serving soldier for participating in a farmers’ protest in Punjab last month, an army official told The Telegraph on Thursday. He said the army and other security agencies were trying to identify two other jawans who had posted videos on Twitter criticising the new farm laws and defending the protesters. All three appear to be posted in Jammu and Kashmir, and all three have slammed government supporters’ vilification of the protesters, sources said. The country’s top political leadership is growing increasingly worried about the impact the farmers’ protest is having on military personnel from Punjab and Haryana, most of whom are from farming families, sources in the security establishment said. Army rules prohibit serving personnel from participating in demonstrations. Many ex-servicemen from Punjab and Haryana, including medal-winning veterans of wars against Pakistan, have been participating in the farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders. “Commanders have been asked to sensitise soldiers about the army rules that forbid participation in any protest,” the army official said. A widely circulated photograph on social media shows a sepoy in army uniform and a camouflage mask participating in a farmers’ protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office in Bathinda, Punjab. He carries a placard that says: “My father is a farmer. If he is a terrorist then I am also a terrorist.” Several BJP leaders have maligned the protesters as Khalistanis or Maoist stooges. An inquiry has revealed the soldier was visiting his home in Bathinda on leave from his posting in Jammu and Kashmir, the army official said. “Disciplinary action will soon be initiated against the soldier. His action violates the Army Act 1950, which bars participation in protests,” the official said. He did not identify the soldier, nor say what action he might face. The army has officially not said anything on the matter. In the Twitter videos uploaded by the other two jawans, who appear to be from the army too, they have said their parents have been protesting the new farm laws while they are protecting the nation in Jammu and Kashmir. They have asked how they can be called “anti-national”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Minister Pralhad Joshi outlines Nalco plan||Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said Nalco (National Aluminium Company Limited), a Navaratna company based in Odisha, would invest Rs 30,000 crore for its expansion plan. “Nalco being a significant contributor in the alumina and aluminium sectors, it is essential that the company goes for its planned expansion,” Joshi said while addressing the 41st foundation day celebrations of the company here. He said: “The Rs 30,000-crore expansion plan of Nalco, spread over the next seven–eight years, will include the expansion of its refinery by 1 million tonnes, adding the 3.5 million tonnes capacity Pottangi bauxite mines and operationalisation of the Utkal D and E coal blocks. Enhancement of its aluminium smelting capacity by 0.5 million tonnes and captive power plant by another approximately 1,200MW through brownfield expansions at Angul district of Odisha has been also envisaged in this growth plan.” Joshi also stressed on the fact that there exists a huge scope for increasing the per capita consumption of aluminium in the country and it is the right time for the Indian aluminium industries to ramp up their production and leverage this opportunity. “The annual consumption is stated to grow manifold with demand picking up under the Government of India’s Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat initiative in sectors like power, building and construction, packaging, automobile manufacturing and transportation,” he said. Nalco chairman and managing director Sridhar Patra highlighted the company’s significant performance in the last fiscal, including the export earnings that accounted for about 59 per cent of the sales turnover in the first half of this financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||BJP, BJD clash over murder in Odisha ||The BJP and the BJD on Thursday traded charges over the murder of senior Odisha BJP leader Kulamani Baral and his associate Dibyasingh Baral. Both were allegedly hacked to death last Saturday while they were returning home on a motorcycle near their village under Mahanga Assembly constituency in Cuttack district, around 70km from here. The BJP has upped the ante after Mahanga MLA and law minister Pratap Jena’s name figured in the FIR. Kulamani’s son Ramakanta has accused the minister of being involved in the murder. After meeting the family members of the slain leaders in Nrutanga village in Cuttack district on Thursday, BJP’s Odisha in-charge D. Purandeswari said: “The family members of Kulamani and Dibyasingh have alleged that law minister Pratap Jena, who hails from that area, played a role in the crime. “Why has the state government been silent over the issue and not initiated any action against him? What prevents the government from doing so?” Coming down heavily on the state government, she said: “One of our leaders from the area, Bikash Jena, had been killed last year as he exposed irregularities in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Now Kulamani Baral has become a victim for raising the issue.” “It’s time chief minister Naveen Patnaik opened his eyes and ears and saw what was happening in the state,” she added. Former director-general of police and senior BJP leader Prakash Mishra alleged that local police officers were being influenced and were not properly investigating the matter. “Before his death Dibyasingh had taken names of some people who were behind the crime. His last words should be treated as dying declaration. But the investigation is not going in the right direction.” Hitting back at the BJP, BJD spokesperson and MP Sasmit Patra said: “Purandeswari is perhaps unaware that the BJD government has zero tolerance in matters of violence and has always taken the strictest action against the culprits. “It is because of such measures that people of Odisha have elected the BJD government five times in a row.” He further said: “It seems Purandareswari is unaware that the accused in the Mahanga case were arrested within 48 hours along with the main accused who had hit the victims with the murder weapon.” Patra said that strictest possible action has already been taken in the case. “The victims will surely get justice. The BJD government is committed to it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Gang war rocks Lucknow||A gangster was assassinated on a busy street in an upscale Lucknow neighbourhood on Wednesday night, the shootout involving more than a dozen shots that sent people running helter-skelter and injured at least one passer-by. Eyewitnesses said that amid the chaos after the 8.30pm gunfight, an accomplice of the three killers nonchalantly walked up to victim Ajit Singh, 45, to make sure he was dead, suggesting it was a professional job. Police attributed the killing of the underworld don from Mau district, who faces 17 criminal cases, to gangland rivalry but would not name a suspect. Officers said Lucknow had seen such audacious street shootings in the late 1990s and feared that another bout of gang warfare was imminent. Ajit and associate Mohar Singh had got off their SUV and appeared headed for an apartment complex near the Kathauta Crossing at the Gomti Nagar Extension when three waiting men fired at them, eyewitnesses said. The police said the killers used 9mm pistols. Ajit and Mohar fired back while running back towards their SUV. The eyewitnesses said an injured Ajit somehow staggered into the vehicle while a bleeding Mohar disappeared down the road. With Ajit’s gun falling silent, a man approached the SUV, apparently to make sure he was dead. On a signal from him, the three assassins got on a single motorcycle and left. Officers said two loaded 9mm pistols — a popular weapon among criminal gangs — had been found inside the SUV. Ajit was hit eight times all over his body while Mohar, who returned after a while and was sitting on the ground when the police arrived, had three bullets in his legs. Akash Kumar, a passing food delivery man in his early 20s, took a bullet near his shoulder. A woman constable took him to hospital. Unconfirmed reports said a second unidentified passer-by was hit and injured. Officers suggested two possible motives behind the killing: one, to stop Ajit joining politics and two, to silence him as a witness in a murder case against another gangster, Dhruv Kumar Singh. Ajit had been with Sarvesh Singh Sipu, a former Samajwadi Party MLA from Azamgarh, when he was shot dead in 2013. Co-accused Dhruv and Akhand Singh are in jail. “Broadly, there are four big gangs in Uttar Pradesh. We don’t know what the equations between them are at the moment, or which smaller gang is with whom. These criminals keep double-crossing each other,” a police officer in Lucknow said, requesting anonymity. “Every gang-lord is preparing the ground to contest Assembly elections in future, while their friends and foes are trying to prevent them joining politics. We don’t know who wants what and why.” He added: “Similar ambitions among underworld dons were witnessed in the late 1990s, and the result was a series of gang wars.” Lucknow police commissioner D.K. Thakur told reporters that Ajit had been “very close to the Mukhtar Ansari gang”. Ansari is a Bahujan Samaj Party member and a fifth-time MLA from Mau. Of the 17 cases in the Mau and Azamgarh districts against Ajit, a former block pramukh of Mohammadabad Gohana in Mau, 6 had reached the trial stage. Ajit, arrested in 2015 but given bail, had a few months ago been externed (expelled) from Mau by the district administration. The Adityanath government has handed the murder investigation to the special task force (STF), formed in April 1998 by the then Kalyan Singh administration to arrest or kill a don, Shri Prakash Shukla. The STF tracked Shukla for five months and shot him dead in Ghaziabad. Shukla had been the chief architect of a dozen gang fights that Lucknow had witnessed between 1996 and 1998, the most high-profile among them being the murder of Independent MLA Virendra Shahi. Sources said a diary the STF had seized after killing Shukla mentioned his contacts, who allegedly included many politicians from the then ruling BJP. The details were never made public. The 2005 Bollywood movie Sehar and the recent web series Rangbaaz are said to have been based partly on Shukla’s exploits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Aid for Brahmin brides with community rider||The Karnataka government’s plan to financially support Brahmin brides from poor families has kicked up a row because of the condition that the beneficiaries must marry within the community. The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board recently announced two schemes to help brides from impoverished Brahmin families. While cash benefits of Rs 25,000 will be provided under the Arundathi scheme to brides from the community, those marrying Brahmin priests will be provided Rs 3 lakh under the Maitreyi programme. But what has come in for widespread criticism is the condition that the beneficiaries ought to be from the same community and registered on the board’s web portal by producing their caste certificates. Board chairman H.S. Sachidananda Murthy did not answer repeated calls from The Telegraph. Earlier, he had told the local media that the idea was to “uplift women from economically weak Brahmin families”. He justified the higher benefit for marrying priests and said the amount could be used to start an alternative source of income, like a small shop. Murthy said the beneficiaries must produce their caste and income certificates to register under the two schemes. But it should be the first marriage of the couple and they should give an undertaking that they would be married for at least five years. The BJP government formed the board in July 2019 and launched several programmes for the needy from the Brahmin community that forms about 3 per cent of the 6.5 crore population of the state. While it is by no means the only caste-based development board in the state replete with such entities for most of the influential communities, it is the condition of marrying within the community that has triggered outrage. “This is a gross violation of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and can be challenged in court,” state Congress spokesman V.G. Ugrappa told this newspaper on Thursday. “It is the bride’s right to choose her man, just like it is the man’s right to choose his bride. So this order is against the spirit of our Constitution and infringes on its provisions concerning rights and liberties,” Ugrappa, a senior lawyer, added. He recalled how Brahmin boys and girls have often married into other communities and lived happily in the state. “It’s very unfortunate that the BJP government is encouraging this kind of casteist tendencies with tax payers’ money, that too in the 21st century,” Ugrappa said. It was chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s predecessor H.D. Kumaraswamy who had first mooted the idea of a Brahmin development board when he headed the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition government. He had promised to set aside Rs 25 crore for the board before his government collapsed in 2019. Former chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, C.S. Dwarakanath, told this newspaper that such riders for government benefits are never applied on any community. “There are similar schemes for other communities also. But none of them impose such conditions that the beneficiaries should marry only from their own community,” Dwarakanath said. He had headed the commission from 2007 to 2010 when Yediyurappa was chief minister. “During my tenure I had even proposed monetary assistance to couples in inter-caste marriage to encourage more people to step out of caste barriers. But none of the subsequent governments implemented it,” Dwarakanath lamented. Noted Dalit writer Mahesh Chandra Guru slammed the BJP government for encouraging the caste system. “Such regressive schemes will only fuel more caste differences in the society,” he said, urging the government to intervene and allow the benefits to all Brahmin girls, irrespective of who she marries. “This is a violation of the fundamental rights of poor Brahmin women who are being shackled in the iron chains of caste system,” Guru said, adding that men in his family had married Brahmin women without any issue. “I have three sisters-in-law and an aunt who are Brahmins. All of them live happily without any issue. But this kind of conditions will affect such unions based on the choice of two individuals,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Designer Satya Paul is no more||Ace fashion designer Satya Paul, known for giving the Indian saree a contemporary touch, has passed away at the age of 79, his son Puneet Nanda said. Paul, who had suffered a stroke in December, breathed his last at Sadhguru’s Isha Yoga Center on Wednesday. “He had a stroke on December 2 and as he was slowly recovering in the hospital, his only wish was to get all the things he was being monitored and poked with — removed so he could fly away. We finally got clearance from doctors to take him back to Isha Yoga Center, his home since 2015. As per his wish, he gently passed on with blessings of the Master,” Nanda wrote on Facebook. Nanda said though there’s grief for his father’s loss, the family is also celebrating the wholesome life the designer led. “He couldn’t have had a sweeter life or passage, at the feet of the Master. We are sad a bit, mostly rejoicing him, his life and now his passing with such a blessing,” Nanda wrote. Sadhguru, founder, Isha Foundation, tweeted a picture of Paul to condole the demise of the “visionary” fashion designer. “Satya Paul, a shining example of what it means to live with immeasurable passion and unrelenting involvement. The distinct vision you brought to the Indian fashion industry is a beautiful tribute to this. A privilege to have had you amongst us. Condolences and blessings,” Sadhguru tweeted. Paul started his journey in the field of retail in the late 60s and expanded to exports of Indian handloom products to high-end retail stores in Europe and America. In 1980, he launched the first “saree boutique” in India, L’Affaire, and founded the eponymous fashion clothing brand with his son in 1986. The brand soon became synonymous for its sleek sarees. Nanda wrote that his father, more than a designer or entrepreneur, was a “seeker”. “In the 70s his inner journey started with going to listen to talks with J. Krishnamurty, later he took ‘sannyas’ (renunciation) from Osho. After Osho left in 1990, though he wasn’t seeking another Master, he discovered Sadhguru in 2007,” he said. “He immediately started enjoying the path of yoga and eventually moved here in 2015. He has been a doorway for hundreds of people towards spirituality and all the Masters he was so blessed to have been with,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Education minister silent on IIT language option||The IITs appear to have kept in abeyance the government’s decision to introduce engineering courses in regional languages from 2021. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday announced that the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced would be held on July 3 and that the eligibility requirement of 75 per cent marks in Class XII board exams would be relaxed, but did not make any mention of the language options of the test or whether courses would be offered in the respective mother tongues of states. Two officials of IIT Kharagpur told The Telegraph that the exam, to select students for the IITs, would be held as usual in Hindi and English. They said the regional language option for the exam and the courses could be possible from 2022. Last November, the Press Information Bureau had said in a media release that a meeting chaired by Pokhriyal had taken the decision to introduce engineering courses in regional languages at the IITs and the NITs from the coming academic year. A blueprint proposed by an RSS-affiliated organisation for such an arrangement had been accepted by the education ministry. According to the proposal, students taking the entrance exam in the regional languages would be ranked separately and each IIT would offer a limited number of seats in the mother tongue of the state where the institute is located, apart from English. But when the matter was discussed with IIT directors, many expressed concerns such as lack of study materials in regional languages, teachers’ preparedness, possible lack of job opportunities for students opting for courses in the mother tongue and a probable dent to the international advantage of IIT graduates mainly because of English being the medium of instruction, according to sources. A task force was set up, headed by higher education secretary Amit Khare and having some of the IIT directors. The taskforce also aired similar concerns in its report. “Introduction of engineering courses in the mother tongue is not possible in 2021. This is clear,” one of the two IIT Kharagpur officials said. Last month, Pokhriyal had announced that the language options for JEE Main would be increased from three to 13 in 2021. This had kept alive hopes of a similar arrangement for the IIT Advanced. The top 2.5 lakh students from the JEE Main are allowed to take the JEE Advanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Plea to remove Amitabh Bachchan’s coronavirus voice from caller tunes||A PIL has been filed in Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Centre to remove Amitabh Bachchan’s voice from the caller tune on precautions against coronavirus on the grounds that the virus had infected him, along with some his family members. The plea, which said there were some famous corona warriors who were willing to give their services for free, came up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The bench listed it for January 18 as the petitioner’s counsel expressed inability to appear for physical hearing. The petition has been filed by Delhi resident and social worker Rakesh. “The government of India has been paying fees to Amitabh Bachchan for chanting such preventive measures on the caller ringtone, said the plea, filed through advocates A. K. Dubey and Pawan Kumar. “There are some corona warriors who have been doing great service to the nation and helping poor and people in their needy times as well as providing them food, cloth and shelter and it is very indispensable to mention herein that some corona warriors have distributed their hard earnings among the poor and needy,” the plea said. It added that some famous corona warriors are ready to give their services without any payment and are ready to serve the nation. “Amitabh Bachchan is not having a clean history as well as he is not serving the nation being a social worker,” the plea alleged, while referring to several matters pending against him in various courts. The petitioner said he made representation to the authorities in November 2020 but no reply was given to him after which he approached the court with his grievance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi: India standing at crossroads||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the “autocratic and cruel” Narendra Modi government was hell-bent on breaking the back of the farmers and the middle class who were grappling with coronavirus and ill-effects of economic recession at a very difficult time in national life. Sonia said in a statement: “India is for the time in post-Independence India standing at the crossroads. On one hand, the food-givers of the country are sitting outside Delhi borders in defence of their valid demands. On the other hand, the autocratic, insensitive and cruel BJP government is hell-bent on breaking the back of poor farmers and the middle class.” “Modi government is busy looking for opportunities in the tragedy (Modi had said, ‘aapda mein awsar’), to fill its coffers amidst the economy devastated by corona. The price of crude oil today is $50.96 per barrel, which means barely Rs 23.43 per litre. But diesel sold at Rs 74.38 per litre and petrol at Rs 84.20 per litre. This is the highest in the last 73 years,” she added. Alleging that the government had derailed the middle-class family budget by increasing the LPG price, Sonia said: “The government has broken all records of profiteering by increasing excise duty on petroleum products despite low rates of crude oil in international market. The Modi government has extracted at least Rs 19 lakh crore from the people in the last six years by increasing excise duty on petroleum products. I demand the excise duty be brought down to the level of what it was during the UPA regime and provide immediate relief to the distressed people.” “I also make a strong demand for scrapping the three farm laws,” she added. Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “There has been wonderful development in the prices of petrol-diesel. The Modi government has been looting the public by levying heavy taxes on petroleum products. That’s the reason why the government is not willing to bring petrol-diesel under the GST net.” Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala also said: “When Modi government assumed office in May 2014, crude oil was $108 per barrel, which is Rs 6,330 per barrel. Now the crude oil price in international market is $50 per barrel, which is Rs 3,725.92 per barrel. In 2014, petrol was sold at Rs 71.41 per litre and diesel at Rs 55.49 per litre. Now petrol is Rs 84.20 and diesel Rs 74.38 per litre. This is the game of loot.” Surjewala added: “In May 2014, the excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.20 per litre and on diesel Rs 3.46 per litre. Today, the excise duty on petrol is Rs 23.78 per litre (258 per cent increase) and Rs 28.37 per litre (820 per cent increase) on diesel. The government that came to power promising cheap petrol and diesel has looted Rs 19 lakh crore from the common people in the last years through high taxes. If the additional taxes levied by Modi are rolled back, petrol can be sold at Rs 60.42 and diesel at Rs 46.01 per litre. The LPG cost in 2014 was Rs 412 and now it is Rs 694.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata says ‘yes’ to 100 per cent occupancy in theatres||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced that cinema halls in the state can now operate with full occupancy with adherence to Covid-safety guidelines. The Chief Minister announced her decision as she virtually inaugurated the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF), which was also attended by Bollywood superstar and Bengal’s brand ambassador Shah Rukh Khan through a video conference from Mumbai. Mamata, while delivering her inaugural address from state secretariat Nabanna, asked the cinema hall owners to maintain all safety protocols including regular sanitisation of the theatres. She asked Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay to issue a notification raising the occupancy limit of theatres from 50 to 100 per cent. The occupancy limit was restricted to ensure physical distancing inside the theatres. Citing lesser revenues since the reopening of theatres in October last year and no known instance of the spread of Covid-19 through cinema halls, the theatre owners had recently written a letter to the chief minister requesting her to allow full occupancy of the establishments. The Chief Minister said apart from issuing e-passes for seeing films in state-run auditoriums in Nandan-Rabindra Sadan and Rabindra Okakura Bhavan, organisers should spare some thought for people who are not well-versed with technology and suggested if some films could be screened at the open-air theatre in Nandan. “Despite the pandemic situation, the Bengal government has hosted the 26th KIFF on a smaller scale at a time when many organisers of other film festivals have cancelled their events,” she said. Legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray’s classic Apur Sansar will be the inaugural film of the festival in which 131 movies from 45 countries will be screened till January 13. Mamata paid tributes to legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who died due to post-Covid complications last year, and other luminaries and said a section will be dedicated to their works. She invited Khan to visit the state during Raksha Bandhan and next year’s KIFF, to which he replied in affirmative. The actor has been attending the film festival since 2011 but could not visit Calcutta this year due to the pandemic situation. Several renowned actors were present in Nandan during the inauguration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Cong-Left meeting minus seat talks||A meeting between the Left Front and the Congress on Thursday evening, billed “crucial”, however ended without a formal discussion on seat-sharing between the alliance partners for the forthcoming Bengal polls. There were murmurs in both camps that Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Chowdhury’s absence in the meeting was the reason why nothing was spoken on seat-sharing, widely considered the most important issue on the table in the poll season. “We had thought that there would be some discussion on seat sharing, but it could not be done as Adhirda was not present (in the meeting),” a source in the Congress told The Telegraph. Forward Bloc state general secretary Naren Chatterjee also confirmed there was no discussion on seat sharing. Several Left and Congress leaders said this delay in reaching an agreement on seats could cost the alliance dear in the upcoming polls for 294 Assembly seats, scheduled in another three-and-a-half months. “Earlier also, we have had to pay a price for the lackadaisical approach in firming up the alliance...It would be unfortunate if the same happens this time,” said a Left leader said, referring to the Left-Congress debacle in the 2016 Assembly polls. The main rivals of the Left-Congress alliance — Trinamul and BJP — have already started campaigning for the polls. At the meeting, the Congress side was represented by MP Pradip Bhattacharya and leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly Abdul Mannan because as Chowdhury and Baghmundi MLA Nepal Mahato didn’t turn up. The Left sent Front chairman Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra for the meeting. Congress MP Bhattacharya, however, said Thursday’s meeting was primarily convened to discuss the future course of action for the alliance. “We discussed several joint programmes that we will undertake in the future,” Bhattacharya said. He had earlier said that Chowdhury would skip Thursday’s meeting because of a prior commitment. Addressing the media after the meeting, Left Front chairman Biman Bose said that they had decided to hold a series of joint programmes across the state, including two massive rallies in Calcutta later this month. One will be held to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23. The other rally on January 30 will mark the day Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated in 1948, he said. Thursday’s meeting also took up the issue of a joint rally at Brigade Parade Ground in February-end or early March but no date has been finalised yet, Bose said. In 2016, the Bengal Assembly polls had tested if the alliance between the Left Front, led by the CPM, and the Congress, could uproot the Trinamul government in Bengal, but the electoral experiment had failed. The combine had bagged only 76 seats, with the Congress winning 44 seats and the Left 32 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Kurmis seek ST status||Thousands from the Kurmi community blocked roads at 50 places in four Jungle Mahal districts on Thursday, demanding re-inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe category and inclusion of their mother languages Kurmali and Mundari in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, among others. The Kurmi Samanway Mancha, a joint platform of five outfits, prepared a charter of 24 demands including these two main ones. “It has been our demand since past seven decades to re-include us in the ST category. Despite repeated appeals to both state and central governments, no one heeded our plea,” said Rajesh Mahata, a leader of the joint platform and state president of Kurmi Samaj. Members of the Kurmi community claimed they were registered as Schedule Tribe till 1931 and after Independence excluded from the list for “unknown reasons”. They were included in the OBC list but deserved facilities of the ST community, they asserted. “We blame central and state governments for not registering us as ST despite appeals. We want the state to start the process and the Centre to pass a bill in Parliament to fulfil our demand,” said Biplab Mahata, a leader of the joint platform. Members of the community claimed that the state government had in 2017 sent a proposal to re-include the Kurmi community as ST to the Centre but it was rejected. “We request the state government to send the proposal to the Centre again and the Centre to accept it,” said Rajesh Mahata, president of Kurmi Samaj. Among the 50 places where Kurmi protesters blocked roads were Khemashuli in West Midnapore, College More in Jhargram, Manbazar in Purulia and Simlapal in Bankura. The protest led to closure of shops and disruption of private bus services in protest zones. Many roads in Jungle Mahal districts faced traffic snarls because of roadblocks. Sources said there were around 50 lakh Kurmi people in Bengal and their votes play a key role in around 35 Assembly seats in four Jungle Mahal districts — West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, many Kurmi votes shifted to the BJP from Trinamul which helped the saffron camp bag bagged five of the six Lok Sabha seats. The Assembly constituency-wise break-up of votes showed Trinamul lagged behind the BJP in 31 of 40 seats. But unrest within Kurmis may become a major headache for the BJP, which is banking on the community votes to repeat its Lok Sabha performance in the state polls. Trinamul and BJP have blamed each other for not taking steps to meet the demands of the Kurmis. “It is the duty of the state government first to send the proposal again. If the state sends it, we will request the Centre to take it up,” said Sukhamoy Satpati, president of the BJP’s Jhargram unit. Trinamul’s Jhargam president Dulal Murmu countered: “The matter depends on the Centre. Our state government had sent the proposal in 2017 but the Centre rejected it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Plea for full staff attendance in Bengal||Senior officers of several departments in the Mamata Banerjee government have requested the Nabanna top brass to allow them to work with cent per cent employees as the departments are facing trouble to complete pending work with half of the staff strength. “Senior officers of a number of departments, particularly those which are implementing development projects at the ground level, have urged the finance department to reconsider the order in which government departments were allowed to function with 50 per cent employees in a given day in office. The departments have requested the top brass to reconsider the order as they are facing trouble to complete the pending work with half of their employee strength,” said a senior government official. Sources said the departments were facing scarcity of employees after the state government launched “Duare Sarkar” — a two-month long programme to reach out people left out of government schemes — on December 1. More than 1.5 crore people have visited the camps set up under the programme across the state and majority of them wished to get included in the list of beneficiaries of several government schemes, including Swasthya Sathai, Krsihask Bandu, caste certificates, pension schemes and job cards under 100 days’ work scheme. “The state government wants to ensure benefits to all eligible applicants by February end. But it is getting difficult to complete the work with half of the employee strength,” said a secretary of a department. The department secretaries are also worried about the scarcity of employees further as the state government has taken up another programme, paray samadhan, from January. According to senior officials, the finance department had issued an order asking the departments to function with 50 per cent employee strength when nearly 4,000 Covid-19 cases were being reported daily. “But the situation has changed in the past one month as only 800-odd positive cases are being reported now. So, the state government should reconsider the decision in the changed circumstances,” said a source. According to sources aware of the development, any final decision in this regard would be taken by the chief minister as she is handling Covid-19-related affairs from Day 1. “The chief minister is worried about the spread of the novel coronavirus in government offices, which would leave the departments in trouble. She would consider all factors before taking a decision,” said a source. According to the sources, the demand for the presence of all employees in offices is gaining momentum as the majority of the employees were unable to work from home. “Either they are saying that they don’t have computers at homes or the required software was not installed. So, it’s better that they come to office with proper safety measures and work,” said another secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Data show Covid dip, Delhi sees spike||The Union health ministry on Thursday asked opposition-ruled Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Maharashtra to take steps to curb a spike in their daily novel coronavirus cases, but the Centre’s own data show a steady decline in Bengal. Weekly average new cases have seen a significant rise in Maharashtra over the past two weeks, but Kerala has seen a marginal rise, and Chhattisgarh has seen a marginal decline. But the ministry said the states “are reporting an upsurge in the number of daily new cases in recent days,” and asked them to check the rise flagging concerns about the emergence of the fast-spreading UK variant in India. Bengal’s minister of state for health Chandrima Bhattacharya said on Thursday night that she was yet to be informed of such a letter and would comment when she actually went through it. Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy, however, said the letter would be yet another instance of the BJP-led Centre allegedly trying to rub states ruled by parties opposed to the BJP the wrong way. “This has always been the approach of this Centre, singling out states opposed to them, not pulling up states friendly to them,” said Roy, the Dum Dum MP. “It obviously smacks of political vendetta or opportunism, whatever we choose to call it,” he added. BJP state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya dismissed the allegation. “There should not be any divisive politics over the Covid-19 pandemic. There has not been any political vendetta in any of the Centre’s actions in the pandemic,” said Bhattacharya. The health ministry’s datasets show that Bengal’s seven-day moving average for daily new cases has declined every day at least in the past two weeks — from 2,023 new cases on December 22, 1,928 on December 23, 1,835 on December 24 and so on to fall to 1,014 on January 4, 953 on January 5, and 908 on January 6. The seven-day moving average is viewed as a superior measure of trends because it takes into account day-to-day variations that might occur because of any rise and fall in numbers of tests done on account of holidays or other factors. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked the states to analyse the surge at the district and sub-district levels to understand the reasons for the rise. Bengal on Thursday reported 921 new infections, 1,295 recoveries and 18 deaths, aiding a drop in its total of active cases for the 73rd consecutive day (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26). The total of active cases is 8,476 now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati axe on ‘anti-VC’ professor ||Visva-Bharati on Thursday evening suspended Sudipta Bhattacharyya, an economics professor and president of Visva-Bharati Faculty Association, amid murmurs that the popular teacher was penalised for the role he played in bringing to the fore how vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had insulted Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen. According to a letter issued by the varsity, Bhattacharyya was suspended as the Visva-Bharati executive council found him guilty of “misconduct by mass circulating a complaint and derogatory/defamatory/ baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. Sources said Bhattacharyya recently lodged a complaint with Prime Minister and varsity chancellor Narendra Modi, varsity’s visitor and President Ram Nath Kovind and other senior officials questioning the appointment of the principal of one of the varsity’s schools. Later, the principal had lodged a complaint with the varsity administration. Many colleagues of Bhattacharyya questioned if a person could be suspended for lodging a complaint over an appointment. A source said the reason cited for suspension “is just an eyewash. “Everyone here knows he was the target of the present administration, especially the VC, as he always raised his voice against the misdeeds of authorities.” “The authorities were livid with him for some time...Recently, when the teachers’ association, especially Bhattacharya, brought to the fore how VC Chakraborty had made some false claims about his telephonic conversation with Amartya Sen, which the Nobel laureate later described it as ‘completely imagined conversation,’ the authorities probably decided to go after him. This is very sad,” said a source in Visva-Bharati. Bhattacharyya and his teachers’ association had protested when varsity authorities organised a lecture on the Citizenship Amendment Act by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta. “Sudiptada (Bhattacharyya) was marked...when he started protesting against the VC’s saffronisation agenda... He was earlier showcaused and committees were formed to harass him,” said a source. Bhattacharyya could not be reached for comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC Nandigram show of strength||This year’s Shahid Diwas in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Thursday — held on January 7 every year in memory of the first loss of lives during the 2007 land agitations — turned out to be a show of strength for Trinamul. The party, wary of the impact of Suvendu Adhikari’s defection to the BJP, got a boost with most Trinamul leaders of the region turning up. The turnout — on the dais and the ground — gave Trinamul leaders Subrata Bakshi and Partha Chatterjee the confidence to announce that the party would “gather two lakh supporters” on January 18 for chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s rally in Nandigram’s Tekhali. “Lakhs will turn up to hear to our leader Mamata Banerjee,” said zila parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian, who shared the dais with leaders Abu Taher, Sudip Khara and Piyush Bhunia. Till Suvendu joined the BJP on December 19, the trio of Taher, Khara and Bhunia were always seen with him. Mamata was to address the martyrs’ day rally on Thursday but postponed it after Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri tested Covid positive late last month. Trinamul leaders, including Bakshi and Chatterjee, made the event also about “betrayer Suvendu” and assessed the party’s cohesion in the aftermath of his joining the BJP. “Nandigram is and will always be with Trinamul and Mamata,” said Bakshi . “Suvendu is a traitor,” added Taher, once Suvendu’s close confidant. “He may have played an important part (in the anti-land acquisition agitations), but he can’t usurp the narrative. We all know who did what,” Taher added. In a sudden change of plan, Suvendu reached Shahid Bedi or martyrs’ column after Thursday midnight to pay his tribute, possibly to avert tension between the two parties as Trinamul had decided to offer tribute at the Shahid Bedi early in the morning, sources said. “...I am here as family, not politician,” said Suvendu. “They said they wouldn’t allow me to pay my respect, but I am a fighter,” added Suvendu who will hold a “mega rally” in the town on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||I will never support BJP: Gurung ||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Thursday said the BJP had betrayed hill people and he would never accept that party again even if he had to sacrifice his life. The assertion is a change from Gurung’s oft-repeated stance that he would support the Trinamul Congress in the upcoming Bengal Assembly polls, but would back any party that accepted Gorkhaland in the 2024 general election. “The BJP has betrayed us…..I will not accept the BJP even if my life goes,” Gurung told a public meeting at the Mela Ground in Kalimpong. He had supported the BJP for 12 years before dumping it for Trinamul recently. In his address, Gurung even praised the Congress for setting up the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and including Nepali language in the 8th schedule of the Constitution. Gurung alleged that the BJP had been trying to centre its hill politics on the premise that he would be unable to return to Darjeeling because of the police cases slapped on him by the Bengal government during the 2017 violent Gorkhaland agitation. “The BJP’s politics was to keep me away from the hills. They were doing nothing for the hill people but they told me that I was being provided with security or else, I would be finished. Did I wait for three years to hear this? I walked out to finish them through the ballot,” said Gurung. The Gurung camp of the Morcha that vowed support for Trinamul said at the Kalimpong public meeting that it would field candidates in seven Assembly seats in north Bengal. “We will have our candidates in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Matigara, Malbazar, Madarihat and Kalchini. We will not vote for Trinamul in these seats. But Trinamul will vote for us,” said Anil Lopchan, a senior youth leader of the Gurung faction. “In other 11 seats (of north Bengal), we will vote for Trinamul,” Lopchan added. Even though no final decision on seat sharing has taken place, many believe the Gurung faction is trying to send a strong signal about the seats it is eyeing. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, who lead Gurung’s rival faction in the Morcha, have been sending a subtle message on their intent to field candidates in the hills. “We were told to support Trinamul in the last Lok Sabha election with an understanding that we would field our candidates in the hills in the Assembly elections,” said a senior leader of the Binay Tamang camp. Gurung’s rally drew an impressive crowd in Kalimpong and he tried to send out a message that he had “arrived” to voice local concerns. He raised the issue of a shopping complex  coming up in “the Girls High School area” (in Kalimpong) and lack of voice for people allegedly affected by hydro and railway projects in Kalimpong district. The Morcha leader also announced that he would hire “90 social media” workers who had helped the party during the agitation and would later adjust them in various jobs. “I am the one (to come to power soon). Don’t worry. It’s just a matter of time,” said Gurung. The Tamang camp alleged that Gurung’s supporters had vandalised their office in Kalimpong during early hours of Thursday and filed an FIR against Gurung and senior leaders in his faction. Bijay Sundas, a leader of the Gurung camp, rejected the allegations and in turn accused the Tamang camp of staging a drama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar TMC chief in a spot||Infighting in Trinamul again came to fore in Cooch Behar as a number of party functionaries and leaders started voicing their grievances against party’s district chief Partha Pratim Roy and some of his aides for decisions, including the “arbitrary” formation of committees at different tiers of the party. Khokon Mian, a district general secretary of the party, who was here to attend an event, labelled Roy an “incompetent teenager.” “Committees at different tiers of the party have been formed in the district, but no discussion was done with most district leaders. Because of such decisions, people have started revolting within the party. I want to make it clear that an inexperienced and incompetent teenager cannot run the party. He is trying to play with fire. If required, steps should be taken against him,” said Mian on the side lines of the inauguration of the industrial fair at MJN Stadium. Such remarks came a day after district Trinamul chief Roy announced committees of different tiers, right from the block level. Bhusan Singh, another senior party leader and the immediate past chairman of the local civic body, on Wednesday announced he was stepping down from the post of the vice-president of Cooch Behar Town Block Trinamul committee. His allegations were the same, no discussions were held over committee fornation. “Many sincere leaders and workers have been left out of committees,” he had alleged. Singh, who is now the chairperson of the board of administrators at Cooch Behar municipality has decided not to go by the district president’s decision and form a new town block committee. “The district president ignored our suggestions and formed the committees on his own. We are not ready to accept it and will announce a new committee soon,” he said. He is not alone. According to party sources, though Roy announced panchayat level committees, Dhaneswar Burman, the president of Tufanganj-II block, announced parallel committees in 11 panchayats of his block. Roy’s announcement also triggered protests in Cooch Behar-I (A) block committee of the party and on Thursday, 10 persons, including office bearers and members, have tendered their resignations from the posts. Rabindranath Ghosh, the NB development minister and seen as the tallest leader of the party in the district, sounded critical that discussions had not been done. He had been district president for 22 years and such problems never came up then, sources said. In Cooch Behar, Trinamul infighting is seen as one of the key reasons of the emergence of the saffron brigade. State leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee time and again intervened to try and end such infighting and instructed the district leaders to sort it out amicably. The problem, however, seems to be far from ending. “We had always consulted with elected representatives and leaders. It is unfortunate that such problems are cropping up within the party ahead of the Assembly elections. I have spoken with some leaders and we want the problems to be resolved at the earliest,” he said.Roy, the district Trinamul chief, denied commenting on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Four PG courses in new varsity||Alipurduar University, recently constituted by the state government, has earned the approval of the state higher education department to introduce postgraduate courses in four subjects. These are physics, chemistry, history and English. Mahendranath Roy, the first vice-chancellor of the varsity who took charge last month, said on Thursday that he had sent a request to the principal secretary of the department, seeking approval for introducing the subjects. “On Wednesday evening, we received approval for the four subjects. From today (Thursday), we started working on the admission policy and we hope that within a week, the process will be over. We will then start the admission process and hope to start new classes from February first week,” vice-chancellor Roy said. Usually, for any new university, science subjects are not initially approved. However, in this case, the education department took the decision to allow physics and chemistry courses after verification of the faculty strength and the quality of science labs in Alipurduar College from where the varsity started functioning in the district. Roy added that they planned to introduce more subjects at the varsity for which they would soon send the department a proposal. Subjects under consideration are tea management, tea science, tea technology, wood management, food technology and physical education, and faculty members have been asked to prepare details of the courses, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Two people killed in head-on collision in Malda ||Two persons died and three were injured when an e-rickshaw and a pick-up van collided head on at Samsi under Pukhuria police station jurisdiction in Malda district on Thursday morning. One deceased person has been identified as Irfan Ali, 65, a resident of Ruimari in the Ratua block of the district. The other person is yet to be identified. Police sources said the e-rickshaw was going to Gobindapara, a locality in Samsi, with four passengers when the van rammed into it. Local people took the injured to a local hospital. Doctors pronounced two passengers dead, while the remaining three have been referred to Malda Medical College and Hospital. Police have seized the van but the driver has escaped. At Par-Patiram in the Balurghat block of South Dinajpur district, violence broke out near the Atrayee river bridge on Thursday after a truck mowed down a local resident on NH512. Local people raised a road blockade and torched the truck. As police reached the spot, the demonstrators threw stones at them and also attacked two police vehicles and a police ambulance. The deceased, police said, has been identified as Haripada Sarkar, 45, a resident of Colonypara in Patiram. He was a hawker. Bangladeshis arrested Kaliachak police in Malda arrested two Bangladeshi nationals from Mosimpur village on Wednesday night. The police have also arrested a man for letting the foreigners stay at his house. The police said Ebrahim Ali and Firoj Hossain had infiltrated into India on January 3. Since then, they had been staying at the house of Batasu Sheikh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Binay writes to Modi on past treaties||Binay Tamang on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, referring to past treaties with neighbouring countries, which involve the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai, and demanding that those regions be brought under the Union ministry for north eastern states. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader has marked a copy to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sources close to Tamang said he had raised the issues with the purpose of ensuring development of the Darjeeling hills, Terai and the Dooars. The treaties highlighted by Tamang include those with Bhutan and Nepal and the manner in which the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai were “absorbed” into and not technically incorporated in Bengal. “If we go by the history of Darjeeling and Kalimpong it shows the land east of Teesta (which includes Kalimpong district and Dooars)…..was ceded to the British government by Bhutan through the Treaty of Sinchula signed on November 11, 1865,” Tamang wrote. The British government issued a proclamation regarding “annexation” of the Dooars on July 4, 1866, he said. The hill leader said the three regions had only been “absorbed in West Bengal” under the Absorbed Areas Act, 1954. “Undoubtedly, these areas are not included or annexed in Indian Territory legally and constitutionally, only absorption has been done. This is a great matter of concern for the nation’s security, integrity and sovereignty,” reads the letter. In the past too, various Darjeeling leaders had highlighted these treaties and absorption act to claim that the hills were not part of Bengal. “The state government might not be too happy with the new complexities that Tamang is bringing about but he must be doing this to trigger a new debate in hill politics just before Assembly elections,” said an observer. “A lot is at stake for the Tamang camp of the Morcha in the elections.” The other demand raised by Tamang is cancellation of the Indo-Nepal Peace and Friendship Treaty 1950, which allows for free movement of people from both the countries in each other’s territories. Tamang has said that the letter has been written to seek “constitutional justice” for the Gorkhas not just in the region but across India. He has, however, not explicitly explained what he means by “constitutional justice”. The hill leader, however, is clear on his demand for inclusion of the region in the ministry for north eastern states. “…regions should be brought under the Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) under the Articles of 2, 3 and 4 of North East Council Act of 1971,” Tamang has stated and justified his demand on the ground that the people of the hills, Dooars and the Terai are facing “the same vagaries of nature and difficulties of life” as people in north eastern states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-243
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek plays nationalism card in north Bengal ||Youth Trinamul chief and MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday said Trinamul wasn’t ready to take “lessons of nationalism from the BJP”. Referring to last year’s standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, Abhishek who spoke at a rally in Gangarampur, South Dinajpur, said: “We are not ready to take lessons of nationalism from the BJP. The Prime Minister should answer people on steps the Centre has taken against China after the Galwan incident. They make tall talks…….people should know what the government has done to foil attempts to encroach on our nation’s land,” Abhishek said in his first public meeting of 2021. Abhishek also tried to drive home the point that if BJP was voted to power, “outsiders” would control Bengal. “I want to reassert that Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider and so are some other BJP leaders who are behaving as if their party will come to power in Bengal tomorrow. We want to make it clear that we will never allow outsiders or Delhi to control our state. People of north Bengal districts will never want it,” he said. Abhishek launched a diatribe against former Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who defected to the BJP last month and has since lambasted Abhishek for alleged extortion. “People like him are asymptomatic traitors. He has been claiming that the lotus (BJP’s symbol) will bloom across the state and I asked him to first ensure that it blooms at his home. This made him get one of his brothers on board,” said Abhishek. Abhishek’s visit to north Bengal is significant as the BJP won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats of the region in 2019 and has set a target of 50 of the 54 Assembly seats. Trinamul had suffered setbacks in Lok Sabha polls in South Dinajpur too. Abhishek urged Trinamul leaders to put all efforts to ensure “not a single lotus blooms in north Bengal”. “I will be in South Dinajpur again. I will visit all Assembly constituencies and will act on your guidance. But you have to prepare the ground to ensure that not a single lotus blooms here on in north Bengal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
08-01-2021||West Bengal||Birbhum farmers start protest||Nearly 250 farmers led by social outfit Bangla Sanskriti Mancha took out a protest march and vowed an “indefinite” demonstration in Birbhum’s Rampurhat on Thursday to demand the scrapping of the Centre’s controversial farm laws. A group of teachers and social workers also joined the protest to pledge “support to farmers”. The organisers built a permanent pandal at Panch Matha More in the heart of Rampurhat town, to continue the movement “from an epicentre”, and claimed that this “indefinite protest” was a first for farmers in the area. The farmers here said they would continue the protest till the Centre withdrew the farm laws, and to “show their full solidarity” to farmers protesting on Delhi borders since November “while braving bitter winter and rain”. According to their plan, at least 50-60 farmers will sit in protests round the clock and continue it till the laws are scrapped. Samirul Islam, president of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, wondered aloud why the Narendra Modi government was not scrapping the new laws despite the ongoing protests of lakhs of farmers for over 40 days. “We will campaign on the impact the farm laws will have among the farmers of Bengal. They should know how the BJP-led government is trying to harm farmers,” he said. “We plan to send a team to Delhi to support the movement of the farmers there.” Sources said organisers started campaigns among farmers in remote villages of Birbhum, requesting them to participate in the protest by citing the impact of the farm laws by the Centre. “It is nothing but a plan to bring private players into agriculture to ruin the future of farmers. We condemn it as it will never help farmers. We are not ready to allow private players to make profits by using us,” Sudip Das, a farmer from Uttar-Narayanpur village of Rampurhat who was at the protest. The farmers also plan to take out a long march if the Centre did not scrap the farm laws within Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-244
08-01-2021||Opinion||Give it time: cooling-off period for judges||Laws are the product of a society’s understanding of justice; it may not feel that the deliverers of justice require laws defining ethical principles. Recently, a two-judge bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court underlined the need for a cooling-off period for judges before they accepted another position after retirement. This has long been a subject of debate but, with no law imposing a time bar, retired judges often accept appointments whenever they are offered, whether by the government or the court. A report on the post-retirement assignments of Supreme Court judges since 1999 shows that 73 out of 103 took up new posts, 65 of them within three years of retirement; 62 of them had positions offered by the government or those in which it had a say. The context of the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s remark was its reported concern that the courts were ‘under attack’ from those in power. The suggestion of compliance could destroy the people’s trust in the judiciary’s neutrality, a feeling that found some expression when Ranjan Gogoi, the former Chief Justice of India, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha four months after his retirement. He had headed the bench that pronounced the verdict on the Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir land case which had caused discomfort to many. The prime minister later laid the foundation stone of the mandir. Another former CJI was appointed governor of Kerala in 2014 — also four months after retiring. It is no secret that a governor is the Centre’s person in an Opposition-ruled state. Other Supreme Court judges have joined as heads of tribunals, government commissions and committees, or as lokayuktas. Court-appointed posts seldom have the pay and perquisites of a government-nominated position, but a puzzled public may find these nuances elusive. The importance of a cooling-off period of two to three years, therefore, has been argued by many, including some judges. The perception of people is all-important: they must not feel that the possibility of a suitable assignment after retirement can colour verdicts. Judges are seen as examples of ethical conduct; they do not need a law to determine how long they should wait before taking up another appointment. Since the Supreme Court prides itself on its internal checks and balances, this is a check it should formulate by itself. Legislation for a time bar is unlikely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||Shamed: Capitol Hill attack||A demagogue should have no place in a democracy. Ironically, a democracy can end up electing a demagogue to office. The United States of America, the torchbearer of global democracy, has shown the world that such a horror can, indeed, come to pass. Capitol Hill, the plinth that supports democratic America, was under siege — and shamed — by a mob of supporters of the outgoing president, Donald Trump. The mob clashed with security men, disrupted the proceedings of the electoral count, while claiming, among other things, that the elections that led to Mr Trump’s ouster were fraudulent. The outrage was not spontaneous: it was part of a deliberate, unfolding orchestration by a cynical leader who seems to relish his anti-constitutionalism. That the rioters were allowed easy access to the temple of American democracy raises speculations of a wilfully tardy security arrangement. The cue must have come from the top. Mr Trump and his admirers have been engaged in inciting supporters for a while, refusing to concede the polls. Hours before the attack, Mr Trump’s lawyer endorsed a ‘trial by combat’; it has been reported that Mr Trump, too, had made patently false claims shortly before the carnage. Mr Trump is no bitter loser: he has lent explicit support to an insurrection against democracy and the US Constitution. The ironies of the Trumpian legacy are glaring. The leader who projected himself to be a custodian of law and order thought nothing of attempting to subvert time-honoured stipulations that protect the citadel of democracy. His tepid response to the assault on Capitol Hill blows to smithereens his carefully crafted image of a president who prides himself in upholding the law against agents of chaos. The man who pledged to make America great has now turned the nation into a laughing stock in the eyes of its rivals: Beijing, the opposite of a model democracy, mocked the US by describing the metaphorical fire on Capitol Hill as a “beautiful sight”. Those committed to democracy and its ideals may take heart from the fact that Joe Biden’s triumph is now formal. But Mr Trump’s ability for mischief must not be undermined. The law must act swiftly and decisively against the storm-troopers and their general. The challenge to reclaim democracy from the grip of the Trumpian vision remains formidable. Yet, it must be overcome. Otherwise, democracy, not just in the US, will be devoured by its children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||Make a case for heritage conservation in India||Unlike in the West where it is a well-established subject with a sound philosophical foundation, conservation, being a new discipline, faces many challenges in India. We in India are in an experimental phase of it. In the Indian context, historians treat buildings sacrosanct and want no changes; developers/builders see conservation as a major obstruction and want complete change; society — by and large ignorant of conservation — is convinced that such a change is necessary; the government is unconcerned and living heritage is not on its agenda — the few conservation cases that the government undertakes are usually beautification drives; the architect — not exposed to conservation — is content developing and redeveloping sites. It is the conservationist who treats heritage contextually and serves as a bridge between the historian and the builder. Stiff challenges Properties in historic cities also lack maintenance. This is because the Rent Control Act enacted in the 1940s had frozen rents. Consequently landlords can’t maintain their buildings and they have to be pulled down or redeveloped. Restoration is in its nascent stage. Skilful repairs are rare while reconstruction/redevelopment ends up being pastiche replicas. A conservationist or a conservation architect usually faces the following challenges — excessive experimentation with material and techniques; an unsympathetic ambience that does not nurture the importance of conservation in the masses; the loss of traditions and skills during the execution of projects; difficulty in sourcing traditional materials, such as coloured glass, lead and lime works; poor appreciation of the skill of craftsmen who are poorly remunerated; the absence of scientific laboratories to test material or mortar mixes; conservation is a slow and tedious process and tight deadlines are one of the biggest impediments to quality conservation enterprises; since most heritage sites are owned by the government, bureaucratic rules — the floating of tenders, awarding work to the lowest bidder, adherence to the Schedule of Rates — pose problems; government support for lived in heritage of residential stock is minimal, resulting in the encouragement of redevelopment that is detrimental to conservation; slow approvals and complicated permission rules add to conservation’s challenges.Build bridges Conservation builds bridges between the past and the future through the present. It provides an opportunity to tap into traditional skills and integrate crafts into mainstream construction. It ensures continuity and when used in residential stock, it can create affordable housing without disrupting the fragile socio-cultural balance. Finally, it generates employment for craftsmen and augments tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||A light in the gathering gloom: the case of Amartya Sen and Indian politics||In order to be in Indian politics, individuals should come prepared for a barrage of abuse, legal harassment, intrusions into personal lives and the very real threat of losing their own. An essential element of the coping strategy would then be to treat both garlands and brickbats with mild indifference. The modern political amphitheatre accommodates everything but academic brilliance. We like our academics to be apolitical and treat them with respect so long as they remain in their campuses, using their pen to address issues unrelated to society and active politics. This expectation denies the very creativity that distinguishes great minds from those of laymen. History has been witness to the transition of academics into activists with varying degrees of success. Rabindranath Tagore, even though he was not an academic in the formal sense, had made this transition; so did Albert Einstein. With their insights, these individuals obeyed a set of principles and enriched the practice of thought and justice within the limits of their time. Increasing discomfort with events around them compelled these individuals to step outside their comfort zones at some point. This happened to Tagore and Einstein; it’s also happening to Amartya Sen. Personal attacks in the guise of a land scam have forced Sen to transcend the boundary. Such transgressions have taken place in Bengal which has traditionally been more receptive to academics and academicians compared to the rest of India. But Bengal is also showing signs of degeneration where cerebral voices are being shunned by politicians when their opinion is not to the liking of the latter. Sen has thrown himself into this battle to prevent the destruction of constructive politics. In the process, he has also been dragged into an unsavoury contest. We love our great minds. We ruminate regularly on their achievements in dinner-table conversations. But we recoil instantly when these individuals provide inputs concerning constructive social improvement. The way politicians have infiltrated into the sphere of academic eminence over the past few decades is responsible for this decline. The relative silence in the academia regarding the allegations against Sen is another sad reflection of this unfortunate trend. Sen inspires others to disagree and argue. Having been a pursuer of pluralist traditions of knowledge — Indian, Chinese, Greek, Arabic-Persian, African and the West — Sen has been championing the values of dialectical interaction between people and communities as well as between social and intellectual traditions. Indeed, what distinguishes Sen is not the Nobel prize or his numerous honorary doctoral degrees or the books and papers that he has authored that have also been translated into numerous languages across the world. Sen’s most distinguished trait is his ability to respect diverse, differing and contrasting views. He has also been championing the exercise of reason. But there is another — much darker — side to India. Its narrow vision rejects the light of knowledge. Sen represents the shining tradition of academic activism. He isn’t the first and, hopefully, won’t be the last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||For a new order||The eminently forgettable 2020 is now past. Here is, once again, an opportunity to wish for, if not the best or the better, at least some good. What the twenty-first year of the twenty-first century inaugurates is a decade of struggle towards restoration of normalcy. Clearly, that is a long haul since the world, the nation, and human society seem to have arrived at the unenviable on most fronts. I do not know when in history ‘wishing’ replaced ‘blessing’ and ‘prayer’ and whether that linguistic shift marks the date for humans having replaced gods as the makers of destiny. But if wishing indeed is our self-given prerogative, here is my wish list for the decade inaugurated last week. One — Over the last three decades, the world has become increasingly unipolar. International regulators and institutions have been relegated to a subservient position. Paper-tiger international institutions have no longer the capacity and the will to restrain bully nations or protect and safeguard hapless displaced people and the newly-emergent small economies. The epidemic scale of autocratic regimes over the last decade is in no small measure a result of the collapse of the international order. Let us hope that during this decade, the community of nations forges a fresh idea of ‘order’ that bypasses coercive monopoly. Two — The climatic age named ‘Holocene’, stretching over the last eleven millennia, is decidedly receding into the past. It is being replaced by what scientists like to call the ‘Anthropocene’. The Holocene was marked by the end of the Ice Age and a desirable warming of climate leading to the rise of civilizations. The Anthropocene is marked by the acceleration of human intervention in climatic conditions leading to massive climate changes that can destroy not just human civilizations but also other life species on earth. Scientists generally agree that we have gone past several tipping points in this journey and are recklessly moving closer to extinction. Let us hope that the community of nations comes to an agreement that will spare the future generations the fate of becoming extinct. Three — As a word, ‘globalization’, was highly attractive when it first hit the political discourse. It promised free choice of lifestyles and the possibility of crossing one’s national borders without feeling intimidated. The corporate siege of the idea has ended up creating an unbridgeable gap between the poor of the world and the few rich individuals. It has enhanced the desire for individualism without enhancing the means to retain the individual’s dignity. It has also caused a considerable weakening of the nation state and almost terminated the older idea of State responsibility. We now have governments everywhere that are neither willing to take responsibility of citizens’ health, education, shelter and food sufficiency, nor have the capacity to do so. May the original meaning of ‘globalization’ — expanded freedom for all — be restored in the third decade, at least in a small degree. Four — In our zest for reducing human labour, we seem to have gone overboard by creating artificial intelligence. As science and technology, it is impressive. But as sociology and culture, it is a disaster. A lot of AI is tasked with the surveillance of citizens. The memory chip power used for political gains has already made ‘truth’ look like a poor joke. Artificial Memory has already captivated not just the Natural Memory but also the Natural Imagination. The logic of the cyber world has already started replacing the earth experience of man with fantasy that peoples cyberspace. Let us hope that we have the time to work out new legislation that will protect humans from the attack of the AI. Five — In the Indian context, the breakdown of democratic norms and institutions mandated by the Constitution is a source of worry for anyone who respects the Constitution. Let us hope that the judiciary delivers justice, the Election Commission resumes being fair to all political parties, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the income tax department stop being instruments of suppression of dissent and state governors resume their ‘titular’ role and not be over-active. Let us hope that the armed forces and the police are spared the trauma of being ideologically charged. Let us hope that the institutions created for keeping our democracy safe deliver. They are all creatures of the Constitution and the Constitution itself is given to India by the people of India. Six — The idea of an all-pervasive divinity brings to people in all civilizations the promise of love, peace and happiness. On the other hand, religious dogma creates barriers between communities. The poison of hatred in the name of religion has sunk too deep in the minds of Indian citizens. The neuropolitics of new varieties has made ‘an eye for an eye’ the catchphrase. Despite communal tensions, Indians are known throughout history to be a tolerant people. Let the springs of tolerance available in all Indian traditions — Buddhist, Hindu, Sufi, Muslim, Christian, Jain, Sikh, nature worship — find resurgence. We need them now more than ever before. Seven — The most fascinating aspect of Indian society and culture is their immense diversity. The hundreds of languages we have created and kept alive, the thousands of gods we have conceptualized and worshipped, our diverse geographical conditions and traditions of arts, music, dance, performance and painting, the great diversity of world views that we have together make us Indians. When one of the worldviews we have perishes, a part of India dies in each one of us. At present, almost all of our politics, ideas of development and progress and lifestyles have mounted a severe assault on the diversity that makes India what India is. Let us hope that India manages to survive the assault. Let us hope we do not add to the ferocity of that attack in the name of ‘one nation’ followed by whatever tag, such as ‘one nation, one election’, ‘one nation, one religion’, ‘one nation, one language.’ Let us hope that India bounces back and diversity, federalism, pluralism find their due legitimacy in our thought and action. Eight — My final wish for the third decade of the twenty-first century is the one that Rabindranath Tagore had once wished for us all. Let the mind be without fear. The atmosphere of intimidation and fear is deeply destructive of the human spirit. Let us hope with Gurudev that the narrow walls we have created crumble soon and we all can breathe in freedom. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Promising archer awaits compound bow from state government||Promising archer Anil Lohar’s wait for a sophisticated compound bow seems to get longer even though Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda has made a recommendation to the state government to grant the equipment to Lohar. Lohar is forced to continue his practice with a conservative bow made of bamboo, shattering his plans to switch over to a compound division of archery. “I am very disappointed that the state sports department is yet to grant a compound bow to Lohar. He (Lohar) cannot just start shooting with a compound bow all of a sudden. He needs a proper idea of how to use the compound bow. It takes time to get adjusted to the new gear. The government should immediately grant him the bow,” said Sumanta Kumar Mohanty, secretary of Serikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA). Mohanty, also joint secretary of Archery Association of  India (AAI), said Lohar cannot afford to buy a compound bow on his own. So it is the responsibility of the government to fulfil the needs of promising archers like Lohar. Munda, president of the AAI, had made a recommendation to the state art, sports and youth affairs department to provide a compound bow to Lohar in June 2020. In his letter to the sports secretary, Munda had said that Lohar is a state and national level medallist. He is a talented and hardworking archer. He recommended the state to provide Lohar with the equipment due to his poor economic condition. Lohar, a resident of Pinderabera village in Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district, had met Munda, a former chief minister, and requested for a compound bow. “Don’t know why the government is keeping things pending. I need the compound bow since the state and national championships are around the corner. I feel very disillusioned and don’t think I’ll ever get a bow from the government,” the 23-year-old Lohar added. A compound bow costs around Rs 2.5 lakh. The promising archer had received a cash award of Rs 75,000 from the state government in September 2020 for bagging the gold medal in the Indian round section (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the senior national archery championship in Cuttack in 2019. However, he has almost exhausted that money. “I had to clear debts and also invested some money in my poultry business. Anyhow, I could not have purchased a bow with the money I received from the government,” Lohar said. The archer, who lives with his wife, infant son and elderly father, is digging a well in his courtyard in Pinderabera, a village facing an acute water crisis. “I am continuing with my poultry business since I have no other way of income,” Lohar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu scare grips Dhanbad, no confirmed cases yet||As authorities take measures to control the spread of bird flu, egg and poultry consumption has gone down drastically in the district where the outbreak of the virus has not been reported. The traders said although there is no effect on the farm, their sales have dropped over the past few days. The scare has even prompted them to stop buying poultry from West Bengal, where no such cases have been reported yet. However, because of the sudden price drop, few customers couldn’t stop themselves from buying poultry products. While speaking to media on Friday, Monu Kumar,  a chicken trader of Hirapur Hatia in Dhanbad, said: “Yes, the footfall of customers has dropped, but we do not have any information about such cases in Jharkhand.” “As a precautionary measure, we have stopped bringing consignments from Bengal,” said Kumar. “We appeal to the people to stay away from rumours and enjoy having chicken and eggs which are being sold at cheaper rates,” said Kumar. Nasim Ahmad, another retailer at Police Line in Dhanbad, said: “The poultry traders are passing through a difficult phase since more than a year. As first we were badly hit by the Covid crisis. But before we could recover from this difficult phase, the bird flu scare has affected the entire business.” “We would like to assure the customers that we are taking all precautionary measures and have completely stopped bringing the consignments from other states,” said Ahmad. Shekhar Sinha, an income tax consultant of Hirapur, said: “Safety of our family is most important for us. So we are taking all kinds of precautions and avoiding chicken and eggs.” Dhanbad Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das said, “The state has not reported any bird flu cases till now. Neither we have received any information from the neighbouring states. However, we are fully prepared for any emergency. We would advise people to stay away from poultry products for a few days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nights get warmer, but only for the next two-three days||Most parts of Jharkhand felt the effect of a western disturbance with overcast skies in several places, including Ranchi and Jamshedpur, robbing the winter of its bite. But by the middle of next week, winter I expected to be back in right earnest. Weathermen said that the western disturbance _ an extra-tropical storm that upon arrival causes showers, fog and snow-- passing through higher latitudes impacted the weather in many northern states as well as Jharkhand since Thursday. Its effect is expected to last for the next two days. Deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said the western disturbance had resulted in two cyclonic circulations. "The cyclonic circulations, extending up to 1.5 km above sea level, and the easterly winds are bringing moisture from the Bay of Bengal. The twin systems will prevail over the state for the next 48 hours resulting in a rise in night readings," he said. Around mid-week after that, the mercury was expected to witness an abrupt drop, he added. As per the forecast, shallow fog would continue to prevail for the next two days, which would reduce surface visibility in the morning. The wind pattern over Jharkhand had also changed owing to the twin systems. South-easterly winds have been dominating most parts of the state since Friday. This has resulted in an abrupt rise in minimum temperatures. Minimum readings in Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) and in districts like Simdega, Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum had jumped six to seven notches above normal. While in Ranchi, Daltonganj and several other northern districts the night readings recorded were around eight notches above normal. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur on Friday recorded a minimum of 17.4°C, seven degrees above normal. Capital Ranchi on Friday recorded a night temperature of 17.2°C, eight points above normal. The observatory in Daltonganj read 16.4°C, 7.5 notches above the average normal. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ramgarh and several other districts on Friday recorded minimum reading if over 16°C. Most residents have felt the change in weather conditions. "The weather is giving a summer like feel since Thursday. The nip in the air is missing," said Anjani Sharma, a homemaker and regular morning walker at Telco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau kids to take part in district’s first kite festival||Palamau is set to witness its first kite flying festival on January 14 as the Palamau Chamber of Commerce and Industries will conduct ‘Patang Utsav 2021’ in Daltonganj on Makar Sankranti. The popular festival has never been celebrated in the district in 120 years, sources said. The organisers have roped in a team of six kite specialists of reputed kite flying clubs in Ahmedabad and Mumbai who are going to reach Daltonganj on January 13, Palamau Chamber of Commerce and Industries general secretary Inderjeet Singh Dimple said. “This kite flying ceremony will have only 100 participants, who are children in the age group of 6 to 15,” Dimple said. “Gender will not be any bar. We will love it if more girls in this age group come for flying the kites,” he added. Dimple elaborated that the registration fee per person is Rs 250, and it is on till January 10. The six-member team will train the registered children for kite flying on January 13 in the Pdt Deendayal Upadhaya Smriti Bhavan. It will also present kits for kite flying, each costing Rs 300. Each will have a kite, spool braids and other necessary equipment. The festival has already created a buzz among the children of Daltonganj, and holds a special place after the ruckus 2020 created, when the district lost 20 of its citizens to Covid-19. “I am asking my parents to allow me to take part in this celebration. My father Dhirender Chandravanshi is ready but my mom has some reservations about the crowd that will swell on this occasion in this Coronavirus time,” said nine-year-old Monu. Parents, too, are excited for the upcoming festival. Priyanka Devi, a resident of Nawa Toli Mohalla in Daltonganj and a mother of 3 children, said, “I am happy because my 10-year-old son Chintu will not be glued to the cell phone for hours on that day at least. I know he will be out watching kites for hours on the river bed of the Koyal.” She said more of such games should be conducted to replace dependence on mobile phones. Noted environmentalist D.S. Srivastava said, “I wish people found some time for bird watching too, which comes handy everyday.” Giving more details, Dimple said on the eve of Makar Sankranti, there will be an LED fitted kites flying show conducted by the kite-flying experts of Ahmedabad and Mumbai. The organisers are also arranging provisions for food on the occasion of ‘dahi choora’ of Makar Sankranti on January 14, where people will be able to buy food at the venue near river Koyal. Dimple said animated characters too will be on the prowl in the eco-friendly gathering to amuse and bring laughter to the gathering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hyacinth, algae re-appear in Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers much earlier||Water hyacinth and algae have once again started mushrooming in the Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers much earlier this year. Both the rivers are lifeline of Singhbhum region. Environmentalists say it is happening because of the prevailing weather conditions. “Usually, water hyacinths and algae start growing in both the rivers around March-April when the maximum and minimum temperatures rise equally. However, this year they have grown much earlier. Stagnant water is one of the reasons,” said PD Sen, an environmental activist and a weather expert. The menace of water hyacinths, a  free-floating aquatic plant and algae is also an indication of rising pollution in the river water. Regional officer of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) Suresh Paswan said the algae and hyacinths are multiplying fast on the surface because the flow of the rivers has weakened. “Rainfall in the last monsoon was not up to the mark. It has weakened the flow of both rivers. The situation is going to aggravate in the coming months,” he said. In 2018 and 2020, the hyacinth had smothered the flow of both the rivers. Hyacinth usually prevents penetration of sun rays into the water which is harmful to fish and other aquatic animals. They also result in vector breeding. Regular streaming of domestic and agricultural waste into the river is the root of the problem. “Stagnation caused by such waste is largely responsible for the growth of water hyacinth. If not cleared now, the existence of rivers will be at stake,” said Raja Ghosh, a city-based environmentalist. He went on to say that as hyacinth and algae are spreading at an alarming rate, water from the Chandil reservoir and the check dam at Mango should be released into the Subernarekha at regular intervals to prevent stagnation. “If the water is released, it will check the growth of hyacinth,” he said. Both, water hyacinths and algal blooming is found at Domuhani in Sonari and Mango. Apart from downstream Mango bridge, water hyacinth and algae have also started mushrooming in at Domuhani in Sonari. Both water hyacinth and algae have affected almost 3 km stretch Kharkai river, between Kadma and Sonari, and around 2 km stretch of Subernarekha river, between Sonari and Mango.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||State re-activates existing panchayats till local polls are held||The state government has notified new working committees in panchayats to facilitate smooth execution of local projects under the 15th finance commission using its power under Section 107 of the Panchayati Raj Act owing to delay in conducting fresh elections in Jharkhand. Late on Thursday night, the state rural development department named heads of these working committees from elected local body representatives and gave them financial powers. It also introduced representatives from the government to maintain equilibrium and transparency till fresh elections are held. Terms of over 4,000 panchayat bodies lapsed after January 4, 2021. State rural development minister Alamgir Alam said that since no fresh elections would be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had two options to keep panchayat bodies functional and ensure utilisation of central funds. “There were two options — one was administrative takeover of panchayat bodies with the block development officer (BDO) given powers or set up samitis using local representatives. We chose the latter considering it to be the best possible option,” said Alam, The minister said the state government was evaluating the Covid-19 situation to decide on elections soon. State panchayati raj director Aditya Ranjan said that former mukhiyas would had been made part of the new working committees as heads but they would have to work with the other members, including those nominated by the government. As per the notification in non-scheduled areas, a working committee in a gram panchayat would have the former mukhiya as its president, while other former office-bearers of the panchayat would be members. “Two government representatives and a retired class-III government employee would also be part of the working committee. “For every decision, a formal consent of every member is required,” he said. Likewise, committees have been set up in scheduled areas too. In panchayat samitis, the former head of the samiti had been named president while former officer-bearers and three government representatives would be the other members. A similar system would work in zila parishads. Panchayat leaders welcomed the government’s move. Head of Koderma zila parishad Shalini Gupta said, “We have been demanding extension of existing panchayat bodies and its members till fresh elections are conducted. We are happy with the arrangement made by the government.” President of Jharkhand State Mukhiya Sangh’s Vikas Mahto said the government adopted the Madhya Pradesh model. “We are happy with the arrangements as the move has in a sense provided extension to the existing elected members of panchayat bodies,” he opined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi launches cleanliness drive across city||Ranchi Municipal Corporation has rolled out a week long special cleanliness drive across all 53 wards from Friday seeking public participation to help the civic body in maintaining hygiene across the city. The move, officials said is, has been initiated as groundworks for the nationwide cleanliness survey — Swachcha Survekshan 2021. Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Kumar said that the special drive will be conducted across RMC limits till January 15. “While RMC undertakes daily cleanliness activities in the city, there are chances of litter, garbage lying unattended in a locality. Hence, we have set up a one-stop number seeking information so that teams can be sent immediately to get it cleared,” he said. Kumar added that different teams have been set up and nodal supervisors have been appointed in every ward to execute works on the field. Another official said that in order to create awareness among the public about the special drive, they are also conducting promotional activities through RMC’s social media handles by uploading daily activities. “We have also provisioned surveillance of day to day activities on the field through drone cameras,” he said. The civic body has initiated several activities since the last few weeks to beautify the city and its water bodies and keep roads encroachment free, the official further said. For example, in late 2020, RMC commissioned artists to paint walls around the Ranchi Lake to provide aesthetic beauty in and around the area. Recently, it has conducted a survey in Upper Bazar, a busy wholesale hub, to unclog it for which it has asked traders in the area to list their priorities so that it can plan accordingly. RMC is also planning to soon roll out radio-frequency identification (RFID)-based garbage collection system in the capital for which it has roped in two specialised agencies, on the occasion of completion of one year of the incumbent state government on December 29. For primary collection of waste from households, M/s CDC Pvt Limited has been hired and for disposal of waste, it has picked up M/s Zonta Pvt Limited. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Shankar Yadav said that soon CDC will install RFID tags across bins in two lakh households which will help them track the situation of daily waste collection on real time basis from the control centre, which is being set up at RMC. “The entire work is likely to take a couple of months time to formally begin,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi again reports triple digit spike in Covid cases||Ranchi reported more than 100 cases of Covid-19 infection, accounting for over 50 per cent of total fresh cases in Jharkhand during the past 24 hours, for the second consecutive day on Thursday, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least 102 of the 195 people found infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand on the day were residents of Ranchi, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per government data, Ranchi also accounts for nearly half of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. At least 1448 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Thursday, and as many as 692 of them were residents of Ranchi, the NHM bulletin revealed. While the number of patients increased in Ranchi on Thursday, Jharkhand reported as many recoveries as fresh cases on the day. One patient, a resident of Gumla, died on the day, bringing the count of active cases down at 1448 from 1449. As many as 88 patients recovered in Ranchi against the 102 fresh cases on Thursday. At least four of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours. While Dhanbad reported 22 cases against 15 recoveries, East Singhbhum reported 16 cases against 25 recoveries. At least 10 people were found infected in Palamu and 11 patients recovered there. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of as many as 14,621 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.12 lakh people and tested around 49 lakh of them. As per government data, at least 1,16,229 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 97.85 per cent of them have recovered. The state has also reported 1041 Covid casualties. The growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.12 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 568.36 days against the national average of 459.70 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Municipal commissioner’s residence attacked in Hazaribagh||The official residence of IAS officer Madhavi Mishra in Hazaribagh town was attacked around 8 PM on Wednesday. The 2015 batch officer is presently serving as the municipal commissioner of Hazaribagh. Stones were hurled at her house, near the BSNL office opposite Upkar Hotel on NH-33, damaging a glass window and a door. Mishra has been working towards strictly making the workings of the Hazaribagh Municipal Corporation transparent. Mishra was present at her house with other members when the attack happened and informed higher officials. She later filed a complaint with Lohsigna police. “This act will not dissuade me from pursuing the path of truth. On the contrary, it has made me stronger and more determined,” she remarked. “Minutes before the incident, I was standing in front of the window that was damaged. I met the superintendent of police Karthik S who assured me of increased patrolling in the area. I also met deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand and detailed him on the incident. Both have assured me of security, and nabbing those responsible,” Mishra informed. SP Karthik S said Lohsigna police have been asked to investigate the matter and arrest culprits as soon as possible. Following his instruction, police officials reached Mishra’s to investigate. Nearby areas were searched and footage from CCTV cameras scanned. A few months ag, the Municipal Corporation’s conference hall was gutted in a suspected incident of arson. Investigation till date has been inconcusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu alert in Jharkhand||The recovery of carcasses of four crows at Jubilee Park in Jamshedpur has put the Jharkhand animal husbandry department on high alert for a possible outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu). A high-level team of the animal husbandry department, comprising senior veterinarians Dr S.K. Sinha and Dr S. Kumar and deputy director of Tata Zoological Park, Dr M. Palit, collected the tracheal and cloacal swabs from the dead crows on Thursday morning. “We got information about the recovery of the carcasses of the four crows from our East Singhbhum district animal husbandry officer yesterday (Wednesday) evening. On Thursday morning, our team collected the samples which will be tested at the livestock research centre lab (at Kanke in Ranchi). “The samples would again be sent for confirmation at the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Belgachia (Calcutta). If the reports are positive for avian influenza, the samples would be sent for final confirmation to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases laboratory in Bhopal to identify the strain of the virus,” said Nancy Sahay, director, animal husbandry department. The director, however, tried to downplay the incident. “It might be a stray incident as apart from Jubilee Park there have not been any deaths reported in the same district or other parts of Jharkhand. We should not panic but should not be callous too. Following the Union government directive, we would be going for a massive awareness drive on bird flu by issuing advertisements and hoardings throughout the state. “The district animal husbandry officers have already been directed to be on alert in this regard and constantly be in touch with poultry owners and sellers,” said Sahay. The awareness drive would inform about symptoms of avian influenza in poultry and means to stop the spread of the disease. On Thursday evening (5pm), the state government appointed a dedicated nodal officer for bird flu (Dr Alok Kumar Singh) and issued a 24x7 number (9835152390) for any emergencies on bird flu. The Centre had on Wednesday confirmed about the bird flu outbreak reported at 12 epicentres across four states — Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh — and issued advisories to contain further spread of the infection. Of the 12 epicentres, bird flu has been reported in crows in Baran, Kota and Jhalawar region of Rajasthan as well as Mandsaur, Indore and Malwa areas of Madhya Pradesh. In Himachal Pradesh, the infection was found in migratory birds in Kangra region and in poultry ducks in Kottayam and Alappuzha (four epicentres) in Kerala. Presence of the H5N8 virus (a variant of avian influenza) was found in the carcasses of crows in Mandsaur and Agar Malwa districts. The Union ministry of fisheries and animal husbandry has asked other states to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds. On Monday, the Jharkhand animal husbandry department had directed the respective district officials to keep ready PPE kits, required chemicals and JCB and provide monthly reports on bird flu and immediately collect samples of bird carcasses in any part of their region. Meanwhile, a large number of migratory birds flocking to the state from across the globe during winter has also kept the authorities on their toes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
08-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dumka medical students agitate ||The students of the newly formed Phulo Jhano Murmu Medical College and Hospital in Dumka have resorted to agitation, demanding basic facilities needed for their medical education. “Let alone learning anatomy, we are yet to see a cadaver and have also no clinical exposure of any kind till now,” said a student, requesting anonymity as “we may face problems for speaking to the press”. They are the first batch of students of this newly formed college who took admission in 2019, informed a faculty member, adding they actually need basic facilities for studying medicine. “How can they study physiology and biochemistry if they don’t have access to a cadaver and a laboratory?" wondered the faculty member, adding these are bare minimum requirements for medical students.  Three new medical colleges were set up in the state under a Central government scheme and the first batch of students were admitted in 2019. But the National Medical Council (NMC) stopped admission process for the second batch of students in 2020, citing lack of faculty and infrastructure. chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to the NMC chairman and also to the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan requesting them to allow admission to 300 seats in those three medical colleges. But nothing happened till now. “It’s really a sad state of affair and we have almost lost 300 medical seats in the state,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint secretary of the Ranchi branch of Indian Medical Association (IMC) who is also the former president of the Junior Doctors’ Association of Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. “The issue will be taken up for discussion when the executive committee of the state IMA meets on Sunday,” he told The Telegraph, adding they would decide their next course of action at that meeting. Both the state and the Union government have to do their bits to make these colleges functional, Dr Kumar further said, adding they would approach the appropriate authorities for making that happen. “It’s true the pandemic halted construction work but the state government must expedite completion of infrastructure now,” he said, adding the Centre should also allow the admission process so that the students are benefited. They have plans to meet the governor and the chief minister for requesting them to expedite completion of infrastructure and filling up vacancies of teaching staff, he further informed when what they planned and added they would also approach the Union government through MPs elected from the state. “The state has 14 MPs and we will approach them though our IMA branches in the districts so that they take up the issue with the Union government,” Dr Kumar further said, adding the elected representatives from the state must take some initiatives so that aspiring and deserving students can pursue medical studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-180
