09-01-2021||Calcutta||JU on-campus entry test this month||Jadavpur University will hold a pen-and-paper admission test on January 17 at select centres across Calcutta, Burdwan, Durgapur and Siliguri for admission to the Masters’ of Computer Application (MCA) programme. The Bengal JEE board, which holds the admission test on behalf of JU and other institutions offering MCA in July, declined to do so this time because of the Covid pandemic. JU decided to hold the exam even as the board announced that it would conduct centralised online e-counselling and provisional admission on the basis of marks in qualifying exams (BE/BTech/BSc) for the candidates who had applied for the entrance test. The students’ union in the engineering faculty had appealed to the university to hold the admission test. According to a notice issued by the faculty council of engineering and technology, the admission test will be held in four cities — Calcutta, Burdwan, Durgapur and Siliguri - “subject to sufficient number of candidates”. An official of the university said each aspirant would be asked to mention a city as second preference. “If a centre in a city only has a handful of candidates, then we may request them to shift to a centre in the second preference city. We don’t want to waste resources,” he said. Admission will be solely based on performance in the admission test. Online application forms will be available on the www.jaduniv.edu.in from Saturday. Applications will have to be submitted by January 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Posters to fight child labour in Covid times ||The state commission for protection of child rights released three posters as part of a sensitisation programme against child labour on Thursday. The posters were released at Shramik Mela 2021 at Ramlila Maidan. The fair, a two-day affair, is being organised by the labour department of the state government. This comes at a time when chances of children dropping  out of schools and looking for work is high because of the hardships posed by the pandemic. The posters depict contrasting images of a child as a labourer and another as a student, with a line in Bengali to drive home the message against child labour. One of the three posters says: “School chhut? Shetai shishu shrom er route! (School dropout? That is the route to child labour!)”. Another says: “School e jabo ebar, hobona child labour (will go to school now, will not be a child labour)”. The third says: “Jekhane porashona kom/shekhane shishu shrom (where there is less of studies/there is child labour)”. Commission officials said that given the present conditions, the need for such awareness campaigns is more than ever. “Schools are closed for the pandemic for almost a year now and we do not know when they will reopen. We feel there is a strong possibility of dropouts. In poor families children will be sent to work and we want to discourage that,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, chairperson, West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Chatterjee Chakraborti called for intervention to stop children from being prevented from going to school. The posters have been sent to Calcutta police and the directorate of child rights and trafficking. The posters will also be put up at traffic signals and kiosks, said Yashabanti Sreemany, a member of the commission. She said that there were many families where children were first-generation learners and efforts should be made to enable the children to complete their studies. “After a child gets educated, the family realises that he/she is an asset and not a liability,” Sreemany said. Awareness among such families is not enough, society as a whole needs to realise the problem, she said. “It has to be a joint effort and if anyone sees a child labourer, they need to speak up,” Sreemany said. The posters also contain helpline numbers, which are 1098 and 9836300300 (the commission’s WhatsApp number).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||New deadline for FASTag, must for NH toll plazas||The deadline for procuring a FASTag has been extended till February 15 and most vehicles will need it to pass through national highway toll plazas, officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) told vehicle operators on Friday. The earlier deadline was January 1. Motorists will have to have the tag on their vehicles to pass through any of the 25 toll plazas on national highways in Bengal, the officials said. “There can be no two ways about it. Barring those vehicles that are on the ‘exemption list’, all vehicles using an NH toll plaza would have to have a FASTag,” R.P. Singh, the chief general manager of NHAI Bengal told the operators at a meeting with the transport department. “There will be no lanes for cash payment at the toll plazas. If you don't have a FASTag, you will have to pay double the toll fee.” The FASTag is a ready to use, re-loadable tag which will enable automatic deduction of toll charges and let one pass through a toll plaza without stopping for cash transactions. Once the tag fixed on a vehicle’s windscreen is active, a radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology will enable deduction of toll taxes from the user's account. The ministry of road transport and highways has recently extended the deadline for collecting FASTags till February 15 to address certain glitches that were cropping up during transactions. The Central Motor Rules 1989 have been amended and from the next financial year, FASTags will be required for third-party insurance. A section of truck and private bus operators has been complaining about snarls at toll plazas since the introduction of FASTags, with a majority of them claiming they have been told about a waiver if it took more than three minutes to cross a toll plaza. “No such specific exemption of user fee has been mentioned in the ministry’s notification in case time taken to cross a plaza is more than three minutes,” Singh told the operators. “All 25 toll plazas in Bengal have representatives from banks to help one get a FASTag so there shouldn't be any problem.” Apart from the FASTag-enabled toll plaza, one can also apply online at the website of a bank or at www.nhai.gov.in. There are 24 banks that are a part of this FASTag project. The documents that are required include the registration certificate of a vehicle, a passport size photograph of the owner and KYC documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Two injured in fight between two groups||Two groups allegedly fighting over the control of an alleged unauthorised construction near EM Bypass opened fire at each other, leaving two persons injured, police said. The incident happened at Gulshan Colony in Anandapur on Friday evening. An officer of Anandapur police station said the injured were taken to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. “Both suffered injuries on their arms and are out of danger,” the officer said. The police said they had received information about a fight at Gulshan Colony around 5.30pm and rushed to the spot. Around 50-60 men were engaged in a fight over the ownership of a plot, where one of the groups had started an alleged unauthorised construction, an officer said. By the time the police had reached the place, the groups had allegedly opened fire at each other. The police took the injured to the hospital. “One of the persons who opened fire has been identified,” said an officer. “He and his accomplices were not found at the spot. A search has been launched for him.” Based on complaints lodged by both groups, Anandapur police station has started two cases of rioting, causing grievous hurt with dangerous weapons and attempt to murder. No one was arrested till Friday evening. Police suspect the groups are being backed by local politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals reduce Covid bed count||Many private hospitals in Calcutta have reduced the number of beds designated for Covid-19 patients over the past week on the ground that the number of people suffering from the coronavirus disease has gone down sharply. Most hospitals said as soon as beds are being converted into the non-Covid category, those are getting filled up immediately as the number of people suffering from ailments other than Covid-19 is increasing steadily. The state government, however, has not reduced the number of beds in the designated Covid hospitals because, officials and public health experts said, the pandemic still continues. On January 4, Peerless Hospital reduced the number of Covid beds from 150 to 100. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has converted 60 beds into the non-Covid category since the middle of December. The last 15 were converted in the first week of January. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has reduced its Covid bed count by 100. The state health department had earlier allowed private hospitals to reduce the number of Covid beds on the condition that the count would again have to be increased if there was a renewed surge in cases. “Barely 50 per cent of our Covid beds are full even after reducing 50 beds. But most of the non-Covid beds are occupied as patients with chronic diseases who had not visited the hospital during the height of Covid pandemic are now coming,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “If there is a rise in the number of Covid patients coming to our hospital, the bed count can be increased in two days.” The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has reduced the number Covid beds from 130 to 90. On Friday, only 45 Covid patients were admitted. “Ninety per cent of the non-Covid beds are occupied. If we didn’t reduce Covid beds, we would have to refuse other patients,” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern India, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. According to the state health department's data, 926 new Covid cases were detected across Bengal on January 8. There were 21 deaths. On the other hand, on November 8, there were 3,920 new Covid cases and 59 deaths. Doctors said as the number of Covid cases started dipping, more patients suffering from other ailments have started visiting hospitals. Along with the dip in the number of cases, availability of suburban trains is helping patients from districts to reach Calcutta. Kalipada Hudait, 64, who had undergone angioplasty a few months back, visited Medica Superspecialty Hospital on Friday for a check-up. The last time he had come was March last year. “There was the fear of Covid as well as lack of transport,” said Hudait, a resident of Tamluk in East Midnapore. He had to wait for more than two-and-a-half hours to meet the doctor, which was like pre-Covid times, said Hudait. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has 203 critical care beds, of which 40 are for Covid patients. An official of the hospital said on Friday 25 of the 40 critical care beds were occupied. However, not a single non-Covid critical care bed was vacant. Hospital sources said on Friday morning all 20 beds in the emergency ward were occupied by patients in need of ICU care and four such patients had to be kept on trolleys. “We have 100 Covid beds and are planning to reduce some because only 50 per cent are now occupied, while many non-Covid patients are coming for admission,” said an official. The government hospitals and private healthcare units designated as Covid hospitals have not reduced the number of beds despite low occupancies. On January 8, out of total 13,588 beds in those hospitals, 12,304 were vacant. On November 8, out of 13,508 beds, 8,778 were vacant. “The pandemic is not over yet and there are chances of a resurgence. So, it has been decided not to reduce the number of beds for the time being,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert who is in the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Film fest online booking off||The online booking system for the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival has been scrapped from January 11. In a late evening notification on Friday, the festival committee announced that people with delegate, press and guest cards will be allowed into the venues on a first-come-first-served basis. “We cannot let in everyone who queues up once the permissible number of seats fills up. We request people to help us maintain Covid protocol,” festival committee chairman Raj Chakrabarty told The Telegraph. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement of issuing a notification to resume 100 per cent occupancy in cinemas will not have any bearing on the festival. Seating at the festival venues will continue to be at 50 per cent occupancy, he clarified. The film festival was opened virtually at Nabanna Sabhaghar with about 65 people present. Other than Mamata, the attendees were key film fraternity and festival committee members like Goutam Ghose, Rituparna Sengupta, MPs Nusrat Jahan and Dev, and Ranjit Mullick. Anubhav Sinha, director of films like Article 15 and Ra.One, who would deliver the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on Saturday, flew in from Mumbai on his way to shoot in the Northeast. Shah Rukh Khan put in a virtual appearance at the inauguration from the sets of Pathan, the Yash Raj Films project he is shooting for in Mumbai. He regretted not being present in person at the event for the first time since 2011. “Main ne ekbar kaha, shayed main naa aa sakoon. Travel karna padega. Bahut log hote hai. Pandemic chal raha hai… (I mentioned once that perhaps I could not make it. It would entail travelling. There would be a lot of people. The pandemic is on.) For the first time, she listened to me,” he smiled. Mamata invited “my favourite brother” to come for rakshabandhan, which he accepted. Earlier, it had been announced that booking of seats, though free, will have to be done on the portal bookmyshow.com. On the first day after the system went live, 1,085 tickets were booked this way for the inaugural film Apur Sansar at Rabindra Sadan that was screened on Friday and for shows at various venues on January 9. Online booking was being allowed from two days ahead of a show. These bookings, it has been decided, would be honoured in accordance with the seat number that each person chose. The other seats for shows till January 10 that had not been booked online will be filled up on a first-come-first-served basis. The change had to be effected after the chief minister said at the inauguration that not everyone had access to a smart phone and could book online. Though Parambrata Chatterjee, the joint anchor of the inauguration programme and chairman of the short and documentary film selection committee of the festival, pointed out that helpdesks would be there at all the venues to assist those without smartphones, she was not convinced. But there is little chance of her second suggestion of exhibiting films on LED screens outside venues being implemented for all films. “It cannot be done for foreign films,” said Chakrabarty. The permission for screening, officials explained, came for a single screening at a specific venue. Mamata wants films to be exhibited at Ektara Mancha in the Nandan complex as an open-air setting could accommodate more people with less risk of infection. “She wants as many people as possible to enjoy the festival. We are in talks to see whether outside screening will be logistically possible for the local films,” the festival chairman added. Screening a film outdoor will pose technical challenges vis a vis light and sound. Ektara Mancha is where conversations on film-related topics will take place every afternoon. Saturday’s topic is a tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Cinema full-attendance test ||Cinema halls in Bengal can operate with 100 per cent attendance, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday. “Halls are operating with 50 per cent audience because of the pandemic. I will ask chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to issue a notification allowing halls to run with 100 per cent capacity,” Mamata said at the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival, triggering a loud applause. “We will ask the hall owners to ensure the use of masks and hand sanitisers and sanitiser spray after each show.” Hall owners, bleeding financially first from the long shutdown and then the cap, said the decision has thrown a lifeline for them. They said they would start operating with full capacity as soon they got the government notification, which was not issued till Friday night. The Tamil Nadu government had on January 4 passed a similar order, increasing the cap on cinema halls from 50 to 100 per cent. The order came after an appeal from the theatre owners’ association there. But following an objection from the Union home ministry and legal challenges, the state government revoked its order on Friday. A letter from the home secretary to the Tamil Nadu chief secretary said the lifting of the cap violated the disaster management act. A couple of petitions challenging the Tamil Nadu government’s January 4 order are pending at Madras High Court. The Centre had greenlighted the reopening of cinemas from October 15, the seating capacity curtailed to 50 per cent of the total capacity. The Telegraph had reported in July how the Covid-19 pandemic had sounded a possible death knell for many single screen theatres across Bengal. Many of the theatres had already been bleeding with the arrival of multiplexes, a “high” GST slab for regional films and “fewer blockbusters”. The prolonged shutdown because of the Covid-19 curbs made their situation worse. The absence of new releases has continued to hurt the theatre owners. Hundreds of people who worked in the halls have lost their jobs, many more have been forced to take pay cuts. “Out of around 225 halls registered with us, some 75 are closed, some of them for good,” said a senior member of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA). Owners of single-screen theatres in Bengal wrote to the chief minister on Tuesday, urging her to allow full occupancy, while citing huge losses in business. They cited the Tamil Nadu government’s order a day ago. Ratan Saha, the chairperson of the exhibitors’ section of the EIMPA, said the chief minister’s decision was a “life-saver for the industry”. Saha, aware of the Centre’s objection to the Tamil Nadu government’s decision, said: “The Centre should consider the situation we are in. The lives of so many people are associated with this industry. We will take our concerns to Delhi, if needed”. Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya Cinema, the Bioscope chain of multiplexes and other standalone theatres in the state, described Mamata’s announcement as “an extremely important decision”. Many theatre owners said they did not expect many big-budget Hindi films which are in the pipeline to release in the immediate future. They cited the “threat of OTT platforms”, the avenue for some new releases in the recent past. “The makers might want to wait for similar moves by other state governments. But at least some Bengali films held back so far will be released in the coming days following the chief minister’s order,” said an owner. “From aeroplanes, to buses to political rallies, there is no curb anywhere. Why should we continue to suffer?” asked another theatre owner in Calcutta. Another exhibitor pointed out that in a November 25 notification, the home ministry curbs were extended till January 31. “We are hopeful that after that, the ministry would relax the curbs,” he said. “We are grateful to Mamata Banerjee for the announcement. We have also written to the Centre, seeking full occupancy in cinemas. We are hopeful of a positive outcome,” said Firdausul Hasan, a producer and member of the Film Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Calcutta||50 km of overhead wire cleared on 1km stretch||The distance between the Ruby crossing on EM Bypass and the Siemens office on the Ruby-Rashbehari Avenue connector is barely a kilometre. But the mass of defunct overhead cables on this stretch was about 50km-long — about the distance between Calcutta and Diamond Harbour. A team of cable operators has been snipping dead cables between Ruby and Gariahat since Tuesday, after being prodded by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The operators said 50 of the 100 overhead cables on the stretch were defunct. “We snipped the defunct cables and have kept them on the median divider. The CMC will remove them,” said Tapash Das, the joint convenor of the All Bengal Cable Television and Broadband Operators United Forum. “The distance we have covered is roughly 1km. The number of defunct cables on the whole stretch is 50. Taken together, the length of cables we brought down in the last four days would be 50km,” he said. Das said several cable operators met Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, on December 21. Hakim asked them to remove the dead cables on the stretch between Ruby and Gariahat as a pilot project. The CMC is providing logistical support to the cable operators who have deployed their staff to remove the wires. A senior engineer of the CMC’s electricity department said they had given two hydraulic ladders for the workers to reach the point where the cables are tied to a pole and snip the defunct ones. “Our solid waste management department will remove the defunct cables that are snipped and brought down,” the senior engineer said. The Telegraph has reported several times how the mesh of cables hanging overhead presents an ugly picture and highlighted the danger they pose to pedestrians and motorists travelling under them. In many places, the cables hang very close to the ground. Thousands of trees and electrical poles were uprooted in the city during Cyclone Amphan in May last year. The weight of the cables was blamed for the poles and trees toppling in the storm. The dead cables include Internet lines, lines of multi-system operators, cables of companies that have shut down and telephone lines, Das said. The cable operators forum could not give a deadline for removal of all defunct cables on the Ruby-Gariahat stretch. “It is taking a lot of time because the defunct ones are tied and twisted around the live lines,” one operator said. A similar pilot project had been taken up in Alipore and on Harish Mukherjee Road earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Calcutta||Government nurses to act as vaccinators||Government hospitals have been asked to draw up a list of nurses who can act as vaccinators in their respective institutions, the move triggered by the staggering number of people in need of a Covid-19 vaccine in the initial phases. The state health department has made the request to government-run hospitals, including medical colleges, to create additional personnel to facilitate the vaccine rollout. Health department officials realised after Friday’s dry run of Covid vaccination across the state that it would take between 45 and 55 minutes on an average for a recipient to complete the vaccination process, including the mandatory 30-minute waiting time. Roughly, that translates to close to three hours for one batch of 100 candidates to complete the vaccination process at each centre, officials said. Since the Union health ministry’s guidelines say there can’t be more than 100 candidates at each vaccination centre per day, covering a critical mass daily would mean setting up more centres. That will ensure that the 6 lakh-odd health-care workers in Bengal get the first dose of a Covid vaccine reasonably fast. More centres mean additional personnel. “Each vaccination centre will require at least three chambers — a room where recipients will wait before getting their shots, a vaccination room and a room where every recipient will wait for half an hour after being vaccinated,” said a health department official coordinating with the districts for the vaccine rollout. “Since medical colleges have more space, they can set up more centres. If nurses can function as vaccinators, it will be easier to cover more candidates every day,” said the official. Once the list of nurses is ready, the health department will train them in handling Covid-19 vaccines. After the training is over, the nurses will be tasked with vaccinating people at the centres to be set up at their respective hospitals. “It will be an intramuscular jab. Those who have undergone a course in general nursing and midwifery are trained in the technique. They will just have to be taught some specifics. That will serve our purpose,” said an official of the health department overseeing the rollout. “These trained personnel will increase the number of vaccinators.” The health department is readying a roster for around 20,000 vaccinators who will be engaged in the rollout process, right down to the level of block primary health centres and rural hospitals. Once the vaccination starts and nurses in medical colleges get their first jabs, a section of them will undergo the training as part of the preparations for the next round of inoculation involving frontline health workers. “The time span is 9am to 5pm every day. More vaccinators means each will get some relief while administering the jabs,” a health department official said. “It might not be easy for many vaccinators to continue working for eight hours at a stretch wearing personal protective equipment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-179
09-01-2021||Business||TCS posts best Q3 in 9 years as clients embrace digital transformation||The third-quarter earnings season started with a bang on Friday with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) — which beat Street estimates on strong deal wins as clients across geographies and verticals embraced the digital transformation after Covid. The October-December 2020 period was the best third quarter for TCS in nine years. The country’s largest IT services provider saw net profit for the quarter rise 7.18 per cent to Rs 8,701 crore from Rs 8,118 crore a year ago. At a virtual press conference after the results, Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director, sounded optimistic about the company’s prospects both for the current calendar year and the next fiscal. He said the company was confident about achieving a double digit revenue growth for the next fiscal. “The momentum (seen so far) we believe is strong and sustainable, and it should lead to a strong calendar year 2021 and financial year 2021-22,’’ Gopinathan said. “Growing demand for core transformation services and strong revenue conversion from earlier deals have driven a powerful momentum that helped us overcome seasonal headwinds and post one of our best performances in a December quarter,” Gopinath said. Analysts were expecting TCS to come out with a strong scorecard: they had pencilled in net profits of around Rs 8,500 crore, while revenues were expected at around Rs 41,000 crore. TCS posted revenues of Rs 42,015 crore, a growth of 5.4 per cent over Rs 39,854 crore a year ago. In dollar terms, the revenues came in at $5.7 billion which were above the forecast of $5.6 billion. Revenues in constant currency terms showed a rise of 4.1 per cent on a sequential basis. The total contract value (TCV) or deal wins at a robust $6.8 billion was the highlight of the quarter. There was a positive surprise on the operating margins as well: at 26.6 per cent and a 40 basis points growth over the preceding quarter. The Street was expecting the margins to soften because of the wage hikes that were given during the period. TCS has declared an interim dividend of Rs 6 per share. At the media meet, Gopinathan said the company had reached the target made at the beginning of this fiscal to achieve a positive year-on-year growth in revenues and margins on a constant currency basis in the third quarter. He added the strong growth seen across geographies and verticals was the most encouraging aspect of its performance during the third quarter. For instance in North America, which is the company’s  largest market, the  momentum picked up with a sequential growth of 3.3 per cent. Similarly, a volatile market such as the UK saw a constant currency growth of 4.5 per cent. In terms of verticals, the largest — BFSI (banking, financial services & insurance)  — showed a 2 per cent growth in an otherwise seasonally weak period. Other sectors such as retail, life sciences and healthcare, too, posted stellar growth.The company added over 15,700 people on a net basis to take the overall headcount to 4.69 lakh. The attrition stood at lowest ever rate of 7.6 per cent. Chief of human resources, Milind Lakkad, said only 3.4 per cent of the overall staff has been working from offices, but the company is not looking at returning office real estate. He said it will be taking a call on the number of employees working from offices in the next two months after clarity emerges on the vaccine and the general trajectory of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
09-01-2021||Business||RBI to restore normal liquidity management operations||The RBI on Friday said it would restore normal liquidity management operations and would follow the guidelines on these matters announced almost a year ago but which had to be junked on account of the pandemic. As part of this process, the central bank will hold a variable reverse repo auction on January 15 of Rs 2 lakh crore. It said ample liquidity will, however, continue to be available to the system. The move comes with the economy showing signs of revival and financial markets stabilising, though sticky inflation remains a big concern. The central bank in February last year had announced a “revised liquidity framework” and the instruments to be used to manage both transient and durable liquidity and their timing. These instruments were a mix of variable rate — having overnight tenor and up to 13 days — repo and reverse repo auctions; fixed rate reverse repo auctions; long-term variable repo and reverse repo auctions of beyond 14 days and open market operations. The pandemic forced the RBI to drop the guidelines. Because of the disruptions created by the lockdown, the window for fixed rate reverse repo — where banks park excess funds with the RBI — and marginal standing facility — a window where banks can borrow emergency funds from the RBI at a rate higher than the repo rate — operations were available throughout the day. This was done to provide the market participants greater flexibility in their liquidity management. Simultaneously, the Reserve Bank had also truncated trading hours for various market segments from April 7, 2020. With the phased roll-back of the lockdown and easing of restrictions on movement of people, the trading hours were restored in a phased manner from November 9, 2020. “On a review of evolving liquidity and financial conditions, it has been decided to restore normal liquidity management operations in a phased manner,’’ the RBI said on Friday. This will initially see the central bank conducting the Rs 2-lakh-crore variable rate reverse repo auction. Market circles feel the short-term rates would rise now. The excess liquidity in the banking system seen post lockdown may get affected. At present, market players are parking close to Rs 7 lakh crore in the RBI’s reverse repo window. Moreover, short-term rates also fell below the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
09-01-2021||Business||SBI announces concession on home loan rates, waives processing fees||State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday announced a concession on home loan  rates and waived processing fees as it sought to cash in on the revival in the real estate sector. The country’s largest lender announced an interest concession of up to 30 basis points on home loans and a 100 per cent waiver on processing fees. The rate relief will be given to a certain category of borrowers — those with high credit scores and borrowing large sums along with the location of construction of the property. Individuals with a high Cibil score can look forward to such a relief. These relaxations will be available till March this year. At present, the bank’s  external benchmark rate (EBR) against which retail loans are priced  stands at 6.65 per cent. SBI offers 7 per cent rate on loans up to Rs 30 lakh; 7.25 per cent for loans above Rs 30 lakh to Rs 75 lakh; and 7.35 per cent for loans above Rs 35 lakh. SBI on Friday said it would now offer an interest rate of 6.80 per cent for loans up to Rs 30 lakh and 6.95 per cent for loans above Rs 30 lakh. However, the rates are not much less than offered by its competitors, particularly for loans up to Rs 30 lakh. HDFC offers 6.90 per cent to women borrowers and 6.95 per cent to other borrowers. In ICICI Bank, interest rates up to Rs 35 lakh for salaried borrowers vary from 6.95 per cent to 7.95 per cent. The Union Bank of India, offers an interest rate of 6.80 per cent to women borrowers and 6.85 per cent to others. For loans above Rs 30 lakh, its interest rates start from 6.90 per cent which are lower than that given by SBI. The move comes at a time the real estate segment is expecting a revival and state governments have taken steps to boost demand. For instance, Maharashtra has cut the stamp duty on property registration. Following this, the registration of residential properties in Mumbai rose more than two-fold in December, according to Knight Frank India. “SBI believes it is important to offer better rates to customers displaying good repayment history as SBI home loan rates are linked to Cibil score. Interest concessions up to 30 basis points is also available in eight metro cities for loans up to Rs 5 crore,” the bank disclosed in a statement. SBI customers can also apply through its YONO app and get additional interest concession of five basis points. Women borrowers will also get a concession of five basis points. “We are pleased to improve our concessions to prospective home loan customers upto March’21. With SBI’s lowest interest on home loans, we believe this move will facilitate and encourage home buyers to take the home buying decision with confidence. With the nation all geared up to move ahead post pandemic, SBI would continue to support the home buyers and the real estate sector. Further, our eligible existing home loan borrowers can also avail a paperless pre-approved top-up home loan through the YONO app in just a few clicks. We wish the New Year brings in happiness to our customers with new offerings’’, CS Setty, MD (Retail & Digital Banking), SBI said. RBI’s latest data has shown that personal loans registered a growth of 10 per cent in November 2020. This was higher than the non-food credit growth at 6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
09-01-2021||Business||Aditya Puri to advise Strides Group||Former HDFC Bank managing director Aditya Puri has joined global pharma major Strides Group as an adviser and will also serve as a director of its associate company Stelis Biopharma. “Eminent corporate doyen Aditya Puri joins the Strides Group as an adviser and also will be a director of its associate company, Stelis Biopharma,” Strides Pharma Science Ltd said in a regulatory filing. Strides Pharma  said Puri's appointment to the Stelis board comes at an exciting juncture for the company as it transitions from its incubation phase to a consolidation and growth phase. The company looks to partner global players with the aim of bringing world-class treatments at affordable costs to patients in both emerging and developed markets. Puri, who led HDFC Bank since its inception over 25 years ago, retired in October 2020. While it is not uncommon for well-known bankers to take up advisory roles in a different field, observers said Puri will bring his years of experience of funding various industries in HDFC Bank to the table. “It will certainly be a great addition for the Strides group and Puri can give his valuable inputs,” an analyst who did not wish to be identified said. Arundhati Bhattacharya the former chairperson of SBI, is an independent director in Reliance Industries. In 2020, she was appointed as the India head of cloud-based software provider Salesforce. On his appointment, Puri said the Stride Group’s established parentage, global success and headstart in terms of basic infrastructure gives him the opportunity to be involved in and guide Stelis and other group endeavours in their exciting growth story. Arun Kumar, founder and chairman of Strides’ board, said: “I am delighted to welcome Aditya as our adviser and to the Stelis board. This a huge vote of confidence in the potential of Stelis. His deep experience will be extremely valuable for the Strides group and Stelis in particular.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Govt fears poor spectrum bids||The auction of telecom spectrum in March may fetch the government just Rs 50,000 crore against a minimum value of Rs 3.92 lakh crore of the airwaves. Revenues from the sixth round of auction — the first  since 2016 —  could go down further if the telecom operators opt to pay in instalments, analysts said. In the budget for the current financial year, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had estimated a revenue of Rs 1.3 lakh crore from other communication services. The spectrum auction of radiowaves worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore is set to begin from March 1. “Spectrum purchase is expected to be more by the telco that has gained the highest market share as the company will need spectrum to cater to the need of its complete 4G subscriber base that has gained momentum over the last four years. Considering these factors, the spectrum auction is expected to be in the range of Rs 50,000 crore,” Care Rating said in a research note. “The upfront payment for the spectrum auction may be in the range of Rs 12,500-25,000 crore,” the rating agency said. Analysts fear that the spectrum auction may be a repeat of the 2016 fiasco when large chunks of airwaves remained unsold because of high base prices. Four years ago, the government had raised just Rs 65,789 crore through the auction, a fraction of the Rs 5.63 lakh crore worth of airwaves put on sale. Spectrum in the 700MHz and 900MHz bands went completely unsold in 2016. The DoT notification said that successful bidders can pay the entire bid amount in one go (upfront) or may exercise an option to pay a certain amount (25 per cent for spectrum won in 700MHz, 800MHz, 900MHz bands or 50 per cent for spectrum won in 1800MHz, 2100MHz, 2300MHz, 2500MHz bands) upfront and remaining amount in a maximum up to 16 equated annual instalments, after a moratorium of two years. “For FY21, the government has estimated a revenue budget of Rs.1.3 lakh crore from other communication services that includes receipts from telcos. Thus, spectrum auctions will play a pivotal role to decide on the receipt budget from other communication services for FY21. the budget estimate for FY21 is 126% higher compared to the revised budget estimate of Rs.59000 crore for FY20,” it added. Analysts fear that the spectrum auction may be a repeat of the 2016 fiasco when large chunks of airwaves remained unsold due to high minimum prices. Four years ago, the government had raised just Rs 65,789 crore through spectrum auction, a fraction of the Rs 5.63 trillion worth of airwaves put on sale. Spectrum in the 700MHz and 900MHz bands were completely unsold in 2016. Pricing of spectrum has been an issue, with top executives at Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea repeatedly demanding that the government lower spectrum prices. A substantial portion of Jio’s own airwaves and those it shares with Reliance Communications in the 800 MHz band expires in 12 and 14 circles, respectively, starting July 2021. Without these airwaves, Jio’s services in these circles will be impacted, making it imperative that the telco bid for them, analysts said. Airtel and Vi have less expensive airwaves, mostly in the 1800 MHz band, set to expire across eight circles each from July. Both have backup airwaves in most service areas. Telecom operators can get spectrum in the 900 megahertz band, used for 4G services, in the upcoming auction for less than half the price paid for several circles in previous auctions, as per the base prices declared by the Department of Telecom. While most of the base prices are based on the recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), the Department of Telecom (DoT) has made some changes in the 700 megahertz and 1800 Mhz bands in select circles for the auctions scheduled to start from March 1. Analysts said Reliance Jio may bid for spectrum in the 700MHz band, which is most suited for 5G among the bands on sale. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd, has said Jio plans to roll out 5G services in the second half of 2021. Meanwhile, Vodafone Idea has moved the Supreme Court to seek modification of its order that upheld Rs 58400 crore as adjusted gross revenue dues as claimed by the DoT. The telecom firm moved the court claiming errors in the government calculations. The DoT has estimated that the AGR dues of Vodafone Idea is Rs 58,254 crore while the company’s own assessment so far is of Rs 21,533 crore. In the case of Bharti Airtel, which has also moved the court, has claimed that while the DoT’s estimate is of Rs 43,980 crore, Bharti’s own estimate is of Rs 13,004 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Mahindra cars cost will increase by 1.9% from January 8||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd on Friday announced that the prices of its passenger and commercial vehicles will increase by around 1.9 per cent from January 8, resulting in an increase of Rs 4,500-Rs 40,000, depending on the model and the variant. In the case of the All New Thar, the current price increase will be effective for all bookings between December 1, 2020 and January 7, 2021. According to Veejay Nakra, CEO (automotive division), M&M Ltd, “The price increase was necessitated because of the unprecedented rise in commodity prices and various other input costs over the past many months.” Mercedes-Benz India on Friday also announced an upward revision of prices from January 15, 2021. The price correction would be in the range of 5 per cent. The company cited the weakening of the rupee against the euro and the increase in input costs as the reasons for the price hike. Martin Schwenk, Managing Director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India said, “At Mercedes-Benz we offer an enriched product portfolio with latest technology and keep introducing new product enhancements in specific models. We have been operating a sustainable and future ready business; however, a necessary price correction is required to offset the continuous rise in input and operational costs. The new price range of our select vehicles will ensure the brand’s premium price positioning, assuring a sustainable growth both for the brand and our dealer partners, enabling continuation of the best-in-segment customer ownership experiences, equated with Mercedes-Benz.” The ex-showroom price of a Mercedes C Class, its entry level car will increase by Rs 2 lakh approxiamately while for an AMG GT 63 s four-door coupe the hike will be about Rs 15 lakh .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Sebi seeks clarity on Oaktree bid from DHFL||Market regulator Sebi has asked the administrator of DHFL to explain the claim by a suitor about the credit rating of a proposed debt instrument, sources said. The US-based Oaktree Capital in its bid claimed that post resolution, DHFL’s non-convertible debentures (NCDs) would be assigned an AAA rating if their resolution plan is accepted, they said. According to norms, credit rating agencies cannot indicate a rating of an instrument unless such a rating is given. Such action is barred as it could potentially mislead investors. In a letter dated January 5, Sebi said it has received a complaint against unnamed credit rating agencies (CRAs) that have allegedly offered their views to a potential issuer or bidder, Oaktree Capital, on a future rating of the DHFL resolution plan and instruments which is in violation of regulation. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) asked DHFL’s administrator to furnish the details of CRAs and the ratings. Since the conclusion of the fifth round of the bidding last month, Oaktree and Piramal Enterprises are claiming that their bids are the highest and implementable. According to the sources, suitors have submitted bids in the range of Rs 35,000-37,000 crore. Oaktree had said its revised bid for debt-ridden DHFL is unconditional and comes with a commitment of fresh capital infusion of Rs 1,000 crore for the revival of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||World Bank sees city as logistics hub||The World Bank feels Calcutta has potential to become a major transport and logistic hub linked to the north eastern region and neighbouring countries if it can develop an integrated system with corporations running the show. The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC), the exclusive rail network to move freight, will end in Dankuni near Calcutta and an intermodal system that connects the corridor with rail, road and waterways can transform the city, it added. Earlier this week, the bank signed a tripartite agreement to extend $105 million of soft loan to develop inland waterways in and around greater Calcutta on the river Hooghly. However, this is just a beginning, says Junaid Ahmed, country-director of the World Bank in India. Speaking at an e-seminar organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Ahmed said: “We are beginning a programme and hopefully there will be several stages to it in the future. We will partner with the state government to convert Calcutta into a transport and logistic hub of the sub-region linking the Northeast.” The city’s potential has so far remained on paper because of a lack of co-ordinated effort with services delivered efficiently in a financially viable manner. “We need to have an intermodal system where bus, rail and water interface in a very agile way — that requires a fundamentally different spatial perspective on the management of transport and logistic in greater Calcutta and Bengal — you need corporations to run the waterways and railways in order to connect the EDFC in a way that you don’t create congestion in Calcutta but it becomes a vibrant city,” Ahmed said. The latest World Bank project will enhance the capacity and safety of the inland water transport system by rehabilitating jetties, buying new ferries with enhanced design; and installing electronic gates in 40 locations. In the second phase, it will support long-term investments for passenger movement, including in terminals and jetties; improve the design of the inland water transport vessels and encourage the private sector to invest in Ro-Ro vessels that will allow easier movement of trucks across the Hooghly river. Ahmed batted for a new approach to build infrastructure and deliver services in India. Giving examples of EDFC and Shimla Water Company, he argued that companies — which are well governed and accountable — should deliver the services and they need not be in the private sector. Instead of running as a municipal department, a corporation has been created in Shimla to manage all water delivery infrastructure and render services to the citizens. A city, which had often faced scarcity of water, is now contemplating 24x7 water delivery. He also argued that public finance, which comes from taxpayers’ money, cannot alone meet the nation’s requirement. To spend 7 per cent of the gross domestic product  to build infrastructure, India needs to leverage the public finance to bring more institutional finance. “Move Indian agencies or departments to corporate structure and move public finance as leveraging finance into those companies that deliver services,” the country director prescribed. However, no company can remain creditworthy unless it raises user charges. Ahmed suggested that instruments like direct benefit transfer may be deployed to ensure that economically weaker sections do not get impacted but those who can afford, pay the user charge to ensure infrastructure delivery can take place in an efficient manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||Business||Raids at Flipkart, Swiggy for alleged tax evasion by third-party vendors||The income tax department this week conducted searches at offices of a group firm of Walmart’s Flipkart and local food delivery startup Swiggy for alleged tax evasion by their third-party vendors, two sources told Reuters. The searches began on Wednesday at Swiggy and Instakart’s offices in the southern city of Bangalore, the sources said. The search at the office of Instakart, e-commerce giant Flipkart’s logistics arm, concluded late on Thursday, one of the sources said. At least 20 income tax officials visited the Instakart office to inspect invoices issued to its vendors, the source added. In a statement, Flipkart said it was providing the officials with “all the required information and are extending our full co-operation”, adding it was in full compliance with all tax and legal requirements. Swiggy, backed by South African internet giant Naspers, too said it was in full compliance with tax and legal mandates. “The survey by the IT officials is underway and our team is extending full cooperation in the matter.” The tax department did not immediately respond to Reuters’ request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-176
09-01-2021||India||Farmers’ Rights Day: Congress to hold ‘Jan Andolans’, gherao governors’ offices||The Congress on Saturday said it will hold protest marches and gherao the governor’s office in every state on January 1, when the government and the farmer unions will meet for the next round of talks, and hold ‘Jan Andolans’ at all state headquarters. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the Centre why it wants farmer groups opposed to the new agricultural reforms to move the Supreme Court and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should quit if he is not competent enough to repeal them. The decision to observe ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ (Farmers' Rights Day) on January 15 was taken after a meeting of the party’s general secretaries and in-charges in various states. Surjewala asked, “People have elected this government and not the Supreme Court. Then why does the government want people to go elsewhere?” “The Modi government is answerable to the people for taking decisions and not the Supreme Court. The responsibility of making and repealing the laws wrests with Parliament and not the court,” he said. He added that if the Modi government is unable to discharge its responsibility, “the Congress wants that you should resign and sit at home as you have no moral authority to remain in power even for a minute”. Surjewala alleged the farm laws were forcibly passed by the Modi government in Parliament by “crushing democracy”. “This is the first government in the history of India which is woefully abdicating its responsibility and telling the farmers to approach the Supreme Court and the sooner the Modi government vacates the throne, the better it would be for the country,” he said. The eighth round of talks between the government and the farmer unions on Friday did not make any headway as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after ‘law waapsi’. Later, prominent farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told PTI that the government suggested to the unions that why don't they become a party in the ongoing case on three farm laws in the Supreme Court. The unions ‘outrightly’ rejected the suggestion, he had said. Surjewala said the Supreme Court should also introspect as to why the farmers are not ready to approach it. “When 62 crore farmers in the country refuse to go to the Supreme Court, the court should also look within,” he told reporters. He asked why the government seeks to find solutions to different issues, be it the Citizenship Amendment Act or the Rafale deal, in the Supreme Court and not in Parliament. The Congress spokesperson said the farmers will neither tire out nor surrender, and the Modi government should shed its arrogance and repeal the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||BJP smells danger after Twitter suspends Trump’s account||Following Twitter’s move of permanently suspending US President Donald Trump’s account, BJP leaders on Saturday expressed concerns over it, dubbing it as a “dangerous precedent”. They said it is a wake-up call for democracies about the threat from unregulated big tech companies. Twitter has permanently suspended Trump’s account citing a “risk of further incitement of violence”, days after his supporters stormed the US Capitol that resulted in the death of five so far. “If they can do this to the President of the US (POTUS), they can do this to anyone. Sooner India reviews intermediaries’ regulations, better for our democracy,” BJP Youth Wing president Tejaswi Surya said in a tweet. He said the suspension of Trump’s account is a wake-up call for those who do not yet understand the threat to democracies from unregulated big tech companies. Echoing similar sentiments, BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya said, “Deplatforming Donald Trump, a sitting US president, sets a dangerous precedent. It has less to do with his views and more to do with intolerance for a differing point.” He said those who claim to champion free speech are celebrating and dubbed big tech firms as “new oligarchs”. Pitching for regulating such firms, Surya said dissent is fundamental to democracy and the government welcomes it, but only constitutional authorities can decide on its reasonability. Lately, big tech companies have themselves assumed this role, he said, adding, “Time for us to regulate big tech companies.” Surya, who is also a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, said Facebook and Twitter serve as platforms for expression and they should not curtail people’s will. In a statement on Friday, Twitter said after a close review of recent tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around those -- specifically how those are being received and interpreted on and off the social media platform -- the account has been permanently suspended due to the risk of further incitement of violence. At the time of the permanent suspension, Trump had 88.7 million followers and followed 51 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||India’s Covid vaccination drive to kick off on January 16||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in India will begin on January 16, the Union government said on Saturday evening, following a high-level meeting led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the pandemic situation and the vaccine preparedness in the country. “After the detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu, etc, the Covid-19 vaccination will start from January 16, 2021,” a government statement said. “After three crore healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 crore,” it added. “Emergency Use Authorisation or Accelerated Approval has been granted by the National Regulator for two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) which have established safety and immunogenicity,” the government said. Later, Modi tweeted that India will take a landmark step forward in fighting Covid-19 on January 16. “Starting that day, India’s nationwide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis (sanitation workers),” the prime minister said. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. In the review meeting, Modi was also briefed about the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system, a unique digital platform that will provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccine. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. “More than 79 lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform,” the statement said. “As the vaccinators and vaccine administrators comprise a crucial pillar of the vaccination exercise, their training process was also detailed out in the meeting, and it was noted that 2,360 participants were trained during a national-level exercise (training of trainers) comprising state immunisation officers, cold chain officers, IEC officials and development partners among others. More than 61,000 programme managers, two lakh vaccinators and 3.7 lakh other vaccination team members have been trained so far as part of training at states, districts and block levels,” it said. Three phases of dry runs have been conducted across the country, with the third dry run conducted on Friday across 615 districts covering 4895 session sites in 33 states and UTs. The Health Ministry said the entire vaccination exercise is underpinned by the principles of people's participation (Jan Bhagidari); utilising the experience of elections (booth strategy) and universal immunization programme (UIP). No compromise on existing healthcare services, especially national programmes and primary health care, and of scientific and regulatory norms besides other SOPs will be made, and the vaccination programme will be marked by an orderly and smooth implementation driven by technology. Earlier at an event, Modi had said that the country is ready with two ‘Made in India’ vaccines, and asserted that the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how India runs the globally largest vaccination drive. There are 2,24,190 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which constitutes 2.16 per cent of the total caseload so far of over 1.04 crore, according to the latest Health Ministry data. More than 1.5 lakh people have died so far. The spread of the virus has lessened in a big way in the country as the daily number of new cases has dropped to less than 20,000 from a peak of almost 98,000 in September last year. However, the overall caseload for India is the second-highest in the world after the US, which has reported more than 2 crore cases so far -- almost double of India's cumulative tally. In terms of deaths also, the US has recorded the most at nearly 3.7 lakh, followed by over 2 lakh in Brazil and about 1.5 lakh in India. India tops the global charts for recovery with more than 1 crore having recuperated after contracting the deadly virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier held by Indian troops in eastern Ladakh||A Chinese soldier was apprehended by Indian troops from an area south of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh in the early hours of January 8, official sources said on Saturday. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier had transgressed into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in the area, they said. “During early hours of 08 January 21, a Chinese soldier was apprehended on the Indian Side of the LAC, in Ladakh, in an area South of Pangong Tso lake. The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area,” NDTV quoted an official as saying. The capture of the Chinese soldier comes in the midst of an eight-month-long bitter border standoff between the two armies in eastern Ladakh. Troops from both sides are deployed along the LAC since the friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops. The sources said the PLA soldier is being dealt with as per laid down procedures and circumstances under which he had crossed the LAC are being investigated. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the diplomatic and military-level to resolve the standoff that erupted in early May. At the latest round of foreign ministry-level talks on December 18, the two sides said that they have agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The meeting also decided to hold the next round of military dialogue at an early date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Nadda mocks Mamata for being ‘compelled’ to launch PM Kisan Yojna||BJP national president J.P. Nadda Saturday took a dig at Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for agreeing to implement PM Kisan Yojna only after realising that her party is fast losing ground among the farmers in the state. Nadda, who launched the ‘Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan’ to woo farmers in the poll-bound state, said it is “too late” for the TMC government to agree to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. He said the state government was compelled to go for the beneficiary scheme only after coming to know that “anger of the farmers over being deprived of the central schemes will wipe the TMC government in the state”. “The Mamata Banerjee government agreed to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi after such a long time as she has realised that the TMC is fast losing ground in Bengal,” Nadda said while launching the campaign. “But, let me say it clearly that it is already too late for the TMC government,” he added. The TMC government earlier this month softened its stand on implementing the PM Kisan scheme in the state, after more than a year of opposition to the programme. Nadda asserted the farmers rally at Katwa proves that days of Mamata Banerjee government are numbered. He said the BJP would provide justice to the farmers after it forms the next government in Bengal. He arrived at the Jagdanandpur village in Purba Bardhaman district to launch his party's door-to-door rice collection programme aimed at wooing farmers, amid the ongoing protest in Delhi over the contentious agriculture laws. His address at “Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha” (farmers’ security meeting at village) in Jagadanandpur marks the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections. There are 71.23 lakh farmers’ families in West Bengal, 96 per cent of them small and marginal. The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in West Bengal in its bid to end the TMC’s 10-year-old reign in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||World watching how India runs globe's biggest vaccination drive, says PM||India is ready with two made-in-India vaccines for the protection of humanity and the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how the country runs the globe's biggest vaccination programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. In his address at the inauguration of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention, Modi also asserted that if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India. "When India got Independence then it was said that such a poor and under-literate country will disintegrate and democracy was impossible here. Today's truth is that India is united and if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India," he said. Talking about India's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, he said the country is among the nations with the lowest fatality rate and the highest recovery rate. Talking about the COVID vaccines rollout, Modi said India is ready with not one but two made-in-India coronavirus vaccines for the protection of humanity. "Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world biggest vaccination programme," he said. Modi also said that during the pandemic, Indians showed their capabilities and the way the country stood together was unparalleled. He said India is using technology to defeat corruption and crores of rupees are being directly transferred to beneficiaries' bank accounts. "Today we have been connected with the internet from various corners of the world but our minds are always connected with 'Maa Bharti'," he said. "I have had a dialogue with several heads of states who told me how Indian diaspora has extended a helping hand in those countries and provided leadership in extending assistance even in these difficult times," Modi said. "This was a matter of pride for me." He also lauded the Indian diaspora for providing assistance in the battle against coronavirus in India. Modi told the Indian diaspora that the country always stands with them and pointed out that over 45 lakh people were rescued under the government's Vande Bharat mission during the pandemic. Earlier, the keynote address at the 16th PBD Convention 2021 was delivered by chief guest Chandrikapersad Santokhi, the President of Suriname. The theme of 16th PBD Convention 2021 is "Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||More than 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 228 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,04,31,639 with 18,222 new infections reported in a day, while 1,00,56,651 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.41 per cent as on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. There are 2,24,190 active cases in the country which is 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,04,31,639 and the death toll climbed to 1,50,798 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 228 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. According to ICMR, a total of 18,02,53,315 samples have been tested up to January 9 with 9,16,951 samples being tested on Friday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The latest 228 fatalities include 73 from Maharashtra, 21 from West Bengal, 17 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Delhi, and eight from Tamil Nadu. The total 1,50,798 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,970 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,134 from Karnataka, 12,208 from Tamil Nadu, 10,654 from Delhi, 9,902 from West Bengal, 8,469 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,127 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,437 from Punjab and 4,335 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||I am too poor to afford my daughter’s bone marrow transplant Please help ||“I always see Tejaswini in pain while undergoing blood transfusions. The injection really scares her. I simply stand and look at her, helpless. I cannot bear to see her in so much pain, she doesn’t deserve this…” cried Archana. Archana’s daughter, Tejaswini is just 10-years-old. Tejaswini has been fighting Thalassemia, a type of blood disorder. In Thalassemia, the body of an individual has less hemoglobin than normal, which may lead to anemia and cause fatigue. Help Tejaswini She has already been through a lot of pain and misery. Tejaswini is a victim of not only poverty but also a life-threatening disease. She has always dreamt of becoming a dancer when she grows up. Being a wonderful student and a great dancer, she is dear to all her teachers and friends. Tejaswini is fighting like a warrior. She has visited the hospital many times as she needs blood transfusions. Her condition seems to be very critical. This will only get worse and will eventually take her life if her treatment is delayed. As the blood transfusions are making her body miserable the only way to save her is through a bone marrow transplant. This 10-year-old child has been pierced with needles not once but a lot of times. A non-relative is found out to be a 10/10 match and will undergo the bone marrow transplant. Help Tejaswini “Oh lord, you have to show us a way. Please help us save our daughter. I have full faith in you that you’ll help my family in this tough time. I wish I could do more for my child,” says an exasperated father. Tejaswini’s father, Raju, is the sole earner. He works as a licensed agent. His monthly income is merely Rs 10,000. The family has been having a really tough time to collect the required amount for Tejaswini’s treatment. Even though the family has done everything to pay for Tejaswini’s previous treatments, nothing is enough. They took loans and borrowed money from friends and family. Help Tejaswini A huge sum of INR 3150000.00 is required for Tejaswini’s treatment. For a man whose salary is merely Rs 10,000, it will be impossible for him to collect such an amount. Even though this disease has made her childhood really tough. Tejaswini has been fighting bravely. She loves to dance and study English, she cannot wait to go back to school and play with her friends. She also wishes to visit places and start living her life without regular hospital visits. Tejaswini and her family are in dire need of funds for her life-saving transplant. Please donate generously and help this poor family in their dark times. Tejaswini deserves another chance at her life which can be possible only with your help. Help Tejaswini||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature within comfortable range||At 10.8 degrees Celsius, Delhi's minimum temperature settled four notches above normal on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature in the city has remained above normal since January 3 as a result of cloud cover under the influence of successive western disturbances. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, an IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Ten newborns dead after fire in Maharashtra hospital||Ten newborn babies died after fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Maharashtra in the wee hours on Saturday, doctors said. The infants were aged between a month and three months, a doctor said. District civil surgeon Pramod Khandate said fire broke out at the Bhandara district hospital at around 1.30 am. There were 17 babies in the unit and seven were rescued, he added. A nurse first noticed smoke coming out from the neonatal section of the hospital and alerted doctors and other staff who reached there in five minutes, he said. Fire brigade personnel rescued seven babies from the 'inbound ward' of the unit but could not save the 10 other babies, he said. Khandate said the ward where newborn babies are kept requires a continuous supply of oxygen. "There were fire extinguishers and staff used them while trying to douse the fire. There was too much smoke," he added. Parents of the deceased children have been informed and the seven newborn babies rescued in the blaze have been shifted to another ward, he said. Patients from the ICU ward, dialysis wing and labour ward (a room in a hospital set aside for childbirth) were also shifted to other wards safely, he added. The cause of the fire in the four-storeyed building is yet to be ascertained but could have been the result of an electrical short circuit, he said. Hours of the incident, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered a probe after speaking to state Health Minister Rajesh Tope as well as the district collector and superintendent of police of Bhandara district. Tope is en route to Bhandara. The state government announced Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the kin of the deceased. No post-mortems were conducted, and the bodies were handed over to the families.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed grief at a tragic fire incident in a Maharashtra hospital in which 10 newborn babies died. "Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Shri Amit Shah, the saviour of Delhi when riots broke out ||The Union home ministry’s yearend review has listed Amit Shah’s intervention to contain the February riots in Delhi as one of the highlights of 2020, and suggested the violence that killed 53 people was “spontaneous”. Both evaluations contrast sharply with a report by the Delhi minority commission that accuses Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and other BJP politicians of “fanning communal sentiments” through incendiary speeches in the lead-up to the riots. The minority panel’s October report also alleges that Delhi police, who answer to Shah’s ministry, “were complicit and abetted the attacks” during the riots and tended to arrest the victims rather than the people they accused. Muslims were the worst sufferers of the violence, which began on the night of February 23 and continued till the afternoon of February 27. Under the head “Delhi Riots — Home minister steps in”, the annual ministry review refers to a meeting Shah held two days after the start of the violence, another that he conducted as the rioting abated, and comments he made in Parliament a fortnight later. “On February 25, Amit Shah chaired (a) meeting with political parties and senior officials on violence in Delhi,” it says. “Shri Amit Shah urged political parties to avoid provocative speeches and statements which could flare up the communal violence. He noted that the professional assessment is that the violence in the capital has been spontaneous. The Union minister directed deployment of additional forces in the affected areas.” By then, the inflammatory speeches had been delivered. The minority panel’s report says BJP politician Kapil Mishra, a former Delhi minister who was defeated in the February 8 Assembly polls, delivered a provocative speech in Maujpur on February 23, hours before the violence started. Shah had himself urged voters on January 27 from Baburpur, one of the sites of the subsequent riots, to press the voting button with such “anger” that the “current” was felt at Shaheen Bagh, venue of the celebrated women-led vigil against the new citizenship law. The riots were largely concentrated in constituencies the BJP had won in the Assembly elections on the back of a polarising campaign led by Shah. Five of the eight seats the BJP won in the 70-member Assembly were in northeast Delhi, where the rioting took place. The home ministry’s annual review says that on February 27, Shah “took stock of the prevailing law-and-order situation in Delhi”. On March 12, he responded to a discussion on the Delhi violence in Parliament. “Expressing grief over loss of life and property in Delhi violence in Rajya Sabha, the Union home minister reassured the nation that (the Narendra) Modi government is committed to bring the perpetrators to justice regardless of their religion, caste, creed or political affiliation,” the review says. In the minority panel report, a paragraph on “incendiary campaign speeches and the fanning of communal sentiments” flags speeches delivered by Shah, Adityanath and Mishra as well as Union ministers Giriraj Singh and Anurag Thakur, MPs Parvesh Verma and Tejasvi Surya, and some other BJP campaigners. Among the speeches cited is one by Shah on January 27, where he is quoted as saying: “Your vote to (the) BJP candidate will make Delhi and the country safe and prevent thousands of incidents like Shaheen Bagh.” The panel report says: “Violence started in different pockets almost immediately after the short speech of Shri Kapil Mishra on 23 February 2020 at Maujpur in which he openly called for forcefully removing the protesters at Jaffrabad in northeast Delhi.” On February 27, Delhi High Court had played the recorded speech in court for the benefit of the police and prodded the force to act. But the police later told the bench that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet indicating any role being played by” any prominent political leader in “instigating and/or participating in the riots”. A former Intelligence Bureau joint director, who requested anonymity, said the home ministry’s review highlighting Shah’s role in handling the riots was just eyewash. “The role of the government and the police was dubious and partisan. It (the violence) was not spontaneous but planned.” He wondered how the violence had continued for “so many days” despite the affected zone being within 10km to 15km of the Prime Minister’s Office, the home ministry’s North Block seat, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Supreme Court and the headquarters of the army, Intelligence Bureau and the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Farmers more resolute after govt talks fail for eighth time||The Centre’s obduracy drove her to tears on Friday but Ravinder Kaur, office-bearer of the Jai Kisan Andolan, has emerged from it more resolute than ever. Kaur has told her family in Faridkot, Punjab, that she would now return only after the farm laws have been repealed. A niece’s birthday is coming up on Sunday and more such family occasions are on the way. But she will not be leaving her picket at Singhu anytime soon. “After today’s meeting, we are even more determined to intensify the agitation in the systematic way in which we have been scaling it up since November 26,” Kaur told The Telegraph over the phone. She said she had been driven to tears by the government’s insensitivity. The PTI news agency had earlier in the evening quoted her as saying many mothers have lost their sons and many daughters have lost their fathers. “We have lost 70 people, and this was acknowledged by the ministers themselves when they condoled with us over the deaths of the ‘martyrs’ at the last meeting,” Kaur told this newspaper. “They come to us for votes but look how they are trying to tire us down with one meeting after another, where they go on repeating the same thing.” She added: “People are sleeping in a cremation ground (in Tikri), a place where no one wants to spend a moment more than is absolutely necessary even during the day. Yet the government and its ‘Godi (lapdog) Media’ are constantly maligning us.” Kaur has been at the protest site on the Singhu border since December 5, having arrived with her 82-year-old mother, 42-year-old younger brother and 13-year-old nephew. Her mother has returned; Kaur’s children have visited her at the protest site. Asked if she was herself a farmer, Kaur sounded proud as she said: “I am, I have farming in my blood. I know what is at stake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Centre rules out repealing laws, asks protestors to go to court||The government on Friday ruled out repealing the three new farm laws and asked the farmer unions to go to court during their eighth meeting to break the deadlock, resulting in a near breakdown of the conversation. Still, the farmer unions have for now agreed to participate in the next meeting, scheduled for next Friday after a Supreme Court hearing of a batch of petitions relating to the dispute. The farmer union leaders made it clear they would not give up their fight even in the face of an adverse Supreme Court order, as none of the organisations that are part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) have sought court intervention. “The unions are clearly saying that whatever the courts might order, they are not going to budge until they have secured repeal of the laws and the discussion on MSP (minimum support price) has moved further,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch. “They have already set a deadline of January 26, after which they will start marching into Delhi.” She described it as a “sad day for democracy when an elected government in the middle of talks takes resort in the Supreme Court and says that we should fall back on the court”. Compared with the earlier meetings, Friday’s talks were wrapped up quickly. Earlier, a heated argument had broken out when the union leaders told ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal that it was clear the government was uninterested in addressing the farmers’ concerns and was deliberately stalling proceedings. Kept waiting yet again for half an hour by the ministers, who have routinely arrived 30 minutes late for these meetings, the farmer leaders refused to break for lunch or tea. They went into silent mode for a while and one of them held up a banner in Punjabi articulating their resolve to fight to the finish. “Ya marenge, ya jitenge (We shall die or win),” it said. Followers of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) have coined the slogan: “Bill wapsi toh ghar wapsi (Repeal the laws and we return home).” Tomar said there was support for the new farm laws and the government had to keep that in mind, too, instead of going along with what one segment of farmers was saying. The union leaders challenged his assertion, arguing that most of the organisations the government was trotting out as farmer outfits had little support within the farming community. Veteran farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal underlined that the government had no constitutional right to legislate on agricultural marketing since it was a state subject, but added caustically that rulers can do whatever they like. “But we will continue sitting...,” he said. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa is understood to have been drawn into a heated argument and said: “We come from the land of the Gurus with a tradition of sacrificing everything for what we believe in. Do not expect us to buckle.” BKU (Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters after the meeting: “The farmers will not relent till the laws are repealed. We will come again on January 15. We are not going anywhere.” Asked why the farmers were not seeking court intervention, Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said the option had been considered and rejected seven months ago when the ordinances were promulgated. “Why should we go to court over a decision of the executive? This is a conversation that farmers — who constitute 60 per cent of the population — want to have with their elected government,” he said. “It is the government’s duty to save the farmers from what is certain death if these laws are enacted. If you will save us, we will survive; else we will die.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||5 liquor deaths in UP's Bulandshahr||Five persons have died after consuming spurious country liquor in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday night. “A youth brings liquor on his motorcycle every evening and sells it to villagers at Rs 30 per bottle. Over 20 villagers took it between 9pm and 10pm on Thursday and went to sleep. They started vomiting and complained of nausea around 1am. Four of them died before they could be taken to hospital. One more person died on Friday,” a resident said. The victims, all Dalits, were daily wage earners. Kuldeep Singh, identified by villagers as the manufacturer of the spurious liquor, was arrested on Friday evening. Local excise officer Prabhat Barman has been suspended. Three senior officers of the department — Sanjay Tripathi, Rajesh Tripathi and Suresh Patel — have been transferred. Santosh Kumar Singh, the senior superintendent of police, said: “Local police station in-charge Dixit Kumar Tyagi and sub-inspector Anokhe Puri have been suspended for dereliction of duty as the illicit liquor was sold in their area.” “Five persons have died while a dozen are in hospital. We have taken three persons into custody and are probing the case. The accused will be booked under the National Security Act,” he added. Villagers said the area’s hooch traders sold the illicit liquor under the brand name “Prince India”. The family members of the victims have given to the police the empty plastic bottles in which the liquor had been sold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Nitish will quit in 6 months: JDU MLA ||A Janata Dal United MLA has claimed that his leader Nitish Kumar will step down as chief minister in six months and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will form the government in Bihar. Gopalpur JDU legislator Narendra Kumar Niraj alias Gopal Mandal’s comments have come at a time there is friction in the NDA, and the JDU is feeling uncomfortable with a more assertive BJP that has become the senior partner for the first time in the alliance. Mandal made the comments during a telephone conversation with Bihpur BJP legislator Kumar Shailendra, an audio clip of which has been leaked and shared widely on social media, and during a media conference later. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar will step down from his post after six months and Tejashwi will form the government,” Mandal is heard telling Shailendra in the clip. Mandal, in the telephone conversation, alleged that BJP legislators had sided with the JDU’s opponents and is heard using expletives against senior leaders of the saffron party. Shailendra confirmed that Mandal had spoken about such a possibility but denied leaking the audio. “Whatever Mandal said is in front of everybody. He is a four-term MLA and keeps speaking such things. However, I did not leak the conversation or put it up on social media,” Shailendra said. Mandal’s revelation indicates that the friction between the JDU and the BJP is simmering despite the best efforts by their top leaders to present a picture of amicability. The JDU has strongly condemned the “poaching” of six of its seven MLAs by the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, calling it an act of treachery. The JDU is also angry with the BJP over what the Bihar party thinks is covert patronage to the Lok Janshakti Party’s Chirag Paswan during the Assembly elections in October-November last year. Chirag had fielded candidates against the JDU, eating into its votes. There are also indications of growing closeness between the JDU and Opposition RJD, whose leaders have sent feelers to Nitish to quit the NDA and rejoin the Grand Alliance. The Opposition parties expressed glee over Mandal’s comments. Congress leader Anand Madhav said: “Mandal’s statement showcases the current relations between the JDU and the BJP. There is much stress between the two parties. Though the senior leaders of the two parties are asserting that the government will last its full term, it does not look possible.” RJD leader Shakti Yadav said the JDU legislator’s comments had “expressed the sentiments of the entire party, which is feeling afraid that the BJP would gobble it up”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Mahant accused of rape-and-murder held in UP ||A temple mahant accused of raping and murdering a worshipper in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district was arrested from the victim’s village on Thursday night. Baba Satya Narayan, who had allegedly brutalised the 42-year-old anganwadi worker on Sunday evening along with his driver Jaspal Singh and disciple Ved Ram, had been hiding in the house of another disciple not far from the house of the victim. Avinash Chandra, additional director-general of police, said a case under IPC Section 166A (public servant disobeying the law) had been registered against Raghvendra Pratap Singh, the local station house officer, and Amarjit Singh, a sub-inspector of Ughaiti police station, for failure to record the crime on time. The two cops had informed senior officers 17 hours after the incident and sent the body for a post-mortem over 24 hours after the crime had been reported by the victim’s family on Sunday night. The cops have been accused of “delay in informing higher authorities, laxity in taking action, dereliction of duty and failure in taking speedy action”, said senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma. The delay allowed the accused trio to escape on Tuesday and also send the police on a wild goose chase. Ved Ram and Jaspal were arrested from Ughaiti on Wednesday night. The female disciple from whose house Satya Narayan was arrested on Thursday night has been detained for questioning. Satya Narayan was questioned through the night, the police said. According to the initial inquiry and the statement of the family members of the victim, the crime was committed in or around the temple sometime between 6pm and 9pm on Sunday. Apart from gang-raping her, the trio also allegedly broke her leg and inserted a hard object, possibly an iron rod, into her private parts before dumping her blood-splattered body in front of her house at 11pm and claiming before her relatives that she had fallen into a dry well. The post-mortem has confirmed gang rape and torture and mentioned the cause of death as shock and excessive bleeding. According to police sources, the trio had sent their phones through an acquaintance to Chandausi in Sambhal district two hours before dumping her body, creating the impression that they were not in Ughaiti. The police, tracking the cellphones, kept looking for Satya Narayan in Chandausi, Bareilly and Uttarakhand. A reward of Rs 50,000 was also announced for helping the police to nab him. According to the police, a villager in Ughaiti tipped them off on Thursday about Satya Narayan’s presence in the house of one of his disciples.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||How Tricolour was dragged into Capitol frame  ||Software entrepreneur Vincent Xavier Palathingal, 54, says he left Kerala a quarter century ago and settled in the US to escape “large-scale Leftist violence and atrocities” at home. Now he finds himself defending his decision to join — Indian Tricolour in hand — a rally at Capitol Hill on Wednesday, soon after which large-scale Rightist violence erupted. But, roasted on social media for carrying the national flag to an American show of bigotry, the Kochi-born chairperson of the US-based Accubits Technologies, which has an office at Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, is not too fazed if a tad defensive. He has glib answers to every difficult question, much like the man he reveres: US President Donald Trump. “I carried the Indian national flag to prove that Trump’s supporters are not rigid American nationalists with racist tendencies as projected by the media but a set of peaceful agitators with a pan-global vision and inclusiveness,” Xavier said over the phone from Fairfax county, Virginia, where he is a state committee member of the Republican Party. “Commonly, people of different nationalities take part in protests with their national flags. My only point was that Trump still enjoys enormous international backing, and he has many Indian fans.” As for the violence, he insists he had no part in it and it was all the handiwork of about 50 Leftists who had infiltrated the crowd of protesters. “I have reason to believe that the 50 men who unleashed violence belong to the Left group Antifa, which Trump had described as a set of terrorists. They might have sneaked into our peaceful democratic protest against the rigging of the election to defame our leader Trump,” he said, flogging a discredited conspiracy theory. “I’m not a rioter, and the vast majority gathered there had not rioted. The 50 men were trained in adventurous and violent activities. You may have seen the visuals in which they climbed the walls of the building. I’m a Trump fan who took part in the protest peacefully.” While Xavier’s old friends in Kerala acknowledged the extreme hatred the former Congress party activist harboured for the Left ideology, they contested his claim that he had left the state for political reasons. They said he had obtained US citizenship to try and build a transnational business. Xavier, involved in many Malayali forums in the US and vice-president of the largest of them, the Federation of Malayalee Associations of Americas, has angered community members from both Kerala and America. Shashi Tharoor, Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, has questioned “Indians with the same mentality as that Trumpist mob, who enjoy using the flag as a weapon rather than a badge of pride” and asserted: “That flag there is a warning to all of us.” Xavier’s Facebook page showed a glut of angry messages, with netizen Suresh Madhavan alleging he had “disgraced India for your two minutes of fame” and Philip Joseph, apparently a US-based Malayali and Republican, asking: “Who gave you the authority to carry Indian flag in a riot before capitol hill?” Sounding somewhat on the back foot, Xavier told The Telegraph there were five other Keralites in the siege but they had not attracted attention because they did not carry the Indian flag. Xavier told Manorama News that this was the first time he had carried an Indian flag to a pro-Trump rally although he had participated in three of them before. He has deleted from his Facebook page pictures he had uploaded of himself holding the Indian flag at the Capitol Hill siege. Instead, he has tweeted pictures of the pro-Trump protesters carrying the national flags of various countries, including Vietnam, Iran and South Korea. “American patriots — Vietnamese, Indian, Korean & Iranian origins & from so many other nations & races, who believe massive voter fraud has happened joined rally yesterday in solidarity with Trump,” he tweeted. Nissim Mannathukkaren, associate professor with the department of international development studies at Dalhousie University, Canada, said there was a “compact between White supremacism and Hindutva”. “There is nothing surprising about Indian and saffron flags waved at the insurrection in Capitol. Around 28 per cent of Indians in America voted for Trump. But the support for Trump’s majoritarian racist nationalism in America is even larger amongst the Indian diaspora,” he told The Telegraph in an email. “This is the compact between White supremacism and Hindutva, founded on common enemies like Islam despite the fact that Indians are themselves a racial minority in the United States.” He added: “But the largely affluent Indians are the ‘good minority’ who can participate in ‘Make America Great Again’. And this compact is what was reflected in the open endorsement of Donald Trump by Narendra Modi in his ‘Ab ki baar Trump sarkar’ call.” Washington-based software professional Sajith Nair, 44, who said he knew Xavier through a common association with US-based Malayali organisations, asserted the Accubits chairperson only recently began promoting himself as a hardcore Trump fan. Xavier was born at Champakara near Vyttila on the outskirts of Kochi city. Thrissur resident Sheeba Jayan said Xavier had been involved with the Congress-backed students’ union at the Government Engineering College in Thrissur, where both had studied. Xavier later worked as project engineer with the Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organisation in Kochi, and as site engineer with the Ali-Al Sehebani Associates at Al-Hofuf, Saudi Arabia. He moved to the US to study for a master’s in civil engineering at the University of Reno. He later he worked with the Maryland State Highway Administration, Metro Washington Council of Governments, and Fannie Mae. In 1998, he started Amaram Technology, providing IT support to businesses and government bodies. Accubits was incorporated in 2016. Xavier had unsuccessfully contested school board elections at Fairfax county. He is the founder of a political think tank, the Indo-American Centre. He told this newspaper that Trump had appointed him a member of the US Export Council. Some of his former classmates and friends said Xavier had maintained his ties with the Congress party, hosting several senior Congress leaders from Kerala during their US visits. In a Facebook post, Xavier had described Congress politician Hibi Eden’s election to the Lok Sabha from Kochi as a reflection of God’s curse on Pinarayi Vijayan’s government, which had allowed women to enter the Sabarimala temple. Additional reporting by K.M. Rakesh in Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
09-01-2021||India||Army to vacate plateau at Kargil door||The army has agreed to end its half-century-old occupation of a plateau at the doorstep of Kargil town, marking a rare concession to popular and political demand in any part of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state. Authorities said the army would over the next six months vacate the 1,700-kanal (85-hectare or 210-acre) Kargil Lower Plateau, also called the Khurbathang Lower Plateau. The area will be developed as a planned township, helping ease congestion in Kargil town, home to 35,000 people. The army has a firing range on the plateau, apart from operational and logistical facilities. Sources said the army occupied prime land across the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state, at some places without authorisation. The Kargil Lower Plateau is one of several such tracts, close to cities and towns, that have often had the civilian and defence authorities at loggerheads. Several instances of such army occupation, such as that of Srinagar’s Tattoo ground, have hit local development plans.Officials said the army had signed a memorandum of understanding on Friday with the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council Kargil, under which it would vacate the plateau in lieu of alternative land. One of these alternative plots is located near the army’s Maratha Unit in Khurbathang, some 3km from the town, and another in Mulbekh, around 25km away, council chairman and chief executive councillor Feroz Ahmad Khan said. Khan told The Telegraph the local people had for five decades been demanding that the army vacate the land. “Kargil town is very congested, and there’s a dearth of suitable land for expansion. The plateau is only a kilometre from the town. This (the plateau being freed up) will go a long way in helping the town expand,” he said. “During the Kargil war, since this place was with the army, it was frequently targeted (by the Pakistanis), which endangered the town as well.” Kargil politician Sajjad Hussain described the army decision as “good news”. Many in Kargil view the decision as a gesture to placate the Muslim-majority district, which is bitterly opposed to the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in August 2019 and the division of the erstwhile state into two Union territories. All the political parties in Kargil had last year supported the Valley-based seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is campaigning for the restoration of Article 370 and statehood. The Mufti Mohammad Sayeed government had in 2015 asked the then defence minister, Manohar Parrikar, during a visit to get the army to vacate the plateau. But there was no headway. Kargil is one of the two districts in the fledgling Union territory of Ladakh, the other being Buddhist-majority Leh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
09-01-2021||India||Privacy worry on WhatsApp policy change ||“Respect for your privacy is coded into our DNA. Since we started WhatsApp, we’ve aspired to build our Services with a set of strong privacy principles in mind,” the old privacy policy of social messaging service platform WhatsApp read. The updated policy announced on January 4 does not have this introductory line, which along with a few other key policy changes have spooked people all over the world. In India the updated terms have been gradually pushed to all the users. While accepting the changes is voluntary for now, it will only be so till the policy comes into effect from February 8. Among the key changes in the new policy is the plethora of information that WhatsApp, a Facebook platform, will start to collect. This includes hardware data such as battery level, signal strength, app version, browser information, mobile network, connection information (including phone number, mobile operator or ISP), language and time zone, IP address, device operations information, and identifiers (including those unique to Facebook company products associated with the same device or account). These were not part of the previous policy. There are also changes in the policy related to location services. The social messaging platform said that even if users “do not use our location-related features, we use IP addresses and other information like phone number area codes to estimate your general location (e.g. city and country). We also use your location information for diagnostics and troubleshooting purposes.” The policy also explicitly states that WhatsApp uses Facebook’s global infrastructure and data centres, including those in the US, to store user data, something that was not there in the past policies. Another change is on how users interact with businesses on WhatsApp. “When you message with a business on WhatsApp, keep in mind that the content you share may be visible to several people in that business. In addition, some businesses might be working with third-party service providers (which may include Facebook) to help manage their communications with their customers. For example, a business may give such third-party service provider access to its communications to send, store, read, manage, or otherwise process them for the business,” the new policy states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
09-01-2021||India||Security up after letter on Naveen Patnaik||Odisha police have beefed up security around Naveen Nivas, the official residence of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, after the receipt of an anonymous letter claiming a conspiracy to murder him. The chief minister’s security is being monitored round-the-clock. Sources said the letter written in English was addressed to the chief minister and spoke of a threat to his life. It said that professional criminals were keeping Naveen’s movements under watch in order to attack him at an opportune time. A copy of the letter is available with The Telegraph. “These contract killers are professional criminals, and they are equipped with the latest weapons like AK-47 and semi-automatic pistols. These criminals are constantly following you and can attack you any time,” the letter said. It said the mastermind of the plot to eliminate the popular chief minister lives in Nagpur. “The weapons which will be used to kill you have been brought to Odisha with the help of the car MH49 BK5295,” it added. The letter, which was received at Naveen Nivas on January 4, urged the five-time chief minister to be aware of the plot to assassinate him and also provided some car numbers which could be used by the criminals to execute their plan. The Odisha government has taken serious note of the matter and the home department has asked the director-general of police and director, intelligence and commissionerate police, to review the security of the chief minister. Special secretary (home), Santosh Bala, in a letter to the DGP, commissionerate police and other senior police officers, said: “The security of the Hon’ble chief minister may be assessed and tightened at his residence, secretariat as well as during journey to various places, functions if required. This may please be treated as Extremely Urgent.” Sources said the police have started an investigation to ascertain the place from where the letter was posted. Earlier in 2018, a murder convict lodged in a jail in Chhattisgarh had written a letter to Naveen demanding Rs 50 crore as extortion money. But during inquiry the person was found to be mentally deranged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
09-01-2021||India||India alert on coronavirus mutant that escapes 3 antibodies||Genomic surveillance has revealed the presence in India of a coronavirus variant with a mutation designated E484 that can evade three antibodies and scientists say it should be monitored closely as the country rolls out Covid-19 vaccines. Among over 6,300 novel coronavirus genome sequences deposited so far in an Indian database, the variant with the E484 mutation also observed in several other countries has turned up in only two patients in Maharashtra — at Raigad and Thane. Scientists at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi, say the E484 variant looks “worrying” as studies have suggested that the mutation may allow the virus to escape three antibodies. The viruses were isolated from the patient in Raigad on September 1 and from the patient in Thane on September 8. Researchers at the Tata Memorial Centre’s Advanced Centre for Treatment Research and Education on Cancer, Navi Mumbai, deposited the genomes in the database in December. A single mutation that escapes multiple antibodies is a source of concern because vaccines are designed to generate antibodies to block viral entry into human cells and prevent the virus from making trillions of copies of itself and causing disease. “No coronavirus mutations anywhere are so far known to escape vaccine-induced immunity,” Vinod Scaria, a doctor-turned-scientist at the IGIB, told The Telegraph. “But we need to watch out for such mutations.” Emma Hodcroft, a researcher specialising in epidemiology and immunology at the University of Bern, Switzerland, has mapped the E484 variant’s emergence worldwide. “This mutation has arisen multiple times in many places,” she tweeted earlier this week. A study by microbiologist Jesse Bloom at the University of Washington, US, and his colleagues has suggested that the E484 mutation had emerged early in the pandemic — by the spring of 2020. The independent emergence of a specific mutation at multiple geographic sites, Scaria said, may imply that the virus gains some biological advantage when it acquires those mutations. The capacity to evade antibodies is a potential advantage although its implications for Covid-19 vaccines remain unknown. “Since no clusters of cases with the E484 variants have been observed so far, we still do not have insights into whether this could also make the virus more transmissible like the UK variant,” Scaria said. The fast-spreading UK variant, marked by the mutation designated N501, enhances the capacity of the coronavirus to enter human cells and thus increases transmissibility. Eighty-two people in India have been found infected with the UK variant. The emergence of the UK variant in India has amplified concerns that if containment and quarantine efforts are slack, it could trigger clusters of infections in specific locations and alter the course of India’s Covid-19 epidemic that has been steadily shrinking since mid-September. In an independent study, Scaria and his colleagues have detected 19 coronavirus variants circulating in India with escape mutations that allow them to dodge antibodies. But each mutation appears to evade only one antibody. Scientists are concerned about escape mutations because vaccines are designed to protect people by generating antibodies. If variants are able to evade antibodies, scientists speculate, they may continue to cause disease in vaccinated people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
09-01-2021||India||Congress floods social media with videos of farmers across the country||The Congress on Friday flooded social media with videos of farmers from across the country passionately condemning the “death warrant” the Narendra Modi government has issued in the garb of reforms, on a day the Centre stuck to its stand that the farm laws can’t be repealed because of protests centred around Punjab and Haryana alone. Videos showing farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand supporting the agitation at Delhi’s borders and asserting that the three laws had nothing to protect their interests were uploaded by the Congress as part of the online “Bole Bharat” campaign. The party also threatened to join the protest if the laws were not scrapped. It is an undeniable truth that thousands of farmers from states other than Punjab and Haryana are sitting in protest — over 80 per cent of the crowds at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border and Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Delhi border are from different parts of the country. Countless videos have emerged showing how police in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are stopping caravans of farmers from moving towards Delhi. Among the videos posted by the Congress was one showing an angry farmer from Uttar Pradesh saying: “He (Modi) boasts of 56-inch chest. Why can’t he come and talk to us? Will you nurse your 56-inch chest by sucking our blood? It is a shame that you gave importance to fake farmers and talked to them. We know the truth of the laws, we understand how it will work on the ground. Modi is worried only about Adani-Ambani. Look at the rise in the wealth of Adani after Modi became Prime Minister.” A farmer from Gujarat, supporting the demand for repeal of the laws, declared that their land would doubtless be taken away if they opted for contract farming. An Uttarakhand farmer said: “The laws are guided 100 per cent by corporate interest. Except for some corporate houses, nobody will benefit. Not only farmers, all those who eat food will get affected. The government should not nurture false hopes that we will go back after some time. No way. We will return only after victory, no matter what we have to suffer.” Farmers from Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Budhni village were also shown listing the ill-effects of the new laws and demanding total repeal. Many farmers pointed to the unease among soldiers who are worried about their parents being attacked by the Modi government. They took strong objection to the attempts to malign the protesters by calling them Khalistani and Pakistani agents and lamented that the Prime Minister could not feel the pain of the deaths occurring during the movement. Participating in the online campaign, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The Modi government has betrayed the food-givers for the benefit of his capitalist friends. The farmers have spoken up through their protest. It is the duty of all of us to support the farmers and give voice to their cause. Peaceful movement is an integral part of democracy. The farmers’ movement has evoked nationwide support. You too should extend support by lending your voice to ensure that the black laws are repealed.” Many other senior Congress leaders appealed to the countrymen to rise in support of the farmers. They asked the citizens to mount pressure on the government to withdraw the “black laws” and bring to an end the enormous sufferings of lakhs of farmers who are sitting at Delhi’s borders for 45 days amid biting cold and rain. Veteran leader Digvijaya Singh asked BJP leaders who feel for farmers to come out like estranged ally Akali Dal and oppose the farm laws. Digvijaya said: “The only objective of these laws is to facilitate the entry of a few corporate houses into the agriculture trade worth Rs 15 to 18 lakh crore per year. These laws will ensure the mandi system is abolished and hoarding and black-marketing become easy.” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The emperor is worried about democracy in the United States but not concerned about farmers being called terrorists in his own country. Is his friendship with a few capitalists more important than the livelihood of 62 crore people?” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala expressed disappointment at the failure to reach a breakthrough at Friday’s meeting between the farmers and the government, saying: “The Modi government has turned out to be the most inhuman, cruel and arrogant in India’s history. It can see neither the dying farmers in this cold nor the debilitating impact on the economy. It is trying to tire out the farmers by playing meeting-meeting. But the farmers will neither bow down nor get tired.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
09-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC calls BJP's empathy for farmers a hoax||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday said that BJP's concern for farmers of the state is a sham as its leaders do not bother about those protesting within the striking distance of Delhi. Speaking to reporters, senior TMC leader and state minister Chandrima Bhattacharya said BJP leaders have time to travel across the country and "shed crocodile tears" for farmers but not pay any heed to those protesting against the farm laws. "BJP leaders are coming to Bengal and going to other places. But they don't listen to the farmers who are protesting outside Delhi. The BJP's concern for the farmers is a pure sham," she added. BJP president JP Nadda, who is on a day-long visit to the state, attacked the Trinamool Congress government over the PM-Kisan scheme, saying it agreed to implement the welfare programme only after realising that the party was fast losing ground among the farmers in the state. Nadda also launched the 'Krishok Surokkha Abhijan' to woo farmers in the state ahead of the assembly elections. Bhattacharya said the Trinamool Congress has a genuine commitment towards the small and marginal farmers. She said 92 per cent of the farmers in West Bengal are covered under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme, besides getting Rs 5,000 per hectare. Also, the state government provides a job to the family in case of the death of a farmer, she said. "Our party have been with the farmers and will continue to be so," the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Nadda in Bengal to woo farmers||BJP president J P Nadda arrived in West Bengal on Saturday to launch his party's door-to-door rice collection programme aimed at wooing farmers, amid the ongoing protest in Delhi over the contentious agriculture laws. He will reach out to the farmers of a village here during his day-long visit to the state. This is Nadda's first visit to West Bengal after the attack on his convoy during his journey to Diamond Harbour from Kolkata on December 10. Nadda arrived at Andal airport at around 11.45 am and took a helicopter ride from there to reach Jagdanandpur village in Purba Bardhaman district, where he will first offer puja at a temple and then meet the farmers. An elaborate security arrangement has been put in place across the district to prevent untoward incidents. Nadda, in a bid to blunt opposition camp's "anti- farmer" allegations against the BJP-led central government, will float 'Ek Muthi Chawal' (a fistful of rice), a programme under which he would collect rice from farmers' homes and brief them about the benefits of three new farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. The BJP chief will hold a roadshow from Clock Tower to Lord Curzon Gate in Burdwan and address a press conference too. His address at "Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha" (farmers' security meeting at village) in Jagadanandpur will mark the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections. "After the launch of the campaign by our party president, our cadres will reach out to 48,000 villages of the state, where they will be visiting farmer households to collect rice and brief them about the new agriculture laws," a senior state BJP leader said. Nadda will have lunch at a farmer's residence and hold a gram sabha meeting during the day. There are 71.23 lakh farmers' families in West Bengal, 96 per cent of them small and marginal. The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in West Bengal in its bid to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state. With Banerjee, also the head of the Trinamool Congress, backing the farmers who are protesting against the three agriculture laws, the BJP has gone all out to convince them about the "benefits" of these Acts. Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Two-day session of Bengal Assembly against farm laws||A two-day special session of the Bengal Assembly will begin on January 27 when the state government will table a resolution against the Centre's new farm laws and discuss the issue of agitating farmers. State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee told reporters on Friday evening that a letter has been sent to Speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay, urging him for convening the special session. Issues related to GST will also be taken up during the session, he said. Chatterjee said a draft of the resolution will also be sent to the Left and Congress for a united fight against the Centre's farm laws. The Left parties and the Congress had on January 1 urged Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for a session of the assembly over the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Boy killed, finger at classmate’s family||A 13-year-old schoolboy abducted on Thursday evening was found dead in an abandoned house at Paranpur village under Pukhuria police station a few hours later the same night. Family members of Anik Das, a Class VIII student, filed a complaint with police in the case. Police investigating the case have so far detained four persons of a family in Paranpur. The police suspect that Anik had been strangled with an electric wire as he had come to know “unpleasant information” about the family of one of his classmates. The “unpleasant information” relates to the accused family selling cannabis. Anik’s family had apparently ticked off the family for the illegal trade that had angered them. So far, two of Anik’s classmates are under the scanner. Ashis Kumar Das, Anik’s father, said his son was invited for a badminton match on Thursday afternoon and did not return home. “When my wife and other family members started searching for him, they found a letter on our doorstep that said my son was abducted. Around 9.30pm, we found his body in an abandoned house. An electric wire was dangling from his neck,” he said. Anik’s family alleged that family members of one of his classmates was behind the crime. “That family was involved in illegal sale of cannabis and we had warned them. We believe that this might have enraged them and kill the boy,” said a relative. Shashthi Das, the head of Paranpur panchayat, agreed with the accusations but said the police should find out the truth. Police officers said they had detained four members of the family, including two women. “We are on the verge of cracking the case. The details cannot be disclosed right now in the interest of the probe. But things are likely to be clear in next 24 hours,” said Goutam Choudhury, officer-in-charge of Pukhuria police station. Arrest A cousin of Gazole MLA Dipali Biswas was arrested by police over an old case of misappropriation of funds on Friday. Police sources identified the accused as Mrityunjoy Goldar. Last month, Biswas left Trinamul for BJP. In 2016, she was elected on a CPM ticket but joined Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Warmer January, thanks to cloud cover||January 2021 so far has been warmer than usual in the hills and on the plains. Reason — a western disturbance leading to the formation of clouds during evening and night hours has halted the mercury free fall across north Bengal for past few days. Maximum and minimum temperatures are many notches higher than the average normal in January. “Western disturbance has created a cloud cover in most of the areas. During night hours, the earth releases heat that brings down the temperature. The clouds are acting as a blanket and thus the temperature is not coming down like the other years,” said Gopinath Raha, the head of the regional meteorological centre in Gangtok. During daytime, clear and sunny skies are raising the temperature, pointed out Raha. The data available with the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) show that in the hill town of Darjeeling, the maximum and minimum temperatures during past 24 hours were 14.6°C and 5°C, which are higher by around four and three degrees, respectively, from the normal average. Similarly, in Gangtok, the maximum temperature recorded in the past 24 hours was 15.9°C while the minimum was 6.7°C. Both are higher by three degrees from the normal average. “There is a chilly feel in the hills in the evening and night hours but that is comparatively less intense than any other year,” said a Darjeeling resident. In the plains, the maximum temperature even crosses the 26°C mark. The minimum is around 13.1°C. “It seems like a sudden return of autumn after the short cold spell that characterised the end of December,” said a resident. The IMD data also shows that in each place of north Bengal, the maximum temperature is on an average higher by five to six degrees from other years. “This is why the chilly feeling is missing throughout the day. Unless the western disturbance weakens and the cold north-westerly winds get in, weather conditions are likely to remain the same. We believe there might be some changes after another five days or so. There is also a forecast of light rainfall in some places that can bring down the mercury,” Raha said. While many residents are surprised at the “untimely autumn”, those associated with the travel and tourism industry are elated for now. “The temperatures might be slightly on the higher side but tourists are enjoying the more comfortable climate,” said a travel house owner in Siliguri. It is only during the past few weeks that hundreds of tourists have started flocking in the hills to enjoy the winter, he added. Travel and tourism stakeholders said last year, the losses from the Covid-19-induced lockdown had impacted thousands of livelihoods in the region. However, some tourism stakeholders are looking forward to snow in Darjeeling. “There had been some snowfall earlier in upper reaches of Sikkim. We hope Darjeeling hills and Sikkim see snow in the coming weeks. That will bring more tourists to the hills,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC leader, Bhusan Singh, defies district chief’s list ||Bhusan Singh, a district Trinamul leader of Cooch Behar who chairs the board of administrators of the civic body, on Friday announced parallel names of presidents of party committees for all 20 wards of Cooch Behar. During past 48 hours, this is Singh’s second move against Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul chief. On Wednesday, Roy announced names of ward committee presidents and office bearers of block and panchayat level committees, with Singh named as vice-president of the Cooch Behar Town Block committee. Singh immediately announced he was stepping down from the post as Roy had not discussed the names. “Most ward presidents named by the district president are incompetent and do not know their own ward. We had given a list to Partha Pratim Roy but he picked up other names. That is why we held a meeting today and announced names of new ward presidents,” said Singh. He added he did not need any post in the party and would continue to function as a common worker. In past two days, Cooch Behar has seen Trinamul’s rift widen. Many block level leaders have tendered resignations from posts and expressed disappointment with Roy. However, Udayan Guha, the Trinamul MLA of Dinhata, on Friday backed Roy. “The district president is doing his best. If anybody has a problem, he should sit and discuss them with him. Instead, they are resorting to childish activites,” said Guha. Nadiram Mondal, 63, a Trinamul supporter at Baburhat village of Cooch Behar–II block, was found dead near his home with a sharp weapon nearby on Thursday evening. Trinamul leaders suspected murder and accused the BJP. BJP leaders denied the charges. Sources said residents spotted his body in a deserted place. Teams from Pundibari police station and Baneswar police outpost reached the spot and recovered the body and the weapon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal push for peace committees||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung underscored the need to form “peace committees” involving political parties and administration at police station levels, his demand possibly aimed at bolstering his image before the Bengal polls as skirmishes and acrimonious speeches have occurred in the hills ever since he resurfaced in October last year after three-and-half-years. “There must be peace in the hills. In every thana, there must be a peace committee involving our party, other parties and the administration,” said Gurung. There are precedents of the administration forming such committees especially during a major law and order situation and elections. The two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, one headed by Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa, are bitter rivals despite both being Trinamul allies. A clash between two Morcha factions at Banersbeg tea garden was reported recently, followed by alleged attempts to capture Binay Tamang’s party office at Lebong. On Thursday, Gurung supporters allegedly ransacked Tamang’s party office in Kalimpong, hours before Gurung addressed his first public meeting in the town after 2017. Many observers believe Gurung is trying to soften his tone as the Tamang camp is making some inroads with their slogan “naya sooch, naya bichar (new thoughts, new ideas)”. Anit Thapa, also GTA chairman, seems to be carving out a separate identity through his measured speeches. “The Bimal Gurung camp is probably realising that Anit Thapa’s decision to refrain from direct attacks and his stress on the need for peace is getting some takers. There is no doubt that people in the hills want peace,” said an observer. “It seems that Gurung wants to create a similar narrative, which is probably why he is stressing on a peace committee.” The upcoming Bengal poll holds importance for both Morcha factions with both hinting they would pit their candidates against each other despite being Trinamul allies. In Siliguri, senior CPM leaders criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her party for forging “an understanding” with Gurung. “It is another attempt to cheat the residents of Darjeeling hills. They are simply following the same trick like the BJP,” said Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya. The Left leaders demanded Mamata should clarify how Gurung, a named accused in many cases related to violence during the Gorkhaland agitation, is roaming around freely in the region. Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung faction, said on Friday that they would send a delegation to Delhi to show solidarity with farmers on Delhi borders protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. “We will send a 15-member delegation to Delhi to express our solidarity with farmers who are protesting for more than 40 days now. The Centre’s farm laws are anti-farmer and favour industrialists. We are against them,” said Giri. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Court for e-bathing at Gangasagar Mela||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the Bengal government to lay emphasis on “e-snan (virtual bathing)” to avoid mass bathing at Gangasagar Mela at Sagar Island this year. A division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee in an interim order said: “State Government is directed to consider whether special incentives could be given to pilgrims, who would opt for e-snan.” The bench passed its interim order in response to a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ajoy Das, who had pleaded that Sagar Island be declared a containment zone to prevent mass bathing during the Gangasagar Mela this year. The plea was made in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Explaining the concept of e-snan, a state health department officer said: “The state government has decided to keep Sagar water in small containers for pilgrims at the Mela venue and will ask them to take bath with it instead of going to Gangasagar in view of the pandemic.” The officer said e-snan water would be distributed through state-managed kiosks at the Gangasagar Mela free of cost. The Gangasagar Mela, which draws lakhs of pilgrims, would be held from January 12 to 16 this year. The health department had suggested that only e-bathing for pilgrims could keep the situation under control. The bench said the matter would come up for the court’s scanning on January 13. On that day, the state would file an affidavit about its plan and preparations. Only after verifying the affidavit, the bench will pass its final order. Makar Sankranti falls on January 14. The maximum congregation of pilgrims takes place at Sagar Island on January 14. During the course of hearing, the Chief Justice expressed concern over the negligence on the part of people in Calcutta who “are seen moving without masks” in a pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||House session on farm laws||The Mamata Banerjee government has convened a special session of the Bengal Assembly on January 27 and 28 to get a resolution passed against the controversial farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre. Bengal parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee, who is also Trinamul Congress secretary-general, on Friday urged the Congress and the Left to endorse the Assembly motion in solidarity with the agitating farmers. He said the special session would also have a discussion on the goods and services tax (GST), in which the state wanted a five per cent hike. “The special session, in keeping with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s public announcement, will include a resolution against the central farm laws,” said Chatterjee. Both the Congress and the Left, in an alliance for Bengal, had demanded such an exercise, especially after the Kerala Assembly had passed a similar resolution. Chatterjee said he would send a letter to both the legislature parties of the Left and the Congress, asking for their support for the resolution. “We believe they would support the issue as it is for farmers and they have also been on the same page,” said the minister. Mamata had on Monday said at a news conference that her government would soon convene a session for the resolution against the farm laws. Several Assemblies have so far passed such resolutions. Farmers have been protesting at borders Delhi since November 26 against the three newly laws. Several rounds of dialogue with the Centre have failed to yield a breakthrough. The Trinamul chief has been firmly supportive of the movement and has repeatedly been reaching out to the agitating farmers, seeing in the core issue an opportunity to push the BJP on the back foot with months remaining for the Assembly polls. “She senses the possibility of a historic retreat by the BJP, in this case. Which, she believes, would be pivotal in not only national politics but also Bengal,” said a Trinamul MP. Sources in the ruling dispensation said the exercise in the Assembly would be carried out in a bid to politically corner the BJP in the state over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||BSF jawan accused of slapping women||A jawan of the Border Security Force (BSF) guarding the India-Bangladesh border at Karandighi block in North Dinajpur was accused of slapping two women of a village near the border on Thursday afternoon. The women, sources said, were cycling on a border road to their children’s high school to collect textbooks. The husband of one of the women said that a BSF jawan of Kadergach border outpost, Karandighi, stopped them and asked them to return. When they told him villagers do use the border road during the day, he abused them verbally, slapped and punched them. He added one of the punches on his wife’s ear was so hard that her hearing got impaired. Monodeb Sinha, Trinamul MLA of Karandighi, said: “They (BSF personnel) cannot assault villagers in such a manner without reason.” The women have filed a complaint with Karandighi police. “We will speak with BSF officers,” said Sumit Kumar, North Dinajpur SP. BSF authorities could not be contacted by the paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Dais damper at Suvendu Adhikari rally||The Suvendu Adhikari-led BJP rally in East Midnapore’s Nandigram on Friday afternoon fetched “over 1 lakh” attendees, but apparently failed in its avowed purpose of inducting members as not a single Trinamul leader was seen on the dais accepting saffron colours. Originally scheduled by Trinamul turncoat Suvendu as a rejoinder to Mamata Banerjee’s January 7 “mega rally” — that got postponed to January 18 owing to MLA Akhil Giri’s Covid diagnosis — the BJP rally on Friday was attended by state party president Dilip Ghosh, party minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and another Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy, but no prominent 2007 land agitation leader was seen. The BJP rally came a day after Shahid Diwas was observed in Nandigram where most of Suvendu’s aides attended the Trinamul Karmi Sabha or workers’ meeting addressed by state party president Subrata Bakshi and minister Partha Chatterjee. Around 4pm on Friday, Suvendu and Ghosh were seen on stage acknowledging “roughly 1,000” new inductees into the party who they said could not be invited on the dais owing to “social distancing” protocols. A BJP leader present on the dais said Suvendu was heard instructing Ghosh not to read out the list of names and simply to send party flags to inductees in the crowd, following which BJP Tamluk district unit president Nabarun Nayak pleaded with his state party chief to announce the names. Ghosh then went up to the mike and “formally welcomed” the supposed inductees into the party in his “capacity of state president” without reading out the list. Trinamul leaders dubbed the event a failure. “The BJP’s Yogdaan Mela, as they termed it, was a damp squib as no one joined their ranks,” said a local Trinamul leader later on Friday, reinforcing Trinamul’s claims on Thursday that the ruling party stood united in Nandigram. The BJP mass induction “fiasco” was preceded by speeches that sought to shift the focus back to the 2007 land agitations in Nandigram. Setting the pitch for the land agitation narrative, Vijayvargiya said: “Mamata cheated the people of Nandigram despite being elected to power on the strength of its soil.” Vijayvargiya had to briefly stop his speech as stones were pelted at those taking part in the rally. Police personnel shielded the leaders from physical harm. BJP leaders slammed Trinamul for its “cowardly act” of attacking BJP supporters. Suvendu said the incident was the ruling party’s new contribution to the political culture of the state. Speaking at the rally, Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy broadened the spectrum to include the Singur agitations, saying: “The Tatas will soon come back to Singur. We will make a request to the PM (to bring back the Tatas), winds of change are afoot.” A Trinamul leader later said Roy’s statement smacked of “hypocrisy” as he had been Mamata’s most trusted lieutenant during the land agitation that had culminated in the Left Front losing power in 2011 after 34 years in Bengal. Speaking at the rally, Suvendu announced that he would hold another mega rally on January 19 as a counter to Mamata’s January 18 public meeting at Tekhali. To hide the party’s embarrassment for not being able to produce any new public recruits on Friday, Ghosh claimed that Trinamul “had engaged state police to contain those who wanted to switch over to the BJP”. “They are using their usual violent tactics, preventing many people from joining us,” Ghosh added. Trinamul local leader Sheikh Sufian said the turnout at the BJP rally had “proven Trinamul’s supremacy in Nandigram”. “The failure of BJP’s Yogdaan Mela shows that the people in Nandigram are with Mamata. The crowd at the BJP rally had been brought in buses from outside as Nandigram refused to bite the BJP bait,” Sufian added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s bid to win over farmers with fistful of rice||BJP national president J.P. Nadda will visit the homes of five farmers at a remote village in East Burdwan on Saturday to collect ‘ek mutho chaal (a fistful of rice)’ and kick off the party’s drive to reach out to cultivators in Bengal. The move is aimed at countering the narrative spun by the BJP’s rivals that the Narendra Modi government’s three news agriculture laws would be harmful to farmers. According to the plan, BJP workers across the state will visit villages to collect a fistful of rice from farmers’ families over the next few months in a symbolic campaign to show that the saffron party cares about cultivators. “Our national president will kick off the drive and our workers will carry it on across the state from Sunday... We will organise feasts with the collected grains from the farmers at each village,” said Krishna Ghosh, president of BJP’s Katwa organisational district, where Nadda will launch the campaign. The village to kick off the drive was chosen in East Burdwan as the district is known as “rice bowl” of Bengal as it produces 28 lakh metric ton of rice out of state’s total production of 150 lakh metric ton. Multiple sources in the state unit of the BJP said the plan to launch such a programme from East Burdwan was aimed at endearing the party to over 72-lakh farmers in the state at a time non-BJP parties were attacking the saffron camp over the ongoing protests in the national capital region against the new farm laws. “In our campaign, we will highlight how the Mamata Banerjee government has denied farmers the benefits of the PM Kisan scheme by not signing up for the central scheme... This unique initiative will supplement that campaign,” said a BJP source. The state government has, however, recently informed New Delhi that it will verify the applications of those who registered for the central scheme. Before collecting rice from five farmers at Musthul village, 8 km from Katwa, Nadda will address the farmers at a rally outside the village and have his lunch at the home of Mathura Mondal, a farmer. Later, Nadda will attend a road show in Burdwan town, to be followed by a news conference. BJP leaders said the Saturday rally would launch a series of similar programmes —named Krishak Suraksha Sabha — across the state. Senior BJP leaders said the party had realised that winning over the farmers would be critical in Bengal, an agrarian state. “The approach will be like a beggar who comes at your door to seek a handful of grains. It will show the respect the party has for those producing food grains for us,” said a BJP leader. While the BJP is banking on the initiative to connect with farmers, both the ruling Trinamul and the CPM said people of Bengal would call the BJP’s bluff. “This is the party that has given such a raw deal to farmers with the new farm bills.... The BJP leadership does not care about the farmers protesting in extreme weather conditions in Delhi. People of Bengal will not be swayed by this drama and call their bluff,” said CPM leader and All India Krishak Sabha leader Amal Haldar. Birbhum Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal echoed Haldar and said the BJP’s attempt to connect with farmers would fall flat as the farmers were aware of the party’s priorities. “Our chief minister Mamata Banerjee knows the real pains of farmers and she has always fought for their rights... People will never forget how she fought for farmers in Singur and Nandigram,” he said. The BJP’s attempt to bill it as a “unique campaign” and claim that it would put them in an advantageous position in rural Bengal was also contested by some researchers on rural culture and tradition. “The practice of donating a fistful of rice is an old tradition in Bengal... In rural areas, women always give alms by providing a fistful of rice. At many villages, social get-togethers are organised by collecting a fistful of rice from all the homes throughout the year,” said Aditya Mukhopadhyay, a researcher in rural culture and author of several books. Several CPM leaders in East Burdwan accused the BJP of copying them as they had launched a similar initiative in 2015 by collecting a fistful of rice from farmers’ homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Students, teachers, staff and alumni mull movement against the 'whims' of Visva-Bharati administration||Over two dozen teaching and non-teaching staff of Visva-Bharati have been suspended or terminated during the two-year-plus tenure of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty, prompting some students, teachers, staff and alumni to mull a movement against the “whims” of the varsity administration. Many teachers said Thursday’s suspension of economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya, a whistle-blower against Chakrabarty’s decisions, on Thursday showed how “the VC has clamped an atmosphere of revenge on the campus”. Bhattacharyya was suspended on Thursday for filing a complaint over the appointment of a principal of one of the varsity’s schools. But many of his colleagues said he had been targeted for protesting against VC Chakrabarty’s bid to “saffronise the campus”. “The present administration has crossed all limits. Most of those punished by the VC protested against his decisions or held views contrary to his beliefs. So, time has come for all stakeholders to join hands and launch a protest,” said Somnath Sow, a UG student of economics at Visva-Bharati and SFI leader. Before Bhattacharyya, the secretary of the varsity’s employees’ association or Karmi Sabha, Bidyut Sarkar, had been suspended and transferred to Calcutta. “The grudge against Sarkar was that he led a movement to gherao the VC for the unjustified transfer of an employee whose mother was critically ill. The present administration will punish anyone who dares to question...The gag order by the varsity in January last year also intended to suppress protests,” said a professor. Varsity officials said since Chakrabarty took over as VC in November 2018, at least 24 employees, including 10 senior teachers and a joint registrar, were suspended or terminated on various grounds though there was “room for alternative action” in the Visva-Bharati rulebook. Even an official close to BJP said the administration ran on the whims of “one person”, indicating the VC. “Many joint registrars have no work and spend time on irrelevant issues and controversies...We have already informed the party’s higher-ups about the situation on campus,” said the senior varsity official, adding that the “harsh steps” (suspension or sacking) had been taken to send a message that the varsity would not tolerate any opposition...” A major fallout of these “harsh steps” is the rise in the number of cases filed to question the varsity’s decisions. Former VC Sabuj Koli Sen, terminated on charges of “tampering with the minutes of the executive council meeting” during her tenure, moved court after being denied retirement benefits by the varsity. “A dozen cases have been filed during the tenure of the present VC and this is draining varsity funds. This is unwanted when the administration is crying for funds and has even asked teachers and staff to contribute,” said an official. Many teachers associated with Adhyapak Sabha, a body deemed close to the administration, said off the record that they felt all was not well with the varsity but preferred staying mum fearing punitive action. Varsity’s officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take this paper’s calls. Members of Alapini Mahila Samity and their well-wishers took out a march from Pratichi — the house of Amartya Sen — to central administrative office of Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan on Friday morning to protest against the decision of the varsity to drive them out of their office and allegedly attack them by using the Visva-Bharati Karmi Parishad. Around 60 people, including office-bearers of the women’s organisation that had been set up in 1916 on the instruction of Rabindranath Tagore, covered a 3km stretch to protest against the varsity’s decision. Visva-Bharati had sealed the organisation’s office on January 1 as its members had refused to vacate the room used by them since 1956. The members of Alapini Mahila Samity said they would continue their movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||21 more die of Covid, active cases drop further in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 1,136 Covid-19 recoveries, 926 infections and 21 deaths, aiding a drop in its total of active cases for the 74th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In this period, the total of active cases has improved by nearly 78 per cent, from 37,190 to 8,245. Bengal now has 3.7 per cent of the national total of active cases, down from over seven per cent in about a month. “We had never even thought that holding this trend of turnaround for so long, for around 11 weeks, would be possible. Now that we have achieved it, I think it would not be audaciously ambitious to assume that we will be able to sustain this for a few more weeks, thereby undoing a few more months of damage,” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate has risen for 78 consecutive days, by over nine per cent, to 96.75. The national rate now is 96.38 per cent. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported over 2.3 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.05 lakh new infections detected. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.58 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. “The continuous reduction in the positive confirmation rate is a huge plus, it shows the fewer new cases are not because fewer tests are being conducted. There are enough indications of the spread of Covid-19 shrinking in Bengal, largely because of the excellent pandemic management here,” said the minister. Bengal’s total test count — including 36,135 tests on Friday — went past 73.72 lakh, at 81,913 tests per million people. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.59 lakh cases include 5.4 lakh recoveries and 9,902 deaths. The 21 deaths reported on Friday included nine from Calcutta. The state attributed 8,307 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths count to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||West Bengal||Union minister scan on tea and tourism sectors||Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state for tourism and culture, reached here and went to the Darjeeling hills on Friday on a three-day visit aimed at reaching out to stakeholders of tea and tourism industries. The visit — first by a central minister to the hills  in the last year or so — is significant ahead of Assembly elections, particularly because the saffron brigade no longer has the support of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, the largest political force in the hills on which the BJP has piggybacked to win Parliament elections thrice since 2009. In his official twitter account, Patel said he would visit Darjeeling from January 8 to 10. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista is accompanying him. “During the visit, we will be meeting and interacting with stakeholders of the tourism industry, tea industry and people associated with local art and culture. We will also be meeting with BJP karyakartas, alliance partners and holding organisational meetings with party workers from Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” Bista has written in a social media post. Sources in the BJP said the visit would be politically significant for the party at a time it was forced to redraw its strategy after Bimal Gurung had severed his ties with the saffron camp in October last year and extended support to Mamata Banerjee and her party. Gurung had been an ally of the BJP since 2009. This made the BJP try to get most of the other hill-based parties on board. Leaders of a number of parties like the GNLF, ABGL and the CPRM went to Delhi and held talks with the BJP. “After Gurung’s defection, it was the first move of the BJP to get other parties, each of which has some support base in the hills, on board. Now, the minister’s visit seems to be the second move of the saffron camp that intends to draw support from hill residents who are associated with tea and tourism. These are the two sectors which engage the maximum number of people in the hills,” pointed out a veteran in hill politics. Altogether, around five lakh people in the hills are dependent on tea and tourism sectors directly or indirectly. The expert also mentioned that the minister may announce some financial relief to those associated with tea and tourism as they suffered heavy losses in the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. A senior hotelier in Darjeeling said from both the sectors, demands were raised before the central government for financial packages, subsidies and other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-242
09-01-2021||North East||Justice call in Assam rape and murder case||Over 50 protesters staged a dharna in front of the office of the subdivisional officer (civil) at Gohpur in Biswanath district of Assam on Thursday seeking “justice, security and compensation” to the family of an alleged kidnapping, gang rape and murder victim. The 11-year-old victim, a class VIII student, was found hanging from a tree a day after she went missing on February 28 last year. The protest was one of the several held since the incident took place, more so after all the nine accused, all of whom had appeared for their Class X final exams, were granted bail by the court, first in the rape and murder case and secondly in the case where they had allegedly threatened the victim’s family. The protesters, mostly from the victim’s village, well-wishers and family members, were joined by senior Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi. The MLA also submitted a three-page memorandum to the chief minister seeking protection for the girl’s family, immediate trial of the case, proper investigation, sending the juvenile accused to correctional homes, huge compensation for the family, protection of women in Gohpur and requesting that “don’t leave this victim family with no hope, no help”. Those familiar with the case told The Telegraph that there has been no movement in the case, a reason why they are seeking its transfer to a fast-track court given the “heinous” nature and the age of the accused, who allegedly committed a crime usually carried out by “hardened criminals”. The post-mortem report said the victim died by strangulation, there were signs of “recent sexual intercourse” and that the girl had attained puberty. A school teacher and a neighbour of the victim alleged the girl was kidnapped, drugged, gang-raped and murdered by the accused who allegedly tried to pass it off as suicide by hanging. The case has received media and social media attraction but nothing much has happened on the ground with the accused roaming free, those familiar with the case said. Two of the accused hail from the victim’s village while seven are from nearby villages. Locals also alleged there were lapses during investigation owing to which the accused secured bail. “We want nothing but only justice for the family. Those guilty should be punished and those innocent among the accused should be set free. This can be achieved only through a speedy and fair trial, through a fast-track court. Security and compensation also has to be provided to the victim’s family who are poor. They even sold their cow to arrange money to fight the case. The government should also appoint a public prosecutor,” the school teacher said. Sources in the Biswanath civil and police administration told this newspaper that a prayer was made to the police headquarters to transfer the case to a fast-track court in October and that the juvenile board has transferred the case of the four accused, who were found to be over 18 years, to be tried by the additional district and sessions judge. However, the trial has got stuck because four of the accused have challenged the order of the juvenile board. They also said that two cases have been registered, one involving the alleged gang rape and murder and another for allegedly threatening the family of the victim. Two chargesheets have also been filed, according to local police. A district official said that ex gratia is sanctioned by the government but they have prayed for compensation under Section 38 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. An official said they are doing everything within their power to provide relief to the victim’s family for what they are going through. “The protest on Thursday was peaceful. We have explained to them and to the honourable MLA what steps we are taking so that there is closure,” he said. The official said they have provided permanent patta for three bighas of land belonging to the victim’s family besides allotting an additional bigha, a job card, a ration card and also adopted the village under the Jal Jeevan Mission. “We are also providing electricity to the family through the Saubhagya scheme. We are trying to provide as much possible through government schemes. But the issue of ex gratia is not in our hand,” an official said. Kurmi said providing government benefits to the family has got nothing to do with the case which should be fast-tracked. “Schemes would have reached the village anyway. The local administration/government should try to compensate the family financially and fast-track the case,” the Congress MLA said. Delhi-based Shyamjyoti Saikia, a JNU research fellow who hails from a nearby village, told this newspaper that the administration should extend all possible help to fast-track the case so that the family gets justice and also hold a counselling session for the villagers because everyone is affected. Saikia has been helping the victim’s family in whatever way possible just like the school teacher. “Counselling will help both girls and boys in the victim’s village to move on. Girls are afraid while the boys are bearing the brunt of what happened,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
09-01-2021||North East||Israel appoints honorary consul in North East||Israel has appointed Joyshree Das Vermas as its honorary consul in Northeast India to further boost its presence and collaboration in the region. Israel’s ambassador to India Ron Malka, who visited Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura in November, announced the appointment. Vermas will be based in Assam with jurisdiction over the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Tripura and Sikkim. The development is a huge boost for the region as well as Assam where Bhutan opened a consulate general’s office in 2018 and before that Bangladesh set up the office of Assistant High Commissioner to India in Guwahati. Both offices are in Assam capital Guwahati, known as the gateway to the northeast. During his visit to the region in November, Malka had held official meetings with the chief ministers of the states, where collaboration on a range of subjects including agriculture, water management, tourism, horticulture, fisheries and dairy were discussed. He had said in Tripura that his country was eager to strengthen its ties with the region by sharing technology to boost the region’s manufacturing capability. Announcing the appointment, Malka said, “The relations between our two countries are growing and expanding rapidly. We are now going to take it forward and increase our presence in the North-East India. I am proud to present the credentials of Israeli honorary consul to Mrs Joyshree Das Vermas, who will work with us to further strengthen our growing partnership in this region.” The embassy aims to identify all possible areas of cooperation in the region, where Israel can bring in expertise and advanced Israeli technologies to benefit people in the region. One of the highlights of Malka’s visit was the ambassador laying the foundation stone of a Centre of Excellence (CoE) for vegetables in Khetri, Assam. The region’s first Indo-Israeli Centre of Excellence was inaugurated in Mizoram in 2018. It has become a strong, sustainable platform for addressing challenges via applicable research and introduction of relevant, innovative Israeli agro-technologies, tailored to the needs of local farmers. On her appointment, Vermas said: “I am immensely honoured and humbled to represent Israel as Honorary Consul for the Northeastern states. This all-encompassing role excites me greatly as there are vast possibilities & opportunities to leverage Israel’s technology and expertise in various areas. I am pledged to work in the best interests of Assam and all the northeastern states.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
09-01-2021||Opinion||Bad decision: Tamil Nadu opens movie theatres||Sir — At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging, one wonders how the Tamil Nadu government took the decision to allow movie theatres and multiplexes in the state to function with 100 per cent occupancy. The Centre has rightly asked the state dispensation, led by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, to scrap the order and to refrain from diluting the guidelines and standard operating procedures outlined by the Union home ministry for dealing with the contagion. According to the ministry’s instructions, only 50 per cent of the seats in cinema halls can be booked, and that too only outside containment zones. It is indeed foolhardy to allow movie halls to function at full capacity. One of the primary ways to combat Covid-19 is to maintain social distancing so that the virus is not able to spread easily from person to person. How is social distancing to be adhered to in a cinema hall, where people are seated so close to one another? I live in Calcutta and recently went to watch a film at a multiplex. Only every alternate seat in the theatre could be occupied. Even this is hazardous, given that the disease is still spreading — especially now that there is a mutant strain of the virus going around that is reportedly even more infectious. But I also understand that businesses have suffered tremendously as a result of the lockdown, as has people’s mental health on account of staying isolated at home all the time. In the light of this, if adequate precautions are taken, proper distancing maintained and strict sanitization protocols followed, then allowing cinema halls to function at half their capacity can be accepted. However, the Tamil Nadu government’s decision was irresponsible and unbecoming of a set of leaders who are tasked with protecting the lives of the people in their state. Sayani Bose,Calcutta Help them Sir — It was heartening to read that the Spanish tennis superstar and the two-time Grand Slam champion, Garbiñe Muguruza, used her off-season time to go for military training on the Spanish island of Mallorca. She may have started the training as an adventure and a way to experience thrills, but she noticed the plight of the migrant population and that was a real eye-opener for her. Political instability and conflict are two of the main causes pushing thousands of people from sub-Saharan African nations to move to Europe by crossing the Mediterranean Sea. However, only a small section of these people are legal asylum seekers; the rest are illegal immigrants. According to estimates by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, as of January 2019, 70.8 million asylum seekers had been displaced worldwide. The current picture is grim, as is the future. Other than civil wars, human rights violations, gender-based violence, economic hardship and climate change are turning people into refugees every day. Sub-Saharan African countries also have a water crisis. In the middle of a pandemic, poor sanitation and lack of access to healthcare services and information and the impossibility of maintaining social distancing in refugee centres threaten the lives of millions of people arriving on European shores. Migration can be reduced by ending wars, increasing trade and development and therefore creating employment. It is good that Muguruza is troubled by the plight of the refugees; one hopes to see her working for their uplift in the future. Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta New role Sir — It was heartening to read that the Western Railway had an all-women crew pilot a goods train for the first time. This is a significant move towards making a job of this sort more accessible to women. They are usually discouraged from entering professions that involve frequent travel, as the burden of domestic duties is inevitably placed upon them. In fact, the latter is surely one of the reasons why the Indian Railways does not have many loco-pilots who are women, even though there is a sizeable number of women employees overall. This progressive move by the Western Railway ought to open the doors to more such opportunities for women. Sakshi Koli,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
09-01-2021||Opinion||Golden calves: New Age of the Indian Cow||In New India, everything is new. Even the foundations of intelligence and learning have to be laid afresh. With this noble aim in mind, the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog has announced a voluntary online examination to encourage Indians’ curiosity about the cow and the superiority of indigenous breeds over foreign ones. The Kamdhenu Gau-Vigyan Prachar-Prasar Examination will be held on February 25, and everyone, from Union education ministers [sic], state chief ministers and education ministers, district education officers, chairmen of gau seva aayogs and principals of schools to the media, non-governmental organizations and cow donors, is expected to be involved in the “mammoth” exercise. The ambition is on a mammoth scale too, and the sense of all-absorbing national importance quite stunning. The RKA has uploaded an extraordinary syllabus for the test on its website — extraordinary in its complete overhauling of the meaning and definition of science and its confidence in heralding in the New Age of the Indian Cow. Strangely enough, the Centre avoided claiming the syllabus; an officer said that the government has not approved it, and that the RKA is an autonomous body. This claim shrouds in enigma, in hindsight, the fact that it was set up by the Centre in February 2019 to upgrade cow resources genetically and improve productivity, while implementing cow protection laws and welfare schemes. Or that is what the finance minister of the time said. So is the government behind the examination or not? The gau vigyan reference material explains, using terms from science, that the “Einsteinian pain waves” set off by the accumulated stress and agony of cows going to slaughter cause earthquakes. A book is referred to: evidently, the three authors are the only scientists that the RKA recognizes. Besides, indigenous gau matas, unlike Jerseys, have gold in their milk, the understanding never to sit in dirt, are emotional, with their ears reflecting intelligence and their tails leading to higher regions of being. Their udders dispense ambrosia in the form of milk, with properties no foreign breed can match. The virtues of cow dung and urine have already been much publicized. These can cure leprosy among other illnesses and have antiseptic powers, while being anti-radioactive and anti-thermal as well. In Bhopal, says the reference material, those who had their walls coated with cow dung survived the gas leak; India and Russia use “shielding” dung in their nuclear power centres. There is much more in the same vein. But questions about the purpose of this exercise are unavoidable. This propagation of pseudo-science and staggering falsehoods masquerading as proven truth comes after widespread objections to the anti-scientific attitude being nurtured by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government. Is this, then, a means of distraction from urgent problems as well as a spur to drive Indians deeper into the morass of Hindutva-dictated credulousness? For certificates and prizes await the examinees; all they need to do is believe in the mantra — bovinity is divinity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
09-01-2021||Opinion||Narendra Modi: wrong image||Narendra Modi’s supporters should be aware that the Indian prime minister’s reputation is being eroded by seemingly casual references in the Western media. Take, for example, Pick of the Week, on BBC Radio 4, in which various presenters choose their personal highlights from the previous seven days. On Sunday, I caught Brian Eno, described as a “musician, thinker, artist and all round good egghead”, suggesting that there was much that could be learnt from 2020: “For a start we have discovered that women tend to run countries better than men do. All of the countries that did really well in this pandemic were run by women. And all of the ones that did really badly were run by very macho men — England, USA, Brazil, Philippines, India — all of those are models of kind of male style government. They really made a mess of dealing with the pandemic. So it would be good if we learnt that lesson that we don’t need macho men any longer to run things — we need people who can cooperate and who are humble in the face of the evidence, who don’t think they can beat it just by being ‘He Men’.” All in one Alan Rusbridger, who was editor-in-chief of The Guardian from 1995-2015, has written an A to Z of journalism which will amuse, entertain and instruct online readers of the newspaper — especially journalists in India. In News: And How to Use It, Rusbridger, now principal of Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, offers his reflections, picking A for accuracy, B for bias, bribery and also Brexit on which he suggests the debate was skewed: “[P]ublic opinion had been shaped over decades of being starved of any positive reasons to belong in Europe.” He is spot on. When you listen to talk radio, you hear members of the public reproducing parrot fashion — “we want to get our sovereignty back” — what they have read in tabloids. The book has C for celebrity, cliché and clickbait; E for experts; F for fact-checkers, fake news and Robert Fisk (some of his contemporaries claim he often made up his stuff); M for mistakes and Rupert Murdoch; P for power without responsibility; and so on through to Z for generation Z or zoomers. On R for royal reporting — and there is fascination with Britain’s royal family across the world — Rusbridger points out: “Out of any beat, royal reporting is a world almost devoid of open or named sources... we have to take it on trust that here are legions of ‘aides’, ‘palace insiders’, ‘friends’ and ‘senior courtiers’ constantly WhatsApping their favourite reporters with the latest gossip.” Although journalism has become an issue of trust, newspapers still remain a powerful medium for shaping public opinion. Rusbridger suggests “journalists need to look into the mirror a bit more and try to see themselves as others see them. The best of journalism will thrive. Maybe we needed a pandemic to wake us up to its importance.” Home is where the heart is Narindar Saroop’s favoured newspaper, The Daily Telegraph, did him proud by devoting generous space to his obituary, pointing out that he had described himself as “an Englishman of Punjabi extraction”. Actually, the full quote, which Narindar had jokingly given me, was: “I am an Englishman of Punjabi extraction who sits on a tiger skin rug, wearing a monocle, eating chicken tandoori and humming God Save the Queen — gentlemen always hum, they never whistle.” After leaving the Indian army in 1952 with the rank of major, Narindar moved to Calcutta to join Yule Catto. This eventually brought him to England. It was rare in those days for an Indian be a serious Conservative parliamentary candidate but he stood in a London constituency — Greenwich — in the 1979 general election. After he got 12,133 votes to Labour’s winning 18,975, Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s first woman prime minister, commended him for putting up “such a good fight against the odds”. She thanked him for setting up the Anglo-Asian Conservative Society, as well as the Durbar Club where cabinet ministers dined with wealthy Asian businessmen. He did the groundwork for the close links that exist today between the Conservative Party and Indian voters, who helped put Boris Johnson in power. Narindar died, aged 91, on December 19. I wish the Tories had given him what he desperately wanted — a seat in the House of Lords.Foreign shores Among friends lost in 2020 is Rini Kakati, who was a sort of unofficial ambassador for Assam in London. She promoted Bihu dance, the plight of rhinos in Kaziranga, and encouraged people to visit Assam and see its lush beauty. Her great triumph was to get Bhupen Hazarika to perform in London in 1999. Rini died suddenly, a septuagenarian, at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital on December 27. Warm tributes were paid to her in a Zoom gathering organized from London by Lalit Mohan Joshi, director of South Asian Cinema Foundation. The BBC’s former Asia editor, Rita Payne, who is herself from Assam, recalled how the Assamese were and perhaps still are marginalized in India. “Rini put Assam on the map here in the UK.”Footnote Imran Khan’s ex-wife, Jemima Khan, stars in the new issue of Tatler, the “British society bible”, for holding the “Best Parties” in country homes. The daughter of the late billionaire, Sir James Goldsmith, bought a £15m mansion, Kiddington Hall, in Oxfordshire, where she hosts “legendary” parties. “Cocktails flow as freely from the enormous bar as the guests (Jeremy Clarkson, Mick Jagger, Gillian Anderson) flow between rooms, burgers in hand,” reports Tatler.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
09-01-2021||Opinion||Missed opportunity||Man proposes, god disposes. Having to cancel his India trip deprives Boris Johnson of the chance of sticking another feather in the cap of his Global Britain project which already claims trade agreements with 63 countries covering merchandise worth £885 billion. India’s loss is greater. The British prime minister’s presence on an auspicious occasion like Republic Day would have enabled Indians to remind Narendra Modi that an active Parliament, a relatively free press and uninhibited public opinion are essentials of democratic governance. The alternative, as Joe Biden, the president-elect of the United States of America, warned the other day, is “insurrection”. It remains just as lawless when the storm troopers are government forces. Johnson and Modi are both at the helm of troubled and grotesquely unequal societies ravaged by the coronavirus. They could have had a lot to discuss if they risked frankness. But the conversation might have tended at times to resemble a fictitious dialogue in which Hendrik Verwoerd, the South African politician who formalized apartheid as an instrument of policy, was asked why he didn’t apply the whip to his opponents. “I did!” he expostulated. “Also the lash and the cane.” Even Verwoerd might seem lily-white compared to two Modi cronies now in the news. Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has been indicted for bribery, fraud and breach of trust. Donald Trump faces possible impeachment or an invocation of the 25th amendment declaring him unfit for office. Neither can compare with a British politician of Turkish descent with a divorced half-Sikh wife whose Indian relatives badger him for “clinky” — their word for Scotch — and who hopes that Modi will reduce import duty on alcohol. He is less keen on Modi’s hope of flooding Britain with more Indian immigrants. That is another talking point. The positives that India and Britain still share are press, Parliament and public opinion. All three have changed vastly in recent years and many of Bagehot’s formulations seem as obscure today as those of Ambedkar. But a government that claims to reflect the wishes of the people and accepts public opinion as the ultimate monarch ignores those three pillars of democracy only at its own peril. The danger is all the greater when leaders delve beyond and below the rational values that hold a modern nation together to seek a common denominator that yields votes by pandering to primal instincts. To take one instance of a healthy interaction, on January 5 three British newspapers — The Times, The Sun and i — called for daily updates on how many people had been vaccinated against Covid-19. As Nick Ferrari, a firebrand radio journalist, said the next day, not only must journalists ensure that the government is “delivering on giving the vaccine” but “it is the media’s job to ask daily how many jabs have been done”. By then Johnson had already pledged to publish daily figures, starting next Monday, January 11. His promise of “maximum possible transparency” — day by day and jab by jab — came within 10 hours of the initial demand. Although not regarded as the most consistent or decisive of politicians, he is expected to keep the promise. Johnson could have assured Modi that his interventions in the Commons, his frequent television appearances and regular impromptu press conferences flanked by medical specialists and civil servants have enhanced — not diminished — respect for his person and position. It was particularly invigorating to watch Britain’s prime minister in conversation with the veteran journalist and historian, Andrew Marr, who interrupted, corrected and contradicted him without giving offence. Time was when India’s leaders were also responsive to the media. When I joined The Statesman in 1960, I was told with some pride that Jawaharlal Nehru had acted swiftly on the paper’s editorial suggestion that the rule requiring income tax clearance for Indians travelling abroad should be abolished. If today’s ruling politicians cannot conceive of such respect for the media’s views, the sad paradox is that neither can many of today’s media personnel. When I expressed doubts in a TV discussion in Delhi about the quality of Indian democracy, the sycophantically shrieking anchor at once began trotting out the number of registered voters, voting booths, ballot papers and so on to overwhelm me with an avalanche of mind-boggling numbers that sustained for him the glory of being the world’s largest democracy. His understanding of democratic governance did not go beyond statistics. Regarding his employers, Lee Kuan Yew rebutted the International Press Institute’s claim that a free press curbs political corruption by retorting that many media houses are themselves corrupt. As for Parliament, the “talking shop” that inspired E.M. Forster’s two cheers, it is to Johnson’s credit that an irritated Labour parliamentarian from Manchester accused the government of wanting “MPs to go back to sitting in parliament permanently”. The House of Commons sat for 40 of last year’s 52 weeks. In contrast, India’s Parliament met for only 33 days — just over four weeks. Johnson could have reminded his host that Parliament is at the core of democracy. Far from being “a frippery, a bauble on the British constitution, it is the British constitution”, as Johnson’s friend and colleague, Jacob Rees-Mogg, leader of the House, told fellow members. “It is at the essence of how our governmental and constitutional system works.” That is supposed to be so in India too. Recalling that Parliament did not sit in 1349 when the Black Death raged in England, the traditionalist Rees-Mogg, bearing the burdens of past ages, added that modern technology enables MPs to carry out fundamental constitutional functions without impediment. Enter Zoom with the Speaker specifying that the rules and courtesies of the House as well as its dress code must be extended to the virtual Parliament. The Lords did better. Peers who attend the red-upholstered chamber are paid £323 per day while those who make only a virtual appearance are fobbed off with a measly £162. The rules don’t say anything about Bame (black, Asian and minority ethnic) life peers notoriously caught out fudging expenses. But members of parliament who settle for Zoom were warned to be mindful of the background: unfortunately for them, the media is not terribly interested in the impressive tomes with which some line the walls of the studies where they take calls. A Modi-Johnson meeting would not have been the first. But it could have been a useful give-and-take between two superb showmen beset with troubles that neither will admit. In spite of all that bluster, Johnson cannot know how 159 pages of export rules will make an impact on exports. Or how the service sector accounting for 80 per cent of the economy will fare since the 1,246-page Brexit divorce settlement hardly noticed it. One of the world’s biggest-ever immunization drives places Britain’s National Health Service under intense pressure. School closure has left the young confused and fearful. Incentives to businessmen leave out millions. These are only some uncertainties, as Scotland threatens to go its own way with people wondering if the six counties of Northern Ireland will join Ireland’s 26, or Gibraltar return to Spain. Brexit was the end of a dream. Modi might have prescribed “cooperative federalism” as the antidote. He lauds it for India’s relatively modest — if official figures are to be believed — pandemic toll. In theory, cooperative federalism might enable Europe one day to regain the vision that inspired the first Paneuropean Union in 1923. In practice, it means a powerful centre blending the authority of president and prime minister and enfeebled limbs that are bludgeoned into obedience. It is not consistent with the democracy to which both prime ministers pay obeisance and of which Boris Johnson would have been a refreshing exemplar in weary India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Cases continue to rise in Ranchi; two more die in state||The number of active cases of Covid-19 cases further jumped up in Ranchi on Saturday. The figures compiled by the health department revealed that the district reported 125 fresh cases against only 98 recoveries in the past 24 hours. According to the bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi accounted for over 50 per cent of the 236 Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day. Another Covid-19 patient died in the district, thereby, taking the Covid toll to 223. Jharkhand reported two Covid fatalities on the day. The second death occurred in Dumka, taking the total number of Covid casualties in the state to 1045, highlighted the bulletin. Barring Ranchi, no other district reported a triple-digit-spike in coronavirus cases on the day. East Singhbhum reported 30 cases against 32 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 21 cases against 20 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The remaining 21 districts either reported a single-digit-spike or did not report any fresh case of Covid-19 infection. As per government data, at least seven districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection. The NHM bulletin put the number of active cases in Ranchi at 733 and that in East Singhbhum to 163. As many as 1494 people were battling the infection across Jharkhand by the end of Saturday, the bulletin highlighted. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of 13790 people and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.43 lakh people and tested 49.31 lakh of them. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state was 492.84 days against the national doubling rate of 466.71 days. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.82 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 96.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC celebrates Amarjit Singh Kiyam’s 20th birthday||In a bid to ease the on-field pressure, Jamshedpur FC players opting to celebrate off-field birthdays to bond better. On Thursday, the team celebrated Amarjit Singh Kiyam’s 20th birthday at the team hotel in Goa. They had a cake cutting ceremony for the player. Tata Steel-owned club has been celebrating birthdays of players and support staff in Goa, the venue of edition 7 of cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL). “The players wished Amarjit and even smeared cake on his face. They displayed sheer togetherness. In fact, camaraderie was very much evident at the hotel,” said a team management member. According to him, the players and support staff behave like friends and show great commitment towards team cause. Head coach Owen Coyle anchored the birthday ceremony as he always does. Before the cake cutting ceremony, a group of players who lost a fun training drill earlier in the day, were made to sing a song on stage. They even dedicated Mohammad Rafi’s `Bar Bar Yeh Din Aaye, to Amarjit. The cake was smashed by Amarjit’s teammates and long time friends Narender Gahlot and Jitendra Singh. The three have been together since they played for India during the under-17 World Cup. A joyful Amarjit, while sharing the cake with the support staff and teammates, said, “I love my teammates and JFC.”. Coyle said, “Such celebrations build team spirit and keep the team together.” He added, “It also drives in positivity among players and support staff who have fun. Birthday celebrations are important as we stay away from our homes. The players are in bio-bubble and such events become very important.” Scotland-born Coyle is very particular about team spirit. At present ISL is key to Jamshedpur’s prospects and the form of players is a key element. Save a few injuries, the team is fit to take on the challenges ahead. JFC takes on Kerala Blasters FC on Sunday. Coyle said the team’s moral was high and they were confident of living up to their standard. “We are aware about the strengths of Kerala Blasters and respect our opposition. But we will play to our strength and try to win the encounter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Minor raped in Chas, accused arrested||Timely action taken by the deputy commissioner of Chas, on being informed about the rape by the villagers, made the police arrest Jiten Majhi, a 45-year-old man on charges of violating a two-year-old girl. The accused is in judicial custody. According to the sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas, Shashi Prakash Singh, on the direction of DC, police nabbed the accused. However, he mentioned that prior to his arrest; Manjhi had also been thrashed by the villagers. A police officer maintained that both the survivor and the accused were residents of the same area. The accused was known to the victim’s family. On Friday afternoon Manjhi, while visiting the minor’s house took her to an isolated place and raped her. Her family members initially thought that Majhi could be playing with the child. Alerted by her cries, they rushed to the spot to find her bleeding, while Majhi has fled from the spot. The family members rushed her to the Sadar Hospital, where the doctors administered her treatment. However, according to sources the doctors who administered treatment to the girl chose not to inform her parents and the police about the rape, which they are needed to, do in such a case. Local residents on sensing something suspicious informed the DC and requested him to help them. Following which the DC sprung into action. “The accused has been arrested by the police. When inquired it was found that doctor have given their account to the local police, late in the evening,” said the SDO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Thefts, burglaries, snatchings on the rise in Jamshedpur||Unknown criminals broke into a photo studio in Baridih market, in the wee hours of Saturday, to decamp with cameras and cash worth over Rs 2 lakh. Dibakar Kumar, the owner of the studio, which falls under the Sidhgora thana area, maintained that he had locked the shop properly while shutting it down. However, he opened it in the morning, he discovered that the asbestos of the shop had been torn apart. On inspection, he found out that three cameras, including two video cameras, were missing along with Rs 12,000, which he had kept aside in a cash box. OC, Sidhgora thana Manoj Thakur confirmed the news. “The criminals did not touch the locks of the studio but dismantled the asbestos roof of the shop to break in. We are trying to look for clues to nab the criminals,” said Thakur while talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday. The OC said that they would be utilizing the footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the marketplace to nab the thieves. In the past week, incidents of theft, burglary, and snatching have been on the rise in the steel city. On Friday night at about 9 pm, three bike-borne criminals snatched a smartphone from a 40-year-old man at Bistupur. Fortunately, the victim's scream alerted locals, who caught the thieves to recover the phone. The victim identified as Santanu Mukherjee was talking on the smartphone while walking down a lonely stretch on M-Road in the night. His screams made the residents chase the bike-borne thieves, who were intercepted near St Mary’s English High School. Following which a police party arrived at the scene on being informed about the theft, to have the locals hand over the three to them. The arrested persons have been identified as Ajay Mukhi, Arvind Mukhi, and Pramod Mukhi. They were sent to jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate on Saturday. Earlier on Thursday, unidentified criminals decamped with Rs 2.24 lakh from a general store on Dimna Road in Mango area. Here they broke open the shop’s lock. The shop owner, Vishnu Agrawal, had kept the cash inside the cashbox before locking it. However, on reaching the shop on Thursday morning, he found the shop’s shutter open and the cashbox missing. A similar incident took place on Wednesday when unknown criminals decamped with Rs 11 lakh from the cashbox from a food-grain shop at Krishi Bazar Samiti in Parsudih. Here the thieves had sawed off the locks of the shop’s shutter. Its owner, Bhimsen Sharma, in an FIR lodged with the Parsudih thana, mentioned that he was unable to deposit the sale proceeds of two days with the bank as he was busy with his business and had planned to deposit it on Thursday. But before he could do the needful, the criminals had decamped with the entire cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel’s youth conclave ‘Dhwani’ to go online on January 11, 12||The Tata Steel Foundation will be organising its youth conclave “Dhwani” on January 11 and 12 on virtual platforms, coinciding with the National Youth Day. Revolving around the United Nations’ theme for International Youth Day, Dhwani aspires to provide a platform for youngsters to network and voice their aims. More than 1,000 young minds from across Jharkhand and Odisha will come together to absorb multifaceted perspectives from eminent thinkers, change-makers , subject-matter experts and also share ideas and action plans for social change. Dhwani, in alignment with the UN theme, will be exploring ‘Youth Engagement for Global Action’. Managing director and CEO of Tata Steel T.V. Narendran  will address children on the inaugural day. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel will share his perspective on ‘Representation in Key Decision Making Processes’. The sessions will discuss and bring to light some of the most outstanding examples of youth engagement in the areas of education, climate action, economic development and youth representation. The conclave aims to explore opportunities for youth participation and meaningful engagement in the decision making process, while echoing the voice of youngsters from remote areas and their drive to make a difference. “Tata Steel Foundation through its programmes across Jharkhand and Odisha has the privilege of meeting and working with youngsters whose perspectives and stories must receive a broader platform as we are convinced that they are going to lead the charge towards the India of tomorrow,” said  Sourav Roy, chief, Corporate Social Responsibility ( CSR) of Tata Steel. “Dhwani aspires to be that platform and brings together these youngsters  with a hope that their passion for social change and stories of personal determination will reach the larger narrative in policy and practice,” he added So far, the conclave has witnessed participation from more than 1,500 youngsters from across Jharkhand and Odisha and experts on youth issues, youth icons, academicians, development practitioners, spiritual teachers and humanitarians from across India. Pravin Nikam, founder of ROSHNI Foundation & National Youth Awardee 2016, and Chakravarti Singh Rathore,  District Magistrate, Jajpur (Odisha) will also interact with participants during the two-day online event, among other distinguished speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Head clerk accused of manipulating list of beneficiaries recommended for termination||Accusing Prahlad Mehta, a clerk cum computer operator of Garhwa’s Rural Development Department, of cheating, the Deputy Commissioner of the district Rajesh Kumar Pathak has sought his termination. Pathak has even written a letter to the Secretary of the Rural Development Department recommending his termination after Mehta was reinstated on contract at the District Rural Development Agency, who had been accused of discrepancies in the selection of beneficiaries under a solar pump scheme of the Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency. Under this scheme, a 90 per cent subsidy was provided to farmers who do not have wells for irrigation, to buy solar pumps. In this regard, District Agriculture Officer cum Nodal Officer of this scheme Laxman Oraon is also under the scanner. DC has accused him of not doing his duty properly and has asked him for an explanation. Oraon, who was in charge of the scheme, had later discovered that the list of beneficiaries sent by the Department of Agriculture to the Deputy Development Commissioner had been manipulated by Mehta. The inquiry team formed by Pathak found out that seven out of the 41 selected beneficiaries had not even applied scheme, while 20 applicants did not meet the criteria. Pathak has recommended stern action to be taken against those who have been found guilty during the investigation. Under the said scheme, the government had agreed to give a 90 per cent subsidy to 400 farmers to buy the pumps, provided they do not have irrigation facilities. A large number of applications were submitted, surpassing the target, to enjoy the benefits of the scheme, as the solar pumps cost Rs.3 lakh each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu scare rocks Palamau Tiger Reserve||As Avian Influenza or bird flu continues to spread across India, its scare has started to grip the Palamau Tiger Reserve following the discovery of two dead yellow footed pigeons last year under mysterious circumstances, the cause of which still remains unknown. The deaths had occurred in a span of just two days, but no one was alarmed then as bird flu cases had not been reported at the time. However, Deputy Director of the north division of the tiger reserve, Ashish Kumar said that the pigeon episode was not repeated anymore. Deputy Director of the south division Mukhesh Kumar said that more than the 169 species of birds listed in the tiger reserve, the migratory birds who come here during winters are more vulnerable to the disease. He said, “The south division of the tiger reserve does not have as many wetlands where migratory birds can descend and the water bodies here are not suitable for them.” However, the situation is different in the north division where a huge lake called the Kamaladah Jheel serves as the second home of large numbers of migratory birds. Ashish Kumar said, “Migratory birds like bar headed goose, lesser whistling duck, common pochard, gadwall and black headed ibis, the Tibetan lark and others descend the Kamaldah Jheel. We are concerned for these birds and wish they retreat in the same number with which they have come here.” Mukhesh Kumar said larks come to the Palamau Tiger Reserve in large numbers. “I am told people here net themfor consumption and sale.” He said that the ground staff of the tiger reserve are out to foil such attempts. Regarding the bird flu scare, environmentalist DS Srivastava said there are many poultry farms in villages of Garu Mahuadanr and Barwadih blocks, which are in the contiguity of the tiger reserve, and hence note of caution must be given to the poultry farmers. Srivastava added that tribals are fond of keeping lots of chicken in the houses where safety measures are necessary to check any eruption of the bird flu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police hike reward for clues on girl beheading to Rs 5 lakh ||Facing heavy backlash for shoddy investigation, Jharkhand police increased the quantum of their reward to Rs 5 lakh for information on the murder of a young girl in Ranchi, whose headless body was found from a forest in Ormanjhi on Sunday. Ranchi police, which had earlier announced a reward of Rs 50,000,  have so far failed to make any headway in the case. They haven't been able to establish the identity of the deceased too. Soon after the body was recovered, police had announced Rs 25,000 as a reward for any information on the crime. This was later raised to Rs 50,000. Talking to reporters here after visiting the crime spot in the evening, senior SP S.K. Jha said that they were trying their best to crack the case. “The special investigation team is working 24/7 but unfortunately we haven’t made headway. Hence, we decided to raise the reward to Rs 5 lakh,” he said. Both ruling and Opposition camps are at loggerheads over the law and order issue in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state ever since the girl was found murdered. Terming it as a bigger incident than Delhi’s Nirbhaya case, Opposition BJP has been staging protests and dharnas almost daily against alleged lawlessness in the state. Various rights groups have also staged protests in Ranchi. Once such protest at Kishoreganj Chowk on Monday turned violent and a pilot car of chief minister Hemant Soren was attacked and a policeman injured. While the ruling JMM and Congress dubbed the attack as the handiwork of the BJP, the latter accused the state government and police of trying to silence dissent to hide its failures and thwart growing public anger against the ruling regime over deteriorating law and order. Ranchi police are conducting a separate probe into the attack on th CM’s convoy. They have filed FIRs against 72 named and several unnamed individuals. Close to 30 people have been arrested while Bhairav Singh, considered to be the mastermind of the attack, surrendered in Ranchi civil court on Thursday. BJP leader of the legislative party Babulal Marandi had said that they would have welcomed it if police investigated the girl's murder and beheading with similar alacrity, criticising the state government for its misplaced priorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 207 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection jumped above 700 in Ranchi on Friday as at least 102 people were found infected by the virus in the district during the past 24 hours, while 87 patients recovered here during the same period, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. After Friday's test results, Ranchi alone accounted for close to 50 per cent of the 1465 active cases in the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, Jharkhand reported 207 cases of infection on the day and Ranchi was the only district to register a triple-digit-spike. The capital also reported one of the two Covid fatalities in the state on the day, taking the Covid toll in Ranchi up at 222 and that in Jharkhand to 1043. The other death occured in Dhanbad, which has reported 107 Covid fatalities so far. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. At least 165 patients were battling the infection in East Singhbhum. At least five of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. However, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Palamu registered a double-digit-spike in cases of infection. At least 29 people were found infected in Dhanbad, 17 in East Singhbhum and 12 in Bokaro. As many as 10 cases surfaced in Palamu. Fresh cases outnumbered recoveries in Jharkhand on the day, as the state reported only 188 recoveries, government data stated. As per government data, the Covid tally in the state reached 116436 on the day and about 97.84 per cent of these patients had recovered. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 13,870 people and more than 1.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.27 lakh people and tested 49.16 lakh of them, highlights the NHM bulletin. As per the bulletin, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 538.71 days while that across India was 467.37 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Woman gangraped and mutilated in Hunterganj||Three young men raped a 50-year-old widow at Kobna village in Huntergunj block of Chatra and mutilated her genitalia. Huntergunj police have arrested one of the culprits. Officials said the three caught her unaware when she went to relieve herself on Thursday night around 10PM. She said the trio gagged her and raped one-after-another. Before leaving the spot, they threatened her not to file a complaint with the police. Seeing that the woman didn't return home, her sister-in-law went searching and found her in a pool of blood. With the help of a villager, she took her home and on Friday morning informed others. Villagers informed the police after which superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha, DSP Avinash Kumar and Huntergunj officer-in-charge Sachin Kumar Das reached the spot to investigate. The woman was taken to Huntergunj community health centre where her condition was termed critical. Later doctors decided to refer her to Magadh Medical College in neighbouring Gaya after performing an emergency surgical procedure. Two of the rapists have been identified as Bablu Paswan and Biltu Paswan. The identity of the third is yet to be confirmed. The incident has sparked anger in the area. Villagers have demanded death penalty for the rapists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||Journalists stage protest, appeal to chief minister for their safety||Over 50 journalists from print, electronic and vernacular web-portals staged a protest at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka chowk on Friday wearing black badges and holding banners against the growing instances of attack on them and their family members in the state.  They have appealed to chief minister Hemant Soren for their freedom and safety. They also demanded DGP MV Rao to step up policing to curb the incidents of crime. The demonstration was jointly held by Ranchi Press Club and Ranchi chapter of Jharkhand Union of Journalists to protest against the gruesome murder of a 28-year-old Sanket Mishra, son of a Khunti-based vernacular journalist Anil Mishra. On Thursday evening, Sanket’s charred body was recovered from a secluded place under Karra police station. His throat had been slit.  Rajat Gupta, an editor of a vernacular daily in Ranchi and president of National Union of Journalists, said journalists or their family are continuously facing attack since the last couple of years.  “It’s time, the state government should work towards bringing a law for the safety of journalists and their family, who are often facing threat,” he said, demanding compensation for the Khunti victim’s family and a government job.  On the other hand, Khunti police are yet to crack the murder case. Police sources said the deceased had left for Khunti from his in-laws’ place in Ranchi on Tuesday on a bike. He was later found murdered.  Hundreds of members of the JUJ Pradesh Committee and the Ranchi Press Club, along with the metropolitan unit of Jharkhand Union of Journalists have participated in the protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
09-01-2021||Jharkhand||5,000 people participate in Covid-19 vaccination dry run in Jharkhand||The second dry run for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive across 188 health centres in Jharkhand went off smoothly on Friday except for a few minor glitches in the handling of Co-WIN application, a special software devised for the vaccination programme, officials of the state health department have said.  Nodal officer of the state vaccination programme Dr Ajit Prasad in Ranchi said the entire operation involved around 5,000 people including those posing as beneficiaries at vaccine points. “The drive started from 9 am and it continued for over two hours,” he said.  “The second run too was equally successful, except some very minor operational issues with Co-WIN application in a few centres, but things were sorted out immediately,” he said but didn’t specify the glitch-pockets citing a proper review of the statewide exercise.  In Ranchi, it was conducted at Sadar hospital and a dozen of community and primary health centres. Civil surgeon V B Prasad said that representatives of private hospitals too visited some of the centres to check the exercise as part of an exposure trip. “We didn’t face any problem at any centre. Everything was smooth,” he said.  In East Singbhum, 300 volunteers were appointed for the mega drill held at 12 spots at the privately-run Tata Main Hospital and MGM Medical College and Hospital. At each site, 25 volunteers were made to undergo the vaccination mock-drill, officials said.  East Singhbhum district civil surgeon RN Jha said the dry-run was carried out following the guidelines of Union Health Ministry to remain battle-ready for the vaccination programme against Coronavirus. “The dry-run was held at nine community health centres,” he said, adding that the idea behind the drill is to rehearse with every aspect of the vaccination work right from logistic handling to using Co-WIN application. Earlier on January 2, the dry-run was carried out at two health hubs in East Singhbhum district where 50 volunteers were engaged.  In coal capital, the drill was held across nine centres, Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das said, adding that the drive started at 9 am under the supervision of respective heads of the health centres and medical officers-in-charge in Nirsa, Tundi, Topchanchi, Baghmara, Baliapur, Dhanbad, Govindpur and Jharia.  Das said, “We have created all the necessary set up for vaccination at all the centres including the registration room, waiting hall, vaccination room as well as observation room. The vaccine will be administered intramuscularly. After giving the dose, all beneficiaries will be kept in the observation room for half-an-hour to monitor their condition.” Medical officer-in-charge of Sadar hospital Dr Rajkumar Singh said, “We have all the facility ready to tackle any emergency which may arise during the vaccination.”  Jharkhand has so far identified 99.89 lakh people and classified them in different priority basis for Covid-19 vaccination. In the first phase, soon after the actual rollout of the vaccine, about 1.25 lakh medical officials/staffs will be given the dose followed by others in the next priority line. In terms of logistics and manpower, the state has so far set up 275 vaccine storage points, readied 9 walk-in coolers, five ice-lined refrigerators, over 700 deep freezers, 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers.  State health minister Banna Gupta said the state government is fully prepared to undertake the vaccination programme to make Jharkhand free of Covid-19 in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-179
