10-01-2021||Calcutta||Fraud on lapsed insurance policies in Calcutta||Two directors of a call centre in New Town were arrested on Saturday for cheating, police said. They ran the call centre from the second floor of the Avant Garde building in New Town’s Action Area I, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Gopi Sharma, 29, and Amit Mondal, 31, were arrested based on a complaint lodged by Howrah resident Abhijit Ganguly, who was duped of over Rs 80,000, the officer said. Employees of the call centre would call up people promising high returns for reactivating lapsed insurance policies against payment. Ganguly had received a call and the caller introduced himself as the regional manager of a reputed insurance broking firm. The caller asked Ganguly if he had an insurance policy that had lapsed or was dormant. Ganguly did have one such policy and the caller said he would help secure a large sum by “reactivating” it. “Ganguly met Sharma and Mondal at the New Town call centre where they asked him to purchase a new policy for Rs 29,900. They promised to help him get more than a lakh for the dormant policy and Ganguly gave them the money,” the officer said. He met them again a few days later and paid them an additional Rs 50,000. “Both times, Ganguly had asked for cash receipts but wasn’t given any. When they called him a third time asking for more money, he grew suspicious,” the officer said. Ganguly then lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. An officer who was part of the team that raided the New Town office said that the men had more than 20 employees who would make calls to dupe people. Two persons were arrested and 15kg of explosives, four unregistered 7-mm pistols, eight magazines and over 100 rounds of bullets were seized in Howrah late on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Dry run bares connectivity glitches in several parts of Bengal||In several parts of Bengal, the vaccination process was delayed during Friday’s dry run because of poor connectivity that snapped links with an app used to register a recipient. Senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan who went through reports from 69 vaccination centres across the state said such snags were reported from parts of Sandeshkhali and Samserganj in North 24-Parganas, Gosaba and Basanti and parts of Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas and a few in Kalimpong and Dooars in north Bengal. In some centres, it took almost an hour for a candidate to complete the inoculation process, including the mandatory 30-minute waiting time, because poor connectivity led to link failure. In some others, candidates had to wait for almost 15 minutes before he could proceed to the room where he or she would receive the jab because of link failure. This held up the registration process. Every time there was a link failure on Friday, the process of filling up a form with candidate details on the CoWin app was delayed, several senior health department officials said. After the details have been uploaded on the app, a slip is generated. The candidate has to take this slip to the vaccination room to get the jab. “After scanning the slip, the vaccinator injects the candidate. After this, he or she has to use the portal again to register that the first shot has been delivered by clicking on ‘vaccine done’,” said a health department official of Sandeshkhali-I Block in North 24-Parganas. “So, there are at least two key stages where connectivity is required to use the app. Without it, the process can’t be registered as completed.” Friday’s dry run was done in three centres each in 23 districts of Bengal. Each centre had 25 dummy candidates. Health department officials said once vaccination begins, in over 10,000 existing centres — the number will go up once medical colleges and hospitals create facilities for more centres — such snags at block levels would pose a challenge. Pockets of Jungle Mahal, Purulia, Mirik, Kalimpong, West Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas already have connectivity issues, the health department officials said. Estimates from the dry run show that around 50 minutes to inoculate one candidate would mean around three hours for each centre with a maximum of 100 candidates. If more people have to be vaccinated everyday, this time has to come down, officials said. For the second jab, the candidate will receive a code on his or her mobile phone after the process is completed and details have been entered on the app. This code will help him or her get a certificate saying he/she has been successfully vaccinated. If the connectivity snaps, the code and certificate will take time, officials said. On Saturday, senior health department officials discussed this and decided no candidate would be made to wait because of a technical snag. “We have decided that a candidate will move ahead and complete all the processes for receiving the vaccine. The details would be noted down offline and uploaded when the connectivity resumes,” said a senior official. It has also been decided that 47 trucks will be readied to transport vaccines to the districts from Calcutta. These trucks will be insulated to ensure that temperature is maintained between two and eight degrees Celsius. In some areas, where insulated trucks are not available, the vaccine will be transported in special cold boxes which can store the vaccine for almost a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine on campus for private hospitals ||Private hospitals in the state can vaccinate their doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers on their campus using their own manpower, the Bengal government conveyed to the heads of private hospitals at a meeting on Saturday. The state health department will begin training vaccinators in private hospitals to administer the Covid-19 vaccine from next week. The department will also be choosing the private hospitals that can be made vaccination sites for their staff. The decisions were communicated to the private hospitals by the secretary of the state government’s health department at the meeting called to discuss the implementation of the Swasthya Sathi scheme, a cashless health insurance project of the state government. “The health secretary told us that private hospitals will be used as vaccination sites. The state government will soon reach out to us with the details,” said the chief executive officer of one hospital. Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of West Bengal government’s health department, told Metro: “The private hospitals will be selected as Covid-19 vaccination sites only to vaccinate their own healthcare workers. Our team is mapping the hospitals that can be used as vaccination sites. We will also start training vaccinators in the private hospitals from next week.” Another official said the health department had already decided to use the medical colleges in Calcutta as Covid-19 vaccination sites for the healthcare workers. At Saturday’s meeting, the private hospitals were assured that the government would look into their demands for revising the rates for  procedures under the Swasthya Sathi scheme. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay chaired the meeting. “The government asked us to nominate members from private hospitals who would be part of a committee that will discuss the rate revision. They acknowledged that our demand that only patients requiring tertiary care come to super speciality private hospitals is practical and logical,” said Rupak Barua, the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “The committee will meet health department officials regularly to discuss problems that crop up and look for solutions. It was a positive meeting,” added Barua, who is also the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Another private hospital CEO said that the government assured them of prompt payment. The state government on Saturday iterated that no private hospital should refuse anyone with a Swasthya Sathi card.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
10-01-2021||Calcutta|| Kolkata International Film Festival : fest footfall low, spirits high||The first day first show of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival did not see a long queue in front of Nandan like every other year. But the audience, lacking in numbers, did not lack in enthusiasm. “The queue usually reaches till the Nandan gate and then turns alongside Sisir Mancha building towards the Sisir Mancha gate. This year it did not reach anywhere close to even the Nandan gate,” said Parash Acharya, a festival regular, waiting for the Federico Fellini  classic 8½ to begin. Of the 984 seats in Nandan 1, 436 were free to be booked on the portal bookyshow.com under the reduced seating arrangement in keeping with Covid safety protocol. “There were 226 bookings for the 9am show but less than 200 turned up,” said an usher. Among them was a quartet of “Facebook friends”, three of whom were festival debutants. “It was easier to get delegate cards this year. The rush used to be so much that we never made the cut. Registration is also free which made things easier for us,” grinned Akash Mitra, a data science Masters student from Deshapriya Park.  Mainak Dutta, a Chandernagore boy who was a delegate last year too, pointed out the Rs 500 registration fee had been waived this year. All four of them had booked tickets for three films on Day 1. After the chief minister directed the scrapping of the online booking system and a switch to entry on the basis of the registered cards in her inaugural speech on Friday, holders of delegate or guests cards were allowed entry to the venues on a priority basis. Even for those who had booked their tickets online, no effort was made to make them occupy the exact seats that they had booked. Yet, some like Somnath Guha could not get in. The man in his late 50s had turned up with a photocopy of the emailed acceptance of his application for a delegate card. “It was so crowded yesterday at the counter that I could not collect it. I was scared about possible infection,” he pleaded at the gate to no avail. Though the elderly were too few for even finger count in the first show, they showed up in greater numbers in the evening. Most headed not for the films but for the exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee in the Nandan foyer. Subodh Ghosh, 84, had come alone by bus from Bagbazar. “I like spending time at the Rabindra Sadan complex. I heard the films would be shown free so tried to enter but was not allowed. But I am happy to visit the exhibition. It is not crowded,” said the octogenarian who had no clue about delegate cards. Binata Ray, a 68-year-old with a walking stick, too had turned up from Garia with her daughter hoping to catch “any film”. But without a delegate card they too had to be satisfied with visiting the exhibitions.  “My mother loves coming to the film festival. Last year, too, we had seen a film,” her daughter said. Kohinoor Chakraborty, a 67-year-old retired film director, was resting on a bench outside Nandan. “I have been attending this festival since its first edition. Online application is beyond me. Even till last year, they used to give out daily passes at the venue before the screening,” he said. He could get into a short film screening in the afternoon for which tickets were not checked but was stopped at the feature film venues. “I will get hold of a guest card from acquaintances and watch films from Monday when entry becomes totally card-based,” he said, welcoming the scrapping of the online booking. Filmmaker Anubhav Sinha, who delivered the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on Saturday, praised the authorities for the courage to hold a “physical festival”. “Amid this pandemic, it is a brave move,” he said. Filmmaker Goutam Ghose takes a look at an exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee at the Nandan foyer after the inauguration on Saturday afternoon. The exhibition has photographs of the iconic actor from his childhood down to his last journey, including a section with his mentor Satyajit Ray and another on his award-winning moments. It also has costumes from five of his theatrical productions -- Neelkantha, Kalmrigaya, Phera, Homapakhi and Raja Lear, with a note from his daughter and colleague Poulami Bose. About a dozen of his paintings also find space with notes on him as a painter by artistes Jogen Chowdhury and Shuvaprasanna. A screen shows a short film on his life. Picture by Pradip Sanyal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Two held for catching birds at Chandpara||Two men were arrested from a wetland in North 24-Parganas on Friday evening for allegedly catching birds with nylon nets. Two birds, a bronze-winged jacana and a sandpiper, were rescued from the two, said a forest official. The Telegraph has been reporting on how nylon nets spread over wetlands and marshlands in the city and nearby districts are maiming and killing migratory and resident population of birds. North 24-Parganas is home to several such wetlands. People have been setting up nets to trap fish-eating birds and then selling the bird meat, forest officials said. The Friday arrests took place at a wetland in Chandpara in North 24-Parganas, over 60km from Calcutta. “We had a tip off about nets being laidand some people sneaking into the wetland in the evening to take the birds,” said Tamal Das of Human and Environment Alliance League, the NGO that was part of the operation with foresters. The team members reached the wetland around 8pm on Friday. After a wait in the dark, flashes of torchlight led the team to the accused. The team members posed as prospectivebuyers for the birds. The two were arrested after they brought the birds out of their bags. “We also found nets spanning 100m from the wetlands,” said Das. The arrested persons were identified as Sujit Adhikari and Gautam Majumdar, both local residents. The two were produced in a court which has sent them to  judicial custody till January 11. “The rescued birds are listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. If convicted, the maximum term the two face is three years in jail,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Road accident deaths in Calcutta in 2020 dip to 201 ||The number of road accident deaths in Calcutta in 2020 has gone down to 201 from 267 the year before, police said. Yet, the number of fatalities was on the higher side considering the fact that there was little traffic on the roads during the lockdown. According to the police records accessed by The Telegraph, 2020 saw a dip in the percentage of pedestrian deaths on the roads but an increase in the number of motorcyclist and pillion rider deaths in the city. Similarly, the year also reported a record increase in the number of accidents involving cars –— the highest in the last three years. A section of the police feels that the number of accidents should have been less as there was very little traffic on the roads during the lockdown. “Although that is the perception, but in reality, motorists and motorcyclists became more reckless when there was no traffic on the roads…,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. As many as 22 fatal accidents, mostly involving two-wheelers, were reported in March, April and May when the city was under complete lockdown. In 2019, as many as 65 road deaths were reported in Calcutta during the same time period . With the beginning of the unlock phase, inadequate public transport and the scare of pandemic forced thousands of Calcuttans to commute in private vehicles, including bicycles. The police said, 23 cyclists — who are most vulnerable to accidents — died in road accidents in 2020, compared to 14 in 2019. As number of private cars rose on the roads, accidents caused by them also increased. In 2020, cars caused as many as 29 road deaths compared to 19 in 2019. Along with private cars, the number of motorcycles and scooters had also increased during the lockdown months, which led to rise in the number of two-wheeler accidents as well. As many as 64 two-wheeler riders and pillion riders died in road accidents in 2020, compared to 58 in the year 2019 Despite the increase in the number of two-wheeler deaths and cases involving private cars, the police said, the positive part was the decline in the number of pedestrian deaths in the city. “Every year more than 50 per cent of the people who die in road accidents are pedestrians. But last year, the lockdown forced people to stay indoors and there was a sharp decline in the number of pedestrian deaths,” said a senior officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||WPCB to to provide incentive of Rs 1 lakh for 15 years or older commercial vehicle||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board has decided to provide an incentive of Rs 1 lakh for 15 years or older commercial vehicle that is scrapped and replaced by a new one. “From our side (for) first 1,000 vehicles, we are ready to give Rs 1 lakh each,” said PCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar during a virtual meeting organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce on Saturday. Kumar told Metro later that they have kept the money in the budget. PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra clarified to Metro that the proposal seeking support came to the board from the state transport department and the money was planned to be used to facilitate switching over to either new vehicles or conversion to environment-friendly gas-powered ones. “Though initially the money was earmarked for facilitating switch over of 15 years old taxis; but it may be used for other commercial vehicles as well,” added Rudra. The PCB proposal came in the wake of the recently finalised state-level action plan to combat air pollution, which has recommended scrapping of 15-year-old commercial vehicles in critically polluted cities in the state, including Calcutta. Recently, the state environment department has finalised an action plan to combat air pollution that recommends scrapping of 15-year-old commercial vehicles from all “non attainment cities” — cities which have failed to comply with the national air pollution norms — those include Calcutta, Howrah, Barrackpore, Asansol, Durgapur, Raniganj and Haldia. Subsequently, the plan has been vetted by the Central pollution control board ; and will be submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on January 18. Incidentally, 15-year-old commercial vehicles have been banned from the Calcutta metropolitan area (CMA)  in 2008 through a Calcutta High Court order that includes cities of Calcutta, Howrah and Barrackpore. “It’s like putting new wine in old bottle. This order was passed for the entire CMA more than 12 years back. But it has hardly been implemented beyond CMC (Calcutta Municipal Corporation). Even in CMC, the scrapping rate of 15-year-old commercial vehicles has gradually dwindled over the years; as the air pollution surged,” complained environmentalist Subhas Datta, on the basis of whose petition the high court passed the order. The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has recently found that close to one-fourth of most toxic PM 2.5 pollutants in Calcutta’s air, is caused by vehicles. Commercial vehicles have been found to be responsible for four-fifth of the total PM 2.5 pollution generated by vehicular sector, both in both Calcutta and Howrah. PM2.5 is considered the most toxic form of pollutant as it can penetrate deep into the recipient’s lungs and trigger several diseases, including cancer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Calcutta||Free vaccine for 30,000 Calcutta Police||Around 30,000 Calcutta police personnel got a text message from chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday afternoon announcing the arrival of the Covid vaccine that they would get free, being frontline workers. Around the same time, emails went out to all police stations congratulating the force for working for the people as “Covid warriors” and saying that the vaccine would reach them soon. The text message in Bengali said: “Covid-19 er mokabilaye ekjon Covid joddha hishebe aapni jebhabe manush-er paashe theke tader sheba korechhen, takey samman janiye, agradhikar bhittite, paschimbanga sarkar-er torof theke sampurno binamulle apnaar kachhe Covid-19 er vaccine jotha shomoy pouchhe jaabe (In the fight against Covid-10, the way you have stood by the common people and served them as a Covid warrior is commendable. As a mark of respect for your service, the Covid-19 vaccine will reach you in due course of time absolutely free of cost on behalf of the Bengal government).” The message concluded by wishing the well-being of the recipients’ families. “Aapni o apnaar paribar sab samay bhalo thakun, sustho thakun (We wish that you and your family stay happy and healthy).” From the police commissioner to the constables, sources said the message was sent to every personnel around 12.30pm on Saturday. Although the role of the police has been appreciated by the average Calcuttan several times in the past 10 months and some have been felicitated by the state government on Red Road, this was the first time the whole force received official recognition for its services, one officer said. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to could not help but express their excitement on getting recognition from the state through individual text messages. “We lost so many colleagues in this battle. Many, including myself, rejoined duty after getting infected and recovering. Many police officers have been felicitated and praised. But to get this official recognition as a frontline Covid warrior from the chief minister is very special,” said an inspector. Unlike the health department workers who wear PPEs because they are in direct contact with suspected Covid patients, cops are exposed to people they may be prosecuting or requesting to stay indoors without knowing who could be a carrier of the virus. During the lockdown months, when most Calcuttans were forced to stay indoors, the city police became a lifeline for many. They ensured people stranded in their homes could get emergency supplies. Mamata had felicitated frontline workers, including several police personnel, on Red Road last year. Based on the state health department’s instructions, all police personnel in the city police force have been asked to submit their details — name, age, address, family members — so that the data can be compiled and used during vaccination, senior officers said. “When the pandemic broke out, our families panicked too. I had spent months living inside the police station without meeting my family just to keep them safe. Receiving a text message like this felt like a great honour today. We all were pleasantly surprised when our phones buzzed almost at the same time at the police station,” said an officer posted in the south division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-178
10-01-2021||Business||Chhattisgarh boosts business climate||Chhattisgarh has signed 104 agreements in the last two years to set up industries at a capital investment of more than Rs 42,000 crore. These industries will generate more than 64,000 new jobs in the state. The steel sector has attracted a capital investment of Rs 37,306.39 crore from 78 MoUs. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed in the cement sector for Rs 2,000 crore. Seven MoUs were signed in the ethanol sector for an investment of Rs 1,082.82 crore. The new industrial policy of Chhattisgarh and the steps taken by the state during the Covid-19 lockdown period have created a healthy industrial climate in the state. During the lockdown, Chhattisgarh’s industries started output in the month of April. Industries in the core sector were given subsidies in electricity bills and all necessary arrangements were made to ensure movement of raw materials and finished goods. Guidelines were also issued to allow easy supply of raw materials from other states to Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||Business||Medical payout benefits sought||General insurers want the medical reimbursement benefit to be brought back in the upcoming budget with a higher limit. A higher tax relief on mediclaim premium is also on the industry wishlist. Employees earlier had the option of getting reimbursement from their employers against medical expenses of up to Rs 15,000 in a year, subject to the submission of proper bills and documents. Finance Act 2018 scrapped the benefit which was subsumed under standard deduction. “It is crucial to reintroduce medical reimbursement with a higher limit of Rs 50,000,” said Mayank Bathwal, CEO, Aditya Birla Health Insurance. With the pandemic making it indispensable for individuals to have their healthcare costs well covered, Bathwal said there was also a need to tweak the provisions of section 80D of the Income Tax Act to raise the available deductions. “It is important to increase the limits for tax deduction on mediclaim premium under Section 80D to Rs 1,00,000 (Rs 50,000 for self and spouse and Rs 50,000 for parents). Allowed dependent relationships should be reviewed,” he said. At present, non-senior individuals can avail benefits up to Rs 75,000 under Section 80D on mediclaim premium. This includes Rs 25,000 for self and spouse and Rs 50,000 for senior citizen parents. “For the upcoming budget, the healthcare sector shall play a vital role and we could see announcements that would make healthcare affordable. An increase in the 80D limit as well as increasing the threshold for senior citizens will encourage more people to buy comprehensive health insurance,” said Rakesh Jain, ED and CEO, Reliance General Insurance. Life insurers want parity in tax exemption on their pension plans and investment under NPS. Moreover, increased supply of long-term government bonds could generate better yields on annuities. “While investment in NPS offers additional tax deductions of Rs 50,000 under Section 80CCD, life insurers’ pension plans do not enjoy this benefit. The budget should  bring parity between pension products offered by life insurers and NPS,” said Kamlesh Rao, MD and CEO, Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance. “The government should develop the corporate bond market where insurers can source long-term, credit worthy corporate bonds and generate better long term yields for annuity plans,” Rao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||Business||Shipping Corporation of India to start waterways services||Government-owned Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) plans to collaborate with Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) soon to begin inland waterways and coastal shipping services. The services that will start on National Waterway-1 will be undertaken by the wholly owned subsidiary of SCI — Calcutta-registered Inland & Coastal Shipping Ltd. “We are getting into a collaboration with IWAI and we are going to start our services through our 100 per cent subsidiary Inland & Coastal Shipping. We are going to start regular service on NW1,” SCI chairman and managing director H. K. Joshi said at a virtual event organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry. She said that while cargo movement through waterways is economically cheaper, there remains a few hurdles. “Multimodal transportation today is not really working out to be the cheapest and the most  convenient because end-to-end linkage is still not properly established,” she said. Navigation and silting are the other challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||Business||Open offer for Vedanta Ltd||After a failed delisting attempt last year, Vedanta Resources, the parent of Vedanta Ltd, is coming out with an open offer to acquire 10 per cent of its equity. If the open offer is successful, the holding of the promoter group will rise to 65.11 per cent. The voluntary open offer comes more than a fortnight after Vedanta Resources (VRL) used the creeping acquisition route to buy 18.5 crore shares worth Rs 2,959 crore. The purchase saw its stake rising to 55.11 per cent from 50.13 per cent. Promoters can acquire up to 5 per cent in a year without triggering an open offer. However, on Saturday, Vedanta said in a regulatory filing that VRL, together with persons acting in concert (PACs), plans to acquire up to 371,750,500 shares representing 10 per cent of the fully diluted voting share capital of Vedanta Ltd from public shareholders. The other firms involved in the plan are Twin Star Holdings, Vedanta Holdings Mauritius and Vedanta Holdings Mauritius II. These shares will be acquired at a price of Rs 160 per share, which is at a discount of 12 per cent to the closing price of the Vedanta scrip at Rs 182.05 on Friday. The acquisition of all these shares will cost Rs 5,948 crore. If all the equity shares are tendered in the open offer, the holding of the acquirer, PACs and other members of the promoter group will rise to 2,420,208,632 equity shares. However, as the open offer is made at a 12 per cent discount to the market price, it remains to be seen if it elicits a good response from public shareholders who now hold 44.89 per cent. Market circles feel the Vedanta Ltd scrip could open on a negative note on Monday because of the disappointing open offer price. Incidentally, the open offer comes at a time non-ferrous metal prices are on an upswing. In October last year, Anil Agarwal’s attempt to delist Vedanta Ltd failed. While the promoter group needed 134.1 crore shares to delist, they could only garner 125.47 crore bids, which the promoters had to return as the delisting bid fell through.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
10-01-2021||India||Rajinikanth fans stage protest seeking his political entry||Scores of fans of superstar Rajinikanth staged a protest here on Sunday demanding the veteran actor to take the political plunge, days after he had ruled out joining politics. A good number of protesters converged at Valluvar Kottam here and raised slogans such as “Vaa Thalaiva Vaa” (Come leader come), urging him to embark on his political journey as assured earlier and usher in a new era in Tamil Nadu politics. The Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), initially seen as a precursor organisation of the veteran’s possible political party, had earlier asked its members and the actor’s fans not to join the agitation and “further hurt” him, pointing out that he had decided against joining politics citing his frail health. On Sunday, scores of fans from different parts of the state wished him good health at the agitation and also demanded that he should join politics. They were seen carrying posters of the actor, even as hit songs from some of his movies were played there. Rajinikanth had in December last year said he would float his political party in January 2021, following up on his 2017 announcement that he will take the political plunge ahead of this year’s Assembly polls. However, on December 29, making a U-turn, the superstar declared that he will not enter politics in view of his frail health, putting an end to his long-nurtured plans and describing his recent hospitalisation in Hyderabad during a shoot for a Tamil film as God’s warning. The decision had disappointed many of his fans, with some of them staging a protest outside his residence here that day itself, demanding for a re-think of his decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||EC issues directions to ensure smooth conduct of assembly polls||The EC has reminded states where assembly polls are due in the coming months not to assign any election-related duty to officials who have been charged for any lapse in any election in the past. In an advisory to the chief secretaries of Assam, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the Election Commission (EC) has also said that officers against whom it had recommended disciplinary action in past and which is pending or has resulted in a penalty should also not be deployed for poll-related work. The advisory, sent last month, said any officer, who is due to retire within the coming six months, should not be associated with any election-related duty. The terms of the legislative assemblies of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry are coming to an end on different dates in May and June this year. Assembly elections are likely to take place sometime in April-May. The poll watchdog also asked these states to ensure that officers directly connected with the conduct of elections are not posted in their home districts and those who have spent three years in a district in the last four years. It is usual for the poll panel to issue such directions ahead of Lok Sabha or assembly polls to ensure that officials do not interfere in the election process in any way and the exercise remain free and fair. "To ensure a free and fair election, the Commission has been following a consistent policy to the effect that officers directly connected with the conduct of elections in an election going state/UT are not posted in their home districts or places where they have served for a considerably long period," the advisory said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Kanpur zoo shut after bird flu confirmed in dead fowls||The Kanpur Zoological Park has been closed for visitors till further orders after samples taken from two dead birds found there tested positive for the avian influenza virus, an official said on Sunday. The area up to one kilometre of the zoo has been declared an infected zone and the culling of birds has begun there, said Additional District Magistrate (City) Atul Kumar. "Four fowls and two parrots were found dead in the zoo in the last five days. Of these, two birds tested positive," Kumar said. According to the official, the samples of dead birds were sent to the animal disease laboratory in Bhopal which confirmed the presence of H-5 strain of bird flu in them. The zoo has been closed for visitors and morning walkers. The hospital enclosure where the infected birds had been placed has also been shut down," Kumar said. An area of 10 kilometres around the zoo has been cordoned off and declared containment zone for an indefinite period by the authorities and shops selling chicken and eggs there have been asked to down shutters for an indefinite period, an official said. "We have imposed an indefinite ban on the transportation and entry of poultry products including live birds, unprocessed poultry meat in the district as a precautionary measure," District Magistrate Alok Tiwari said. "We have taken the decisions after marathon discussion with the officials of Kanpur zoo, health department, animal husbandry and veterinary doctors," he said. Meanwhile, section 144 of CrPC has been imposed to curb the spread of bird flu in the district, Kumar said. The process of disinfecting all poultry farms in the radius of one kilometre of the zoo has started and teams have been formed to inspect shops selling raw chicken and mutton, he said. Strict instructions have also been issued to make adequate arrangements for the disposal of dead birds, he added. "We have also issued an advisory to keep a strict watch on unusual sickness or mortality in poultry birds and wild or migratory birds," ADM said. Preventive measures in place at Lucknow zoo Following the confirmation of bird flu in samples collected from the Kanpur zoo, the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden in Lucknow is opting for preventive measures and keeping a close watch on the birds kept in the bird enclosure, officials said on Sunday. "No case (of bird flu) has been reported here, yet we are taking all the preventive measures. The virus spreads from the excreta of migratory birds and our effort is to ensure that it does not come here," zoo Director RK Singh said. Bottles containing a solution of potassium permanganate have been kept at the gates of the zoo so that the visitors enter the premises disinfected, he said. "We are maintaining a watch on the birds' enclosure. If any unusual behaviour is seen in any bird, it will be taken to the isolation ward," Singh added. In Bareilly, arrangements to provide drinking water to migratory birds have been shut and reflectors are being installed at the Central Avian Research Institute (CARI). "In order to ensure that migratory birds do not enter the CARI campus through the aerial route, reflectors are being installed on a war footing. The lower branches of the trees on the roadside have been cut so that the birds do not drop their excreta on the road," Acting Director of the institute Sanjeev Kumar said. The Centre on Saturday said the outbreak of bird flu or avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the number of affected states in the country to seven. Besides Uttar Pradesh, the other six states where bird flu has been confirmed are Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Friday to remain alert in view of the bird-flu cases reported from various parts of the country. He asked the officials to relieve the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly of all responsibilities relating to Covid-19 so that it can concentrate on bird flu and its testing, an official release said. Holding a review meeting with senior officials, the chief minister pointed out that every year in winter, migratory birds arrive in large numbers in Allahabad, where the Magh Mela is also organised. Thus, there is a need to take extra precautions in view of the bird-flu scare, he said. The chief minister directed the Prayagraj Mela Pradhikaran to make people aware of the matter and also asked the mela authority to publicise that pilgrims should not feed the birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Co-WIN to serve as foundation for vaccination drive, says Centre||The Co-WIN software, an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery, will form the foundation for the vaccination drive in India so it is available to everyone at all the times, the Centre said Sunday. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world’s largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. The Health Ministry on Sunday held a video conference with officials of all states and Union territories ahead of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Feedback on the Co-WIN software and its operational use gathered from the vaccination dry runs was taken in the meeting. The meeting was chaired by Ram Sewak Sharma, the chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19 and member of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19. Giving an overall view of the CoWIN software and the principles that shall underpin the technology backup for the vaccination exercise, he said robust, dependable and agile technology shall form both the foundation and the back-up for the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive. “The process should be citizen-centric and built on an approach that the vaccine shall be available anytime and anywhere,” Sharma was quoted as saying in a statement. He stressed on the need for flexibility without compromising on quality and reiterated that inclusivity, speed and scalability have been kept in mind while designing the digital platform with all its components being portable, synchronous without excessive and unnecessary dependencies. Underlining the importance of capturing the vaccination data in real time, Sharma said, “This is non-negotiable.” He also highlighted the caution one needs to exercise to ensure there was 'no proxy' at all, while reiterating that the beneficiaries of the vaccination drive need to be uniquely and undeniably identified. About the use of the Aadhaar platform, Sharma advised the states to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhaar for registration and consequent communication through SMS. “It is extremely important to clearly identify a person who is getting vaccinated and keep a digital record on who gets vaccinated by whom, when and which one,” Sharma stressed. The meeting was attended by principal secretaries of states, National Health Mission Directors, state immunisation officers and senior officers of the Union Health Ministry. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford’s Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. After vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, a government statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||All-women Air India cockpit crew takes off on historic San Francisco-Bengaluru flight||An all-women cockpit crew set out on a historical journey, operating Air India's inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight, going over the North Pole and taking the Atlantic route to reach the Karnataka capital at the other end of the world. The flight number AI176 left San Francisco on Saturday at 8.30 PM (local time) and would arrive here at 3.45 AM on Monday, according to Air India sources. Union Minister for Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, "Way to go girls! Professional, qualified & confident, the all-women cockpit crew takes off from San Francisco to Bengaluru on @airindiain's flight to fly over the North Pole. Our Nari Shakti achieves a historic first." Air India has said this will be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by it or any other airline in India. The total flight time on this route will be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that particular day, it had said in a statement on the eve of the historic flight. Members of the crew are: Captain Zoya Aggarwal, Captain Papagari Thanmai, Captain Akansha Sonaware and Captain Shivani Manhas. Air India too expressed its elation when it tweeted, "Imagine this: -All Women Cockpit Crew. -Longest flight into India. -Crossing the North Pole It's here & happening! Records broken. History in the making by AI176 from @flySFO to @BLRAirport. AI 176 is cruising at 30000 feet."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Puri Jagannath temple no more requires Covid negative report from Jan 21||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Sunday announced that devotees need not produce their Covid-19 negative report for getting entry into the 12th-century shrine in Puri from January 21. The decision in this regard was taken at a meeting attended by SJTA chief Krishan Kumar, Puri district magistrate-cum collector Samarth Verma and Superintendent of Police K B Singh. "The devotees can enter into the temple without having Covid-19 negative report from January 21. The decision will remain in force till February 21," the SJTA chief told reporters. Kumar said the SJTA has decided to relax the restriction which was imposed on temple entry for the general public. The temple opened for public from January 3 after remaining closed for nine months in the wake of the pandemic. The Puri Collector said that special arrangements and queue system will soon be introduced for elderly/senior citizens coming to the temple. The temple was opened in a phased manner from December 23, 2020. While the servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 to December 25 evening, the local residents of Puri got the opportunity to have darshan of the deities between December 26 and 31. The temple was finally opened to the public for darshan of the sibling deities - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath - from January 3, 2021 adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Haryana farmers face police wrath, ransack venue where CM was set to speak||The Haryana Police on Sunday used water cannons and lobbed tear gas shells on farmers to prevent them from protesting and marching towards Kaimla village in Haryana’s Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was set to address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. The chief minister however cancelled the meeting following the violence. Despite all the clashes, the farmers reached the venue and disrupted the event. They took control and ransacked the venue at Kaimla village in Haryana's Karnal district where Khattar was to address people to highlight the benefits of the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister’s visit to the village where he will speak to people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. They damaged the stage and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue. The farmers also took control over a makeshift helipad where the chief minister’s helicopter was to land. The programme was cancelled due to an unruly act by farmers at the behest of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, BJP leader Raman Mallik said. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister's visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister's visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), farmers, who have been demanding that the laws be repealed, had earlier announced to oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. Farmers were carrying black flags and shouting slogans against the BJP-led government as they attempted to march towards Kaimla village. Police had put up barricades at the entry points of the village to prevent protesting farmers from reaching the programme venue. The situation turned tense as farmers were adamant that they would not allow the chief minister to hold the programme. Policemen were seen trying to pacify the agitating farmers but they went ahead to take control of the stage. We will not allow the government to hold this programme, a protester said. The Haryana Police had made headlines in November when it clashed with protesting farmers who were on their way to Delhi to oppose the three central farm laws. They had used tear gas, batons, barricades and water cannons to stop the farmers’ march, but had to ultimately let them go after facing huge criticism. Police put up barricades at the entry points of the village to prevent protesting farmers from reaching the supposed programme venue. Thereafter, many protests have been demonstrated at the state regarding the three new farm laws, with a huge chunk of farmers travelling to Delhi to join the campaigners there. Last month, the state police had also booked 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after a group of peasants had allegedly blocked and hurled sticks at Khattar’s convoy. They had allegedly shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City, where the CM was going to address public meetings in support of the party’s mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||India generated 33,000 tonnes of Covid-19 waste over seven months||Over the past seven months, India generated around 33,000 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum (3,587 tonnes) to it, according to a data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). October emerged as the month when most of the waste was generated -- over 5,500 tonnes. According to the data received from state pollution control boards, since June 2020, all states and union territories have generated 32,994 tonnes of Covid-19-related biomedical waste which is being collected, treated and disposed of by 198 common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). This biomedical waste could include PPE kits, masks, shoe covers, gloves, human tissues, items contaminated with blood, body fluids like dressings, plaster casts, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, blood bags, needles, syringes etc. According to the data, Maharashtra generated 5,367 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in seven months since June, followed by Kerala (3,300 tonnes), Gujarat (3,086 tonnes), Tamil Nadu (2,806 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (2,502 tonnes), Delhi (2,471 tonnes), Bengal (2,095 tonnes) and Karnataka (2,026 tonnes). Around 4,530 tonnes of such waste was generated in December, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum 629 tonnes, followed by Kerala (542 tonnes) and Gujarat (479 tonnes). Delhi generated 321 tonnes of Covid-19 bio-medical waste in December, according to the CPCB data. Around 4,864 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated in November, of which 609 tonnes was contributed by Maharashtra, 600 tonnes by Kerala, 423 tonnes by Gujarat and 385 tonnes by Delhi. In October, the country generated 5,597 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, the maximum in the last seven months, with Kerala (641), Gujarat (545) and Maharashtra (542) being the top three contributors. In September, 5,490 tonnes of such waste was generated. Gujarat contributed the maximum 622 tonnes, followed by Tamil Nadu (543 tonnes), Maharashtra (524 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (507 tonnes) and Kerala (494 tonnes), as per the data. The CPCB had in March last year issued specific guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of such waste at healthcare facilities, quarantine centres, homes, sample collection centers, laboratories, pollution control boards, urban local bodies and common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). The apex pollution body had in May developed the ‘COVID19BWM’ mobile application to monitor coronavirus-related biomedical waste and to compile the data through electronic manifest system. This application tracks Covid-19 waste at the time of generation, collection and disposal. In July last year, the Supreme Court made it mandatory for all urban local bodies and state pollution control boards to use the mobile application for tracking biomedical waste daily in a bid to ensure that the waste is collected, transported and sent to the registered CBWTFs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Covid: Over 18,000 cases in India, recover rate at 96.42 per cent||India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,04,50,284 with 18,645 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,75,950, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Sunday. The death toll reached 1,50,999 with 201 more people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the infection so far surged to 1,00,75,950, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.42 per cent, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh for the 20th consecutive day. There are 2,23,335 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.14 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,10,96,622 samples have been tested so far with 8,43,307 samples being tested on Saturday. The 201 new fatalities include 57 from Maharashtra, 22 from Kerala, 20 from Bengal, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 12 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,50,999 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,027 from Maharashtra followed by 12,215 from Tamil Nadu, 12,138 from Karnataka, 10,666 from Delhi, 9,922 from West Bengal, 8,481 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,128 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,439 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Delhi temperatures dip to 7.8 degrees Celsius||The mercury level in Delhi dipped to 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, as cold winds from snow-clad Western Himalayas swept through the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The temperature is likely to drop to five to six degrees Celsius by January 14, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. Delhi has registered above-normal minimum temperatures since January 3, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. The city’s minimum had settled at 10.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine rollout from January 16||India will begin its campaign to vaccinate against Covid-19 around 30 million people from two priority groups on January 16, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the preparedness for the rollout. The health ministry has not released a timetable for the vaccination campaign yet, but said the vaccines would first be offered to healthcare workers and frontline workers, and then to people above 50 years, followed by those below 50 but with chronic health disorders. The priority group above 50 years may be subdivided into those above 60 — to be vaccinated first — and those between 50 and 60. The health ministry said the coming weeks and months would witness the vaccination of around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. “After a detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals, including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bighu… the Covid-19 vaccination drive will start from January 16,” the health ministry said in a statement. Medical experts say the campaign will require 60 million doses of the two-dose vaccines. A member of the vaccination task force in Bengal told The Telegraph that around 600,000 healthcare workers in the state were expected to be vaccinated. The number of frontline workers in the state is estimated to be between 1.2 million and 1.5 million. The Centre will run the campaign through a digital platform called Co-Win that will register the recipients, document the vaccine and the doses they have received, and record adverse events, if any. The government is itself registering all the healthcare workers and frontline workers on the platform. The ministry said it had already registered 7.9 million people from these two categories on Co-Win. In the coming weeks, people from the other two priority groups would need to register themselves. The Centre’s regulatory authority has approved for restricted emergency use the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and called Covishield, and the home-grown Covaxin from Hyderbad-based Bharat Biotech. Although the government has not specified which of the two vaccines would be released and where, there is widespread expectation that Covishield will be the first to be rolled out. The Serum Institute has indicated that it has stockpiled 50 million doses and can produce around 100 million doses per month by February or March. The company, which is required to export half of what it manufactures, expects to supply the vaccine only within India in the early weeks of the campaign. “The speed of the vaccination drive will depend on both the supply of the vaccines and the number and distribution of the vaccination sites,” the member of Bengal’s vaccination task force said. One option for Bengal would be to try and complete the vaccinations for healthcare workers and frontline workers before the elections, the member said. Assuming Bengal has two million people from these two priority groups, he said, around 20,000 people would need to be vaccinated every day to cover these priority groups over the next 100 days. Bengal has so far prepared close to 80 vaccination sites. Health ministry officials have indicated that each vaccine site could immunise around 100 people a day. The vaccination process requires the vaccine recipients to remain under observation at the site for 30 minutes after receiving the shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Malayalam cartoon with US President at the centre of a riot storm||“Dude, what were you doing for four years? You should have amended the Constitution. You should have made black laws; should have passed them in Parliament. Should have purchased MPs. Should have got judges on your side by intimidatingó them. Should have subjugated the courts. Should have packed the police and military with party people. Should have burnt old documents and erased history. Should have constructed a new White House. Stupid phriend, what you did just now is illegal.” The blond mane and the signature hairdo, not to mention the trademark red tie and blue suit, make it clear the receiver of the telephone advice is Donald Trump. The identity of the indignant, if not exasperated, adviser at the other end of the line is not mentioned in black and white but anyone mildly conversant with contemporary events should not find it hard to crack the puzzle. Sometimes, the deadliest of cartoons reveal more by saying less — or knowing what not to say. A Malayalam cartoon (translated text in italics above) has depicted the telephone monologue as purportedly heard by the outgoing US President who is now at the centre of a riot storm. The cartoon, uploaded on Facebook, has drawn attention on a day the almost friendless Trump found a vocal friend in the BJP, some of whose leaders decried the Twitter ban on the US President. The cartoon has been created by a medical doctor, G.R. Santhosh Kumar, 57. Asked about the unseen dispenser of the sermon on the phone, Kumar chuckled and said: “Yes, it’s ….” For the sake of cartooning justice, this newspaper is leaving it to the imagination of its readers to figure out the identity of the adviser. Kumar, a Thiruvananthapuram native currently working for a tribal health project in Wayanad, said: “Of course, the trigger for Friday’s cartoon was what happened in the Capitol, which led to Trump getting cornered by most world leaders.” Kumar could not think of a better peg than the vaunted “friendship” between Trump and his unseen adviser. The text, which names neither Trump nor his friend, took “just a few minutes of jotting down from memory”. A few more minutes and the Trump likeness was done, with a speech bubble in place. Kumar said he began drawing cartoons as a student of the government medical college in Thiruvananthapuram, from where he graduated in the 1980s. “My drawings were then limited to highlighting issues relating to the campus, medical malpractices, unscientific practices and the like,” he said. After becoming a doctor, he had found himself with neither time nor inclination to continue with the hobby. However, the political developments after 2014 “inspired” him to take up the pen again. Kumar was quick to add that although he leant to the Left of the political spectrum, “I draw cartoons against Left leaders and their politics too”. Kumar has been posting his creations on Facebook and, more recently, his own blog. “These are one-off drawings that stand on their own and reflect my thinking on that given day or moment,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Silence on death during Covaxin trial hurts||Sections of medical experts have decried what they say is the disturbing silence of India’s drug regulatory authority on the death of a clinical trial participant who had received the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. The Bhopal resident died on December 21, nine days after receiving the first dose of the vaccine, with the preliminary reviews indicating the death was unrelated to the trial, Bharat Biotech said on Saturday, 19 days after the death. A post-mortem report issued by the Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, has said “The probable cause of death was due to cardio-respiratory failure as a result of suspected poisoning”, the company said. The statement was issued after NDTV India reported the death on Friday. Doctors who specialise in clinical trials and ethics have criticised the absence of any public communication on the death from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the country’s regulatory authority that oversees all clinical trials. “The silence from CDSCO smacks of not just callousness but a conscious decision to not let anything delay the release of the vaccine,” Amar Jesani, a senior physician in Mumbai and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, told The Telegraph. The CDSCO had accepted the recommendations of an expert panel and last week approved the restricted emergency use of Covaxin in a clinical trial mode, relying on the vaccine’s safety and its capacity to generate an immune response. There was, however, no efficacy data on the vaccine. Several clinical researchers have questioned the grant of approval to Covaxin without efficacy data, amid speculation that the Centre was keen on releasing a home-grown vaccine alongside the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, which too the CDSCO approved the same day. Bharat Biotech said the death had been “thoroughly investigated” and found unrelated to either the vaccine or the placebo — a dummy jab that half the trial participants received. But the company said it could not say whether the participant had received the vaccine or the placebo because it remained blind to the dosing. The trial is a double-blinded placebo-controlled study in which neither the participants nor the principal investigators at the trial hospital, and not even the company, know who has received the vaccine and who the placebo. The codes are un-blinded or broken after the trial to determine whether the vaccine was able to protect any participants from Covid-19. But Jesani said the participant’s death should have led to un-blinding to determine whether he had received the vaccine or the placebo. He asked: “How can they keep a participant who has died blinded and yet claim the death is not related to the trial?” Anant Bhan, an independent bioethics specialist and adjunct professor at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, contrasted the CDSCO’s silence with the way UK authorities had responded after a recipient of the AstraZeneca vaccine developed a serious adverse event. “In the UK, the trial had been halted after a serious adverse event. Here it is a death. It would have been ideal to share the information in a public domain and discuss the process they had followed and why or why not they were allowing the trial to continue,” Bhan told this newspaper. Over 24,000 people in 12 cities have already received Covaxin or the placebo as part of the efficacy trial to determine whether the vaccine can prevent Covid-19. The CDSCO allowed the efficacy trial after earlier trials showed the vaccine’s safety and capacity to generate an immune response. A Bharat Biotech spokesperson told this newspaper that the principal investigator at the Bhopal site had informed the CDSCO, the institutional ethics committee and the data safety monitoring board as required. “We are also continuing to cooperate with the investigation requirements from Bhopal police,” the company said. Jesani said the post-mortem requirements for a routine medico-legal case and an investigation into a clinical trial death needed to be substantially different. “A trial-linked investigation needs a thorough pathology analysis, not a routine post-mortem looking at the cause of death,” he said. However, some clinical trial specialists say the CDSCO is not bound by any regulatory requirement to make public the findings of a probe into a serious adverse event. “When there is an obvious cause of death such as poisoning or an accident, there is really no need to un-blind (determine whether the participant received the vaccine or placebo),” said Urmila Thatte, former head of pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, who has investigated adverse events in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Farmers suggest Covid vaccine drive at protest site||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), one of the outfits taking part in the farmers’ agitation, has suggested that the government begin the vaccination campaign by inoculating those protesting at Delhi’s borders. “We have come to know that the Supreme Court is concerned about the spread of the virus among the protesters and asked the government whether we are taking care. If this is the concern, then I suggest the Centre start the vaccination drive with us so that the virus doesn’t spread,” Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the BKU (Tikait), told reporters in Ghaziabad on Saturday. The Supreme Court had on Thursday asked the Centre to clarify whether adequate safeguards and Covid-19 protocols were being followed by the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and feared that “problems” similar to those that arose during the Tablighi Jamaat event last year could recur. “You must tell us what is happening. I don’t know if farmers are protected from Covid,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the hearing into an appeal for a CBI probe into the allegedly illegal Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi during the Covid-induced lockdown in April-May 2020. “Same problem may arise at the farmers’ protest too,” CJI Bobde had said. Tikait said on Saturday: “Let us make it clear that we are not going to leave the dharna sites before the government withdraws the laws. Nothing can scare us, not even the fear of the coronavirus. The government must accept that the farmers are protesting in the December-January cold because they know that their farms and their produce are not safe under the new laws. The government has failed to prove that our fears are unfounded.” “It the court thinks that there is a danger to us because of corona, then the Centre must listen to it and act swiftly. We are here with a firm commitment to make the government accept our demands. Since it is the government that is not acting on the demands of the farmers and making us continue the protest, the government would be responsible for the spread of the virus. So, the government can start by vaccinating us immediately,” Tikait added. Tractor march Farmers took out a protest march on their tractors in Ambala on Saturday, reports PTI. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Harbans Singh Manakpur dubbed the march a rehearsal for the proposed tractor parade on January 26. He said the protests would continue till the Centre repeals the three farm laws enacted in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||BJP voices speak up for Donald Trump after Twitter suspends account||Some of the BJP’s shrillest voices turned champions of free speech on Saturday and warned of the threat “big-tech companies” posed to democracy after Twitter permanently suspended outgoing US President Donald Trump’s account. They, however, made no mention of Trump’s incitement of the mob that stormed the Capitol —which led to Twitter’s action — or whether it posed a threat to democracy. Bangalore South MP and BJP youth wing chief Tejasvi Surya, known for making communally provocative comments, took to Twitter to defend Trump and attack tech giants. He was joined by BJP social media head Amit Malviya, considered the brain behind the party’s vicious troll army that hounds political rivals across social media platforms. “This must be a wake-up call for all who don’t yet understand the threat to our democracies by unregulated big tech companies,” Surya tweeted. “If they (Twitter) can do this to POTUS (President of the United States), they can do this to anyone. (The) sooner India reviews intermediaries regulations, (the) better for our democracy.” Malviya’s tweet said: “Deplatforming Donald Trump, a sitting US President, sets a dangerous precedent. It has less to do with his views and more to do with intolerance for a different point (of view).” Twitter had in a statement on Friday said it had permanently suspended Trump’s account because of “the risk of further incitement of violence”. Malviya sought to portray the company’s action as an assault on free speech and the right to have an alternative view, and used it as a stick to beat the BJP’s ideological opponents with. “Ironically, those who claim to be champions of free speech are celebrating. Big tech firms are the new oligarchs,” he said. Ankit Lal, who heads the Aam Aadmi Party’s social media cell, hit back at Malviya, tweeting: “Says the one who himself uses the platform to spread misinformation and indirectly incite violence. The only reason your account hasn’t been suspended is because @Facebook and @Twitter don’t apply the same hate speech rules to US and India.” Surya and many of his peers in the BJP have used social media platforms to air provocative and divisive comments, with the same “big tech firms” so far having largely failed to muster the courage to act against them. When reports in the Wall Street Journal last year bared how Facebook had allowed hate-filled posts by some BJP politicians, the party had played victim and accused the social media platform of being dominated by “Left and Congress” sympathisers. However, BJP hawks have sometimes been forced to delete certain comments after the controversies they triggered became too hot to handle — for instance, Surya’s 2015 tweet about Arab women that he had to delete after a recent uproar. Surya recently ran a divisive campaign during the Hyderabad urban body elections, calling local MP and AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi an “avatar of Mohammad Ali Jinnah”. Many people took to Twitter on Saturday demanding permanent suspension of Delhi BJP politician Kapil Mishra’s account. Mishra, accused of inciting a crowd hours before the Delhi riots broke out last February, had posted a tweet terming the Delhi Assembly polls an “India vs Pakistan” fight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
10-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier held in Ladakh||India’s army “apprehended” and took into custody a Chinese soldier on Friday for transgressing the Line of Actual Control south of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh amid a border standoff. It’s being investigated under what circumstances he had crossed the LAC, the army said. “During early hours of 08 January, a Chinese soldier was apprehended on the Indian side of the LAC, in Ladakh, in an area south of Pangong Tso lake. The PLA (People’s Liberation Army) soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area,” an army statement said. “Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops. The PLA soldier is being dealt with as per laid-down procedures, and (the) circumstances under which he had crossed the LAC are being investigated.” Indian and Chinese troops have since early May been locked in a standoff at multiple points in Ladakh, including the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. The Chinese soldier was caught in the Chushul sector where Indian troops are deployed at altitudes of 14,000 feet, and where the temperatures have touched minus 40 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
10-01-2021||India||BJP minister intervenes in IIT Jammu's convocation dress code||The pheran, Kashmir’s traditional winter wear, appears to be too hot to handle for some in the government. Hours after the fledgling IIT Jammu “proudly disclosed” on Friday that its first batch of graduating students would wear pherans and pakols (woollen caps) in a nod to Jammu and Kashmir’s art and culture during its first convocation on Saturday, Jintendra Singh, the minister in Narendra Modi’s PMO and an MP from Jammu, tweeted that “sensitivities” with regard to the proposed dress had been conveyed to the institute director and he had agreed that “only” the “conventional convocation gown” would be worn. However, videos of the convocation circulating on social media showed that the teachers and students may have chosen a middle path — opting for a dress that appeared to be a cross between the western convocation gown and the pheran. Neither IIT Jammu director Manoj Singh Gaur nor any other IIT official responded to calls from The Telegraph on the dress the institute chose for the convocation. At a media conference on Friday, the chairman of the board of governors of IIT Jammu, Prof. Sharad Kumar Saraf, had “proudly disclosed” that the dress code for the convocation “ceremony has been inspired by the art and culture of Jammu and Kashmir” due to which “traditional convocation robes have been replaced with pherans and pakols”. Saraf said the idea behind the choice was “an ode to Jammu and Kashmir” and its culture. The pheran, a long loose garment that has a cut at the top, is worn by both Muslims and Pandits in the Valley to fight the biting winter cold. Many in Jammu’s Muslim-dominated Chenab Valley and Pir Panchal regions also wear it. The pakol is a woollen cap, which some people in Jammu claim is of Afghan origin. Hours after the media conference, PMO minister Singh, who represents the Kathua-Udhampur-Doda parliamentary constituency in Hindu-majority Jammu, tweeted: “Important! Sensitivities with regard to dress proposed for IIT Jammu Convocation ceremony were conveyed to higher authorities. I have just now received a call from Director IIT Jammu, Prof Gaur, clarifying that it will only be conventional convocation Gown, no other attire and no cap.” Singh mentioned neither the “pheran” nor what he meant by “sensitivities”, but the IIT’s decision had faced criticism from a section of people in Jammu, who opposed the wearing of a Kashmiri dress in the “land of Dogras”, a reference to Jammu’s Hindus. Many pointed out that Singh may not have got the memo as his boss, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had chosen a dress resembling a pheran during a TV address to the people of Jammu and Kashmir while launching a health insurance scheme for the residents of the Union Territory a fortnight ago. Some others also recounted that the central government itself had in 2018 asked universities across the country to replace the conventional convocation gown with “traditional Indian clothes” as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah regretted the intervention by the minister. “Can’t even tolerate a pheran and this government wants Kashmiris to believe that it’s looking out for our sentiments & feelings. PMO intervened to have the dress code changed & that too just days after the PM addressed a function in Srinagar wearing a pheran,” Omar tweeted. At Saturday’s convocation, the first batch of 79 IIT Jammu students from mechanical, electrical and computer science engineering were awarded degrees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
10-01-2021||India||Congress lines up nationwide farm protest||The Congress has decided to observe January 15 as “Kisan Adhikar Diwas (Farmer Rights Day)” with protests throughout the country to express solidarity with the peasants who are fighting a “do-or-die battle” against the Narendra Modi government. A meeting of Congress office-bearers on Saturday to discuss the farmers’ movement felt the government had lost its moral right to continue in office and decided to hold demonstrations in every state capital on January 15, culminating in gheraos of Raj Bhavans across the country. Although some office-bearers are in favour of a sustained political struggle to support the farmers, the course of action will be decided later. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said after the meeting: “January 15 will be observed as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. There will be protest meetings and demonstrations at every state capital, followed by a march to Raj Bhavans with two demands: Repeal of the three farm laws and rollback of excise duty imposed on petroleum products.” The Youth Congress also announced a protest as part of which soil will be brought from every state as well as the villages of farmers who have lost their lives during the movement for making a giant map of India in Delhi. A suitable venue is being identified for the purpose. In the map, the space for every state will be filled with the soil of that state. The Youth Congress also plans to take the soil from the villages of the deceased farmers to the Prime Minister’s Office to remind him that he had failed to express sorrow over their deaths. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas said: “The programme, called Ek Mutthi Mitti Shaheedon Ke Naam, is intended to pay homage to the farmers who died during the movement. Youth Congress workers will go to every state of the country — from Kashmir to Kanyakumari — and the villages of the martyrs to bring handfuls of soil to Delhi. Modi has time to condole the death of Nawaz Sharif’s mother and tweet on the finger injury of cricketer Shikhar Dhawan, but he hasn’t uttered a word on the death of 60 farmers. We thought we can pay tribute to them in this manner.” Iterating its resolve to stand with the farmers till the crisis is resolved, the Congress asked every citizen of the country to support the cause. It took strong objection to the interlocutor ministers telling the farmers during talks on Friday to approach the Supreme Court as the government was not ready to repeal the laws. Surjewala said: “The Supreme Court didn’t frame the laws. The Modi government imposed the laws on the farmers, violating all democratic norms and hijacking parliamentary processes.” He added: “Has any central government ever behaved in this manner, thrusting laws down the throats of citizens without any discussion and then daring them to move court? Making policies and laws is the job of the elected government, not the courts. If the Modi government cannot discharge its duties properly and take responsibility for its actions, it has no moral right to continue in office. The government should vacate office.” Accusing Modi of behaving like an emperor who is immune to democratic pressures, Surjewala said: “Farmers are fighting a do-or-die battle to get these laws repealed. This is a battle between farmers’ livelihood and the government’s opportunism. This is a battle between farmers’ self-esteem and the government’s selfishness. This is a battle between farmers’ helplessness and the government’s cruelty. This is a battle between farmers’ rights and a government that is intoxicated with power. This is a battle between a candle and a storm. The farmers have created a flicker of hope against the storm that the government, sold to corporate interest, is.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari accuses TMC govt of appropriating central schemes||Senior BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday accused the Mamata Banerjee dispensation of appropriating central projects. He said that only three to four people in the state government call the shots, with the rest functioning as rubber stamps. Giving credit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for already stating that three crore health workers and 27 crore people above the age of 50 years will be administered the vaccine for free across the country, Adhikari claimed that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, despite the centre’s announcement, has written to Covid warriors and stated that her government would be inoculating free of charge. Earlier in the day, Banerjee had said that arrangements were being made to provide Covid-19 vaccines for free to all the people of Bengal, and not just the COVID-19 warriors. She also clarified that frontline workers would be given priority over others. Alleging that the TMC government was changing names of central projects to claim those to be its own, the former state minister said, “The name of Centre’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan project has been changed to Nirmal Bangla mission.” Adhikari, during a public meeting here, also contended that natural resources of Purulia, including coal and other minerals, were being looted by organised gangs, with the state government doing nothing about it. During his speech at an adivasi- dominated district, Adhikari further said that the ‘Ol Chiki’ language of Santhalis was given recognition in the eighth schedule of the Constitution by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, but the TMC government did not provide any book or teaching facility to promote it. He also claimed that the TMC has ceased being a political party and functions as a private limited company, with “three or four persons from south Kolkata running the government with 20 of 30 departments in their hands”. Asserting that the rural areas of the state have long been neglected by the TMC leadership, he said that the “fight is between the villages and a few privileged persons from south Kolkata”. He also said that the district-level service commissions for recruitment of school teachers have been replaced by a centralised system based in Kolkata, thereby reducing job opportunities for youths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal making arrangements for free Covid vaccination: Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said that the state government is making arrangements to provide free vaccines for Covid-19 to all the people of the state. In an open letter, Mamata said that the Covid ‘warriors’, including police, home guards, civil defence volunteers, correctional home and disaster management employees, will be administered the vaccine on a priority basis. “I am happy to inform that our government is making arrangements for reaching the vaccine to all people of the state free of any charge,” the chief minister said in the letter addressed to the Covid-19 frontline workers. Banerjee expressed her gratitude to all the Covid warriors for their selfless service to the people of Bengal. India is set to launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers across the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet all chief ministers of states and Union Territories to discuss the Covid-19 vaccination rollout process, his office said on Friday. The PM will also discuss the pandemic situation in each state. The chief minister’s announcement of free vaccination for everyone comes months ahead of the assembly elections, which are likely to be held in April-May. Earlier, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had made a similar announcement. The southern state will also go to polls along with Bengal. The Bihar government has also given the cabinet nod to provide free vaccine to every citizen of the state, a promise the BJP made in its manifesto for the assembly elections held in October-November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy curriculum ‘ready’ ||Representatives of Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy on Saturday clarified that they had submitted schoolbooks and curriculum for introduction of Kamtapuri language as a medium of instruction in state-aided primary schools. “Recently, the chief minister said we have not yet readied the curriculum which made some Kamtapuri people disgruntled. We want to clarify that on November 26 last year we submitted 37 schoolbooks and the curriculum for pre-primary to class V to the member secretary of our academy. He had submitted those at Nabanna on November 29. We hope the state government will consider our demand to introduce the language in primary classes,” said Bajle Rehman, chairman of the academy. On January 5, Mamata Banerjee said that there were requests to carry out inspections in some informal schools where education is imparted through Kamtapuri, a variant of Rajbanshi language. “But they are yet to fix a curriculum like the Rajbanshi informal schools already did,” she had said. “The education department would carry out inspections in two such schools within a year as it would take a few months to set the curriculum,” Mamata had added. Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy is one of the language academies formed by the state for Rajbanshi population. “We are not criticising the chief minister but have just furnished the facts to clear misunderstandings of people,” Rehman added. During the past couple of years, Trinamul has been focusing on the Rajbanshi population of north Bengal as their votes matter in almost half of the 54 Assembly seats of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Prahlad Singh Patel flags off poll mode||The BJP virtually flagged off its election campaign in the hills pitching Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state for tourism and culture. The saffron camp’s strategy to send a central minister to the hills to drum up support drew flak from Trinamul. A sense of Patel’s mission was palpable on his arrival on Friday evening as BJP’s alliance partner in the hills Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) lined up party supporters in Darjeeling to welcome the minister. “I am here on a three-day tour. There was a lot of enthusiasm in the way. I was welcomed by our party supporters as well as supporters of our alliance partner,” said Patel. Tourism and tea are two major industries in the hills and Patel lost no time to accuse the state government of neglecting both these sectors. “During the day, I interacted with tourism stakeholders…social organisations, people associated with various cultural activities and leaders of the tea workers’ union,” said Patel, who said he would continue to visit the region. BJP currently represents Darjeeling Assembly constituency after Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader who had won the seat in a BJP ticket in 2019, defeated Binay Tamang of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, who was backed by Trinamul. In 2019, Bimal Gurung’s Morcha was with the BJP but recently joined hands with Trinamul, alleging that BJP had betrayed their promise to the hill people. The BJP promised a permanent political solution for the hills and tribal status to 11 hill communities. “There is no reason to doubt our commitment made in the Sankalp Patra,” said a confident Patel. He said BJP would focus on Darjeeling hills on issues like culture and tourism in their vision document for the Bengal elections. Trinamul leaders scoffed at Patel and Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling. “Weather in the hills is excellent and tourists are visiting the area. The central minister is also touring the area like any other tourist and so is the MP, who stayed away from his constituency during the critical period (of lockdown),” said Ranjan Sarkar, president, Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul. Anit Thapa, leader of the Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, on Saturday said in Kalimpong that his party slogan for the Bengal elections would be “hamro ghar, afnai bhar”, which loosely translates to building a house on one’s might.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested in schoolboy murder case||Two youths have been arrested in connection with the January 7 kidnap and murder of 13-year-old schoolboy Anik Das at Paranpur village. Abir Das and his friend Sagar Kaibartya, both jobless, confessed to the crime and were sent to police custody by a local court where they were produced on Saturday. “Both planned to abduct Anik and demand a ransom of Rs 60 lakhs from his wealthy father, and use the money and open a cell phone shop,” said a police officer. “But later they killed the boy thinking he would reveal their identity on release.” Cops had earlier suspected a family trading in cannabis before cracking the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal groundwork for PM-Kisan||The Mamata Banerjee government started groundwork to verify farmers who have applied for the Centre’s PM-Kisan scheme to ensure Bengal farmers get central financial aid at the earliest. Trinamul insiders said Mamata is keen on completing the state verification of applicants fast to put pressure on the BJP-led Centre and counter its campaign that the Bengal government was depriving farmers of central aid. “If we verify applicants on time and the Centre fails to transfer funds to farmers’ accounts ahead of polls, we can use it against the BJP...We will also highlight that while the state scheme is for all farmers, the central one is selective in nature,” said a minister. BJP national president J. P. Nadda in Katwa on Saturday claimed the Bengal government agreed to implement PM-Kisan scheme in the state only recently as the chief minister realised that her party is losing the farmers' support base here. So far, the state has been told by the Centre that 21.79 lakh farmers applied for the PM-Kisan scheme. Sources said the state government will match the list of applicants under the central scheme with the state’s own Krishak Bandhu scheme as soon as it gets the applicant list from the Centre. Sources in Nabanna said 47 lakh farmers of Bengal’s total 72 lakh farmers — according to the 2015 agriculture census  — had registered under Krishak Bandhu. Another 2 lakh farmers applied for Krishak Bandhu through camps under Duare Sarkar. “Those who get aid under the state’s scheme will automatically qualify for the Centre’s one,” said an official. “In case there are applicants not enrolled under Krishak Bandhu, a verification process has to be undertaken by asking them to submit their land holding records. But I am sure the number of such applicants would be minimal,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP continues its missteps about celebrated figures in Bengal||Essential lesson for the next BJP leader parachuting into Bengal: Jekhane bagher bhoy, shekhanei shondhye hoy. Disaster always strikes at the worst time and place, the Bengali saying means. Had BJP national president J.P. Nadda been aware of the sage advice, he would not have described on Saturday a temple as the holy site of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu’s deeksha (initiation). The temple in Katwa in East Burdwan was built in 1839. Mahaprabhu, a paragon of the Bhakti movement and Vaishnavism, breathed his last at the age of 48 in 1534 or 305 years before the temple took shape. Missteps about celebrated figures in Bengal -- ranging from Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and Birsa Munda to Rabindranath Tagore -- are becoming a habit with visiting BJP leaders who try too hard to display their connect with the local culture and counter the bohiragawto (outsider) label ahead of the Assembly polls. On Saturday, after visiting the temple at Jagadanandapur village in Katwa, 140km from Calcutta, Nadda said: “Mitron, aaj main Radha Govindji ke puratan mandir mei gaya, jahan Chaitanya Mahaprabhu ney diksha li thi (Friends, today I went to an old temple of Radha Govind, where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu received initiation).” The initiation of Mahaprabhu, extolled frequently by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, took place in 1510 --- that is, 329 years before the Jagadanandapur temple came up, according to several accounts. The Jagadanandapur temple authorities said it had no connection to the initiation of Mahaprabhu. “Ours is an old Vaishnav temple set up by a local zamindar, Radhamohan Ghosh Chowdhury, in 1839. Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, obviously, could not have been initiated here,” said Nimai Das, the temple-in-charge. Some residents of Katwa said Nadda had probably confused the Jagadanandapur temple with the Shri Shri Gouranga Temple, around 10km away. Centuries older, the Gouranga temple was the one Mahaprabhu purportedly visited in 1510. “Chaitanya Mahaprabhu came to Katwa from Nadia’s Nabadwip and was initiated by Keshav Bharati in 1510,” said Swapan Kumar Thakur, who researches local history and culture in Katwa. BJP leaders said the mistake was the result of miscommunication, adding that Nadda was supposed to visit the Gouranga temple. “The plan was changed for security arrangements, basically because of the unavailability of a proper spot to build a helipad for his landing. I think he was not told that the temple he had actually visited was not the one he had expected to. It was not his fault, of course,” said Krishna Ghosh, the BJP’s Katwa unit chief. Trinamul Congress vice-president Saugata Roy said: “You cannot learn the history, culture, tradition, language and heritage of such a glorious state overnight…. In their hurry to appropriate Bengal icons, they are making mistake after mistake…. Primarily because they are essentially bohiragawto, in mind and spirit.” On his part, Nadda did strive to fit in. Instead of sticking to Lord Ram alone, the BJP chief tried his hand at new slogans hailing Durga and Kali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Centre’s panel for Netaji skips his party ||Names of an 85-member committee formed by the central government to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have been made public. But the absence of anyone from the Forward Bloc, a party founded by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in 1939, raised eyebrows. “The central government was either afraid that we might refuse to be a part of this committee since it is headed by a PM who belongs to a communal party or they are scared of the questions we might raise in case we are included,” said Naren Chatterjee, FB state general secretary. Chatterjee added that Netaji stood for a secular India and his life’s work represented his determination to put in place a people’s government. “The BJP is a communal party. It is also trying snatch away the rights of the common man and empower the corporate sector. They don’t have any right to celebrate Netaji,” he added. Modi apart, 10 Union ministers, including Amit Shah, Board of Control for Cricket in India boss Sourav Ganguly, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and six other chief of states, former Bengal CM Buddhedeb Bhattacharjee, former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and H.D. Deve Gowda, BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh, Trinamul turncoats Suvendu Adhikari and Sunil Mondol, actors Mithun Chakraborty and Kajol, music composer A.R. Rahman and filmmaker Kaushik Ganguli are among those who feature on the list. Several Bengal politicians, including those from the BJP that this paper spoke to said including Trinamul turncoats meant that the panel was formed with a political aim. A state BJP leader said that the list called Suvendu an MLA though he resigned as a legislator before switching over to the BJP. “Even if I consider that Suvenduda’s name was included as an MLA, what wrong did the MLAs who had originally won on a BJP ticket do?” this person asked, underlining the existing inner feud between BJP old-timers and Trinamul turncoats. The issue brought arch-rivals CPM and Trinamul on the same page, with representatives from both criticising the omission of Forward Bloc. “It was important to have representation from the party Netaji had himself founded, in a committee set up to commemorate his birth anniversary,” said Left legislative party leader and CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty. Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that the absence of any representation of the FB in the committee only showed that BJP central leaders were unaware of Bengal’s history. “They earlier said that Rabindranath Tagore was born in Visva-Bharati. To not include FB in this committee is a punishable offence,” Roy said. As the state government recently unveiled mega plants to celebrate Netaji's birthday, it was not clear whether Mamata would accept the offer to be a member of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||‘BJP poster boy’ finger at Visva-Bharati VC||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty took part in an hour-long sit-in on Saturday to demand the control over a 2.9km road that the state government had taken away from the university on January 1, his protest purportedly endorsed by the BJP by way of posters by its youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha pledging to “fight under the VC’s leadership” and urging people to join his “movement”. An embarrassed university administration had to order the removal of the posters, but not before it sparked off a political row, prompting the BJP to smell a conspiracy. BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra said the posters were a “conspiracy” to defame his party and the VC. “During the visit of Amit Shah last month, Trinamul goons tried to malign us by putting up posters across Santiniketan and Bolpur that had Rabindranath Tagore’s picture placed below that of the Union home minister. Today (Saturday) was another conspiracy to defame the BJP and the VC,” Hazra said. But for many others, the posters validated what Mamata had said at her Bolpur rally on December 29: “I don't have any individual grudge against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of BJP.” Trinamul’s Birbhum chief Anubrata Mondal said: “Our supremo Mamata Banerjee has already said that the VC was actually a BJP leader. These posters go on to prove our charge (as correct).” “The posters prove beyond doubt that the VC is working at the behest of the BJP,” said a senior official of Visva-Bharati on condition of anonymity because of the existing gag order on varsity employees. The university administration headed by Chakrabarty has been at loggerheads with the state government for the past few days over the ownership of the 2.9km long road connecting Santiniketan to Sriniketan. The road originally belonged to the state’s public works department and the charge of maintaining the stretch was handed over to the university authority in 2017. Following appeals to the chief minister by residents who raised objections to the varsity imposing an embargo on the movement of vehicles on the road, Mamata issued an instruction to take back the road during an administrative review meeting in Bolpur on December 28. Around 9am on Saturday, some 300 varsity teaching and non-teaching staff joined Chakraborty at the protest at Chhatimtala. A petition signed by 380 members of the Visva-Bharati family has also been sent to Mamata requesting her to return the road to the varsity. The letter stated that if the varsity did not get back control of the road, heavy vehicles on the stretch “will shake the foundations” of the architectural and cultural insignias on either side of the road. Some varsity students also held a demonstration demanding the immediate scrapping of suspension of economics professor and Visva-Bharati Faculty Association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. He was suspended earlier this week for his complaint against the appointment of a principal of a school under the varsity, but many held the view that he was punished for going against the VC’s attempt to saffronise the campus. “The VC is demanding rights to the road. But he will have to answer us why so many people are being suspended from the varsity. We are here to demand those answers,” said SFI leader Somnath Sow, who led the protest. In another show of protest, a group of traders also demonstrated against the VC demanding the return of money that the varsity had collected from them as security deposit for Pous Mela in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases 8,034 in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 75th consecutive day, since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, with the total cases falling from 37,190 to 8,034, improving by over 78 per cent. The state logged 978 recoveries, 787 new infections and 20 deaths on Saturday, including five from Calcutta, in the 24-hour window ending 9am. Bengal now has around 3.6 per cent of the nation’s active cases, down from over 7 per cent in about a month. Bengal’s recovery rate has risen for 79 consecutive days, by over 9 per cent, to 96.79. The national rate now is 96.4 per cent. “We will go past 98 in recovery rate and fall below 5,000 in total active cases by the time vaccination takes off,” said a minister, adding Bengal “was doing exemplarily well, given the size and density of our population”. Since Durga Puja-end, Bengal reported nearly 2.32 lakh recoveries and 2.06 lakh new infections. Calcutta High Court intervened to prevent crowding and worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court before New Year celebrations. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November, and so far in 2021, showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.56 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal’s total test count — including 34,221 tests on Saturday — went past 74.06 lakh, at 82,293 tests per million people. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.59 lakh cases includes nearly 5.42 lakh recoveries and 9,922 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. The state government attributed 8,327 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
10-01-2021||West Bengal||Farm laws for freedom: Nadda to farmers||BJP national president J.P Nadda on Saturday collected “ek mutho chaal” (a fistful of rice) from farmers to launch a party event to woo the peasantry in Bengal with an eye on the Assembly polls amid the ongoing farmer protests in Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws. Launching the farmers’ outreach programme, Nadda defended the farm laws saying that they were aimed at ensuring “freedom for the farmers” before explaining the “ek mutho chaal” event at a public rally at Katwa in East Burdwan. He held a well-attended roadshow in Burdwan later in the day. “BJP workers will visit farmers’ houses, ask for a fistful of rice and take a pledge to protect their interest…. The programme will continue till January 24. BJP workers will visit 40,000 villages in Bengal. After this, BJP workers will observe “Krishak Bhoj’ (lunch with farmers) till January 31 and tell them what injustice is being done to farmers in Bengal,” said Nadda making it clear that the BJP was trying to win over the 72-lakh-odd farmers in Bengal. He also used the occasion to launch an attack on the Mamata Banerjee government for delaying the rollout of the PM-Kisan scheme in Bengal. Many insiders in the BJP said the launch of the event in Bengal’s rice bowl East Burdwan was planned to woo the farming community that has backed Mamata since her Singur and Nandigram movements against forcible land acquisition. However, some of the five farmers, whose homes he visited to collect rice, were unaware of the “benefits” Nadda spoke of. “I had to ask him how the government can help us get a better price for our crops,” said Nitai Mondal, a farmer who owns five acres and whose home was one that Nadda visited to collect rice. Another farmer Mathura Mondal looked equally lost when asked if he had any idea about the benefits Nadda spoke of. “He gave me a leaflet and pasted a sticker on the wall of our house,” Mathura said, adding he was yet to learn what the BJP wanted to do for farmers. Many at the rally returned home with the same confusion. “I own no land but I love Modi. I am holding this placard to support farm laws as I love Modi,” said Bishu Pradhan, a farmer from Gourdanaga village of Katwa. Nadda used every minute of his speech and a news meet later to convince the farming community in Bengal the need to “embrace the BJP” and “throw out Mamata” for the farm sector's benefit. On the Delhi protests, he stressed the Centre was continuing its dialogue with the farmers to find a resolution to the impasse. “Your presence in huge numbers is proving that Mamata’s departure is certain,” said Nadda at the rally. At the news meet, he said that the people’s spontaneous support for the party was proof that the BJP would sweep the polls. “The people of Bengal have made up their mind to reject Mamata.” At the news meet, he said the BJP was committed to the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. “The home ministry is drawing up the rules… We are committed to the implementation of the act in letter and spirit,” he said. In his first visit to Bengal after his convoy was attacked on its way to Diamond Harbour last month, he said the manner in which he faced the attack and later “abused by the chief minister” and her party did not gel with Bengal’s culture. “The language used by the chief minister against me or our Prime Minister does not reflect Bengal’s culture. We represent the true culture of Bengal… Don’t forget that Syama Prasad Mookerjee, a Bengali, was the founder of Jana Sangh,” he said, before stressing that Bengal’s people didn’t approve the outsider tag Trinamul leaders were putting on BJP leaders. Nadda, married to a Bengali, also stressed he has “lived” the Bengali culture. The BJP seemed to have flagged off its election campaign in the hills through Prahlad Singh Patel, the Union minister of state for tourism and culture. BJP ally in the hills GNLF lined up party supporters in Darjeeling to welcome the minister on Friday. Trinamul said Patel had gone as a tourist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-241
10-01-2021||Opinion||Dead man talking ||Death is a great unifier. The experience of bereavement can blur cultural and linguistic barriers. The ways of coping with the loss of a loved one are diverse — in Sudan, people celebrate the dead by dressing in their likeness and dancing; the Torajans of Indonesia have been known to care for and talk to a mummified body months after the person has died. What is common to most cultures, however, is the desire for contact with those who have passed on. It is not surprising that one of the oldest — and perhaps most enduring — means of coping with loss is communion with the dead. In pre-industrial societies the shaman — he survives in ancient pockets of the modern world — served as the crucial link between the worlds of the living and the dead. This link to the shadowy world may have been rendered tenuous by the cold shard of scientific reasoning. But loss does not yield to reason: the desire to communicate with loved ones beyond the grave persists. Even science seems to have taken note of this bond, donning the mask of the shaman in the process. Microsoft has filed a patent, which raises the intriguing possibility of digitally reincarnating dead people as a chat bot. The artificial intelligence bot would use ‘social data’ — images, voice data, social media posts, electronic messages and letters — to build the profile of the deceased and a 2D or 3D model of the person may be generated using images and video data. Essentially, technology would be striving to create digital surrogates of the dead. This copy could exist in a kind of virtual Elysium, able to Skype into family dinners long after a person has died. For the bereaved, this could be a balm for their pain. But the cultural and philosophical implications of science resurrecting the dead are worrying. Loss is integral to life, deepening its meaning for humanity. It is the fear of as well as the experience of loss that, ironically, gives humanity its ability to relate to and hold dear the world, its beings and values. The prospect of immortality could well snuff out this shared joy and spirit of empathy, hurtling civilization towards an unimaginable ennui. Moreover, is it not death that remains the ultimate marker of difference between man and machine? The blurring of lines between science and neo-shamanism raises other interesting questions. Science has long been criticized for its reliance on positivism and empiricism, traits that, while being critical to challenge the irrational, have also made the scientific pursuit immune to the world of emotions. It seems that advancements — AI is one example — are arming science to attain a more humane essence. But the transformation — concession to emotion — can do a lot of damage to the edifice of rationality. Also, an AI chat bot equivalent of the dear departed would, essentially, be equivalent to pulling the wool over the discerning eye. Science’s conquest of the final frontier — mortality — remains incomplete. Unlike the shaman, science will not be able to make the dead — a technological amalgamation of facts and images of a lived life — speak of their new, nebulous world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Humpty Dumpty had a great fall||When a big fella falls flat on the face, the other small, big and middling fellas cannot help but feel secretly thrilled. Last Wednesday’s hurly burly at the United States’ Capitol Hill by Donald Trump supporters even as the Congress was certifying Joe Biden’s victory, did not so much elicit shock and horror as it did a smug satisfaction. In the global arena, this extended way beyond Bully Trump. In the global arena, this was actually about the self-righteous, sanctimonious, global busybody Uncle Sam taking a tumble. Jeer Leaders China did not mince its words. The foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying, harked back to the US reaction at the time of the Hong Kong protests of 2019. Speaker Nancy Pelosi had called the Anti-Extradition Law Amendment Bill demonstrations “a beautiful sight to behold” and remarked that Chinese President Xi Jinping had been “really taking China backward in terms of repression”. Russian President Vladimir Putin, for all his bromance with Trump, pretended nothing had happened --- he wished his constituency Merry Christmas instead on the occasion of Orthodox Christmas Day. But Konstantin Kosachev, who is head of the foreign affairs committee in Russia’s Federation Council, said in a social media post: “The celebration of democracy is over. America no longer forges that path, and consequently has lost its right to define it. Much less force it on others.” Master Class Iran President Hassan Rouhani said, “What we saw in the US last night and today really showed that first how brittle and weak western democracy is, and how weak its foundations are.” Iran and the US have had no diplomatic relations for the last three decades and since 1995 the US has an embargo on trade with Iran. And when Turkey urged its citizens in the US to stay away from crowded places and demonstrations, it was pointed out that this mimicked the tone of US government advisories for its own while visiting Turkey in view of the “terrorism risk”. Pakistan reacted with a rather emphatic congratulation to President-elect Joe Biden on the certification of his win by the US Congress. And in Jeune Afrique, the French-language pan-African weekly news magazine, columnist Damien Glez wrote, “We often look like those we snub.” PM Modi tweeted that he was “distressed”, adding something about how the democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests. When a big fella falls flat on the face, the smart fellas take notes from the margins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Deep impressions||The first female doctors in Indian history leave a deep impression. From the late 19th century to the mid-20th century, these brilliant women carried the zeal of providing medical assistance to their hapless sisters dying during childbirth. Anandibai Joshi got her medical degree from the Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1886 which she attained after showing tremendous courage and fortitude in facing opposition, travelling alone to the United States of America at the age of 17, living among strangers for four years and completing a gruelling medical course. Married in childhood, she had suffered a painful childbirth and the loss of her infant son by the age of 12, which had taken a heavy toll on her health. She passed away just before she turned 22 due to tuberculosis, which worsened during the long sea voyage from America to Bombay. Rukhmabai was the next gynaecology surgeon who had earlier become famous for her refusal to cohabit with her husband as “it was a child marriage and her consent was not asked.” The British court and the conservative Hindu had agreed that kanyadaan means the gifting of a virgin daughter from father to groom; her consent was thus irrelevant. This case was widely publicized in India, England and the US, and was instrumental in the passage of the Age of Consent Act, 1891. Rukhmabai was saved from going to prison by the Sutar panchayat in Bombay after the payment of a hefty fine to the husband. She then went to the Royal Free Hospital in London and became a doctor in 1894. Rashid Jahan was a doctor, communist and writer. Born in 1905 in Aligarh, she studied in Lucknow and Delhi and was at the helm of the Progressive Writers’ Association and the movement led by the Indian People’s Theatre Association. While practising gynaecology, she witnessed the horror of women’s health and presented it through her stories. Women in her stories speak about unending cycles of cumbersome pregnancies and excruciating deliveries as well as of the obligation of wives to satisfy the sexual hunger of husbands. She had made prostitutes heroines of her poignant short stories before Saadat Hasan Manto did. All these women faced societal opposition and derision. Apart from her husband, Anandibai had no emotional ties left in India as her decision to study abroad had turned her relatives and well-wishers away. Rukhmabai came back to Maharashtra but was not welcomed. She accepted a medical position first in Surat and then in Rajkot. She returned to Mumbai only after her retirement. Rashid Jahan was named ‘Angareywali’ and received threats that her nose would be cut off after her stories were published in an explosive Urdu book, Angarey (Embers), 1932. Her father’s school for girls was termed as a house of pleasure. The similarity of their life experiences ends here. Rashid Jahan lived a full life surrounded by a circle of friends, associates and admirers. Her parents and siblings supported her wholeheartedly. She was married to a fellow communist, Mahmuduz Zaffar, and her house became a space for shayaris, plays and stories. Faiz Ahmad Faiz found his communist moorings along with Jahan. Ismat Chughtai adored her and declared, “Rashidapa spoke about everything boldly and loudly. I just wanted to imitate her.” In contrast, our Maharashtrian Hindu heroines lived lonely lives. Even Pandita Ramabai, a dazzling personality, scholar of Sanskrit, the author of High Caste Hindu Woman, had only one friend left in Mahatma Phule. When she converted to Christianity, her circle of reformists disowned her. She started the Mukti mission and the Sharada Sadan ashram near Pune and lived out her life surrounded by orphaned, destitute girls and young widows. Women always pay a severe cost for their choices. Either you live as a ‘good woman’ as society ordains or live a lonely life on the periphery. But not Rashid Jahan. While the conservative Muslim community and Urdu press abhorred her, her family and comrades enveloped her in warmth and humour. The communist value system played a role in this, as did progressive Islam. When I read her biography as also those of other women writers in Urdu, I wondered where the myth of the Muslim woman as victim comes from? Each social group has its archaic orthodox faction and the progressive liberal stream. We choose to focus on one or the other. ‘Why do Muslim girls not marry Hindu boys?’ we are asked repeatedly despite no statistical evidence to prove the claim that Hindu women marrying Muslim men are more in proportion than vice-versa. This is because the debate about Muslim women is currently limited to marriage, divorce — triple talaq — and the hijab/burqa. But surely women ought to have more than marriage and clothes? What about their education, health, mobility? The Sachar Committee report shows us that since 1947, Muslims have sunk lower on all development indices; their employment rates in the formal sector are abysmal and access to education is inadequate. The Ajlaf or lower caste Muslims, who were artisans of once flourishing trades, have sunk lower than Hindu Dalits who, in 1947, were severely destitute and exploited. The rapid communalization of politics and public life has further marginalized and terrorized them. How will Muslim women find the mobility and the courage to make their own choices? B.R. Ambedkar tried to bring the Hindu Code Bill that gave property rights to women along with the freedom to divorce. He thought that with these rights women would gain the confidence to choose their life partners and, in time, dismantle the caste system with inter-caste marriages. The Brahmin orthodoxy in the Constituent Assembly blocked the Hindu Code Bill. ‘What will happen to our sons, if we give property to daughters?’ they asked enraged. Ambedkar resigned and converted to Buddhism. Jawaharlal Nehru then got the Hindu Code Bill passed in a piecemeal manner as the Hindu Marriage Act, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act and so on. Hindu women benefited from these as well as from access to education and employment. Many expanded their choices to not marry at all or have children. The orthodoxy still wants to curtail them. Thus the attacks on young women drinking alcohol or wearing Western clothes. Hence the wrath against Hindu women marrying Muslim men — how dare they exercise their choices? Especially since, it is alleged, an equal number of Muslim girls are not coming into the Hindu fold. To me this sounds like the ‘exchange of women’ that India and Pakistan organized in 1950. In the mayhem of the Partition, women were the worst casualty: they were abducted, raped or kept in the homes of their captors. Within a few months, some had married their abductors — as is shown in Amrita Pritam’s Pinjar — and had children. Some had already run away with their lovers. Most were certain that they were now too ‘tarnished’ for their families and would only bring ‘dishonour’. As Ritu Menon and Kamala Bhasin write, in the border camps women who did not want to be ‘recovered’ were dragged away from their children to tally the number of women exchanged. So who are these victimized Muslim women that the Hindu right-wing wants to save? In 2017, the Muslim women’s networks obtained a historic victory in the triple talaq case in the Supreme Court. It looks like they decided to save themselves. They are now determined to save the Indian democracy. Remember Shaheen Bagh and several other places where we saw Muslim women in leadership position while Muslim men — young and old — played supporting roles. We saw hijab-clad young women turning their bodies into shields to protect their comrades from police batons. As Amir Aziz put it memorably in his poem, “Chulho se bandh di gayi chingariya mashaal ban jati hai, Gulam ke bediyon ki awaze azadi ki jhankar ban jati hai, isharon se inkilab karti hai, Jamia ki Ladkiyan (the sparks tied down to the hearth become torches/ the sounds of chains of the slaves become the echoes of freedom./ They do revolt with their eyes, these girls of Jamia).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Aaj phir marney ka irada hai||Sui Generis. That would be the sui for me, none else, thank you very much. Is there one available? Anywhere? Anyone? Tell naaa?   Everybody is going sui, sui, sui, sui, sui, as if it were some life-saving mantra whose very incantation would unlock the doors to escape into immortality. Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui, like some jaap, or Uber-yogic exercise recommended by BabaHaramDev as single-window redemption from troubles. Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui... Which sui? Vexing question. The kind of vexing that has triggered a rush of eloquence waxing all about. So much wax, nobody would dare hold a candle to it. It melts and freezes, and turns hard, so hard it sounds like it has taken a position. A position from which it will not budge. Non-negotiable. Unequivocal. Calcified. Here. This one. Nothing else. But there appears to be a small problem. Or many small problems. Those problems are that there is a multiplicity waxing eloquent. Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui. Or, who knows, one or two more suis lying about here and there, or about to be revealed. Which sui? The suis are at war, twisting against each other in order to take precedence over twisting into us. Waxing eloquent and taking positions and getting calcified there, each as righteous as the other, while we are left wondering. Are they meant to sort us out or are they sorting each other, would-be solutions having turned into a parade of problems? Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui... Which sui? How do we get to choose? How should we even know which to choose? Which not to use? Someone, hey one of you, please get up, move your parts and go ask those chaps up there to do a National Register of Suis (NRS) so we have a sense of which sui and which sui not. Get the papers out, come on, they know how to do it. Then we can employ the Sui Amendment Act (SAA), so we know which sui to keep, which to import and which to throw out. Jaaaao! Else, how would we ever know? We have to do this, we have to separate good germ from bad germ, termite from vegemite. Vegemite. Please ensure. God knows what they put into those suis in the labs, am hearing all sorts of things, frightening and heretical things. They put animals in suis? Really? Things from other filthy things? Bovine things and porcine things? And things from things that bat about and crawl and slither? I mean, what the hell is happening? What devilish alchemy do they get up to in those secretive labs? They suck things out of one kind of living-killer things and freeze or fry what they suck out and they inject those fried and frozen things and inject them into other living-killer things. Is that how this is all done? Tauba-tauba. God save us. Let us not have to make choices between sui, sui, sui, sui, sui, sui and sui. Open the coffers overnight. In the morning we shall take count of who put in how much and we will know who values us, and our lives, most. Voila! Solution found. The sui that gives most will be the sui for us, for what better test for the best sui than a sui that stands most firmly by the nation and its leader, the most nationalist sui of all? Have faith in that sui. Get it done. Get that one sui, and we shall melt all others, and kill this murmur of sui, sui, sui, sui, sui. Sui? You know what? You should’ve known from the very start but you didn’t trust yourself enough, you had no faith in Faith. You were not faithful enough. Learn. It isn’t too late, though it is getting late. It is a matter of faith. What can be above faith? No law. No belief system. No logic. No argument. No ideology. No evidence. No technology. No science. If you have faith, you have a sui. If you are faithful, you are doing well, because you found it, your Sui Generis!   Please give advance intimashun So with no or little hezitashun I can get into pozishun To bare my part for vaxinashun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Restful life: rest cannot replace sleep in its restorative quality||Sir — Research has suggested that rest cannot replace sleep in its restorative quality. Yet, sleep is not always restful. It can rejuvenate bodily functions, but can it restore mental balance? Restful time spent reading, gardening, listening to music or even in contemplation can be a balm for the soul, fortifying a person against the relentless pace of modern life. In essence, both are equally important. In a rush to improve one’s productivity, one should not fall into a vicious cycle of sleep and work. Taking time out to rest is key to not burning out. No amount of sleep can ensure that.Papia Guha, Calcutta Day of shame Sir — It is not surprising that the era of Donald Trump came to a close in a scene reminiscent of the fall of an ill-fated Roman or Czarist empire. The mob that converged on Capitol Hill signed off on a saga of ineptness compounded by ego. Trump’s falsehoods and obstinacy have extracted a steep cost from a proud nation. The common people who bought into Trump’s lies, however, are far less to be blamed than the politicians who promoted Trump with evangelical fervour so as to consolidate power. This egged people on to take to the streets to avenge an imagined voter fraud. Trump’s dreams of a people’s revolution returning him to power became a nightmare for America at Capitol Hill. With his colleagues now deserting his sinking ship and in the face of a severe backlash from every section of the polity, Trump has now conceded defeat in an election he lost long ago by thousands of real votes. The United States of America has lost face in the global arena and the new leadership must repair and reclaim its lost prestige. If Trump creates any further problems, he should be impeached at once. This would underscore that no matter how popular a leader, he cannot cast a shadow either on the democratic accountability of a high office or eclipse an inclusive socio-political ethos that is the very sap of progressive democracies.R. Narayanan, Navi Mumbai Sir — President Donald Trump should be suspended from the party and barred from politics in order to teach authoritarian leaders throughout the world a lesson. ‘Trumpism’ should be given a proper and public burial, otherwise it will raise its ugly head elsewhere. Countries like India are especially vulnerable to the kind of intolerance and divisiveness that led to the attack on the US Capitol. India has already witnessed such an attack which led to the demolition of the Babri Masjid. At least the Trump administration faced a serious challenge from the various institutions of democracy throughout the four years of its maladministration. In India, the pillars of democracy have been uprooted systematically in the last six years. Today there is not a single democratic institution left in India which can stop the government from taking undemocratic steps. Even if the Hindutva forces are defeated by a people’s mandate, who is to say that the self-proclaimed foot soldiers of Hindutva will not choose to do to the Parliament what they did to the Babri Masjid? It is thus important that we support the voices that still dare to speak up for democracy, be it at Shaheen Bagh or on the Singhu border.Shovanlal Chakraborty, Calcutta Sir — No one would have doubted America’s commitment to democracy until this week when thousands of people stormed into the US Capitol to stop the Congress from certifying Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential elections. Such barbarity has blackened the history of American electoral democracy. Reportedly, Donald Trump incited these groups of hooligans to march on to the Capitol to pressurize the rejection of the election results. This is the same Trump on whose felicitation the Indian prime minister spent crores of public money. This raises doubts about the latter’s commitment to democracy. Trump must be internationally reprimanded for his brazen behaviour. One hopes that the Biden administration will usher in a new era of fair play and maintain good diplomatic relations with India.Mrinal Kanti Kundu, Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||RSS in the time of Modi: dominated but happy||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is regarded as the parent body of the wider saffron family, including the Bharatiya Janata Party. The relationship between the RSS and the BJP, particularly when the latter is in power, has been a difficult one to manage. Friction between the ideological parent and the political offspring was common during the days when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister. Narendra Modi, however, has achieved a rare feat — to dominate the RSS and keep it happy at the same time. The RSS has several complaints with regards to the party organization and the government, but is unable to voice them. The reason is this: Modi has given the RSS so much in terms of ideologically important issues that its leaders cannot muster up the courage to voice even legitimate complaints. Modi has fulfilled the two most difficult dreams of the sangh — building the Ram temple and revoking Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. On the new farm laws, insiders say that even the RSS feels that the agitating farmers’ principal demand for a legally guaranteed minimum support price for their produce is just. The parent body, however, has refrained from putting pressure on the government to make the necessary amendments, if not repeal the laws. At a three-day RSS-BJP coordination meeting early this week, the issue was discussed. However, the RSS leadership left the matter for the government to resolve. “Farmers should sit and hold a discussion with the government to find a solution,” said the RSS joint general secretary, Krishna Gopal, to repeated questions over the RSS’s views on the farm laws and the protests. He did not say anything beyond this. At a time when the netas of various parties are trying to portray themselves as gau sevaks and gau rakshaks, the Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, has uttered a louder ‘moo’ than them. As Kumar and his cabinet colleagues declared their assets on New Year’s Eve, people found out that he owned 12 cows and six calves. His cattle wealth is growing; two years ago, he had just eight cows and six calves. Some said he has more than what the charismatic cowherd, the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, and his wife, Rabri Devi, possess. That Kumar is a gau bhakt, or cow devotee, is no secret. He has been advocating the protection of the indigenous breeds of cattle and setting up cattle institutes in Bihar. However, none among his retinue was willing to reveal how much milk the CM’s house produces and what happens to it. Some of them did say that Kumar, a vegetarian, consumes milk as part of his diet. It is also used in tea served to the staff working at his residence, officers being summoned as well as visitors. This is unlike the Lalu-Rabri household; the milk of the family’s cattle is reportedly supplied to a posh hotel in the state capital. However, some leaders saw politics in Kumar’s love for cows. “He can project himself as more rustic than Lalu, and more [of a] cow lover than the politicians of the BJP-RSS axis. This is a win-win situation for him. We think only [the] Nationalist Congress Party chief, Sharad Pawar, can outdo him in this,” a leader reportedly said. It is not known yet whether the CM plays with his cows or hugs them, activities which are among the latest wellness and therapy trends in the West. The continuance of Govind Dotasra as the Rajasthan Congress president and the balancing act in the constitution of committees indicate that the party high command has decided to forget the ugly rebellion and fully accommodate the Sachin Pilot group. Pilot loyalists have already been included in the state committees; the young leader himself now may be given some important responsibility at the national level. There is strong speculation about Pilot becoming general secretary with an important state under his charge; he may also become a party spokesperson. With Pilot as a gen-sec sitting in Delhi, the Rajasthan CM, Ashok Gehlot, will breathe easy for the rest of his term. Gehlot was not keen to accommodate Pilot in the state after the rebellion. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wanted to do so and restore Pilot’s pride; the new general-secretary in charge, Ajay Maken, executed the plan to perfection. He is said to have smartly handled factional pressures to keep senior leaders happy while also creating a small organizational machinery, avoiding the lazy formula of appointing dozens of gen-secs and vice presidents. Rajasthan is crucial to the Congress revival plan; retaining power in 2023, just before the next parliamentary polls, will be the most important task for the party. The Congress high command is apparently trying to help prepare its state units in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal for the electoral battle ahead. In Assam, Jitendra Singh was appointed the AICC gen-sec and in-charge of the state in September; the leadership has now drafted the Chhattisgarh CM, Bhupesh Baghel, as a senior observer for Assam. These moves have been welcomed by party workers and leaders; now they are wondering what the central leadership is thinking about uniting the state leadership. Most senior state leaders have reservations about the fact that the Congress decided to continue with the state PCC chief, Ripun Bora, even though it suffered setbacks in the polls contested under him. Party insiders say these setbacks are visible to all but the top leadership. The ‘no-confidence’ against Bora saw a letter written to Sonia Gandhi in August, seeking a change of guard, leaked in December. The Congress has also not come up with a narrative appealing to the voters. Elections are all about perception, and party insiders say the Congress is losing the perception battle. “You may win or you may lose but to remain in the game you need the right people with the right ideas — and in time! Hope the high command realizes that [its] job is half done,” said a political observer. The former Karnataka CM, PC Siddaramaiah, is known for his oratory and political skills that immensely benefited the Congress. His knack of getting under political rivals’ skin has a new victim: the CM, BS Yediyurappa. Siddaramaiah said Karnataka would get a new BJP CM ‘very soon’. This has rattled Yediyurappa who has been pulling out all stops to cling to power. Now Yediyurappa supporters are desperately trying to unearth the source of Siddaramaiah’s information and check its veracity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Trafficked girls flee from captors in Rajrappa||Two teenage girls, brought to Rajrappa from Patna in a Scorpio by suspected flesh traders, managed to escape from their clutches, the police said on Sunday. According to the police, both the girls are residents of Patna’s Pirbahore area. They were held hostage by a couple in a hotel room. With the help of Giridhi MP Chandraprakash Choudhary, the victims were handed over to Rajrappa police. Later, a team from the District Child Welfare Committee and Child Help Line took them away. Akash Sharma, a member of the child welfare committee, and DSP Prakash Soy reached the hotel at Kesari Kunj on Sunday to investigate the matter. While interrogating the hotel staff, Soy came to know that the hotel manager had provided a room to the culprits without taking their ID proofs. The police said that the victims went through a medical examination at Sadar hospital in Ramgarh. At present, both of them are being interrogated by the police. The victims maintained that they had been abducted on the pretext of helping them get jobs. They also said that the abductors were even planning to send them to Kolkata. The police are now suspecting a gang which is active in Patna, Ranchi, Kolkata and Mumbai. Girls said the women, whose name is Priyanka, had forced them to establish physical relations with a man. The girls were even beaten up when they had refused to follow her orders. On Saturday evening, they somehow managed to escape from the hotel and reached a nearby shop. When the girls were asking about the transport facility to Patna, a man, who was standing nearby, took them to Giridhi MP’s residence. Soy said, “We are interrogating the victims to get more information about the gang. We will soon resolve the case. An FIR will be lodged at Mahila police station.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Samadhan conducts two-day workshop on film-making with Bollywood editor Dilip Deo||A two-day training programme by Samadhan, a Jharia-based youth organisation was organised in association with renowned Bollywood editor Dilip Deo to upgrade the skills of the youth in different aspects of film making, including editing, scriptwriting and acting. The event was held at Maithon Lake on January 9 and 10. On the first day of the workshop, the theoretical aspects of film making were explained to altogether 20 trainees. On the second day, various aspects of scriptwriting, direction, acting, camera production, editing of feature films, short films, documentary, music video and web series were explained. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, KK Sharma (68), a retired scientist of Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) and the senior-most trainee in the programme said, “The training was extremely fruitful as the minor details of film making were taught in greater detail to us during the session on Sunday.” “Though the majority of the 20-youths who participated in the workshop took interest in acting but I focused on editing and scriptwriting during which, Dilip Deo explained the scene heading and subheading writing, transition introduction, character introduction, action writing, dialogue writing and parenthetical writing, etc.” said Sharma. During the training of film editing, the team led by Deo explained the different aspects like cut, continuity editing, continuity error, cross-cutting, cutaway, establishment shot, eyeline match, fade, jump cut, montage, roll cut, sweetening wipe, etc. were explained in great detail,” further said Sharma. “I expect that the training would prove quite beneficial for the youths who will be able to make movies, short films, and web series on local issues. This will help create awareness among the people about the local issues and at the same time provide a new source of livelihood to the youths,” added Sharma. Divulging more details, Samadhan Founder, Chandan Singh said that the two-day workshop was organised to appraise the vocal for local mission and to appraise the youth about a career in other fields other than preparing for competitive exams for jobs, etc. Harshvardhan (13), the youngest participant in the training programme who also took a keen interest in editing said, “The training organised on Sunday was quite elaborate and various aspects of editing like the basics of formal language, intro, types of montage and parallel action about which we were not aware were explained by one of the best editors, Dilip Deo who has the experience of editing more than 25 movies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Anti-encroachment drive near CIMFR-Digwadih campus||As many as four houses were demolished near CIMFR-Digwadih campus during an anti-encroachment drive conducted by the district administration on Sunday. However, the drive which started in the morning under the supervision of Jharia circle officer Rajesh Kumar had stopped midway following the intervention of Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, who reached the site and asked for some time on behalf of the 65 families living against whom the notices have been issued by the district administration much earlier. A meeting was held between the CIMFR administration and the residents led by Singh under the supervision of district administration. Sub-divisional officer Surendra Prasad was present at the meeting where the administration had agreed to provide 15 days for shifting. Sandhya Oraon, a resident, said: “In 1946, the then administration had provided the space to our forefathers. But after more than 74 years, we are suddenly being asked to evacuate the place. Now we do not have any other options.” Singh said the CIMFR and district administration should have resolved the issue through talks rather than resorting to anti-encroachment drive. She said they could make temporary arrangements for those families whose houses were demolished on Sunday. CIMFR director PK Singh said, “Notices have been issued to the families several times since the last two years. As many as 30 families have already shifted from the area and we will also provide transport facility to those who are willing to shift.” “We have identified 12 financially weak families. Arrangements have been made to engage them as contractual workers with the agencies working for CIMFR,” said Singh, adding that the drive is being carried out as part of the expansion plan of the institute. Prasad said, “The residents have been given 15 days to make their arrangements. But ultimately they will have to shift from here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hotels take measures to make guests feel safe||At a time when India’s count of UK mutant virus cases rises, the hotels in coal town have taken up health and hygiene measures to make sure the guests feel safe during their stay. Hotel Cocoon, which has been ranked as the most hygienic hotel by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the Cleanliness Survey and also bestowed with Tripadvisor Travellers’ Choice 2020 Awards, has taken a slew of measures to make the guests feel at home. Talking to The Telegraph Online, the hotel’s managing director Sushant Singh said, “The frequency of deep cleaning and housekeeping has been increased everywhere including in lobby, restaurant, bar, kitchen and offices. We are using world-class disinfectants.” “To make the visitors feel safe, we are checking everyone's temperature using non-invasive thermometers. Apart from that, hand sanitisers are available everywhere in the building,” said Singh, adding that they are accepting contactless payments to ensure their clients feel more secure as they eat, wait, and pay. We are probably the only hotel in the state which have made live kitchen display arrangement through CCTV camera for customers’ satisfaction. Distance in the seating arrangement at the restaurant has been further increased to ensure safety,” said Singh. Providing more details about the world-class equipment installed at the hotel, Kaushik Dey, general manager, said the door frame metal camera with temperature scanning, mask scanning and recording facility ensures full proof safety and security from the entrance gate. Cold fogging in the entire hotel is being done with Typhoon ULV Cold Fogger. Besides, the guest luggage disinfector has also been installed at the entrance. “We have also made an arrangement for UVC disinfection system in all departments to disinfect items like fruits, vegetables, cards, keys, wallet, packed foods, mobile phones, laptops, small handbags, etc,” said Dey, adding that a hood dishwasher is being used to wash plates and utensils in warm water. Meanwhile, other hotels too have taken up similar measures including the oldest three-star hotel, Hotely Skylark, where the thermal history of each guest is being shared with the nearest police station. “We have made such an arrangement so that our staff do not have to enter the room. We deliver the orders in trolleys. We leave them outside the rooms and inform the guests,” said general manager of Skylark Hotel Anutosh Bagchi. Sonotel Hotel, the only four-star hotel in Dhanbad, has the facility of automated laundry and contactless menu at the restaurant. “Laundry is the most important part of a hotel from a safety point of view. So we have fully automated laundry for washing all the clothes including bedsheets etc. The food menus can also be scanned through mobile phones,” said general manager of Sonotel Hotel Arka Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Asian Waterbird Census to kick-off on January 15||Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) is all set to kick-off in Jharkhand from January 15 amid the ongoing bird flu scare. In this voluntary census, AWC experts will be surveying migratory and local birds as part of their exercise. According to AWC state co-ordinator Satya Prakash, the survey will be conducted across 10 water bodies including Ranchi, Ramgarh, Koderma, Dhanbad, Dumka, Hazaribag, East Singhbhum, Giridih and Sahebganj. “We have earmarked these districts and would try to cover all the bodies. Census will start on January 15 and would conclude by the month-end,” Satya Prakash informed over the phone from Hazaribag. Migratory birds usually start arriving with the onset of winter from mid-November and stay there till February. “We are working out the logistics to successfully conduct the census from January 15. Usually, it is done between December and January, but it got delayed this year owing to the pandemic,” Prakash added. He said they have a list of 5-6 volunteers and more would be added before its beginning. “We will survey around 10 water bodies including Topchanchi (Dhanbad), Massanjore (Dumka), Udhwa bird sanctuary in Sahebganj, Khandoli (Giridih), Charwa and Gonda (both in Hazaribag) and other prominent water tanks,” the AWC state co-ordinator said. Prakash said besides the Covid-19 pandemic, bird flu outbreak in the country may have affected the habits of migratory birds. In 2016-17, the survey was held for the first time in coordination with the state forest department. As many as 71,833 birds were observed, of which 42,223 were migratory. In terms of species, there were a total of 71 of which nine were endangered, 21 resident migrants, 25 migratory and so on. Another round of census, two years later, witnessed a decline in population as 51,669 birds were observed of which  20,072 were migratory. It included a total of 73 species comprising 12 endangered, 21 resident migrants and 24 migratory. Endangered birds sighted during these censuses included white-necked stork, lesser adjutant stork, oriental white ibis, fulvous whistling duck, ferruginous pochard, western marsh harrier, osprey, river tern, red-headed goose and river lapwing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Babulal Marandi demands CBI inquiry into Ormanjhi incident||Former chief minister and BJP leader Babulal Marandi has demanded CBI probe into the Ormanjhi incident blaming the state police for being ineffective in identifying the victim’s body. Last Sunday, the police have recovered the beheaded body of a young girl aged between 18 and 24 from Ormanjhi forest. Initially, while the deceased was believed to have been raped and beheaded, medical report later ruled out sexual abuse. According to information, the police are still looking for the chopped-off head to identify the victim. Addressing the daylong demonstration organised by the BJP outside Raj Bhavan, which entered the third day on Sunday, Marandi said, “The police are still unable to find the victim’s chopped-off head. The entire government machinery and police join hands to identify and arrest the protestors at Kishoreganj just because chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade had to change its route on Monday. They should have shown this seriousness in solving the Ormanjhi case. Transfer the case to the CBI if you can’t find ant solution.” Marandi said the crime rate in the state has seen a consistent rise after the Hemant Soren government came to power. “The situation would have been different today if you (Hemant Soren) have ordered to arrest the culprits and ensured speedy trial in rape and murder cases,” he said. The incident led to a massive uproar in Ranchi with hundreds of protestors taking to streets since then. One such protest at Kishoreganj on Monday turned violent when demonstrators attacked CM’s pilot car, injured a cop, and forced CM carcade to change its route. Since then, the police have arrested over 30 people and filed FIR against a group of unidentified persons. The police said Bhairav Singh, who is said to be the mastermind of Kishoreganj protest and violence earlier this week, has surrendered at Ranchi civil court. Crime against women is on the rise in state. A couple of days ago, a 50-year-old woman was gang-raped by three youths in Chatra. On Saturday, another 27-year-old married woman was gang-raped in Hazaribag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
10-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand mulls ban on poultry products from other states||The Jharkhand government might ban the entry of poultry products after cases of bird flu were reported from at least seven states across the country, an official from the animal husbandry department said on Sunday. “We are planning to ban the entry of poultry products from other states and also holding discussions regarding the same issue with higher officials and the state government. A decision will be taken depending on the situation in the neighbouring states,” said state animal husbandry director Nancy Sahay. H5N1 infection, also known as avian influenza, is a viral infection that can also infect humans and other animals. So far, such cases have been confirmed in Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh. However, none of the states that share their borders with Jharkhand, have reported bird flu cases yet, officials said. Jharkhand shares its borders with West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Uttar Pradesh, which is nearest to the Jharkhand border, has only reported bird flu cases. Officials from the animal husbandry department said Jharkhand has so far sent samples of more than 3,000 birds for tests. However, no such cases have been reported in the state till now. According to information, mysterious deaths of some crows in Jamshedpur and Dhanbad have triggered panic among locals, but officials said the virus has not yet made an entry in the state. “Till now, we do not have any confirmed case. In recent years, Jharkhand had reported bird flu cases, but the virus only infected the wild birds and not the poultry sector,” said Sahay. The department sources said if all the neighbouring state governments support the ban on entry of poultry products from other states, it would particularly impose a ban on entry of poultry products from those states from where the confirmed cases have been reported. Last week, the animal husbandry department had issued an alert over bird flu in all the 24 districts of Jharkhand. The department has also issued guidelines to prevent its spread. It also advised people not to go close to carcasses of birds and inform the district officials about the matter. The department has asked poultry farm and chicken shop owners to keep an eye on birds and report if they show symptoms like runny nose, dysentery, breathing problems, weakness and change in colour of claws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-178
