11-01-2021||Calcutta||Kids make the best of digital platform||Shri Shikshayatan School Shri Shikshayatan School recently celebrated its 68th Foundation Day on a virtual platform. The institute put up a good show despite all the limitations. The programme started with invoking Lord Ganesh through a dance recital, put up by the junior school students. This was followed by another cultural performance by the students of senior school where they presented the beauty of Lord Vishnu. “As we assemble on the virtual platform to celebrate the birthday of the institute, we would thank the forefathers of the school. This institute aims to educate girl children, so that they are empowered in every way possible,” said Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya. The school calendar of the year, titled Canvas Musicscape 2021, was launched on the occasion through which the students gave a pictorial ode to music and musicians by painting pictures of indigenous musical instruments. The highlight of the day was felicitation of the teaching staff members. “In the past year, the education system had gone through a drastic change, but we worked it out successfully with sheer dedication of our teachers,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. Teachers of both the junior and senior sections were given certificates of appreciation, silver medals and cash prizes. “Finding out the best class teacher is difficult, as every child thinks his or her class teacher is the best. This year, it was a bit different as the parents took part in an online pole and the contest was very close,” said headmistress Poushali Mukherjee. It was family time as the junior section of Birla High School, Moira Street, digitally celebrated Bonds that Bind with a Family Day event. The need to bond with the family was underlined with this celebration. Kids, parents and grandparents performed for each other and took part in a variety of activities on the occasion. The hour-long celebration commenced with a prayer service and was followed by recitations by students in vernacular languages and performances by their enthusiastic family members. Students from the kindergarten section to Class V took part in a variety of fun activities with their families, too. Nursery students created various craft items such as ice-cream stick, photo frame, Play Dough box and pencil holder from recycled items with the help of their families, while the kindergarten students teamed up with their family members to make sweets and savouries such as fruit salad, cheese corn sandwiches and biscuit cookies topped with vegetables. The students of Class I took part in a discussion on the importance of family and Class II kids designed crowns. Students of classes III and V turned chefs and whipped up dishes with their grandparents and relatives. The grandparents shared jokes, narrated stories and sang songs, making the occasion a successful one. “Celebrating Family Day brings into focus the importance of family solidarity wherein members of the family work together to sustain the unit through challenges, trials and tribulations. We believe that working together can do more to create a caring society,” said headmistress Farida Singh. St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, recently organised their annual sports carnival virtually for the primary students. Students as well as parents took part in several sports events such as sail and sink, run for fun, balance me and so on. There were displays of victory stand, trophies and certificates also to encourage the kids. “This year, owing to the pandemic, we had to do it online which requires a lot of planning. Parents were talking of indulging their wards in some physical activity. Hence, we did this as physical activity is important for a child’s well-being,” said principal Jhuma Biswas. St Augustine’s Education Society president Janet Gasper Chowdhury said: “During this period the majority of people, including students, have grown accustomed to a lifestyle with less physical activity and rarely exercise. So, we decided to arrange an online version of sports which would help them to reduce stress, control anxiety and depression, make them feel less isolated. They all have a lot of feelings right now, such as being scared because a loved one is sick, sad as they cannot see their friends at school or on the playground or even confused because they do not know what is going on. Thus, online sports is one of our many innovative initiatives to help students and their parents cope with the new normal.” Birla High School, Mukundapur, recently organised the second edition of Spellympic — an inter-school spelling and word-building contest — on a virtual platform to commemorate its Founder’s Day. This contest for students from classes IV and V focused on enabling the students to enrich their vocabulary and spellings. A total of 15 schools took part in the preliminary rounds from which 10 made it to the final that was shown live on Facebook for guardians and other viewers. The event commenced with a video of students singing Saraswati Vandana with folded hands and a visual of Goddess Saraswati. Calcutta Debating Circle’s executive member Raju Raman conducted the competition. Spellympic consisted of six rounds — general spellings, unscrambling letters, collective nouns, homophones, proverbs and online scrabble. The host school emerged champions and the first and second runner-up positions were secured by South Point School and Garden High School, respectively. “We were slightly apprehensive about conducting it on the virtual platform this year, but got delighted that it was so successful. The idea behind conducting Spellympic is to motivate the young students to hone their language skills and judging from the performance of the students on that day, it seems we have been successful in doing so,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Delhi Public School Newtown started the new year by launching an e-magazine, Udaan, for the years 2019-2020 and 2020-21. Students from nursery to Class XII, alumni and even teachers contributed to it that also contained music videos. Its link has been shared on the school website for a wider reach. “The whole school has been very enthusiastic about the project. Every year, we bring out a printed version. But the e-magazine has got a new look. We could also upload music videos,” said principal Sonali Sen. Students have contributed in Hindi, Bengali English, French and German. Children of the Asian Association of Chesterfield and North Derbyshire, UK, and Fun-Learn Day Boarding School, Calcutta, bridged the East and the West through a cross-border nativity play and carols. Fun-Learn Day Boarding School turned the pandemic into an opportunity as they collaborated with the UK organisation for the carol evenings this time. The cross-border nativity play on a digital platform had children aged four to six from both the countries. Children from India aged between six and nine sung the carols, while an eight-year-old girl from the UK played the violin to lend soul to the carols. “Many years ago, John Lenon had imagined a world sans borders, religions and boundaries. This cross-border act has proved that it is not so difficult to create such a world. More such collaborations will help the children of both the worlds appreciate each other,” said founder Udita Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Unity march in support of protesting farmers||Hundreds of people joined a torchlight rally in south Calcutta on Sunday evening in solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting at the gates of the national capital against the new farm laws. The marchers came from different faiths and walks of life. Members of the Sikh community, many of them senior citizens, walked side by side with women in hijab. Cries of “Kisan ekta zindabad (long live farmers’ unity)” and “Kisan tum aage badho, hum tumhare saath hai (Farmer, march ahead, we are with you)” rang the evening air. The rally started from the intersection of Sarat Bose Road and Chakraberia Road and culminated at Netaji Bhavan on Elgin Road, where the marchers observed two minutes’ silence to respect people who have died during the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border of Delhi. The farmers, who faced batons, tear gas and water canons to reach the Delhi border, have been braving a harsh winter and rains but have not budged from their mission — demanding a repeal of the three farm laws. Over 60 protesters have died so far. One of the marchers in Calcutta on Sunday evening was Manpreet Singh Sonu, a 35-year-old man who owns a car rental business. In the second week of December, Sonu visited the Singhu border with a group of around 30 people. He spent close to a week at the protest site to lend moral support to the demonstrators. “The spirit of unity and camaraderie at Singhu is remarkable. Help is pouring in from different quarters. If there are two cakes and five hungry people, they will divide the cake into five equal pieces,” said Sonu, who traces his roots to Punjab’s Gurdaspur. Sonu had spoken to some shopkeepers at the Singhu border. Some of them were “scared to learn about the arrival of protesters, fearing their stores would be looted”. “But the discipline and compassion of the protesters is something to learn. Now, the shopkeepers also admire their spirit,” said Sonu. Manjit Singh Jetta, 60, was at the forefront of Sunday’s rally. Jetta said a minimum support price was imperative for farmers. “The corporate houses will pay a good price for the produce in the first couple of years to wipe out the competition. Then, after establishing a monopoly, they will start calling the shots and slash the price at will,” said Jetta, whose parents had shifted from a village in Ludhiana to Calcutta when he was a boy. Both Jetta and Sonu are part of Netaji Bhagat Singh United Forum, one of the two organisations that had organised Sunday’s rally. Justice Unifying Social Transformation (JUST), a platform that comprises many women, was the other organiser. The platform came into being when the massive protests against the citizenship thrust were halted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Muslim women were at the forefront of the protests across Calcutta. “We had to take the protests to the digital space. For that, many women joined hands. That is how the forum was born,” said college teacher Nausheen Baba Khan, one of the founders of JUST and a lecturer of political science at a city college. “The farm laws are another extension of the autocratic strain of the government. The same strain that was visible when they came up with the citizenship matrix. If we don’t protest against the farm laws, we do not have the right to protest against the citizenship thrust,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
11-01-2021||Calcutta||NIT Durgapur 2020 convocation to be held on January 12||NIT Durgapur will hold the convocation scheduled to be held last year on January 12 on virtual mode because of the pandemic. A notification issued by the institute says graduating students will receive their degree certificates in an “animated mode” sitting at home. The animated mode will involve a process wherein a scanned copy of the certificate will fly across the screen of a computer, from the end of the department head or director (featured in a panel on the screen) to the recipient (featured in another panel). “The animated mode can be accessed on a computer or a smartphone,” said an NIT official. Only the director, deans, members of the institute’s board of governors and some senior officials will remain seated on the dais inside the auditorium on the campus. Once the link of the convocation proceedings is shared with the degree recipients, they can log in from a desktop, laptop or a smartphone. “As the name of a recipient is called, his or her name and picture will pop up in the designated panel on the screen and the degree will be awarded in an animated mode,” said an official of the institute. The medals and the prizes will be delivered in the same manner. “We don’t want any assembly on the campus amid the pandemic and so we decided to go virtual,” said Anupam Basu, the director of the institute. At IIT Bombay, graduating students had last year received their degrees through their animated avatars. At NIT, hard copies of the degree certificates will be mailed to the residential addresses of the recipients. The proceedings will also be livestreamed on YouTube and Facebook. Altogether, 663 people will receive their undergraduate degrees, 311 postgraduate degrees and 128 doctorate degrees. Distinguished Alumnus Awards will be conferred on Bikramjit Basu, Subir Kumar Saha and Jyotiprasad Bhattacharya. In 2019, the convocation was held on the campus in September. Classes are being held on the digital platforms at the institute as the campus is closed because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Mahadevi Birla World Academy alumni help students get CLAT-ready||A group of law college students and recent graduates is conducting classes for students of Classes XI and XII who aspire to study law. Four former students of Mahadevi Birla World Academy are taking online classes to help them crack the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The school had decided to approach former students and “build a bridge” between them and the present students. “Many of our students are in law schools across the country and we wanted to establish a connection between them and our present students. The online classes twice a week are open not only to those who have taken up legal studies, but also students from other streams who want to study law,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Students can attend classes for free, Saha said. “Competitive exams are different from any school exams. Getting help from people who have gone through the process is reassuring,” said Sai Snigdha, a second-year student of the National University of Juridical Sciences. “We talk about the mistakes we had made and guide them how to avoid making the mistakes,” she said. For Class XI student Adrija Jana, the classes also mean a “balance between preparation for school exam and CLAT.” “They are only a few years’ senior and we relate to them as they had faced the same challenges that we are facing,” said Adrija. Prachi Chowdhary, a student of National Law Institute University, Bhopal, said one needed to keep gathering knowledge to crack CLAT. “They have to read a newspaper thoroughly and a sense of distinction comes when one keeps reading from various sources. Regular guidance is needed because there is a possibility that one gets distracted and tends to focus on things not needed for the exam,” Prachi said. Prachi was seconded by legal studies teacher Fatma Jabeen, a former NUJS student. “Students are in a lot of dilemma and we have found a way to guide them outside of their school exams. For CLAT one has to read constantly because the exam tests their reading speed. One needs to comprehend and answer,” said Jabeen. For the former students it was an opportunity to give back to their alma mater. The group includes a student who takes classes from Mumbai. Nehal Binani, 24, works in a law firm in Mumbai. When approached by the school, she agreed despite having a “12 to 14-hour work schedule.” “I keep the weekends for myself and I want to play my part in the community,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Cageful of bulbuls rescued from car on Durgapur Expressway||More than 60 red-vented bulbuls that were being allegedly smuggled to Allahabad were rescued by the forest department on Durgapur Expressway. The birds were crammed inside a cage that was covered with a piece of cloth and hidden inside the boot of a car, a forest department official said. The red-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus cafer) is a member of the bulbul family and is protected under Schedule IV of The Indian Wildlife Act, 1972. It is a resident bird that breeds across the country and is also found in Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Tibet. The wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) had received information that the birds were being smuggled. The WCCB alerted the Durgapur forest range office and gave them details of the route as well as the vehicle in which the birds were being ferried. “We gathered the intelligence about the birds that were being smuggled and worked in close coordination with the Durgapur forest range office. A team of foresters intercepted the car on the highway,” said Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director of the wildlife crime control bureau. The three men in the car, who had started their journey from Ashoknagar in North 24-Parganas on their way to Durgapur, have been arrested. The birds have been kept under observation and will be released back into the wild.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC mulls steep fee for illegal structures||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) is considering charging a steep percentage of the valuation of an unauthorised structure as the regularisation fee, sources in the civic body said on Sunday. The fee is paid to legalise construction that lacks the civic body’s approval. The CMC has a schedule of rates that determines the fee. But civic officials feel the fee is too low to act as a deterrent against building unauthorised structures. “A steep regularisation fee is likely to dissuade builders from raising an illegal structure because they will not be able to make much profit by selling it after paying the fee,” a CMC official said. The authorities hope builders and property owners would not want to construct any illegal structure if they end up paying an amount almost equivalent to the property’s valuation. The civic body’s board of administrators has formed a committee of four board members to review the proposal to charge a large part of a building’s valuation (according to the inspector general of registration’s records) as regularisation fee. The committee will meet on Monday to decide on the proposal, a member of the board said. Under the existing system, the regularisation fee rate is uniform across the city. The owner of a 1,000-sq ft illegal structure on Park Street has to pay the same fee as the owner of an illegal structure of the same size in Garia. But if the proposal to link the regularisation fee with the property’s valuation is approved, the rates will differ, said CMC officials. The valuation of the Park Street property will be much higher than the one in Garia. The CMC has decided to amend building rules to allow more construction in commercial properties in select zones. An official said an additional .25 floor area ratio (FAR) will be allowed to commercial properties in these zones, which are classified as C-zones or commercial zones. “We have a list of places and select roads that fall in the C-zone. Builders can approach us to check if a place falls within the C-zone,” said the official. The floor area ratio roughly decides the maximum permissible size of a structure coming up on a particular plot. The FAR value depends on the width of the road in front of the plot and the type of building (commercial or residential), among other factors. “If the FAR value is increased for a plot, more construction will be allowed on it,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Roses wilt under fungal or viral attack||A fungal or viral attack is ravaging rose plants across the state. Nurseries in the Kharagpur belt in West Midnapore are particularly affected with reported losses of crores of rupees. If Amphan had dealt a blow to nursery owners, the pathogen attack has only aggravated the impact. Pushpanjali Nursery, one of the biggest nurseries at Jakpur village in the Kharagpur belt, has been the hardest hit. The nursery has lost 1.5 lakh rose plants in the attack. Jakpur, with about 100 nurseries, is often called Rose Village. Close to Pushpanjali is Kamal Nursery, which has a sales outlet in Bagnan in Howrah. Kamal Nursery has lost 20,000 rose plants. Sk Muhammed Ali of Green Zone Nursery on EM Bypass reports a similar story. Much like the coronavirus, the pathogen attack on rose plants has spread across the state. The first attack was reported in December 2019, said Pranabir Maity of Pushpanjali Nursery, which is spread across 6 acres. “The leaves started turning black and then fell off. We treated the plants with fungicide. But nothing seemed to be working,” said Maity. A nursery owner from Thailand who visited Pushpanjali in early 2020 suggested some remedies that seemed to have worked for some time. “Then I used an expensive fungicide called Ranman, which costs Rs 1,000 for 40ml. It seemed to be working but now again the plants are dying,” said Maity, who has lost 1.5 lakh plants and pegged his losses at Rs 1.25 crore. Pushpanjali supplies roses to the Agri-Horticultural Society of India as well as the Indian Botanic Garden. Sk Muhammed Ali of Green Zone is trying out vitamin doses for his rose plants. He calls it a viral attack that has devastated his plants since Amphan. “A new virus is killing my plants,” he said, as did Kamal Chakrabarti of Kamal Nursery. Both reported loss of leaves and blackening of plants. “Unseasonal rain must have been responsible for the viral attack,” Chakrabarty said. He has lost 20,000 rose plants that sell for Rs 10 each. His loss stands at Rs 2 lakh. S.P. Panda, a scientist with the Indian Botanic Garden who is in charge of the newly laid out rosarium, said: “We have managed to keep our plants alive with fungicide. None of our plants has been affected. Many of the rose growers use mulching sheets to keep weeds at bay. These are synthetic sheets laid at the base of the plants so that weeds do not grow. We at the botanic garden don’t use mulching sheets. Instead we deweed the rosarium manually. Thankfully, we have been able to avert the attack.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Delhi holding back research funds, says JU||Jadavpur University has told the state government that it has not received the money the Centre promised under a scheme to fund research and scholarships. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had on November 26 stated at a virtual meeting with higher education department officials that the Union education ministry was holding back the Rs 35 crore the university was to get under the scheme. The meeting was held after a state government official had told educational institutions, including JU, following a prod from the Centre, that they needed to intensify their efforts towards completing the projects approved under the scheme in the current fiscal. The university has been forced to stop spending under Rashtriya Uchchatara Siksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0 as the Centre is yet to sanction the second and last instalment of the grant amounting to about Rs 35 crore, officials said. “The non-release of the second instalment of the grant has caused unimaginable distress to 450 young scholars – working as RUSA 2.0 Fellows – who have had to bear the double burden of having to find alternative sources of income in the unprecedented situation of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Das told The Telegraph on Sunday. “Most of them have been engaged in research and project-related work without receiving any remuneration since April 1, 2020. This has forced many of them to take up jobs they would not normally.” In May 2018, JU and nine other universities from across the country were selected for receiving Rs 100 crore each under of the scheme. JU had received the first instalment of Rs 41.67 crore (Rs 25 crore from the Centre and Rs 16.67 crore from the state) in November 2018 and utilised it by the end of March 2020. Under RUSA 2.0, the Centre is to release 60 per cent of the amount and the state government the rest. The state’s grant has to follow the Centre’s. Since the Centre is holding back its share, the RUSA 2.0 rules prevent the state from releasing its. The scheme was to end on March 31, 2020, but the Centre extended it till March 31, 2021, VC Das said. A state government official said JU was told at a meeting between the education ministry and VCs on July 7, 2020, that the second instalment was not being released because 70 per cent of the teaching posts were vacant. “The condition was not mentioned in the RUSA 2.0 guidelines. It was not mentioned when the grant was sanctioned. How can a grant be stopped halfway?” asked Das. A letter addressed to Bengal education secretary Manish Jain from the education ministry in September says: “However it has been noticed that there is shortfall in faculty by 3 %. 70% faculty is required in order to process the next instalment and the University has 67% faculty. The university is requested to do the recruitment and meet the criteria of 70% faculty as soon as possible to avail the next installment.” Repeated calls to Manish Jain went unanswered. VC Das had in a letter to Sunita Siwach, the national coordinator of RUSA, on September 9 written that 69 per cent of the teaching posts had been filled. The pandemic, Das mentioned, stood in the way of filling over 90 per cent of the posts. Das also wrote: “Under Rashtriya Uchchatara Siksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0 it was not stated that having 70 per cent of all the teaching posts filled up was an essential pre-condition for receiving the grant.” The state government had in early December written to the ministry, reiterating JU’s stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal health dept assures on time vaccine drive in Calcutta||The Centre has announced that Covid-19 vaccination will start on January 16 and health officials in Bengal said on Sunday that even if the doses arrive a day before, they can start the drive in the city on time. But as for districts far away from Calcutta, the officials said, the doses should ideally reach the city by January 14 so they can be transported to remote locations in time for the inoculation to start two days later. “Even if the does reach a day before, we will be able to serve Calcutta. But to transport some of the consignments to far-flung districts, including parts of north Bengal, we want them to reach us by January 14,” a health department official said. “A lot will depend on the volume that will be sent. We are prepared for the first round of vaccination, which will involve doctors and others associated with health care.” Health department officials said they were yet to hear formally from the Centre about when the first lot of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute, would be dispatched to Bengal. The state has informed the Union health ministry about the six lakh-odd health-care workers who will be given the Covid jab in the first phase. On Monday, health department officials will start talking to private hospitals seeking details about availability of space and personnel to run vaccination sites. The Telegraph reported on Sunday that the department’s secretary had told the heads of private hospitals at a meeting on Saturday that they would have to set up Covid-19 vaccination sites on their campuses to administer the jab to their staff. “We have to find out whether the hospitals have enough space to set up vaccination sites and adequate number of vaccination officers, vaccinators and other support staff,” a health department official said. Once the list of private hospitals with the required logistics is ready, health department officials will visit the hospitals and train the staff. “It will take a day or two to complete the training,” said the official. Ten Covid vaccination sites have been identified in Calcutta, and 4,000 across the state. The number of sites will increase once private hospitals are enrolled. “Whether all sites will be in use from the first day will depend on the number of doses we get. If there are fewer doses, a limited number of sites will be activated,” the official said. Health department officials have learnt that initially around 11 lakh doses would reach Calcutta. Ahead of the arrival of Covishield doses, senior health officials held a video conference on Sunday to discuss the various levels of preparedness and finalise the blueprint for vaccine transportation. “One vial will have 10 doses and a carton will have around 1,200 doses. From the airport, designated vans will transport the consignment to the Bagbazar unit of Central Medical Stores, where the doses will be transferred into walk-in-coolers,” said an official overseeing the logistics of transportation of the vaccine. “Officials from nearby districts will collect their quota from the Bagbazar store. The doses will be sent to far-flung districts in cold boxes, which will be carried in insulated trucks. We have had a round of talks with police to ensure these vans don’t get stuck on roads during their journey,” the official said. There are adequate cold storage points in the city to keep vaccines, officials said. As of now it has been decided that the medical colleges will house vaccination sites and all medical colleges have cold storage points. The two Covid vaccines approved in India for emergency use have to be stored at temperatures ranging between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. “If a particular site does not have cold storage, we will transport the vaccine on the morning of the vaccination day,” an official said. The Union health ministry has said the polio vaccination programme, which was supposed to start on January 17, has been put on hold to facilitate the Covid-19 inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-177
11-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 487 points to close above 49,000 for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 487 points on Monday to close at a fresh lifetime peak, tracking gains in Infosys, HDFC twins and HCL Tech amid massive foreign fund inflows. After touching a record intra-day high of 49,303.79, the 30-share BSE index ended 486.81 points or 1 per cent higher at 49,269.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 137.50 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at 14,484.75. It hit a fresh intra-day high of 14,498.20. On the Sensex chart, HCL Tech was the top gainer, soaring around 6 per cent, followed by Infosys, HDFC, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Tech Mahindra and M&M. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, L&T, Kotak Bank and SBI were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities remained in the grip of bulls with benchmark indices registering fresh highs as robust earnings performance by TCS and D-Mart bolstered investors' confidence. "Continued improvement in COVID-19 recovery rates and the announcement of the vaccination process from January 16 offered comfort to markets. Further, expectations of a sharp recovery in corporate earnings led by a sustained rebound in key economic data may propel the market to witness fresh highs in the near term," he stated. FPI flow may continue to remain favourable given status of global economy, stance of global central bankers and weak dollar, he said, adding that domestic equities can also witness pre-Budget rally in the coming weeks considering broad expectations of pro-growth measures. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,029.83 crore on Friday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.52 per cent lower at USD 55.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points to fresh intra-day record||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 400 points in early trade on Monday to top the 49,000 mark for the first time, tracking gains in IT stocks amid a largely positive trend in global equities and massive FPI inflow. After touching a record intra-day high of 49,260.21, the 30-share BSE index was trading 405.45 points or 0.83 per cent higher at 49,187.96. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 112.45 points or 0.78 per cent to 14,459.70 in opening deals. It hit a fresh intra-day high of 14,474.05. On the Sensex chart, Infosys was the top gainer, rising around 4 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, ITC, HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel, HUL and TCS. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Maruti, ONGC, Bajaj Finance and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex had closed 689.19 points or 1.43 per cent higher at 48,782.51, while Nifty rallied 209.90 points or 1.48 per cent to close at its record high of 14,347.25. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 6,029.83 crore on Friday, according to exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look firm. Continued improvement in COVID-19 recovery rates and the announcement of the vaccination process from January 16 would offer comfort to markets. "Additionally, robust earnings performance delivered by TCS and expectations of strong 3QFY21 earnings by companies led by a sustained rebound in key economic data may propel the market to witness fresh highs in the near term. "FPIs flow may continue to remain favourable given the status of the global economy, the stance of global central bankers and the weak dollar," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.29 per cent lower at USD 55.27 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22:  Modi govt likely to set ambitious disinvestment target||The Modi government is likely to set an ambitious disinvestment target in Budget 2021-22 even as it looks set to miss the target for the current fiscal by a huge margin. The disinvestment plans of the current fiscal were hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, but that would not deter the government on its reform agenda, finance ministry officials said. They said the finer details of the exercise were being discussed and the target would be a realistic one given the state of the economy. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May had said the Centre would come up with a new public sector policy and open up all the sectors to private companies. In the new policy, the government will have a list of strategic sector companies, where at least one and a maximum of four central public sector enterprises will be allowed to operate, meaning the others will be privatised. In the other sectors, all PSUs will be privatised. Analysts said at present about 57 PSU listed companies excluding those in the banking and financial sector have an average equity holding by the government of about 71 per cent. Their average market capitalisation is more than Rs 10 lakh crores. “The government could target about 30 per cent of these holdings to raise resources of around Rs 2 lakh crores spread over the next two years, which could be channelised for funding public infrastructure,” they said. Fitch Ratings said the government planned to privatise some state-owned enterprises, of which more than 200 are owned by the central government and 800 by state governments. “A wide-ranging privatisation push involving large state owned enterprises could be transformative. However, it remains unclear whether the government plans to surrender its majority control. The strength of market demand for state assets is also yet to be tested,” it said. Industry chamber CII said the government should not only exit loss making enterprises such as Scooters India, Air India, HMT, Cement Corporation of India and British India Corporation but also the profitable ones and implement the disinvestment of LIC. “As a first step, there is a need to bring the government stake to below 49 per cent in these companies, which will improve valuations. Subsequent disinvestment could be made in tranches as valuation improves. The list of PSUs where the government intends to bring its share below 51 per cent should be announced in advance, to improve valuations prior to disinvestment.” The mega initial public offer (IPO) for LIC as well as follow-on offerings for New India Assurance and GIC could be moved to the next fiscal because of legislative changes and expected demand. Though the process to privatise BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation and BEML have started, it is unclear whether they would be completed in the current fiscal itself or would drag on beyond March. The government has budgeted Rs 2.10 lakh crore from stake sales this fiscal, including Rs 1.20 lakh crore from disinvestment and Rs 90,000 crore from selling stakes in financial institutions. The ambitious target was meant to beef up non-tax revenue and make up for a lower than expected rise in tax collection, even before the pandemic spread its tentacles. The receipts so far have been Rs 28,298 crore, which includes stake sales from Bond ETF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||DVC warns Jharkhand on arrears||Damodar Valley Corporation on Sunday warned Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) that it would consider further action if it continued to fall back in its payment of dues to the generator. JBVNL had signed an agreement with DVC in March 2020 to pay regularly from March 2020 and seek the approval of the Jharkhand government to clear its arrears. According to DVC, as of April 1, 2020, the total outstanding dues against the supply of power to JBVNL was Rs 5,209.31 crore. DVC officials said that after the agreement they expected JBVNL to be prompt in their payment. However, that was not so: in the first eight months, the payment from the state utility was only Rs 441.72 crore, against a total bill of Rs 1,323.90 crore. “DVC has to pay for coal in advance and it has to pay monthly salary to its workers. Electricity cannot be supplied if it is not paid for as this hampers generation,” said a senior official of DVC. Realising the prospect of a rising cash crunch, the power generator has decided to regulate power supply to the utility from December 2020 and more steps are being explored to recover dues, said the official. Among the steps taken are the invocation of a letter of credit which is offered by the state discom against electricity supply. DVC officials said the letter of credit offered by JBVNL has been invoked and for future supply, the discom has to give a new letter of credit. “If they are not in a position to give a letter of credit, they can deposit money a day in advance for power supply for the next day and DVC will supply power against money so deposited on a daily basis,” said the official. Moreover, a tripartite agreement among the state government, central government and RBI was invoked last year whereby Rs 1,417.50 crore was recovered in lieu of outstanding dues. Jharkhand, however, will exit from the agreement to prevent the automatic deduction of dues. DVC officials said the additional regulations on power supply on a weekly basis could be considered in the future if the payment was not made. DVC currently supplies 660 MW of power to JBVNL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Gold ETFs pocket  Rs 6,700cr||Economic downturn because of the coronavirus pandemic and weakness in the dollar encouraged investors to infuse a massive Rs 6,657 crore into gold exchange-traded funds in 2020. In comparison, a net inflow of just Rs 16 crore was seen in entire 2019. The inflow came after witnessing a net pullout from safe-haven assets for six consecutive years, mainly on fears of a global slowdown and volatility in equity and debt markets. Assets under management of gold funds surged over two-fold to Rs 14,174 crore at the end of December 2020 from Rs 5,768 crore a year ago, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed. Gold with its safe-haven appeal emerged as one of the best performing asset classes and a preferred investment destination among investors in 2020 as investors put in a net sum of Rs 6,657 crore in 14 gold-linked ETFs. Barring March and November, such instruments had seen a net inflow in 2020. Himanshu Srivastava, associate director-manager research, Morningstar India, said investors were attracted towards the instrument because of multiple factors such as economic downturn caused due to the pandemic, weakness in the dollar and tension between the US and China. According to Nishant Kohli, founder and business head-wealth at Mudra Portfolio Managers, uncertainties in the market led to too much increase in gold’s return which led to attracting investments even from retail participants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Centre to set up foreign asset probe cell||A special unit has been created by the government in the countrywide investigation wings of the income tax department for a focussed probe in the cases of undisclosed assets held by Indians abroad and possession of black money in foreign shores, officials said. The Foreign Asset Investigation Units (FAIUs) have been recently created in all the 14 investigation directorates of the tax department located in the various parts of the country that are primarily tasked to undertake raids and seizures and develop intelligence to check tax evasion done by various methods. A total of 69 existing posts in the tax department were “diverted” by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) in November last for the creation of this unit after approval from Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, a senior officer said. The CBDT frames policy for the income tax department. “The FAIUs have been created as new wings within the various investigation directorates of the tax department to bring focus on cases of undisclosed assets held abroad by Indians and black money stashed abroad. “India is now getting voluminous data in this context by way of various fresh treaties signed and some of those which have been re-negotiated in the recent past,” another officer said. “We are now in a global regime where automatic exchange of tax information is the norm. More and more countries and jurisdictions are following the international protocols set by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) for tax transparency and combating instances of global money laundering, terror financing and tax evasion,” he said. The taxman now has huge data coming in from various international and domestic sources to check possible illegal foreign assets holding of an individual and, hence, a dedicated wing was required to analyse this information and sift through this mountain of data, the official said. The new units will also probe cases of Indian entities named in global tax document leaks such as the Panama Papers. The major treaties or automatic tax information exchange protocols through which Indian tax authorities get information include the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs) and the most recent Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) between India and the US. FATCA covers automatic sharing of information on bank accounts as well as financial products like equities, mutual funds and insurance, and is aimed at fighting the menace of black money stashed abroad. Banks, mutual funds, insurance, pension and stock-broking firms will report their Indian client details to the US which will be shared with New Delhi. Similarly, Indian entities will do a reciprocal information sharing about Americans. The FAIUs will be under the authority of the jurisdictional director general of income tax (investigation) rank officer and its work will be directly monitored by the CBDT, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Start-up to roll out UPI-based offline payments solution ||Noida-based start-up Eroute Technologies plans to roll out a UPI-based offline payments solution that will facilitate digital payments without internet connectivity. Last month, the company got the RBI’s approval to test the solution as part of the first cohort of regulatory sandbox on retail payments. Abhishek Saxena, an alumnus of IIT, BHU and co-founder and COO of Eroute, said the company is eyeing commercial availability by the middle of the year. The technology, which is being used in China and Kenya and also being tried out in Japan, involves a smart card which acts as a SIM overlay. Once installed, a feature phone user will have a SIM toolkit-based user interface available on their feature phone through which they can do fund transfer, merchant payments and bill payments. “In India, there are around 500 million feature phone users who can be brought into the digital payments fold using their phones. Connectivity is still a challenge in parts of  the country and even smartphone users often do not get good internet. So, RBI came out with a sandbox and invited companies who have solutions for feature phone users,” said Saxena. “We are doing a pilot with a limited audience as of today as per the requirement of sandbox. Once we get the results, we will then introduce the concept for commercial use. We have worked with NPCI so that users can use UPI on feature phones. The solution is telecom agnostic,” said Saxena, adding that the company is in discussion with financial institutions for deployment. Founded in October 2018, Eroute Technologies is promoted by Saxena, Sanjeev Pandey, former group president of Yes Bank and Jason Ho, chairman of Taisys Technologies, a Taiwan based company that has developed technical expertise on sim overlay. Phone users today already have a non internet based alternative to digital payments. A user can dial *99# on their phones to access their UPI linked accounts through unstructured supplementary service data (USSD), a GSM protocol. But stability and user experience has been a key challenge. Moreover, the option is not available for Jio subscribers on account of LTE technology. “USSD has not been successful and right now it is almost at a dead end. There were so many session breaks. User experience was also a big use,” said Saxena adding that these challenges will be addressed through sim overlay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Toyota and Suzuki to share and cross-badge products in the Indian market||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) India sold 46,222 cars that were launched under a tie-up with Suzuki. Toyota Motor Corporation and Suzuki Motor Corporation had entered into a global alliance whereby they agreed to share and cross-badge products in the Indian market. Toyota has been selling the Glanza, which is a Suzuki Baleno cross-badge, and the Urban Cruiser which is a SuzukiVitara Brezza cross-badge. Glanza, which was launched in June 2019, sold 17,946 units that year and 20,676 units in 2020. The Urban Cruiser launched in October 2020 has sold 7,600 units till December. Speaking about the alliance products on the sidelines of the launch of the revamped Fortuner, Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and marketing, said,  “Alliance products allow the customer to experience the Toyota experience at a much lower price point. Then he or she upgrades to buy another Toyota product in the future.” When asked if alliance products outsold Toyota’s own products, Soni said: “At present, the ratio of sales of alliance products and our own products is 50:50.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
11-01-2021||Business||Labour code done, NEP to focus on job plan||The ministry of labour and employment is likely to give a shape to the National Employment Policy (NEP) by December this year following the implementation of four labour codes and completion of four major surveys, including one on migrant workers. The NEP will draw a broad road map to improve job opportunities in the country, mainly by various initiatives such as skill development, bringing investment in employment intensive segments and other policy interventions. Last year, Parliament passed three labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational health safety and working conditions (OSH). The Code on Wages was approved by Parliament last year and its rules have been firmed up. But the implementation of the rules for Code on Wages was held back because the government wanted to implement all the four labour codes in one go. These four codes are likely to be implemented from April 1 this year. The implementation of these four labour codes would provide a conducive legal framework for the universalisation of social security and other safeguards for the entire workforce of over 50 crore in the country. But for job creation, a broad NEP would be required to exploit the potential of each segment of different sectors of the economy. This would require up-to-date data on employment across the sectors in the country. This gap would be bridged by the four employment surveys to be conducted by the Labour Bureau, a wing of the ministry. Labour Bureau director general D. S. Negi said the bureau has begun spadework on the four surveys and field work would begin by March and the results would be out by October-end this year only. He said the NEP would take shape based on the data inputs of these four surveys by December. Thereafter, the NEP would be sent for the approval of the Union cabinet. The document is expected to aid employment generation in the country to a great extent, especially when the government is grappling with the issue of job loss especially due to the pandemic. Earlier last month, labour minister Santosh Gangwar had also said that the four surveys on migrant workers, domestic workers, employment generated by professionals and transport sector will be launched by early March 2020 and the results of these will be available by October 2021. The minister had opined that for any evidence-based policy making for these workers, “authentic data” on employment in the organised and unorganised sector enterprises is highly called for. The minister had also informed that the bureau will soon launch an “All India Quarterly Survey” on Employment of Enterprises that will provide comprehensive data on the employment numbers in both the organised and unorganised sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
11-01-2021||Business||RBI expresses concerns over zero-coupon bonds for recapitalisation of PSBs||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has expressed some concerns over zero-coupon bonds for the recapitalisation of public sector banks (PSBs) and discussion is on between the central bank and the finance ministry to find a solution, according to sources. The government resorted to recapitalisation bonds with a coupon rate for capital infusion into PSBs during 2017-18 and interest payment to banks for holding such bonds started from the next financial year. To save interest burden and ease fiscal pressure, the government has decided to issue zero-coupon bonds to meet the capital needs of the banks. The first test case of the new mechanism was a capital infusion of Rs 5,500 crore into Punjab & Sind Bank by issuing zero-coupon bonds of six different maturities last year. These special securities with tenure of 10-15 years are non-interest bearing and valued at par. However, the RBI has raised some issues with regard to the calculation of an effective capital infusion made in any bank through this instrument issued at par, the sources said. As such bonds usually are non-interest bearing but issued at a deep discount to the face value, it is difficult to ascertain the net present value, they added. The discount calculation may vary, which could lead to accounting adjustment, the sources said, adding both the finance ministry and the RBI are in discussions to resolve the issue. As these special bonds are non-interest bearing and issued at par to a bank, it would be an investment, which would not earn any return but rather depreciate with each passing year. Parliament had in September 2020 approved Rs 20,000 crore to be made available for the recapitalisation of PSBs. Of this, Rs 5,500 crore was issued to Punjab & Sind Bank and the finance ministry will take a call on the remaining Rs 14,500 crore during this quarter. This innovative mechanism will help ease the financial burden as the government has already spent Rs 22,086.54 crore as interest payment towards the recapitalisation bonds for PSBs in the last two financial years. During 2018-19, the government paid Rs 5,800.55 crore as interest on such bonds issued to public sector banks for pumping in the capital so that they could meet the regulatory norms under the Basel-III guidelines. In the subsequent year, according to the official document, the interest payment by the government surged three times to Rs 16,285.99 crore to PSBs as they have been holding these papers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
11-01-2021||Business||Money goals: save, invest, insure, or borrow||Anew year offers a fresh start. It’s also a good time to evaluate your personal finances, taking stock of where you are and where you want to go from here. When it comes to money management, every person has his or her own unique needs. They must save, invest, insure, or borrow according to their life’s situation. Whatever be the situation, it’s advisable to benchmark one’s progress. This will ascertain if the bare minimum is being achieved at the very least. In this regard, it’s often useful to have a rule of thumb guiding you in the general direction of your goal. By definition, thumb rules can be inexact. They are broad principles with arbitrary standards. One must understand the importance of the principle and tune the standards to your life’s situation. Here are some thumb rules you can apply to your financial life.  This rule is a ratio indicating how much of your disposable income you should allocate towards needs, wants, and savings. According to the rule, 50 per cent of your income should go towards basic needs such as rent, EMIs, insurance, food, utilities, transportation etc. Another 30 per cent should go towards discretionary spends: eating out, shopping, travel, and so on. And, at least 20 per cent should go towards savings and investments necessary for emergencies and wealth creation. My suggestion is to swap the allocations for 30 per cent and 20 per cent —  that is, make fewer discretionary spends, and save and invest at least 30 per cent. The more you save, the more headway you’ll make towards achieving your financial goals. These are broad budgeting strokes and you must find the ratio perfect for your life. This is quite simple and a useful rule for conservative investors. The Public Provident Fund is a government-backed small savings scheme that allows you to invest up to Rs 1.5 lakh a year and earn 7.1 per cent per annum, tax-free and risk-free. Therefore, it serves as a useful benchmark for long-term debt investments, especially at a time interest rates are falling and we’ve gone through a period of great volatility in the investment markets. If you’re going to be a long-term debt investor, it’s worthwhile asking if your preferred option is going to deliver post-tax returns at least equal to PPF. If it doesn’t, why are you buying it?  Everyone needs an emergency fund — the rainy-day purse to dip into during events such as job loss, health problems, urgent travel or immediate repairs. It’s your savings you do not touch under any other circumstance. Every person has their own unique needs and responsibilities. For starters, it would be good to create a fund that is at least three times your disposable monthly income, and then gradually work towards six. As savings through bank accounts or fixed deposits provide low returns, it wouldn’t be sensible to lock away a lot of money in them as it would slow down wealth creation. But it’s not uncommon to see people save 12-24x, too.  Credit utilisation ratio (CUR) is the percentage of your available credit you’re using at any point. For example, if your credit card limit is Rs 1 lakh, and you’ve spent Rs 50,000 in a month, your CUR is going to be 50 per cent. It’s widely advised to remain under 30 per cent. This is because a high CUR reflects credit-hungriness, which leads to a fall in your credit score, which in turn would lead to difficulties getting fresh credit either through rejection of your application or having to pay higher interest rates. Pay off your dues in the interest-free period every month. The higher your CUR, the more your credit score could fall. Also, do a monthly check of your credit report to understand how your credit card use shapes your credit score. If your score has fallen below 750, you could take corrective steps. If you have financial dependants such as spouse, children or parents, you must own adequate life coverage. In the unfortunate event of your untimely demise, the coverage will replace your income and help your dependents continue with their lives without financial stress. No two people have the same life risks, liabilities and responsibilities. But a simple thumb rule is having a life cover equal to 10-20 times your annual income, net of liabilities such as home loans. For example, if your annual income is Rs 10 lakh and you had a home loan balance of Rs 30 lakh, your coverage could be Rs 1.30 crore to Rs 2.30 crore. This coverage would make it possible for your dependants to meet their income needs for the foreseeable future. Thumb rules are just the starting point of money management plans. They force you to devise solutions to your unique financial challenges. The key is not doing too little or too much but finding the perfect balance in things. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-175
11-01-2021||India||500 farmers from Kerala leave for Delhi||A delegation of 500 farmers from Kerala left for Delhi on Monday by bus from to join their counterparts, who have been protesting against the contentious farm laws since November 26 last year. The farmers belonging to 'Kerala Karshaka Sangham' is at the forefront of the protest. AIKS vice president S Ramachandra Pillai flagged off the bus, which is expected to reach Delhi on January 14. They would participate in the protest at Shahjahanpur, one of the venues. K N Balagopal, secretary of Kerala Karshaka Sangham, told PTI that this was the first batch of farmers and the next one would soon leave for the national capital. "We are not going just for expressing solidarity alone. We are going to participate in the agitation because the farm laws affect the state in a very serious manner. It affects the food security, price of our food grains will be affected by these laws," Balagopal said. In Kerala, the farmers have been on an indefinite protest since December 12. Kerala Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi, part of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, has been observing a relay protest at the Martyrs Column in Thiruvananthapuram in solidarity with farmers protest across the country. On December 23 last year, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the district-wise protest of farmers and slammed the NDA government at the Centre, alleging they were protecting the interests of corporates and not of farmers and demanded that the laws be withdrawn. Earlier,expressing solidarity with the protestors, a farmers association in Kerala had sent 16 tones of pineapples by truck to the national capital, to be distributed free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Made-in-India vaccines most cost-effective in the world, Modi tell CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the two already approved made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines are more cost-effective than any other in the world and have been developed as per the country's needs. Interacting with chief ministers of all states to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country, Modi also said that apart from the two already approved vaccines, four others are in the pipeline. "Our experts have taken all precautions to provide the countrymen with effective vaccines," he said. The two approved Covid-19 vaccines in India more cost-effective than other vaccines in the world and have been developed as per our needs and situation, he said. India is entering a decisive phase of vaccination in the fight against Covid-19, he asserted, pointing that the world's largest vaccination programme will start from January 16. Public representatives are not part of the three-crore corona warriors and frontline workers to be vaccinated first, Modi said. In the first phase, the cost of vaccination for these 3 crore people would be borne by the central government, he added. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. On Saturday last week, Modi had reviewed the status of COVID-19 and vaccine preparedness across states and union territories at a high-level meeting where.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the central government will bear the expenses of vaccinating nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first round and suggested that public representatives, a reference to politicians, should not be part of this initial exercise. Interacting with state chief ministers, Modi underscored the enormity of what he described as the world's biggest vaccination exercise, which begins from January 16, saying over 30 crore citizens will get the jabs in the next few months in India against only 2.5 crore people who have received them in over 50 countries in around a month so far. The two already approved made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines are more cost-effective than any other in the world and have been developed as per the country's needs, he said in his remarks in the meeting called to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out. Besides the two vaccines -- Covishield developed by Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, four others are in the pipeline, Modi said, asserting that India's fight against the pandemic will enter a decisive stage with the vaccination roll-out. More vaccines may be available when the exercise moves into the second round, he added. The prime minister also sought to dispel concerns expressed by some opposition leaders and experts over the approval given to Covaxin without the availability of efficacy data, asserting that scientists have taken all precautions to provide citizens with effective vaccines. The prime minister said he has been maintaining from the beginning that the scientific community will have the final word on the issue. India's drug regulator has given nod to Covishield and Covaxin for the emergency use authorisation. It is a matter of pride that both the vaccines are 'made in India', he said, adding that it can be imagined how much hardship India would have faced if it had to depend on foreign vaccines. Noting that the first round of vaccination is meant for healthcare and frontline workers, he said, "This is my personal suggestion and no one should take it otherwise. We public representatives are not part of it." In some countries, including the US and Israel, leading public figures have taken the jabs while top functionaries in a few others have chosen to follow the standard protocol and wait for their turn. Talking about the Covid-19 situation in India, Modi said the country is in a much better place than many others in terms of the pandemic's spread, and added that this is a matter of happiness but should not induce carelessness. The panic visible among the people six-eight months back is no longer there, and the increasing confidence among them in the fight against the pandemic has had a positive impact on economic activities as well, the prime minister said. Modi also asked states to ensure that rumours do not get spread about the vaccination exercise and suggested involving social and religious groups in helping check any rumour-mongering. On Saturday last week, Modi had reviewed the status of COVID-19 and vaccine preparedness across states and union territories at a high-level meeting where. He said many states have given good suggestions in fighting the pandemic and the dialogue and cooperation between the Centre and states have been a "great example" of federalism. After healthcare and frontline workers totalling about three crores, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, in the next phase. According to the Health Ministry guidelines on COVID-19 vaccination, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly elections will be used to identify the population aged 50 years or more. At least seven other vaccines are being developed in India, while some others can be imported from abroad, including the one developed by global pharma giant Pfizer which has already applied for import and sale in India of its vaccine for emergency use authorisation. India's total active caseload has fallen to 2.25 lakh, which accounts for just 2.13 per cent of the total number of coronavirus cases in the country at over 1.04 crore, according to the latest Health Ministry data. More than 1.5 lakh have died so far. However, the spread of the virus has lessened in a big way in the country as the daily number of new cases has dropped to about 16,000 from a peak of almost 98,000 in September last year. However, the overall caseload for India is the second-highest in the world after the US, which has reported more than 2 crore cases so far -- almost double of India's cumulative tally. In terms of deaths also, the US has recorded the most at nearly 3.7 lakh, followed by over 2 lakh in Brazil and about 1.5 lakh in India. However, India tops the global charts for recovery with more than 1 crore having recuperated after contracting the deadly virus. Many countries have launched mass vaccination programmes to protect their people from the deadly virus, which was first detected in China in December 2019 and has killed nearly 20 lakh people globally and infected more than 9 crore people since then. The vaccination drive in India is starting almost one year after the first case was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala, though a wider outbreak began in March after a few people in Delhi and adjoining areas were tested positive after returning from abroad. In December 2020, the UK became the first country to start vaccination, followed by several other nations, including the US, Belarus, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Kuwait, Malta, Mexico, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE. But shortly after the vaccination programme began in the UK, the country imposed strict lockdown conditions after a more contagious strain of the virus was found. This also led to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelling his visit to India for being the chief guest for Republic Day parade on January 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli blessed with a baby girl||Actor-producer Anushka Sharma and cricketer husband Virat Kohli on Monday announced the arrival of their first child, a baby girl. Kohli, who shared the news on Twitter, said both the baby and Sharma were healthy. "We are thrilled to share with you that we have been blessed with a baby girl this afternoon. We thank you all for your love, prayers and good wishes. "Anushka and the baby are both healthy and we are feeling beyond blessed to start this new chapter of our lives. We hope that you can respect our privacy at this time. Love, Virat," Kohli said in a statement. Former cricketer RP Singh, badminton ace Saina Nehwal, and actors Angad Bedi and Rakul Preet Singh were among the first to congratulate the couple on becoming parents. RP Singh welcomed Kohli to the "Father's club", adding "the greatest feeling of being a dad is even sweeter" when the first baby is a daughter. "Many congratulations to the parents @AnushkaSharma @imVkohli ghar aai lakshmi (goddess Lakshmi has arrived)" wrote Bedi. Sharma, who is also the co-founder of the banner Clean Slate Filmz, had a great 2020 work-wise as two of her productions -- Netflix film "Bulbbul" and Amazon Prime Video web series "Paatal Lok" -- garnered favourable reviews from both audiences and critics. As an actor, she last appeared in the 2018 film "Zero", alongside Shah Rukh Khan and Katrina Kaif. Regarded as one of the best contemporary batsmen in the world, India cricket captain Kohli was recently granted paternity leave by the BCCI after the first Test against Australia. "He will return after the first Test against Australia in Adelaide," Board secretary Jay Shah had said in a press release in November. Sharma and Kohli, both 32, recently celebrated their third wedding anniversary. The couple first met on the sets of a commercial and dated for four years before getting married in a private ceremony in Italy on December 11, 2017. India all-rounder Hardik Pandya retweeted Kohli's tweet and extended his best wishes to the couple. "Congratulations brother and @AnushkaSharma Welcome to parenthood. A big hug to the little one, who'll give you happiness like you've never experienced before," Pandya wrote. Former India cricketer Suresh Raina took to Twitter and wrote that daughters are the "biggest blessing to those who are the luckiest!" "Congratulations @anushkasharma @imVkohli and welcome to the wonderful world of parenting," he wrote. Actor Rahul Bose tweeted, "Many many congratulations. A happy day all around!"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Rajinikanth asks fans not to ask him to reconsider decision against political plunge||Top star Rajinikanth on Monday urged his fans not to organise any events insisting on him to reconsider his decision against political entry and hurt him more, saying he has already made known his position. A day after his fans held an agitation here in a bid to make him reverse his recent decision, the 70-year old actor said he has explained the reasons for not taking the much-awaited political plunge. "Kindly do not organise such events to insist that I should enter politics and make me sad more and more," he said in a statement posted on his Twitter handle. He noted that the event on Sunday was held by some people in association with several expelled office-bearers and members of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), once considered the precursor forum of his political party. Appreciating the organisers for maintaining discipline and decorum while conducting the event at Valluvar Kottam here, he expressed anguish that it was held violating the diktat of the high command. He conveyed his heart felt 'thanks' to the RMM members who did not take part in the event. A call was given largely in social media by 'fans' urging the actor's admirers to congregate at Valluvar Kottam, to prevail upon Rajinikanth to reconsider his decision. Organisers apparently considered the agitation as a show of strength and hoped for a change in the actor's stand. The actor had declared on December 29 last that he would not enter politics and apologised to the people and RMM members as he made a u-turn, weeks after announcing that he would launch a party and contest assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Citing his health condition vis-a-vis the coronavirus pandemic, the actor, who underwent a renal transplant in 2016, had opted out of an innings in politics, bringing the curtain down on over two decades of expectation and speculation about his electoral plunge. Prompted by the protest seeking a reversal of decision, Rajinikanth made it clear within a fortnight that he stuck to his earlier position of 'no' to politics. The actor had last month camped in Hyderabad to shoot for his Tamil flick 'Annathe' when four of the crew members tested positive for coronavirus. He was hospitalised in the Telangana capital in view of fluctuations in his blood pressure. While announcing his decision not to venture into politics, he had pointed out the Hyderabad episode as a God sent 'caution' against foraying into politics and said only he knew the pain in going back on an earlier promise. He had then indicated he did not want to sound chivalrous by saying he will join politics despite severe health concerns and that he did not want to make his supporters "a victim". Rajinikanth's 'no politics' announcement last month came as an anti-climax to his fans, admirers and people who were confident of his political foray. There were others who did not expect him to launch a party and state Congress Committee President K S Alagiri had opined that Rajinikanth's political innings was unlikely since the actor was spiritually oriented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Bird flu wreaks havoc, ten states hit ||The Centre on Monday said bird flu has been confirmed in 10 states so far and stressed on increased surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms. "Till January 11, 2021, Avian Influenza has been confirmed in 10 states of the country," the department of animal husbandry and dairying said in a statement. The outbreak was confirmed in seven states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh -- as on January 10. On Monday, bird flu has also been confirmed in Delhi, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra. States have been asked to build awareness among the public and avoid the spread of misinformation. "States/ UTs have been requested to increase surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos, poultry farms, etc. along with proper disposal of carcass, and strengthening of biosecurity in poultry farms," it said. The Centre has also directed states to maintain adequate stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations. It has asked state animal husbandry departments to ensure effective communication and coordination with health authorities for close vigilance of the disease status and avoid any chances of transmission of the disease into humans. Meanwhile, the department said that ICAR- NIHSAD has confirmed the death of crows and migratory/wild birds in Tonk, Karauli, Bhilwara districts of Rajasthan as well as Valsad, Vadodara and Surat districts of Gujarat. Further, the death of crows was confirmed in Kotdwar and Dehradun districts of Uttarakhand. In Delhi, crows and ducks, respectively, were reported dead in New Delhi and Sanjay lake areas. The outbreak of Avian Influenza has been among poultry in Parbhani district, while AI is confirmed from Mumbai, Thane, Dapoli, Beed in crows in Maharashtra. In Haryana, culling of infected birds is underway to control and containment of the spread of the disease. A central team has visited Himachal Pradesh and will reach Panchkula on Monday for carrying out monitoring of the epicentre sites and conducting an epidemiological investigation, the statement said. Here's a state-wise break down of the bird flu. Over 30 birds have been found dead at different places in and around Rishikesh creating a bird flu scare in the town. Twenty-eight crows and one pigeon were found dead in AIIMS, Rishikesh premises, one death was reported from Bees Bigha locality and two from Raiwala station, government veterinary officer Rajesh Raturi said. Samples of the birds have been collected and sent to the forest department for further action, he said. Confirming the deaths, Rishikesh Municipal Commissioner Narendra Singh Quiriyal said a temporary ban on the sale of bird meat can also be imposed in the public interest if necessary.  Bird flu has been confirmed as the cause of death of around 900 hens in the last few days at a poultry farm in Maharashtra's Parbhani district, a senior official said on Monday. The district administration has now decided to cull nearly 8,000 birds in Murumba village where these hens died, Collector Deepak Muglikar said. "The cause of the death has been confirmed as bird flu. Hence, we have decided to cull all the birds in one-km radius of the place where these deaths took place," the collector said. "We have created a prohibitory zone in 10 km radius of the area where the birds died. No birds will be transported from there to any other place. Our medical team is stationed there and it is examining all people of the village," he said.  Testing of eight samples sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory has confirmed bird flu in Delhi, officials said on Monday. All eight samples -- four from a park in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, three from Sanjay Lake and one from Dwarka -- have been found positive for avian influenza, Dr Rakesh Singh from the animal husbandry unit of the Development Department said. The report of the test results arrived on Monday morning, he said. Officials earlier said that around 50 crows had died in Central Park, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 in a span of three to four days. Ten ducks were found dead in the Sanjay Lake recently. A few samples were also sent to a lab in Jalandhar and their results are awaited, Singh said. The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) formed a rapid response team to conduct field inspection for examining various birds in its areas in the wake of a bird flu outbreak in the national capital.  Bird flu cases have been confirmed in Gujarat's Surat and Vadodara districts as some samples of dead crows from there have tested positive for the avian influenza, officials said on Monday. Samples of four crows collected from two places at Bardoli taluka in Surat on January 6 were sent to a Bhopal- based laboratory, Nilam Dave, deputy director of animal husbandry department, Surat, said. "They have tested positive for the bird flu," the official said. Besides, three out of five crow samples collected from Vasantpura village in Savli taluka of Vadodara, where 25 crows died on January 6, have also tested positive, Vadodara animal husbandry department's deputy director Prakash Darji said. On Sunday, 57 pigeons were found dead in Kia village of Vadodara's Karjan taluka and their samples have been sent for confirmation to the Bhopal-based lab, he added. As a precautionary measure, surveys were undertaken in these two districts, especially within a 10-km radius of the spot where the birds were found dead, officials said. Samples of the carcasses have been sent to the lab in Bhopal and results in many cases are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi lauds all-women crew for completing Air India’s longest flight||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday congratulated an all-women pilot team of Air India for completing the national carrier’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru after flying over the North Pole. Air India’s longest direct flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru with the all-women cockpit crew successfully landed in the southern city on Monday. “Congratulations to the all-women cockpit crew for completing Air India’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru over the North Pole. You have made the country proud,” Gandhi said on Twitter. The national carrier had said this flight would be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by any Indian airline and the total flight time on this route would be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that day. The direct distance between the two cities at opposite ends of the world is 13,993 km with a time zone change of around 13.5 hours. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday congratulated an all-women pilot team of Air India for completing the national carrier’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru after flying over the North Pole. Air India’s longest direct flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru with the all-women cockpit crew successfully landed in the southern city on Monday. “Congratulations to the all-women cockpit crew for completing Air India’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru over the North Pole. You have made the country proud,” Gandhi said on Twitter. The national carrier had said this flight would be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by any Indian airline and the total flight time on this route would be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that day. The direct distance between the two cities at opposite ends of the world is 13,993 km with a time zone change of around 13.5 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||SC indicates it may stay implementation of farm laws ||The Supreme Court on Monday rapped the Centre over the prolonged impasse with the protesting farmers demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws, saying it was extremely disappointed with the negotiation process, and also expressed its inclination to stay the implementation of the acts. After some tough talk that the Centre has been given a long rope and "failed" to break the deadlock and not been "effective" in handling the stir, the court said it will pronounce orders on Tuesday on various issues related to the farm laws and the farmers' ongoing stir at Delhi borders. It also proposed setting up a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India (CJI) to find ways to resolve the impasse. At a virtual hearing, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde questioned the Centre's vehement opposition to its suggestion that the implementation of the farm laws enacted in September be kept on hold for the time being so as to help find an amicable solution. The Centre and the farmer unions have held eight rounds of talks without any breakthrough while the protests by farmers at Delhi's border points began on November 28. During the eighth round on January 7, the Centre had firmly ruled out repealing the contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their "ghar waapsi will happen only after law waapsi". We have given you long rope, Mr Attorney General, please don't lecture us on patience, the court told K K Venugopal. We don't know whether you are part of the solution or part of the problem. We don't think you are being effective. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that the top court has made harsh observations regarding the handling of the situation by the government. That was the most innocuous factual thing for us to say, the bench responded. The court also expressed apprehensions that the protests might lead to violence and loss of lives and property if it continues for long. We don't want anybody's blood on our hands. It asked the parties to suggest two-three names of former CJIs including R M Lodha who can head the apex court-appointed panel. At the outset, the bench said, "What is going on? States are rebelling against your laws". We are extremely disappointed with the negotiation process, it said, adding, We don't want to make any stray observations on your negotiations but we are extremely disappointed with the process. The apex court, which was hearing a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues related to the ongoing agitation at Delhi borders, said it is not talking about the repeal of these farm laws at the moment. This is a very delicate situation, it said, adding, There is not a single petition before us which says that these farm laws are beneficial . We are not experts on economy; you tell us whether government is going to put on hold farm laws or we will do this. We are sorry to say that Centre has not been able to solve the problem and the farmers agitation, it said, adding, We don't see why there is an insistence on implementation of the law. Farmer leaders said they would continue their agitation even if the government or the Supreme Court stays the implementation of the new agri laws. The leaders, who said they were "sharing their personal opinion", were also of the view that a stay is "not a solution" as it is only for a fixed period of time. The farmers want the laws to be repealed completely, said Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union President Gurnam Singh Chaduni. When Attorney General Venugopal told the court that the next meeting between the government and farmers is scheduled for January 15 and the court should not pass any order today, the bench said, We do not think the Centre is handling the issue correctly. We have to take some action today. He also contended that a law cannot be stayed unless the court finds it violates fundamental rights or constitutional schemes. A law cannot be stayed by the Supreme Court unless the Lordships find that it violates the fundamental rights or constitutional schemes. Law has to be without the power to legislate, only then it can be stayed. No petitioners have raised any such issues, Venugopal said. The court, however, observed, We are doing this because you have failed to solve the problem. We are sorry to say that you have not been able to solve this problem. The Union of India has to take the responsibility. The laws have resulted into a strike and now you have to solve the strike . It also said, Of course, usually we are against stay of any laws . The court said it may stay the implementation of the farm laws as talks between the government and farmers are breaking down because the Centre wants to discuss these legislations point by point, while the farmers want them to be repealed. The court said that till date it has not been told anything by the Centre on the proposal given by it to keep the implementation of the laws in abeyance for some time. Our intention is to see whether we can find an amicable solution to all this. That is why we had asked you (Centre) whether you are willing to keep these laws on hold for sometime. But you wanted to buy time." We are still thinking it is equally important that we stay the implementation of law without staying the laws, it observed. To this, Venugopal said, This amounts to same thing . At this stage. the court said it will constitute a committee headed by a former CJI to resolve the impasse. It suggested that a stay on implementation of these laws will help the committee in finding solution. If laws are put on hold then negotiations will have a chance to work out . After the implementation of farm laws are stayed, you can carry on with the protests and we don't want anyone to say that we stifled the protest, the court told the advocates appearing for several farmer organisations. Justice Bobde asked the protesting elderly farmers, women and children to go back home, as the court expressed serious concern over protestors sitting in severe cold and COVID-19 pandemic situation. Let me take a risk and say Chief Justice of India wants them (protesting farmers) to go back to their homes. Try to persuade them, he said. People are committing suicide. People are calling names. People are suffering in cold and pandemic situations. If not cold, farmers are in danger of COVID, the bench said, and asked lawyers appearing for the farmers unions to persuade the protestors to go home. The court reiterated the need for having a committee comprising representatives from the government and farmer organisations from all over the country and said it will stop the implementation of these laws if the panel advises to do so. "Whether you have faith or not, we are the Supreme Court of India, we will do our job, it told the farmer unions. When the issue of law and order was raised before the bench, the court said, These issues will be taken care by police. Right to protest is intact and Gandhiji exercised Satyagraha. That agitation was much bigger .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||India returns captured PLA soldier to China||The Indian Army on Monday handed back to China a soldier of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA), three days after apprehending him at the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, official sources said. The soldier was returned to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh at 10.10 am, they added. The Chinese soldier was captured at the southern bank of Pangong lake in the early hours of Friday after he transgressed across the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "The PLA soldier, who was apprehended on January 8, was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo at 10.10 am on Monday," a source said. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. The faceoff began in May last year, following a clash between the two sides in the Pangong lake area. "The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area. Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops," the Army said in a statement on Saturday. Following the capture of the soldier by the Indian Army, China had sought his immediate return on Saturday. It was the second such incident of India capturing and subsequently returning a Chinese soldier in the last three months. Indian troops had captured Corporal Wang Ya Long of the PLA on October 19 last year after he "strayed" across the LAC in Ladakh's Demchok sector. The corporal was handed back to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point following the laid-down protocols. The areas around the Pangong lake along the LAC have remained tense in the last few months. Around four months ago, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong lake, after the Chinese military attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 last year. Chief of Army Staff Gen. MM Naravane visited various high-altitude forward areas in eastern Ladakh last month, including certain positions on the south bank of the Pangong lake, and reviewed India's overall military preparedness. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness at various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded a concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The two countries held another round of diplomatic talks last month under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides took place on November 6 last year, during which both sides had broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions, including not to send more troops to the frontline, refraining from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoiding taking any action that may further complicate matters. This round of talks was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Couple loses 4th child to Maharashtra fire after three stillborns||The sorrow of Bhanarkar couple has been immeasurable as their baby daughter born last week, after 14 years of marriage and three stillborn children, died in the fire at a hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara district. Besides their daughter, nine other infants were also killed in the blaze at the hospital on Saturday. After delivering three stillborn children, Hirkanya Bhanarkar (39) had finally conceived and given birth to a girl on January 6, only to lose her in the fire. "Such a thing should not happen to anyone...children should live and should be playing," Hirkanya's distraught husband Hiralal Bhanarkar told reporters on Sunday night outside Akoli Public Health Centre (PHC) in Bhandara. While speaking, Hiralal was struggling to suppress his emotions, natural for a man who eagerly waited for his bundle of joy for 14 long years, and when he was yearning to cuddle the baby girl, she is gone forever. Hirkanya, who is currently admitted in the PHC, is too dazed to speak. "She is in deep shock," a nurse told a news channel. The labourer couple hails from Usgaon village in Sakoli tehsil of Bhandara. Hirkanya gave birth to the girl on January 6 at the Sakoli sub-district hospital. "However, as the girl was born premature in the seventh month of pregnancy and was underweight, she was shifted to the Special Newborn Care Unit of Bhandara district hospital on the same day," the nurse said. According to her, the poor couple didn't have a toilet at their house, which was the cause of the premature birth of the girl. "The mother fell down while she was attending nature's call, which led to the premature delivery. Had it not been for this accident, the girl would have born healthy after two months," she said. Besides the couple's daughter, nine other babies, aged between one month and three months, were killed in the fire that broke out in the early hours of Saturday in the Special Newborn Care Unit of the four-storey hospital. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday met the kin of the newborns who died in the blaze and said a probe will ascertain if the fire was an accident or was the fallout of ignoring an earlier safety report. "It was a very sad and heart-wrenching incident. I met the kin of some of the deceased newborn babies. I have no words to console them, as the lives which are lost cannot be brought back. I have also inspected the spot (in the Bhandara hospital where the fire occurred)," he said. Thackeray also spoke to hospital and health officials. "Truth will come out. We are not going to blame anyone purposefully, but if any negligence is found, stringent action will be taken against those responsible for any lapses," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 7 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature was recorded at seven degrees Celsius on Monday and is likely to drop further as cold winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas continued to sweep the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The mercury is likely to drop to five to six degrees Celsius by January 14, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of seven degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 16.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. Delhi has registered above-normal minimum temperatures since January 3 as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive western disturbances. Delhi's minimum temperature had settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||India reports 16,311 Covid cases, 161 casualties in a day||With 16,311 new coronavirus cases being reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in around six-and-half months, India's COVID-19 tally rose to 1,04,66,595, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,92,909, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll reached 1,51,160 with 161 more fatalities, the lowest in the last seven-and-half-months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,92,909, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.43 per cent, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,22,526 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.13 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,17,55,831 samples have been tested so far with 6,59,209 samples being tested on Sunday. A total of 1,51,160 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,061 from Maharashtra followed by 12,222 from Tamil Nadu, 12,140 from Karnataka, 10,678 from Delhi, 9,941 from West Bengal, 8,495 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,129 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,445 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Nitish hints at shift away from BJP||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and other senior leaders of the Janata Dal United have signalled intent to shift away from ally BJP and return to the party’s socialist roots at the two-day state executive of the party that concluded on Sunday. The stand has yet again brought to the fore the rift within the ruling NDA in the state. With the BJP also intensifying its attacks on the JDU and other Bihar allies, speculation is rife over the longevity of the government. Stressing the need to “forget the poll results and get back to work” while addressing JDU leaders at the meeting, Nitish said: “We belong to the socialist ideology. We believe in the tenets of Mahatma Gandhi, Jayaprakash Narayan, Ram Manohar Lohia, Babasaheb Ambedkar and Karpoori Thakur. Our politics is to serve the people instead of harbouring selfish interests.” “We could not take our achievements to the grassroots. We must work for the uplift of all sections of the society and you all will see that our party emerges stronger in the coming days. The National Register of Citizens will not be implemented in Bihar,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Chandrashekhar Azad joins UP Opposition alliance||The non-BJP axis of smaller parties that is taking shape in Uttar Pradesh for the Assembly polls next year appeared close to enlisting an arguably impactful ally in Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad on Saturday. Azad met Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar in Lucknow on Saturday. “The Dalits and most backward classes are struggling to survive in Uttar Pradesh. We discussed this...,” said Chandrashekhar. Rajbhar, who has named the new formation Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, said Azad had agreed to join the alliance. He said the alliance would be one of the most formidable forces to take on the BJP in the 2022 elections. Earlier, Shivpal Yadav, president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger brother, Rajbhar and Asaduddin Owaisi, the leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and Hyderabad MP, had met and agreed to join hands. The proposed front in Uttar Pradesh also includes Mohamed Ayub, the president of the Peace Party of India. “It will be a strong group and we together will be able to remove the BJP from power,” said Ayub, whose party had won three seats in 2012 but none in 2019. Rajbhar said Owaisi would visit Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, on Tuesday and discuss strategy. Observers, however, believe that the members of the new formation have strategically kept their ideology and leanings unclear. Most of them have either had associations with the BJP in the past or have been accused of tacitly helping the party. During the recent Bihar elections, Owaisi had faced allegations of indirectly helping the BJP by splitting the minority votes. The AIMIM won five seats in an area where Lalu Prasad’s RJD and the Congress were strong. Rajbhar was an ally of the Yogi Adityanath government and a cabinet minister before he quit in 2019. Shivpal had warmed up to the BJP after his removal from the Samajwadi Party in 2017 and still enjoys a bungalow and security provided by the ruling party and its government. Rajbhar’s party has four MLAs in Uttar Pradesh while Shivpal is the lone MLA of his outfit. Owaisi is yet to open his account in the state while the Bhim Army has not contested an election yet. Chandrashekhar emerged as a leader of the Dalits in west Uttar Pradesh in June 2017 when he was arrested on the charge of involvement in a series of Dalit-Rajput clashes in Saharanpur. The National Security Act was slapped on him. He was released in September 2018. Bahujan Sama Party president Mayawati, who claims to control the Dalit votes in the state, accuses Azad of being “an agent of the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Increase in seats, not classrooms or teachers||When Rajesh Jha, an assistant professor at Delhi University-affiliated Rajdhani College, begins teaching his first-year political science honours class later this month, he will have 75 students to interact with. Jha says clarifying the doubts of 75 students at an online class will be challenging. Even after the college opens for in-person classes in the future, the situation will remain “extremely difficult”, he said. “Two years ago, a class of political science honours students in our college had 60 students. On any given day, 50 students came. Each classroom can accommodate 40 students. We adjusted with difficulty,” Jha, a member of DU’s executive council, said. “Now with 75 students, it will be extremely difficult to manage.” The student strength in Jha’s honours class has jumped from 60 in 2018 to 75 now to accommodate the 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) among the upper castes at central education institutions (CEIs) like the IITs, IIMs and central universities. The Centre had got the quota enacted through Parliament in the run-up to the 2019 general election, despite the absence of any serious political pressure for the move. The then human resource development ministry asked the CEIs to raise their student intake by 25 per cent — staggering the increase over the 2019-20 and 2020-21 academic sessions — so that the number of seats under the non-reserved category did not fall. The CEIs have complied. Yet, hardly any classrooms, laboratories or hostels have been added nor extra teaching and non-teaching posts sanctioned — all necessary steps to accommodate an increased number of students without hurting the quality of education imparted. A former education ministry official said the government estimated that about Rs 40,000 crore would be needed to support the required infrastructure expansion at the CEIs. However, the allocation towards EWS quota implementation in the 2019-20 and 2020-21 budgets stood at Rs 816 crore and Rs 1,437 crore, respectively. In September last year, T.V. Somanathan, secretary to the department of expenditure under the finance ministry, wrote to the education ministry not to create any new teaching or non-teaching posts at the CEIs. A government report said the overall teacher-student ratio at India’s higher education institutions was 1:24 in 2018, worse than the ratio of about 1:19 obtaining in Brazil and China, countries to which India is often compared in matters of economic growth and human development indices. This ratio would have worsened significantly since 2019, with the student intake increased at the CEIs without any increase in faculty strength. Yet, the government has itself set a teacher-student ratio of 1:10 as one of the benchmarks if educational institutions want the “institution of eminence” tag. “The government has forced institutions to increase their seats but is not inclined to meet their requirements. Ultimately, quality will suffer. This is not social justice,” Jha said. The overall teacher vacancy at the CEIs is now 35 per cent. Jha estimated that if one took into account the teaching posts that should have been created once the EWS quota was implemented, the vacancy should stand at nearly 50 per cent. Asked about teacher vacancies, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal told the Lok Sabha in a written reply on September 19: “The vacancies keep arising due to retirement, resignation and additional requirements on account of enhanced students’ strength. The institutions are adopting various measures to address faculty shortages in order to ensure that studies of students are not affected which, inter alia, includes engaging research scholars, contract, re-employed, adjunct and visiting faculty.” Jha said appointing contract teachers or having adjunct or visiting faculty was not the best way of ensuring quality education. A senior IIT official who declined to be quoted said each IIT provided a hostel berth to every undergraduate student. While the institutes have collectively increased their BTech seats by nearly 4,000 since 2019, their hostel facilities remain the same, he said. Each of the older IITs needs between Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 3,000 crore for infrastructure expansion, which includes the creation of additional laboratories and classrooms, the IIT official said. “Classes are now happening online. When the IITs reopen (for physical classes), accommodation will pose a big challenge. Without expansion, quality will suffer,” he said. The vice-chancellor of a central university said the institutions were being pushed to take loans from the newly started Higher Education Funding Authority for infrastructure expansion. “Many institutions are reluctant to take loans since they have to pay back a portion. Ultimately, the burden will be passed on to the students. So, not much expansion is happening,” he said. Jha said shifting the burden to the students would be unfair, especially on the poorer students who are already struggling to pursue higher studies. In 2008, the UPA government had begun implementing a 27 per cent OBC quota in admission to higher education courses. Institutions were asked to increase their seats by 54 per cent over six years. It’s widely held that the government had at the time provided the funds necessary to expand infrastructure and faculty strength. Deepak Malghan, an IIM Bangalore teacher, criticised the EWS quota itself, saying its introduction betrayed a flawed understanding of the concept of reservation. “The EWS quota is a Trojan horse meant to kill affirmative action in India. It is based on a completely flawed understanding of reservation as a welfare programme,” he said. “Reservation is about representation. What was most interesting to me, however, was that there was no discussion at all about the EWS quota on elite public institution campuses — unlike, say, when reservations were extended to the OBCs.” An email sent to the education ministry on November 17 seeking its reaction to the concerns over poor funding and lack of expansion in teacher strength has brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||GoAir allegedly sacks pilot for 'Idiot PM' tweet||The hashtag “IdiotPM” trended on Twitter on Sunday, reflecting the backlash building up after GoAir sacked a pilot — an Indian Air Force veteran — for allegedly tweeting insulting remarks against an unnamed Prime Minister. Military veterans added their voice to the social media chorus, expressing outrage at the airline’s action against Captain Miki Malik. Captain Malik, who had joined civil aviation after spending 25 years in the IAF and retiring as group captain, had tweeted on Thursday: “PM is an idiot. You can call me same in return. It’s ok. I don’t matter. Bcoz I am not PM. But PM is an idiot. Period.” Captain Malik had later tweeted an apology. “I apologise for my tweets about PM, other offensive tweets which may have hurt sentiments of anyone associated. I convey that GoAir is not associated with any of my tweets directly or indirectly as they were personal views.” The pilot, who had served during the Kargil war, deleted the tweet and also locked his account on Twitter. Several social media users have mocked the airline for failing to explain why it had chosen to sack its senior pilot. Landing the airline on tricky terrain, some wondered how GoAir had arrived at the conclusion that Captain Malik was referring to a particular “PM” although he had not named anyone. Lt Colonel (retd) Anil Duhoon tweeted: “National Secret leaked and made public via a tweet.” Veteran R. Bhaduri said in a tweet: “#Idiot is top trending on Twitter India. Well done #mickeymalik. More power to you. @goairlinesindia shame on you!” Twitter user Salman Abdi weighed in with: “This guy Miki Malik didn’t mention which PM but @goairlinesindia is smart enough to know which PM is idiot. PM is an idiot.” A Twitter handle called “just a common man” wrote: “Now the Pilot wrote PM is an Idiot, not Indian PM. How did Go Air management know which PM?? India wants to know.” The Twitter bio of Captain Malik, who had flown then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh into Great Nicobar after the 2004 tsunami to review rehabilitation efforts on the island, says: “IAF veteran, now in civil aviation. Common sense, plain speak, no overt piety or patriotism.” An IAF officer said: “He was an extremely good pilot and was judged highly by his superiors. He became a squadron leader in 1996 and a group captain in 2008.” Calls to boycott the airline have surfaced. “Hello #BoycottGoAir pilots, tighten your lips n learn bhakti lest you are next to fall. Look for better opportunities. This pathetic airline is not worth it,” Colonel (retired) Dinesh Kumar tweeted. “This #BoycottGoAir is a pathetic airline. When it cannot honour a battle-hardened pilot, it cannot provide good services to fliers. 100 per cent boycott,” he said in another tweet. Brigadier A.K. Jairath (retd) tweeted: “I hereby pledge that I will never travel by GOAIR @goairlinesindia. What about you?” Gulvinder Singh tweeted: “GoAir is coward, and next time I book a flight ticket, I will make sure to tell my agent to not book GoAir. Sacking your employee under political pressure is so shameful. @goairlinesindia now please cater services to BJP & their bhakts only.” A spokesperson for the airline had, when asked about Captain Malik’s tweet, said on Saturday: “GoAir has terminated the services of the captain with immediate effect.” The GoAir spokesperson said the airline had a zero-tolerance policy on such matters and it was mandatory for its employees to comply with the company’s employment rules, regulations and policies, including social media behaviour. “The airline does not associate itself with personal views expressed by any individual or an employee,” the spokesperson had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Farmers Protest: political laws can’t be lobbed to SC, say protesters||The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Sunday said the “Supreme Court does not and cannot have any role” in resolving the deadlock over the new farm laws, adding that their enactment reflected a political decision to place corporate interests over those of farmers. The AIKSCC, which had given the “Dilli chalo” call that brought protesting farmers to the capital’s borders in November-end, said the government was lobbing the ball to the courts because it found itself unable to stand up to the corporate houses and repeal the laws. The AIKSCC position is: “The Modi government is shirking the political responsibility of solving the crisis of its own making.... It is misusing the Supreme Court as a political shield.” The farmers suspect that some of the petitions on the crisis that the apex court is to hear on Monday were filed at the prodding of a government that had found the protesting unions steadfast in their resolve not to seek judicial intervention. At the farmer leaders’ last meeting with central government interlocutors on Friday, ministers had suggested the unions go to court to resolve the issue as there was no question of the Centre repealing the three laws. The farmers had rejected the court route early on during the agitation, and have made it clear they would continue with their movement till the laws are repealed, whatever the court verdict. The protesting farmers have repeatedly refused to implead themselves in the case despite the apex court offering them the option. Only the eight farmer unions that have been sent notices will respond but no one will voluntarily implead themselves, Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the larger banner under which the protests are being held, has decided to continue intensifying the movement and create pressure points in other states similar to those around Delhi. It has also decided to get farmers from all the states to join the protests at Delhi’s borders to “bust the propaganda” that the movement is Punjab-and-Haryana-centric. The SKM has also issued an appeal to the protesting farmers not to take their own lives. Suicides have become a daily occurrence at the protest sites, and the union leaders are trying to keep the protesters’ hopes high so that they do not act in desperation amid the government’s stalling tactics. The focus will shift to the courts this week, with Monday’s hearing preceding the next farmer-government meeting by four days. The SKM, however, has given a call to celebrate Lohri on Wednesday by burning copies of the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
11-01-2021||India||Rs 1,364cr of PM Kisan dole in wrong hands||The Centre has paid Rs 1,364 crore to 20.48 lakh undeserving beneficiaries under its income support scheme for small and marginal farmers, the Union agriculture ministry has revealed in answer to a Right to Information query. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, launched in 2019, a sum of Rs 2,000 is paid every four months to farmers whose families have a combined landholding or ownership of up to 2 hectares. The scheme has a few exclusion criteria, based mainly on socio-economic status. In response to the RTI application, the agriculture ministry identified two categories of undeserving beneficiaries: “ineligible farmers” and “income-tax-payee farmers”. “More than half (55.58 per cent) of these undeserving persons belong to the ‘income-tax-payee’ category,” said Venkatesh Nayak of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, the RTI applicant who has obtained the data from the ministry. “The remaining 44.41 per cent belong to the ‘ineligible farmers’ category.” Nayak said that according to media reports, proceedings had been started to recover the money transferred to undeserving people. He said the data indicated that Rs 1,364.13 crore had been paid to undeserving people from the beginning of the scheme till July 31, 2020. “The government’s own data indicates the money went into the wrong hands,” he said. A sizeable proportion of the ineligible beneficiaries belong to five states — Punjab, Assam, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — according to the data, Nayak said. “Punjab tops the list, accounting for 23.16 per cent (4.74 lakh) of the undeserving persons who received payouts, followed by Assam with 16.87 per cent (3.45 lakh beneficiaries) and Maharashtra with 13.99 per cent (2.87 lakh),” he said. Gujarat is fourth with 8.05 per cent (1.65 lakh) of the beneficiaries, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 8.01 per cent (1.64 lakh), he said. Among the categories of farmers excluded from the scheme are institutional landholders, former and present holders of constitutional posts, former and present ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, mayors and district panchayat chairmen, serving and retired government employees, those receiving monthly pensions above Rs 10,000, income-tax payees and professionals such as doctors, engineers and chartered accountants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
11-01-2021||India||Maharashtra govt reduces security of Fadnavis, Raj Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has reduced the security cover of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and his family, ex-Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik and MNS chief Raj Thackeray, and withdrawn the protection of state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil. State BJP spokesman Keshav Upadhye termed the action unfortunate and “vendetta” by the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition against his party’s leaders. The BJP’s Fadnavis, who is the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, alleged that the government was providing security “on the basis of politics”, and that this would not impact his plans to travel and meet people. Home minister Anil Deshmukh rejected the allegations and said the security of political leaders had been reviewed as per the prevailing threat perception. According to a government notification issued on January 8, Fadnavis will now get “Y-plus security with escort”, instead of “Z-plus” cover. The security of his wife Amruta and daughter Divija has been downgraded from “Y-plus with escort” to “X” category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
11-01-2021||India||Centre urged to stop Covaxin trial in Bhopal hospital||Four non-government health groups on Sunday urged the Centre to stop the clinical trial of the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine at a hospital in Bhopal, alleging irregularities and violations of ethics by investigators at that site. The groups have claimed that the trial investigators and staff at People’s Hospital, Bhopal, had violated ethical guidelines by luring poor and educationally vulnerable people into the trial by telling them they would receive a vaccine and a compensation of Rs 750. People’s Hospital is among trial sites nationwide that have enrolled participants for the efficacy trial of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech to determine whether it is able to protect people from the infection. The principal investigator of the trial at People’s Hospital did not respond to phone calls from this newspaper. The hospital’s dean, Anil Dixit, however, told The Telegraph that all the due clinical trial protocols had been “followed adequately”. One of the trial participants at People’s Hospital died on December 21, nine days after receiving the first dose. Bharat Biotech on Saturday said a post-mortem analysis had revealed that the death was not related to the vaccine. Medical experts have questioned the silence of the drug regulatory agency on the death. Now, the Bhopal Group for Information and Action and three other groups representing survivors of the world’s largest industrial disaster in December 1984 have alleged that the participant who died was one of dozens recruited from poor and vulnerable communities. The groups, in a letter to Narendra Modi, health minister Harsh Vardhan and India’s drug regulatory authority, have urged a stop to the trial at People’s Hospital and sought an independent and transparent investigation into the trial process at the site. They have underlined that People’s Hospital had recruited over 1,700 participants while a government medical college in Bhopal, another trial site, had enrolled only 100 participants. “Such targeted enrolment of poorly educated, economically deprived and vulnerable communities is exploitation,” said Rachna Dhingra, an activist with the Bhopal Group for Information and Action. Clinical trial guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research specify that trial participants should not be offered incentives or rewards and should be adequately informed about the purpose of the trial and that participants may receive either vaccine or placebo. But seven people who claimed they had received the vaccine at People’s Hospital told a news conference organised by the health groups that they were not told that they may receive either vaccine or placebo. “They came in vans and said we would receive vaccines against corona and we would get Rs 750 — otherwise, why would I go?” asked a 70-year old man who claimed he had been enrolled. “I can’t read or write, but I can sign,” he added when asked about the informed consent form. Bharat Biotech, which had outsourced the trial in India to a US-based multinational organisation, said the company believes the trial followed all protocols. It said the Rs 750 offered to the participants was reimbursement for the cost of travel or daily wages lost in visiting the site to receive the vaccine. This is not unique to Bhopal but offered to participants across the country. But independent experts in ethics believe there was clear evidence of allurement. Anant Bhan, a bioethicist based in Bhopal and an adjunct professor at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, for instance, said he was troubled by advertisements he had seen posted by People’s Hospital. “What we’re hearing from these participants and the ads I’ve seen are worrying,” Bhan said. “One ad focused on the possibility that there could be a potential benefit of joining the trial, without balancing that with the risk,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
11-01-2021||India||No longer just a protest, it’s a revolution in progress||I wrote this late last night Maybe I’m getting too emotional but I can say that everyone we meet here is feeling this way. I’ve never met so many beautiful souls together at one place. Sometimes, it seems like I’m in a dream. I had planned to come for a week but it’s my 14th day here, 21 days of shooting and I’m finding it difficult to tear myself away. There’s always a surprise waiting at the next trolley. Day 43 Farmers Protests If you are depressed, dismayed and have lost all hope then join the farmers’ protests. At this point, it’s not about whether or when the farm laws will be repealed, it’s about how they will be repealed. It’s about what we’ll tell our children when they ask where were you when farmers were protesting. Sprawling for more than 50 kilometres outside 3 Delhi borders, the farmers’ trolleyhomes are now home to approx 300,000 people from Punjab Haryana, UP and Rajasthan. Not everyone is a farmer here. There are people from all walks of life including students, doctors, filmmakers, photographers and influencers. There’s no shortage of food or items of daily necessities. They appear as soon as the need arises. The protest camps are slowly becoming a home for all those who are against the government’s anti-people policies. It’s not about farm laws alone and the decision of the government on this issue is a matter of formality. The moral battle was won long ago. It’s no longer just a protest, it’s a revolution in progress. It’s peaceful, inspirational and transformative. There’s a poet or a budding poet in every other trolley. Nearly everyone is a sardar (leader) or becoming one. This is a free workshop in leadership, organisation and management. There’s no dearth of what you can do, how you can volunteer. It’s really up to you and your imagination. This is a miracle created and managed by people and it embraces human precariousness. Every home offers you graciousness which comes in the form of food, stories, songs, poetry and hope. Paash and Bhagat Singh are thriving here. Everyone is welcome here except politicians, paid media and profiteers. Your intentions will be sussed out and why not? So, if you are not too deadened by your comfortable lives, have not lost your capability to dream, and if you can withstand the elements — dust, dirt, germs, cold, sludge, smoke, traffic, noise, and can ignore your bourgeois concerns of appearances and packaging, then do make your way to this Mecca of protests and take along with you the spirit of this place and plant it elsewhere. Nishtha Jain is a documentary filmmaker. She posted the above piece on Facebook on Saturday. It has been reproduced here with her permission||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
11-01-2021||India||Tear gas, water cannons can’t get Haryana CM on dais||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to cancel a rally in his home constituency of Karnal on Sunday after police lathis, water cannons and tear gas shells failed to keep protesting farmers away from his “Kisan Mahapanchayat”. The BJP chief minister was to address the “Kisan Mahapanchayat” or meeting of farmers in Kaimla village to muster support for the new farm laws. A heavy police contingent was deployed to keep farmers who are opposing the three laws from reaching the venue. The police put up a large number of barricades and fired water cannons and tear gas shells at the protesting farmers, but a large number managed to reach the village and ransacked the dais. Khattar’s helicopter returned without landing at Kaimla, where the protesters outnumbered the audience and the police. Unfavourable weather was cited as the reason. Later, at a news conference, the chief minister blamed Gurnam Singh Chaduni who heads the Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and is part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which the farmers are agitating, for the incident. “Today’s incident gave a message to people bigger than the one I’d intended to send out. These people have defamed the farmers because a farmer doesn’t have such a nature. A farmer can be less educated or simple, but he’s sensible,” Khattar said. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, however, said the police had started it all, using water cannons and tear gas to disperse “farmers who had assembled to peacefully register their opposition” to the event. It called the meeting a “bogus panchayat” convened “in support of anti-farmer laws being imposed in dictatorial way by the Modi regime”. Protesting farmers asked why they were barred from the event if it was a Kisan Mahapanchayat. A panchayat is a meeting in a village where all sides are heard. According to the AIKSCC, the incident resulted from a ploy devised by the administration to create a law-and-order situation and defame “the unprecedented and most peaceful movement of farmers”. “The farmers are agitated, particularly after the last meeting with the government shut all doors for them. So organising a meeting like this to talk about the so-called benefits of the three laws, when the farmers are agitated, was rubbing salt into our wounds,” a union leader told The Telegraph, while accepting that the farmers should not have damaged the venue. This is the second time protesting farmers have forced Khattar to cancel a rally, after digging up his helipad in village Padha about two weeks ago. Farmers in and around Kaimla are said to have been divided over Khattar’s programme, with many demonstrating against it for the past few days with black flags and protest headbands while others opposed them. The police had blocked the roads leading to Kaimla by putting up barricades and parking trucks. But farmer leaders, including some from the BKU, held a meeting on National Highway 44 at a spot about 10km from the village on Sunday morning and decided to go ahead with the protest. The agitating farmers first held a tractor march in areas around Kaimla. There was considerable local support for the protesters. The police had to call in reinforcements after the farmers breached the first cordon. As the crowd of protesters grew bigger, tear gas and water cannons were used. But the farmers took control of the helipad and squatted on it, some of them uprooting the tiles of the helipad, a PTI report said. State BJP president O.P. Dhankar and a few others, however, did address a group who attended the rally in support of the farm laws. PTI added that the farmers damaged the dais, tent and speakers and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue. They tore off BJP hoardings and uprooted banners. Some local villagers and BJP workers had a face-off with the protesters. A few stones were thrown at the police, who ran for cover, the news agency reported. Last week, the Haryana police had used tear gas to stop an attempt by protesting farmers from Rewari district to leave for Delhi to join the siege of the capital’s borders. Earlier, protesting farmers had dug up a helipad prepared for deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, leader of the BJP’s coalition partner Jannayak Janta Party. Leaders of both parties have faced farmer demonstrations for over a month. In Congress-ruled Punjab, too, a face-off was reported between the local police and farmers who were demonstrating against BJP leaders in Jalandhar city. Haryana leader of the Opposition and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda reiterated his demand for an emergent session of the Assembly. PTI quoted him as saying: “The Congress wants to bring in a no-confidence motion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal luminaries’ ideal and BJP’s vision a mismatch||On Monday, ruling party of West Bengal, TMC stated that BJP’s attempts to evoke Bengal’s icons, such as Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda, for political gains is “ironical”, as the ideals of these luminaries do not match with the saffron party’s vision and objectives. Speaking to reporters here, on the eve of Swami Vivekananda’s birthday, senior TMC leader and a state minister, Bratya Basu recalled that Sri Ramakrishna had once said “jato mat, tato path”, which means multiple views lead to multiple avenues ‑ in short, pluralism – “something that the saffron camp does not subscribe to”. “BJP talking about them is ironical as the party does not believe in Ramakrishna’s way of thinking. Even Swami Vivekananda had said ‘those who love humanity serve the God’,” Basu. The minister maintained that TMC supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee has paid tribute to these eminent personalities by restoring their residences, and making arrangements to honour them on several occasions. The CM, however, was thwarted from delivering speeches at Oxford Union and Chicago, “for reasons which are not known to us”, he said. The Oxford Union had in December 2020 postponed Banerjee’s virtual address at the eleventh hour, citing unforeseen circumstances. The TMC leadership, infuriated over the development, had claimed that “political pressure” could have forced the organizers to to take such a call. In 2018, Mamata’s scheduled programme at Chicago on the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary had also been cancelled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Cooch Behar rift deepens||Infighting within Trinamul in Cooch Behar took a new turn with party leaders close to district party chief Partha Pratim Roy slamming party colleagues critical of Roy and demanding stringent steps against the critics. Recently, leaders like former civic chief Bhusan Singh, district general secretary Khokon Mian, party leader from Cooch Behar-II block Parimal Burman have fumed against Roy’s “arbitrary” decisions in naming office-bearers, “bias” and “incompetence”. District party spokesperson Shibapada Pal known to be close to Roy asked Trinamul state leadership to act against Roy’s critics for “indiscipline”, which he said was harming the party. “These leaders have openly resorted to criticism and are raising baseless charges against the district president who was nominated by the state leadership. Activities of these leaders are affecting the party’s image in Cooch Behar. We want the state leaders to take stringent steps against them for indiscipline,” Pal said. Other Trinamul leaders like Rahul Roy and Niranjan Dutta said they would wait for seven days to see if the state leadership would take steps against these leaders. “Otherwise, we will launch a movement across the district with the demand to remove them from all the posts they hold. They activities are detrimental to the party's interest and we can’t let it happen,” said Rahul Roy, a party district secretary. District party chief Roy has abstained from any counter statement. “We are in constant touch with state leaders and are acting according to their instructions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Son with rotting mom body in North Dinajpur||The decomposing body of an 80-year-old woman was found at her home in Subhashnagar in Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Sunday, four days after her death, her 55-year-old son telling police he did not know how to do her last rites. Sources said the old woman Kusum Chakraborty stayed with her son Ramkrishna. Ramkrishna is suspected to be mentally challenged. Kusum did all the chores. Her body has been sent for autopsy. Neighbours suspected something amiss when they did not see Kusum for some days, and discovered a foul smell coming from her house. Then, they informed the police. “We spoke to her son who said that as he was alone could not find any option as to how to conduct the last rites and that he was living with the body for four days. We are waiting for post mortem reports to know the cause of her death,” said a police officer. Angry residents of Dumradangi village under Karandighi police station of North Dinajpur ransacked and torched the car of a resident on Sunday evening alleging that he was a drug peddler. Police brought the situation under control. Sources said the Saturday suicide of local youth and alleged drug addict Ranjan Kundu, 27, had made people angry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Malda mom drowns two daughters||A homemaker from a village in Chanchal police station drowned her two minor daughters at a pond on Sunday morning, sending ripples of shock in the area. Police called it an “unprecedented act” while a psychiatrist in Malda town said the mother must have “complicated mental issues”. Anupnagar villagers said the woman, Mumpi Mondal, took her daughters Madhuri, 10, and Jayashree, 8, to a pond and shoved them deliberately. Chanchal, her husband and a daily wage earner, and other villagers rushed to the spot. The girls were taken out of the pond but doctors at a local hospital pronounced them dead. Chanchal said that late on Saturday, he had a fight with Mumpi over serving of food. “However, we eventually went to bed and I had no inkling that she would do something so drastic to avenge the quarrel,” said the bereaved man. Sukumar Ghosh, the inspector-in-charge of Chanchal police station, said it was “one of the rarest incidents” he had seen in his career as a cop. “We have heard of incidents when a mother, after killing her children, tries to take her own life. But in this case, the information we have is that she did not try to take any such step and stood on the spot. I suspect she some complicated mental issues,” said Parnasha Gupta Roy, a psychiatrist in Malda. Two persons died in a road accident at Malda Bypass on the outskirts of Malda town on Sunday afternoon. Deceased Mozahar Ali, 30, and Rumpi Deb Sharma, 19, both residents of Kaliyaganj police station area, North Dinajpur district, were among the occupants of an SUV that collided with a dump truck on the bypass. The three injured are being treated at Malda Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata rally today to woo Matuas||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a public meeting at Ranaghat in Nadia district on Monday morning as part of her continuing efforts to win over Matuas ahead of the Assembly polls. The Trinamul Congress chief will address the meeting at the Habibpur Chhatimtala grounds under Ranaghat Lok Sabha constituency, a stronghold of Matuas. Monday’s rally comes at a time senior Matua leaders loyal to the BJP are making statements about the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act by February. Although Mamata has reiterated that Matuas are Indian citizens and has disputed the legislation’s purported attempts to deny their Indian identity, a large section of the community has reportedly remained unconvinced and is leaning towards the BJP for its citizenship legislation. Trinamul insiders claimed that Mamata would raise her voice against the BJP’s citizenship thrusts at the Monday rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul tom-toms farmers’ ‘U-turn’||Trinamul Congresson Sunday paraded four of five farmers from East Burdwan’s Katwa whose homes BJP national chief J.P. Nadda visited a day before, who claimed loyalty to Mamata Banerjee. Four farmers swore allegiance to Trinamul at a news meet at the party’s Katwa office in front of MLA Rabindranath Chatterjee, and said the saffron camp misled them. “We were told the BJP chief will beg for alms from us. It is our rural culture to give alms to anyone asking for it,” said Nitai Mondal, one of the farmers. They went ahead to proclaim they were Trinamul loyalists and would stay so. On Saturday, Nadda started the Krishak Surakkha Abhijaan in Katwa in support of the three contentious central farm laws. Under this outreach programme, he went to homes of five farmers asking from each a fistful of rice, and lunched at a farmer’s house. “These poor farmers...told us that if they had known the true intentions of BJP, they would’ve never allowed them entry,” Chatterjee said. Arun Bhattacharya, the chief priest of Sarbamangala temple in Burdwan, where Nadda had offered prayers before his Saturday roadshow, also said on Sunday that priests were obliged to Mamata as she gave them stipends. “He (Nadda) had come to offer his prayers and we helped him in it like we would do for any devotee,” the priest said. “As far as I know, the entire community of priests is obliged to our chief minister because she has given us stipends, medical and other benefits. We will be with her always,” he added. This was not the first instance when people handpicked by the BJP to meet or lunch with their central leaders like Nadda or Amit Shah were shown to be loyal to Mamata by Trinamul — Shah’s lunch hosts Bibhishan Hansda of Bankura and Basudeb Das Baul of Birbhum being cases in point. BJP’s state general secretary and MP Locket Chatterjee blamed the U-turn on Trinamul’s “politics of fear”. “There is no development in the state and when people started aligning with us Trinamul is forcing them to speak for their party,” she said. Her party alleged “Trinamul goons” had been attacking their supporters and party offices since Saturday night, and eight BJP supporters were injured at a clash in Shaktigarh. On Sunday, Trinamul held a 3km rally to counter Nadda’s 1.2km one in Burdwan town. The rally led by Trinamul youth leader and actor Soham covered the 3km from town hall to Golapbagh, compared to Nadda’s 1.2km from Birhata to Curzon gate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Jabs fly over Cooch Behar airport||The Trinamul Congress and the BJP have pointed fingers at each other over a stark contrast in air connectivity in districts on the Bengal-Assam border. While the longstanding demand of residents to resume flights from Cooch Behar airport in Bengal remains unfulfilled for over 25 years, authorities have readied the aerodrome at Rupsi in Kokrajhar district of Assam to restart services after three decades. The Cooch Behar and Kokrajhar districts are contiguous to each other. “The Airports Authority of India is working for resumption of flights from Rupsi, while it has decided not to renew the licence for the Cooch Behar airport. Such moves show the central government’s bias against Bengal and for Assam where the BJP is in power,” said Bengal backward classes’ welfare minister and Trinamul Congress leader Binoy Krishna Burman who hails from Cooch Behar. The Cooch Behar airport had been developed by erstwhile local royals and the flights were available till 1995. In July 2019, a nine-seater aircraft had landed at the Cooch Behar airport for a trial run. Local BJP MP Nisith Pramanik, who was on board the flight, declared that the service would resume soon. But there was an impasse between the central and state governments and the flights didn’t take off. The absence of flights prompted the AAI to decide that it would not apply with the Director General of Civil Aviation for the renewal of the airport’s licence that is valid till January 27 this year. The move was to curb expenses. The scene is completely different at Rupsi, located around 70km from Cooch Behar. The AAI that had initiated the work in February 2019 developed a terminal of 3,500 square metres. It has 10 check-in counters and can handle 200 passengers in an hour. The runway that has also been revamped can handle ATR-72 type aircraft. There is also a parking area for around 100 cars at the airport. Initially, there are plans to operate flights connecting Rupsi with Calcutta and Guwahati from February, said sources. BJP leaders alleged that the Mamata Banerjee dispensation’s non-co-operation had emerged as a stumbling block in the way of resuming flights from Cooch Behar, the farthest district from Calcutta. “People of Cooch Behar are well aware of my initiative. But the Trinamul government withdrew security, fire services and other facilities which it was supposed to provide at the airport. The Assam government, on the other hand, has extended all possible help and that is why Rupsi is ready to start flights,” said MP Pramanik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Chorus of support for suspended Visva-Bharati professor||Over 500 academics from institutions across the country and abroad have signed an online petition to protest Visva-Bharati’s “arbitrary decision” to suspend a professor for speaking up against the alleged misdeeds of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his administration. Among the signatories to the statement are economists Prabhat Patnaik and Amiya Kumar Bagchi and political scientist Zoya Hasan. Anustup Basu, an associate professor at the University of Illinois, said the suspension of economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya went against the “principle of natural justice and freedom of expression”. “This seems to be the latest example of how universities are increasingly being run in an authoritarian manner in this country,” the statement said. “Universities as critical spaces of academic inquiry need to preserve the freedom of raising questions. Any curbing of these basic rights and freedoms amounts to dismantling the foundational principles of a university,” added the statement, signed by 561 teachers and scholars. “It is indeed of great irony that a university inspired by the life and work of an internationally acclaimed poet like Rabindranath Tagore has chosen to revoke the right to ask questions,” it said, with an appeal to the authorities to revoke the suspension. Bhattacharyya was suspended on January 7, triggering suspicion that he had been penalised for his role in foregrounding an alleged attempt by some within the varsity administration to portray economist Amartya Sen in a poor light over a land rights issue. Visva-Bharati insists that the professor was suspended because the varsity’s executive council had found him guilty of “misconduct by mass circulating a complaint and derogatory/ defamatory/ baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. Many among Bhattacharyya’s colleagues have asked whether this was sufficient reason for suspension. The professor had lodged a complaint with the Prime Minister and Visva-Bharati chancellor Narendra Modi, the varsity’s visitor and President Ram Nath Kovind and other senior officials, questioning the appointment of the principal of one of the varsity’s schools. Apart from individual academics, several teachers’ bodies, including the Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Association (Fedcuta), have condemned the suspension and demanded its revocation. “The suspension was apparently over a complaint filed by him over a principal’s appointment and for ‘mass circulating it’…. Professor Bhattacharyya has been consistently raising issues of irregularities in the university as an office-bearer of his association and in the process strengthening the association itself by establishing it as a responsible watchdog of the university’s functioning,” the statement released by Fedcuta on Sunday read. Bhattacharyya is president of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. “We demand that the suspension of the Visva-Bharati professor be immediately revoked. We also appeal to democratic forces to rally around to protest against this latest attack on the fundamental right of freedom of association by the growing authoritarian administration in the universities,” added Rajib Ray, Fedcuta president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||BSF rolls out friendship rally in Mujib’s memory||BSF on Sunday morning kicked off a 4,097km, 66-day bicycle rally with 13 jawans as a mark of respect to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman for his birth anniversary on March 17, and for “better relations across the border”. The Maitri (Friendship) Cycle Rally was flagged off at the Panitor border outpost near Basirhat in North 24-Parganas by former chief of army staff of Indian Army Shankar Roy Chowdhury to foster a “strong bond of friendship” between the custodians of borders of the two countries. For 66 days, the 13 BSF jawans will cycle along border roads of Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Manipur and Meghalaya before ending the journey at Silkore border outpost in Mizoram on March 17 to coincide with the birth anniversary of Rahman, known in Bangladesh as the “Father of the Nation” or simply “Mujib”. The cycle rally will cover around 90km each day with night halts at outposts along the international border. “It is a tribute to the great statesman of Bangladesh by the BSF. He was a great friend of India and took initiative to develop a bond between the two countries,” said a BSF spokesperson. “So, for his birth anniversary we launched this Maitri rally to renew that bond and to create awareness among residents along the border on certain issues.” “Apart from promoting the bond, the objective of this bicycle rally is to create a sense of security and awareness on crime and smuggling among the people along the border, while strengthening the bond of friendship with the BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh),” a BSF official said. Inaugurating the rally, retired General Roy Chowdhury said: “Mujibur Rahman was a friend of Bengal. If the two border nations remain on good terms, their people will also remain on good terms and develop a strong bonding.” Rahman was the first President and later the Prime Minister of Bangladesh. He was assassinated on August 15, 1975.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Rivals Deb, Asok reach out to people ||Trinamul’s Gautam Deb and CPM’s Asok Bhattacharya, two prominent political faces of north Bengal, had a busy Sunday. State tourism minister Deb played the development card to drum up support for Trinamul, while Siliguri MLA Bhattacharya reached out to his voters with a weeklong public interaction campaign. In the morning, Deb went near the Bengal Safari Park on Siliguri outskirts and laid the foundation stone of “Karma Tirtha”, a proposed two-storey building that will have 10 stalls where local handicraft and other items would be displayed for sale by the self-help groups. For this building, the state will spend Rs 81 lakh . “Every day, Safari Park gets visitors by hundreds. Karma Tirtha will provide visitors an opportunity to buy local handicraft and other items and it will help self-help groups run by women,” said Deb. Tourism minister Deb also distributed land rights to 67 residents of Dabgram-Fulbari, his Assembly constituency. On his part, Bhattacharya, along with a group of CPM workers, visited a number of wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), met people to know their grievances and expectations from the civic body as he chairs the board of administrators at the SMC, and also handed over leaflets comprising the issues that the CPM wants to flag ahead of the Bengal Assembly elections. “We will continue the drive for seven days to know peoples’ opinion on various issues. Simultaneously, we will apprise them about our stand on the issues and ask for their support,” the senior CPM leader said. In north Bengal, Siliguri Assembly constituency, an important seat owing to its location, is one that Trinamul could win only once in 2011. “On the whole, Trinamul has failed to win seats in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections in Darjeeling district. Even in local body polls, Trinamul could win only in Mirik Municipality so far while the Left won in back-to-back elections of local bodies in Siliguri sub-division in 2015. It is evident that the Left will put all efforts to retain the Assembly seat and also local bodies,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases drop below 8,000 in Bengal||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases fell to below 8,000 on Sunday, to 7,881, as the state reported a drop in the total number of existing patients for the 76th consecutive day, since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. With 957 recoveries, 823 infections and 19 deaths logged on Sunday, the state’s total of active cases improved — since 37,190 on October 26 — by nearly 79 per cent. Bengal now has around 3.5 per cent of total active cases at the national level, half of over seven per cent it had about a month ago. “On November 10, the total active cases were 33,444. On December 10, it was 23,451. Today (Sunday), it is 7,881…. There has been a quantum leap forward in the past few months. The total now is back almost to where it was on July 8, over six months ago,” said a minister. Since the end of Puja, the state reported nearly 2.33 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.06 lakh new infections. The recovery rate has risen for 80 consecutive days, by over nine per cent, to 96.82. The national rate now is 96.4 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.53 per cent now, improving from 8.27 per cent on November 20. Bengal’s total test count — including 35,123 examinations recorded on Sunday — went past 74.41 lakh, at 82,683 tests per million people. The state’s total of 5.6 lakh cases include nearly 5.43 lakh recoveries and 9,941 deaths. The 19 deaths reported on Sunday included three from Calcutta. The state attributed 8,343 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Vulture saviours seek ban on 3 medicines||Authorities of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) working for vulture conservation have asked the Centre to ban the use of three painkillers on cattle that are fatal for vultures who later feed on cattle carcasses. Vibhu Prakash, the deputy director of BNHS who was at the Rajabhatkhawa Vulture Breeding Centre at Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar to witness the release of eight vultures — two white-backed and six Himalayan griffons — on Saturday, said medicines aceclofenac, ketoprofen and nimesulide were fatal for vultures. “We have written to the Centre, seeking a ban on use of aceclofenac, ketoprofen and nimesulide on cattle. Earlier, we had found that use of diclofenac on cattle was causing vulture deaths and it was banned on cattle in 2006. Now, these three medicines should also be banned to conserve vultures,” Prakash said. In the 1990s, India’s vulture population was dwindling, which prompted ornithologists, the BNHS, and the UK-based Royal Society for Protection of Birds to take up vulture conservation in earnest. Under the project, two vulture captive breeding centres were readied in Pinjore (Haryana) and Rajabhatkhawa. “The captive breeding project worked and now we have started reintroducing vultures in nature in a phased manner. At this point, it is necessary that these three drugs on cattle are banned,” Prakash added. Rajabhatkhawa has 140 vultures. Of these, 76 were born in captivity since 2006. The eight vultures were released with wing tags for identification. Two white-backed ones also have PTTDs (platform terminal transmitter devices) to track their locations. “Another flock will be released from here on February 18. We plan a vulture census across Bengal next month,” said V.K. Yadav, the PCCF (wildlife). Yadav also said they planned to open two more aviaries in Rajabhatkhawa and open the first captive breeding centre for Asian King Vulture. The Asian King Vulture or the red-headed vulture, sources said, is a critically endangered species. As of now, there are hardly 1,000 Asian King Vulture left in the world, said foresters. Carcass of a female adult wild elephant was found at the Damanpur forest range area of Buxa Tiger Reserve on Saturday. Foresters suspect poison or infectious disease and are awaiting post mortem report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul seeks to court Rajbanshi group||The Trinamul Congress leadership in north Bengal has launched an initiative to woo Rajbanshi Muslims at a time the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) was planning to field candidates in some Assembly seats. Omprakash Mishra, a Trinamul leader who had been camping here for the past few days and holding talks with party leaders and different organisations, urged the Nasya Sheikh community (Rajbanshi Muslims) to stand in support of Mamata Banerjee and her party to prevent the AIMIM from dividing the minority votes. “The AIMIM has planned to contest the Assembly elections. The party has a tacit understanding with the BJP and the RSS. The Muslims of Bengal will have to realise it and all of us will have to take necessary steps in this regard. The chief minister has done a lot for Muslims and we have to apprise them of the developmental initiatives taken by the state government,” said Mishra. He was speaking at a meeting of the Jalpaiguri district committee of Uttarbanga Nasya Sheikh Unnayan Mancha. Ever since AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has announced that his party will field candidates in Bengal, Trinamul has started drawing strategies to retain the support of minorities that has helped the party win in a number of elections over the years. Earlier, Trinamul had strengthened its minority cell in districts like Malda, North Dinajpur and Jalpaiguri but this is the first time that leaders of the party have started reaching out to organisations representing Muslims. In his speech, Mishra also blamed the Left Front and the Congress for the BJP’s emergence in the state. “In the Lok Sabha elections (of 2019), BJP managed to increase its vote share from 10 per cent to 40 per cent. This is because votes from the Left and Congress went to the BJP. A few months are left for the Assembly elections and it is time that we take all steps to prevent erosion of minority votes,” the Trinamul leader said. At the meeting, Mishra reiterated that soon, the Nasya Sheikh community would have a development board of its own. A few weeks back, when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in Cooch Behar, she had promised that the state would look into the demand raised by them. In the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal, Nasya Sheikhs comprise around 30 per cent of the total population. Political observers said it was obvious that Trinamul did not want to take any chance, particularly because a substantial portion of the Rajbanshi votes had gone to the BJP in the 2019 general election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Rally against ‘divisive forces’ in Bengal||The Murshidabad unit of the All India Imam-Muezzin and Social Welfare Organisation on Sunday held a general meeting here and emphasised the need to elect a “secular and competent” party in Bengal in order to do away with “divisive forces in the country”. The meeting that was touted to guide the community in favour the Trinamul Congress was attended by 650 representatives, including state library services minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury, Maulana Qari Fazlur Rahman, Maulana Shafeeq Qasmi and former Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha member Ahmed Hassan Imran. Although the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen led by Asaduddin Owaisi or Furfura Sharif cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui were not named, the exercise was largely to mitigate their influence as they attempt putting together a minority alliance for Bengal, which is likely to help the BJP by cutting into Muslim electoral support for the Trinamul Congress. “Can the CPM or the Congress form a government? No,” said minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury, adding that the responsibility of “acting as community leaders to stem divisive forces” fell on imams at their respective villages. “The need of the hour is such that religious leaders need to guide their electorate to the right choice, but it needs to be done tactfully,” he added. Youth leader Oyazul Haque from the Bangiya Sankhalagu Buddhijibi Manch went a step further, saying even “Masjid mic systems could be used to spread the word ahead of the Assembly elections”. The meeting held at Behrampore Rabindra Sadan acted as a shot in the arm for Trinamul’s image leading up to the polls, in the wake of significant challenges it has faced in the last few months in the form of BJP road shows in districts as well as the defection of its leaders. “As Muslims, we do not have any opportunity to be divided amongst ourselves. This year is too significant for that. Or else, we, too, will be beaten like our brothers in Uttar and Madhya Pradesh and our mosques, too, will be stormed,” said Imran. “Communal forces need to be struck down strongly, and that will only happen if we unite behind the secular force,” added Maulana Qazmi, the imam of Calcutta’s Nakhoda Masjid. The unilateral meeting held ostensibly in favour of the current ruling party capped an incremental trend for the state’s minority voters, who until 2006 — as reported by the Sachar Committee — were notably unconsolidated in their voting patterns under the CPM rule. In 2006, minority MLAs numbered 43 in the Assembly, whereas the number rose to 57 in Trinamul’s first term, long before they were attacked by opponents for allegedly playing to the minority “vote bank”. The number of minority MLAs rose to 59 in Trinamul’s current term at government, of which 32 were from their own party. According to the 2011 census, Muslims constitute about a third of the state’s electorate. In districts such as Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, the minority community holds the decisive sway over electoral outcomes. The districts of Birbhum, South 24-Parganas and Nadia also pose significant numbers as of the last count, with minority voter percentages being pegged at approximately 37, 35 and 26 per cent, respectively. Approximately 90-100 Assembly seats, out of the state’s 294 have significant minority electors, and 63 comprise more than 30 per cent minority electors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-239
11-01-2021||West Bengal||Leadership qualities on display as flustered BJP state boss blusters||Morning-after lesson for BJP leaders wondering how to reconcile the irreconcilable:  insist that the boss is always right. “What I am saying is right,” insisted BJP Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday when reporters peppered him with questions on a temple visited by his party’s national president J.P. Nadda on Saturday. Nadda had described the temple as the shrine where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu had received his deeksha (initiation). Later, the temple authorities and some Katwa residents said the temple was built in 1839. Chaitanya had passed away at the age of 48 in 1534. After a statue in Bankura was erroneously identified during Amit Shah’s visit in November as that of tribal demigod Birsa Munda, Ghosh had claimed that after the Union minister said so everyone had to accept it as fact. On Sunday, Ghosh, who had gone with Nadda to Katwa and stayed there overnight, was seen in a video interacting with journalists. The video offers a telling  insight into how some leaders respond when  inconvenient questions are asked. In sharp contrast, BJP Katwa unit chief Krishna Ghosh had offered a more plausible explanation without losing his cool: a probable and very human miscommunication, because of which Nadda could not be debriefed that the temple he was visiting was not the one that was originally handpicked for him. It is believed that Chaitanya received deeksha at that temple, 10km away from the one Nadda visited, in 1510. Excerpts from Ghosh’s interaction with multiple journalists follow: Journalist: Yesterday, J.P. Nadda described a Radha-Govind temple as the deekshasthal (site of initiation) of Chaitanya. What do you have to say? Ghosh (nodding): Everyone says Chaitanya went there. Journalist: Chaitanya came to Gouranga Bari in Katwa town (10km away) and there is no link with that temple (that Nadda visited). Ghosh (smiling): Chaitanya jonmechheyn char jaygay, erokom boley (Chaitanya was born in four different places, such things are said). Journalist: But this temple (that Nadda visited) was set up 200 years ago and Chaitanya lived 500 years ago. Ghosh: Yeah, so there is a notion there that Chaitanya visited the place. Journalist: He (Chaitanya) did not visit Jagadanandapur and he was not initiated there. It is not an old enough temple and it is only about 200 years old. Ghosh: It is the faith of local people that Chaitanya visited the place…. It is over, enough, done. Journalist: No, Chaitanya did not go there… what will you say about it? Chaitanya did not go there, he was not initiated there. Ghosh (losing his cool): Were you around (centuries ago) to see it? Journalist: Huh? History has this to say… Ghosh (aggressively): It is the faith of local people that he went there. Journalist: No, that is not the faith of local people. Ghosh: Are you from Katwa? Journalist: Yes, I am. Ghosh: Here are a thousand people from Katwa. Journalist: But none of them will agree (with the BJP’s claim)... the temple, after all, is only 200-odd years old. Ghosh: Your claim does not make it so. What I am saying is right. Journalist: Is that so? What you are saying has to be correct? Ghosh: Of course. Journalist: He (Chaitanya) was not initiated at the Gouranga temple? Ghosh (gesticulating): Go ask this to others. BJP state chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, refused to react, saying he was not aware of the developments. Trinamul Congress vice-president and MP Saugata Roy said: “Arrogance is the best reply from fools and the ignorant.  What better is to be expected of a Dilip Ghosh? They do not know history, nor science… anything they want, they will make up, declare in public, then defend shamelessly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-240
11-01-2021||North East||Nadda confident of party returning to power in Assam||BJP national president J P Nadda on Monday asserted that his party will return to power in Assam in the upcoming elections, bagging over 100 of 126 assembly seats, as the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government has worked for the all-round development of the state. Nadda, during his address at 'Vijay Sankalp' rally here, said that the saffron party, since its victory in 2016 Assam assembly polls, has gone on to win all elections in the state -- be it Zilla Parishad, panchayat, territorial or autonomous council. The party has given due recognition to Assam's culture, language and identity, the top BJP leader said. "The BJP has been working peacefully for the development of Assam, taking into consideration the interests of all communities. It has fulfilled their demands without harming others. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah resolved the 50-year old Bodo issue by signing a peace accord and bringing the militants to the mainstream. All stakeholders were taken into confidence and the accord ensured that their demands were given due recognition," he stated. The BJP chief, who arrived here on Monday on a two-day visit, is set to leave later in the day for Guwahati, where he will hold meetings with members of the party's state unit core committee, election committee and other office-bearers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
11-01-2021||Opinion||Bleak age: India's senior citizens||Is a long life necessarily a fulfilling one? This is a key question arising out of the findings of India’s maiden longitudinal ageing study, the world’s largest-ever detailed survey conducted on the elderly. The United Nations had called longevity one of the most significant social transformations of the 21st century. Indeed, Indians are living longer: the number of citizens aged 60 years and above in India will be 319 million by 2050, three times the estimate of the 2011 census. Indian society is ageing speedily too. But the study also bares the formidable challenges that confront the ageing population. Almost 70 per cent of senior citizens in India suffer from a chronic illness; 20 per cent are battling mental health conditions; 14 per cent experience frequent ill-treatment, including from family members and care-givers; by 2030, 45 per cent of the total burden of diseases — mostly non-communicable — is likely to be borne by the elderly. The implications of these figures become graver in the light of how ill-prepared the elderly are to deal with these problems: only 30 per cent of those from below-poverty-line households receive pension benefits. These findings, though alarming, are not surprising. Indignity is, ironically, a significant part of the lived experience of the elderly in a culture that professes to venerate the aged. The fact that amendments had to be made to the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 to include sons-in-law and daughters-in-law within the ambit of caregivers to the elderly is one indication of the monumental societal indifference. Moreover, geriatric care is still a neglected area in modern medicine. Modernity has brought in its wake in its own problems: traditional support structures, such as those of the joint family, are disintegrating. The resultant price is high: the expenditure of elderly care is ballooning in the absence of concrete models of support. The privatization of care systems — old age homes, nurses and so on are available but at a cost — cannot be the answer; profiteering is the goal of these enterprises. They are neither a feasible replacement for family-based care nor can they be afforded by all sections of the ageing population. There is a case for emulating the community-based care and health services in place in Britain under the aegis of the National Health Service. There is also a need to reimagine the elderly as an economically valuable constituency. Can their vast experience of life and service not be monetized? The resultant economic empowerment could go a long way in making India’s aged population self-reliant and caring for them sustainable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
11-01-2021||Opinion||Open access: new science-tech policy||Might science in its true form stand a chance in India after all? In a welcome move, the Centre has put forth for discussion a draft science, technology and innovation policy under which it would buy in bulk subscriptions of all important scientific journals around the world and make their content freely accessible in India. This move could have positive and far-reaching implications for the pursuit of science and education in the country. For one, publicly-funded research will become legally available to students, members of the scientific community as well as other citizens, a privilege that was hitherto hard to come by given the prohibitive costs of science journals. There are reportedly over 3,000-4,000 high-impact scientific journals, most of which are so expensive that they become the single-biggest item of cost for even prominent institutes. The lack of access to these publications hindered the stimulation of ideas in scientific research. It is to be hoped that the open data policy promotes ground-breaking research, fostering a scientific temper in the process. This is of critical importance, given the concern that the present dispensation is eager to propagate unsubstantiated claims and belief as ‘science’. No less than the prime minister is on record eulogizing ancient India for its accomplishments in genetic research. Second, removing the barriers to quality scientific material and journals would also boost the prospects of pure research in a country where bright minds are increasingly turning away from a career in research on account of the lack of grant opportunities and research avenues. The draft policy also stipulates that women form at least 30 per cent of all decision-making bodies. It is no secret that the pursuit of science — a vocation of reason — is mired in all kinds of social prejudice. Skewed gender representation is one example of the biases. In 2018, women made up a meagre 14 per cent of 2.8 lakh scientists, engineers and technologists employed in India’s research and development institutes. This discrimination is not merely an ethical blot. Lopsided gender and community representation is known to blunt cutting-edge technology. For instance, recruitment systems based on artificial intelligence have been found to discriminate against job applicants with female names. Free access and fair representation would also be consistent with India’s constitutional ideals, which uphold education and equality in all spheres of public life to be fundamental to the health of a democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
11-01-2021||Opinion||Small-state US presidential candidates||Last year’s presidential election in the United States of America was extraordinary in many ways. Joe Biden became the oldest person ever to be elected as president; Kamala Harris became the first woman, that too of African-Asian origin, to win the vice-presidency. Biden hails from Delaware, a small state with 0.29 per cent of the US’s population. It is the 45th largest state among the 50 states that constitute the US. Delaware has only three electoral votes: the minimum number for any state. In India, we often celebrate the success stories of men and women from smaller towns. Biden’s elevation to the White House would be analogous to someone hailing from one of India’s small states — say, Nagaland or Sikkim — beginning his political career as a councillor of a city corporation, going on to become a member of parliament, then getting a place in the Central cabinet and — finally — winning the prime ministership. Of course, the electoral system in India is different: people do not vote to directly elect the prime minister. In this country, someone might be elevated to the highest seat in spite of having little personal appeal among voters. The US, contrastingly, votes to choose its president. Although Biden has been on the national stage for decades — as senator and vice-president to Barack Obama — this election proved that one may reach the top of the US’s political pole in spite of hailing from a small state.Feel included Interestingly, small-state presidential candidates have a terrible track record in the history of US elections. In the 231-year history of American presidential elections, prior to Biden, only six candidates won the presidency among about a dozen hailing from states with fewer than 10 electoral votes. Three of those presidents were war-heroes. Before Biden, Franklin Pierce, who became the president in 1852, held the record of being the president hailing from a state having the minimum number of electoral votes. Pierce was from New Hampshire, which had 5 among a nationwide total of 296 electoral votes at the time. Although Pierce was a small-state politician, he spent a decade in the House and the Senate before winning the presidency. He had also been a general in the Mexican War. If Bernie Sanders, Biden’s foremost competitor in the Democratic nominations, received the nod, the situation would have been quite similar. Sanders, 79, is a senator from Vermont, one of the smallest states in the US. In fact, Vermont is even smaller than Delaware. It is the 49th largest state in the US, home to just 0.19 per cent of the national population, and it also has the minimum number of three electoral votes in the electoral college. Another charismatic leader in the race for Democrat nomination, the 39-year-old Tulsi Gabbard, serves as the US representative for Hawaii’s second congressional district. Hawaii, too, has four electoral votes and is the 40th largest state of the country with 0.43 per cent of its population. Bill Clinton was another small-state politician to win the presidency. During the presidential election of 1992, Clinton was the governor of Arkansas that has only six electoral votes. Clinton fought the election against the incumbent, George H.W. Bush, and H. Ross Perot, both of whom hailed from a big state like Texas that had 32 electoral votes then. With two truly small-state politicians, Biden and Sanders, contesting the Democratic nominations last year and the former eventually becoming the president-elect, can we conclude that American elections are turning inclusive? With a woman of colour also becoming the vice-president, the national character of America could be reshaped and become more representative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
11-01-2021||Opinion||A green new deal||As the dust clears after the US elections, the preferred choice of most of its 160 million voters lies clearly with Joseph Biden for president. Among the issues that Biden faces is the place and role of the United States of America in the ecological challenge that confronts his country and the world at large. Not only does the US have the largest economy and scientific base but it also has, since 1945, on some occasions set the tone for international cooperation, often for the lack of it. The environmental question has been a key theme in the campaign and led to the surge of younger voters to the Democrat cause. It is not about beauty, health and nature as much as a new way of crafting growth to minimize a negative impact on the economy and the ecology. Varshini Prakash, one of the articulate young campaigners and authors, writes evocatively how a Green New Deal is the “common-sense solution”. It is no coincidence that Franklin D. Roosevelt is evoked even in the name. History shows us why. But it also offers caution in reading too much by way of parallel. FDR was not only the president of the US from March 1933 till his death in April 1945 on the eve of victory in the Second World War. He was also the architect of the New Deal, an all-out effort to get the country’s economy on its feet in the wake of the Great Depression. From the start, the New Deal had what would today be called an environmental dimension. In March 1933, in his very first month in office, he called for the creation of the Civilian Conservation Corps, which, without interfering with normal employment, would focus on specific tasks. “[F]orestry, the preventing of soil erosion, flood control and similar projects” were singled out by Roosevelt. The “vast army of the unemployed” would diminish in numbers and also find purpose and direction in the service of the common good of all Americans. The Congress responded positively: after all the Democrats had taken control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. In his first hundred days, over a quarter of a million men were put to work. The historian of the presidency and its relation to environment, Douglas Brinkley, sees the core task of the early days of the Corps as restoring ecological integrity to public lands. By 1942, when it was finally wound down, the CCC, as it was widely known, had on its rolls over three million men who had planted no less than two billion trees. They also enabled the expansion of state parks, including those in the south in states such as Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina. Afforestation and landscaping meant hard manual labour, but they also implied a wage of 30 dollars a month and resulted in esprit de corps. The New Deal went even further after the ‘Dust Bowl’ in the Great Plains in 1934 and led to the creation of the Soil Conservation Service, which outlived the CCC. In his book, The Green New Deal, Professor Fred C. Mahler estimates that over 150,000 miles of contour furrows were laid down by the new service that also built over 300,000 check dams in just under a decade. FDR was a hard-nosed politician. In his 1936 re-election bid, he often referred to the work of the Service in planning shelter belts and combating soil erosion in the mid-West. He reached out even further. The jobless planted trees and engaged in public works, the state parks made recreation possible for middle class Americans, while the farmers got price support as well as help to fight soil erosion. FDR and his plans aroused deep animosity among the defenders of the free market. The interior secretary, Harold L. Ickes, had to feistily rebut those who said that the government action amounted to nothing less than a “Bolshevist threat to democracy”. There is no doubt that there were strains in the new rainbow coalition. While many African-Americans were engaged in the CCC, their camps were segregated. This was most so in the Deep South, the former home of the Confederates of the US Civil War. African-Americans did gain enormously from public employment under Roosevelt but it was on unequal terms. The Shenandoah River and the Blue Ridge Valley state parks, developed with federal money, enriched local contractors and voters — all white, of course. Despite the efforts of the First Lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, few women were enlisted in the Corps, which projected masculine vigour as force for the good. The women numbered less than 10,000 and were paid a fraction of men’s wages in the CCC. Roosevelt was a man of his times, but he left a mark on America as on the world as he emerged as a key leader in the war-time alliance against the Axis powers. He led America away and out of isolation to the brink of global power by the time of his death. His environmental as well as his political record has long been claimed by American leaders in the hope of carving out a place in history. It was a Texas Congressman and FDR loyalist, Lyndon Johnson, who in the mid-sixties came up with the slogan of “Great Society” to end poverty and race discrimination in the country. Both had key environmental dimensions manifest in access to clean water and sanitation and the siting of chemical dumps in minority neighbourhoods. But the sad fact is that the last half century and more have seen a return of not just barely-veiled racism but also fiscal conservatism. It is no coincidence that Ronald Reagan, the leader of the New Right, wanted a leaner government and also less environmental regulation. As governor of California, he had long opposed the expansion of the Redwood National Park. Those who have seen one Redwood, opponents chanted, have seen them all. Such ideas found open expression in the Donald Trump years more than ever before. Biden, therefore, has a tightrope walk up ahead. His own victory by six million votes owes much to the students, unions, women and minorities who not only turned out to vote but also mobilized and enlisted voters. A Green New Deal may be watered down by a Congressional leadership which, in any case, was a late-comer to the idea. Further, there will be voices urging against regulation lest it weakens US industry vis-à-vis China or Europe. There are two major differences with the 1930s. FDR not only knew the pulse of his people; he also took charge when his opponents had run out of steam. Until the attack on Pearl Harbor, even he was unable to overcome isolationism but on the domestic front his agenda had taken over the public space. Biden has his work cut out. To reach out to the Rust Belt, working class Americans and do so while wooing business support is hard enough. Is a Green New Deal a bridge too far? The world’s eyes are on Washington. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Suicide prevention centre to hold webinar on Jan 16||Jeevan, a Steel City-based suicide prevention centre, will organise a webinar on January 16 to help school students relieve stress. With the government and private schools re-opening (for standard X and XII) after the lockdown, students are finding themselves on the receiving end and not being able to cope with the pandemic-related restrictions being imposed at schools. Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain said they would also include teachers in the seminar and try to help students overcome their anxiety and stress. “We are organising the webinar on January 16 in which the students from X and XII would participate,” he informed. According to him, the students might face difficulty to adjust to the restrictions imposed at schools. “Students never came across such situations in their life. They like mingling and talking to their friends. This was not possible during the lockdown and they don’t want it anymore. This builds stress on them. We would talk to the students and try to help them overcome stress. If possible, we will also include a psychologist in the webinar,” Jain said. “As many as 24 people have committed suicide (mostly by hanging) in November last year. Social pressure, unemployment, loss of business and study pressure are some of the reasons. The stress level has not fully subsided,” Jain added. According to him, Jeevan has stopped receiving daily distress phone calls since most people are not aware of its telephone numbers. “We have fixed two banners in Kadma and Sonari to spread the information,” Jain said. Meanwhile, Jeevan has reopened its office in Bistupur. Two volunteers are working from 2 pm to 6 pm. Offline counselling is still on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||R-Day celebration sans procession in Ranchi||This year the official Republic Day celebration in Ranchi will be sans any prabhat pheri (procession) and cultural programmes because of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced this news on Monday after chairing a meeting in this regard. He maintained that the official celebration would have a small ritualistic parade and jhakis (tableaus) put up by different government departments. The entry of the general public would also be limited. During the event, Covid-safety guidelines will be strictly followed. Every year, Ranchi’s Morabadi ground hosts both Independence and Republic Day celebrations. As per practice, the chief minister hoists the tricolor during Independence Day in Ranchi while the governor does so in the state’s second capital – Dumka, while on Republic Day, it the reverse. This afternoon, DC, senior SP SK Jha and other officials of Ranchi district administration and Municipal Corporation held a two-hour-long meeting at the collectorate building to chalk out the modalities for the upcoming R-Day celebration. Ranjan said, “The Republic Day function will be held amid heightened precaution as Covid cases in Ranchi are still higher compared to other districts. We have decided to do away with the cultural programmes and prahbat pheri but will allow parade and tableaus.” The district administration is yet to finalise the number of visitors that will be attending the programme. However, he added that the seating arrangements and other drills in the run-up to January 26 celebrations will be done in a way that is more or less similar to those done for the Independence Day celebration. “Covid safety norms like social distancing at the venue, mandatory use of masks, etc will be followed in toto,” he said, adding that respective departments have been assigned specific jobs to ready the venue on time. For example, Ranchi Municipal Corporation has been asked to ensure the installation of mobile toilets and washbasins at the venue while the fire department has been directed to review fire safety requirements for the same. Senior SP Jha said, “Soon we will review security requirements and traffic plan for a smooth passage to and fro from the venue. We shall notify traffic regulations after finalizing the route maps, parking arenas among others.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||18,000 streetlights lying defunct in Dhanbad||As many as 18,000 streetlights installed across the town under the 14th Finance Commission tenure are lying defunct due to poor maintenance including the non-payment to contractors. The streetlights installed on Polytechnic road near the Bekar Bandh pond are in the worst condition. Those on Joraphatak road are posing threat to commuters as a majority of them are rusted. Madhurendra Singh, a social worker of Dhanbad who is also the former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, said: “At several places, the wires in switch boxes are lying open.” “We have raised the issue with the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar three days ago and also demanded immediate repair of all the non-functional street lights through various agencies including EESL and Surya. As per the agreement, they must maintain the street lights for seven and five years respectively,” said Singh. Anand Chaurasia, a resident of Bekar Bandh in Dhanbad, said, “The number of streetlights had been increased when Dhanbad roads were being renovated. However, the streets become risky for commuters as most of them are non-functional.” Gulshan Bhatia, a resident of Gandhi road who owns a shop at Shakti Mandir at Joraphatak has expressed concerns about the tilting lamp posts claiming that it to be a hazard for motorists and pedestrians. Assistant engineer (electrical) of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Jay Kumar said, “Though the condition of street lights in some areas like polytechnic road is bad, we are working hard to restore their operation. Things are improving gradually. It got delayed due to delay in payments to the contractors.” “We are trying our best to restore all the street lights as soon as possible,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||30 women felicitated for keeping fit by doing Zumba during lockdown||As many as 30 women in Jharia, who kept themselves fit by doing Zumba at home during the lockdown with the help of Jharia-based youth organization, Samadhan, were felicitated by Manisha Minz, wife of Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz on Monday. The successful trainees have received shields from Minz after finishing their three-month-long training programme organised as part of Easy Step Dance and Fitness Classes. The event was organized at Shahid Hira Jha Sanskarshala at Jharia. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Sangeet Drolia (60) said, “It is a full-body workout which helps to maintain the flexibility and at the age of 60. I never faced any difficulty in carrying out the regular Zumba practice at my home.” “The practice helps to improve cardiovascular endurance,” said Drolia, who along with her teammate, Soni Sinha, secure the second place during the third and last round of the Zumba dance competition organized as a part of the training. Sushma Keshri (30), another housemaker of Jharia, who won the first prize in the final round of the event along with her teammate Sneha Chaudhary, said: “Ahe dance session helped us to remove stress, which has increased in almost every family across the world during the lockdown period.” “The training also helped to reduce fatigue, improve concentration and trigger positive feelings throughout the day,” said Keshri. Samadhan founder Chandan Singh said, “We have started the online training more than three months ago to provide some relief to the women who are the worst sufferers during the lockdown. Initially, more than 350 women joined our programme. Later, 50 of them were selected in the other rounds.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jawaharlal Nehru’s statue found damaged near Telaiya Dam||The statue of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was found damaged near Telaiya Dam in Koderma district, officials said on Monday. The guards, who first noticed on Sunday, reported the matter to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) officials. Apart from that, the guard wall and a building there were also found damaged. A team led by chief engineer Ajeet Kumar Sharma have visited the spot on Monday for investigation. Meanwhile, Sharma has requested the residents and tourists to help them to preserve the historic structures. Old statues and buildings are always considered as a rich heritage, he said. Telaiya is the first multipurpose dam of the country which was inaugurated by Nehru in 1953. His statue was installed at Chachero Park. Sharma is suspecting the picnickers who have caused the damage. However, he said an inquiry is being conducted into the unfortunate incident. He said, “It is our responsibility to protect the rich heritage. We should also have some respect for the great leaders of our country.” Congress leaders Abdul Mannan Warsi, Nizamuddin Ansari, Tokhan Ravidas and Sikandar Rana condemned the incident and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. Telaiya dam is one of the famous tourist spots of Jharkhand which records maximum footfalls every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant launches books on Shibu Soren's 77th birthday||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) patriarch and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren cut a 77-pound cake to celebrate his 77th birthday in the presence of the who's who of Jharkhand on Monday in Ranchi. Chief Minister Hemant Soren commemorated the day by launching three books, two in Hindi and one in English, that depict the life struggles of Soren Senior, popularly known as Guruji in the state he helped form. Authored by Anuj Kumar Sinha, and published by Prabhat Prakashan, the books – Dishom Guru: Shibu Soren, Tribal Hero: Shibu Soren and Suno Baccho, Adivasi Sangharsh Ke Nayak Shibu Soren in Gaatha – highlight the rise of Shibu Soren and how he fought against the Mahajani system and united the tribal community to fight against oppressive forces, officials said. “Today, the whole world wants to know the story of Shibu Soren. With his will power, farsightedness and years of struggle, he has become a personality people want to read about,” said Hemant. Soren, one of the stalwarts of Jharkhand politics and a veteran of the Jharkhand Movement, is a two-time chief minister and a name synonymous with JMM, the single largest party in the Jharkhand Assembly. Addressing guests at the ceremony at Aryabhatta Auditorium in the state capital, Senior Soren said that a small step is all it takes to achieve the greatest of targets. “No matter how difficult your target is, your first step is the beginning of success. There is no shortcut to success and no substitute for sincerity and hard work,” Soren said. Soren’s 77th birthday was a special occasion for all his supporters and family as he defeated a Covid-19 infection last year despite dealing with several other age-related ailments. He underwent treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram and returned healthy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Migratory birds leave coal town as temperature rises ||With the sudden rise in temperature since the first week of  January, the number of migratory birds has started dwindling in Coal Town. Red Crested Pochard, a large diving duck whose favourite habitat is lowland marshes, can be seen here in large numbers. But this year, more than 90% of them have left town. Similarly, Ruddy Shelduck, a distinctive waterfowl, are also decreasing in number. While speaking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, AK Sahay (62), a retired banker who also heads the Coal Town bird lovers association, Dhanbad Birders, said: “More than 90% of Red Crested Pochard have already left Dhanbad since the last week. While a large number of Ruddy Shelduck has also returned to their respective places.” When asked whether the birds will return or not as the temperature is expected to further plummet within a couple of days, he said chances are rare as once they leave their temporary habit in a season, they hardly return. They shift to some other place. Dr Manish Vishwakarma, a renowned radiologist of Dhanbad who is also the president of Dhanbad Birders, said, “We have noticed that the number of Red Crested Pochard is significantly low and if the weather condition doesn’t improve as per speculation after January 15, almost all the birds will return from here.” “Usually the migratory birds leave from Dhanbad during the last week of February or first week of March. But this year, it has started more than two months earlier due to sudden change in the climate and increase in temperature,” said Vishwakarma. “We have plans to visit some other prominent places in the nearby areas like Tilaiya dam and also the favourite destinations of migratory birds in Bengal to carry out a study,” said Vishwakarma. Established on September 14, Dhanbad Birders through an extensive survey has identified six places within the town which are hotspots of bird watching and has the presence of at least 20 species of birds. The spots identified during the survey are Jagjivan Nagar, DS Colony (near Pampu Talab), Bartand (in the vicinity of CIMFR), Bekar Bandh, Bhelatand (near DPS Hirak Branch) and Bhelatand Village. While seven other sites identified in the suburbs are Dhokra near Domerpur (17 km from Dhanbad), Govindpur (12 km from Dhanbad), Chhai Gadda near Kargali Ghat in Baliapur (20 km from Dhanbad), Domgarh Boating Point (23 km from Dhanbad), Maheshpur in Katras (23 km from Dhanbad), Aamtal (6.2 km from Dhanbad), Foothills of Dhangi Pahar in Pradhan Khanta (14 km from Dhanbad).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Conveyor belt order to NTPC by NGT||The eastern zone bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Delhi has directed state-run power giant NTPC to install a conveyor belt at Barkagaon in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand for transfer of coal within three months. The order was passed on Thursday and its copies were received on Friday evening. The NGT has also asked the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) and the state government to ensure that the order is implemented in time and also ensure that fugitive coal dust generated is not dispersed indiscriminately. The verdict was given during hearing of a petition filed by Hazaribagh-based social worker Tripurari Singh aggrieved at the illegal transportation of coal and its dumping by the NTPC in the villages of Katkamdag, Baanadag, Banka, Sultana, Sadampur, Hathaemedi and Mayatu in Hazaribagh district in violation of pollution norms. The petitioner said such activities had affected the river and ponds in the area. He said about 8.5 acres of forestland had been encroached by the railways and the NTPC for construction of a railway dockyard and used for dumping of coal and transportation and because of such activities the health of the inhabitants had been adversely affected and they had fallen victim to breathing problems. Advocate Satya Prakash, who appeared for the petitioner, said: “The NGT had constituted a committee of five members in July 2020 in the matter of Tripurari Singh versus ministry of railways and others. The NGT said in its order that the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board and government of Jharkhand shall monitor the work and transportation of the coal in these areas. The NGT has said its order shall be strictly followed by the parties. The five-member committee has also recommended a 20-feet boundary wall should be constructed and chemical dusting of coal should be dumped at the dedicated pond which shall be constructed by the NTPC and mining companies apart from construction of a conveyer belt within three months.” In September last year, the team, comprising two NGT members, Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand, petitioner Tripurari Singh and Ashok Kumar Yadav from the state pollution board, visited the spot. Local farmers told the team members that the railway siding is surrounded by fields and their farm land is being adversely affected by coal dust and also the residue left behind by coal. The locals also alleged that this has resulted in lung problem and breathing issues in many residents. They said that even the well water has become black and not fit for drinking due to the railway siding where coal is being off-loaded. The petitioner’s counsel further said the land that the NTPC and the mining company used for transporting coal has been acquired for the Shivpur-Tori railway line. Hence, the NTPC now uses this land for coal dumping and transporting, he added. The NTPC has been mining coal from Pakri-Barwadih and using the railway siding at Katkamdag for loading coal racks. Transportation of coal to the railway siding is carried out through dumpers. Nearly 150 acres of cultivable land has been allegedly polluted due to the transportation and dumping of coal. As a result of coal spill from the dumpers, the land is no longer suitable for cultivation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
11-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 145 fresh Covid cases, two casualties in a day||Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday in Jharkhand, causing a fall in the number of patients, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Jharkhand reported a spike in active cases for three consecutive days until Sunday. On Sunday, as many as 145 people were found infected by the lethal virus while 169 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases down at 1468, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi, which reported a triple-digit-spike in cases for the past three days, registered 86 cases against 87 recoveries on Sunday. However, the number of active cases here remained above 700, which is around 50 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 infection across Jharkhand. As per the NHM bulletin, at least eight of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. East Singhbhum reported 23 cases, while Dhanbad and Bokaro reported seven cases each. Only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a double-digit-spike spike in cases on the day. Meanwhile, two Covid patients, one each from Dhanbad and Palamu, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 1047, government data stated. So far, East Singhbhum has reported 355 of the over 1000 Covid fatalities in the state, while Ranchi has witnessed 223 Covid casualties. On Sunday, the government tested swab samples of 12,316 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 49.59 lakh people and tested 49.46 lakh of them. Around 12,000 samples were pending for tests. As per government data, the Covid tally in Jharkhand was 1,16,187 and nearly 98 per cent of the patients have recovered. As many as 1,14,302 patients have defeated Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far. The growth rate of the virus was 0.14 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.15 per cent, highlighted the NHM bulletin. As per the bulletin, it would take 500 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 458.34 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-177
