12-01-2021||Calcutta||Shield yourself from bird flu: Advice to poultry handlers||The health department has instructed poultry farm workers and others who handle birds and animals to wear protective gowns, gloves and goggles to protect themselves from the avian influenza (HSN1) virus. There have been reports of outbreak of the disease in some states but so far the virus has not been detected in Bengal or the adjoining states - Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. The Union health ministry has said the disease is zoonotic, which means it can spread between animals and people, but infection in humans has not yet been reported in India. Experts have said the virus doesn't spread from cooked or boiled poultry products. The health ministry has also advised states to tackle rumors that may influence poultry product consumers. In a two-page advisory to the chief medical health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and his counterparts in 23 districts of Bengal, the deputy director of health services (public health) has said those working in poultry farms and handling animals and birds should wear gowns, gloves, goggles and shoes. At the end of the day's work, the protective gear should be discarded or sanitised. No one should eat or smoke while working in poultry farms or handling animals and birds. “The idea is to spread awareness, stop rumors and prepare our officials to tackle a situation,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan, the health department headquarters. “The municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has been requested to step up surveillance in all 144 wards. The deputy CMOHs have been instructed to circulate the guideline among community-level workers, including health assistants and Asha workers.” Monday’s advisory refers to the recent death of migratory and other birds in Himachal Pradesh and an order issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change to states and Union Territories to take “steps for containing the spread of the disease”. Bengal is the third meat producing state in India after Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Bengal produces around 2.5 crore kg of chicken every week and consumes around 2 crore kg. The rest is exported to neighbouring states. Around 5 lakh farmers are directly involved in the poultry business and another 10 lakh are involved indirectly, according to officials of the West Bengal Poultry Federation. “There have been no reports of bird flu in Bengal or its adjoining states as of now. So don’t get alarmed,” said Madan Mohan Maity, the general secretary of the federation. “We urge people to eat more chicken and eggs because that is the cheapest way to build protein.” The advisory spells out that avian bird flu doesn't spread from cooked food and asks officials to keep all those who have been exposed to dead or sick birds under surveillance and provide them antiviral medicines for 10 days. “We have been asked to get in touch with public health officials and their counterparts in the animal resources development (ARD) department immediately if there are reports of unusual symptoms or death of common birds, wild birds and those in poultries," said an official of Birbhum district, which had witnessed over 61,000 poultry deaths during the last outbreak of bird flu in India in 2008. The advisory also instructs health officials to find ways to minimise bird-human interface and use masks, goggles and gloves while handling sick and dead birds. Officials in the district have been asked to keep adequate stock of masks, personal protective equipment, swab sticks and antiviral medicines as a preventive measure. Health workers have been instructed to spread awareness among farmers so they remain alert to certain symptoms among birds such as vigorous shaking and drooping heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Stalker on Calcutta Metro arrested||A 26-year-old woman who said a man had been stalking her and touching her inappropriately on Metro trains over the past two months got her alleged harasser arrested on Monday. The woman raised the alarm when the man, later identified as Amit Das, was allegedly trying to molest her while boarding a train at Kavi Nazrul station. She boards a Metro train daily at Kavi Nazrul on her way to office and gets off at Esplanade, Police said she told them that she had been noticing a man follow her in Metro over the past two months. “She alleged the man would intentionally stand next to her, especially when the train is crowded, and would try to touch her inappropriately. She said she had been noticing that the man would follow her into the compartment every day. Today she caught him red-handed when he tried to molest her while she was boarding the train,” said an officer of Patuli police station. The woman screamed when Das allegedly touched her inappropriately while she was boarding the train around 12.45pm, the police said. Instead of boarding, the woman pushed the man on the platform and got off the train herself before screaming for help. The Metro Railway Police rushed to her help and took custody of the man. He was handed over to Patuli police station. The woman accompanied the police to the police station and filed a complaint, based on which Das was arrested and a case under IPC sections related to stalking and outrage of modesty registered against him. Das, a resident of Sonarpur, will be produced in court on Tuesday. If convicted, he can be jailed for five years. Senior police officers lauded the woman for the courage she had shown in getting her alleged tormentor arrested and urged victims of similar circumstances to follow her example, instead of fearing social stigma. “Most such cases of sexual harassment go unreported because the victims are scared of the stigma or they do not want to get involved in a legal tangle by approaching the police. It is a welcome change that women are more confident these days and are coming out to report the cases to the police,” said a senior police officer of the south suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Biker shot at twice in Uluberia on way to cops||A man on his way to a police station on a motorbike was shot at twice on a deserted stretch in Uluberia — around 40km from the heart of the city — on Sunday night. Police said the man was attacked by two bike-borne snatchers who allegedly opened fire at him after he tried to resist them. Pinaki Das, 25, a resident of Ranihati in Panchla and an engineer by profession, was going to Uluberia police station to lodge a complaint after losing his wallet when he came under attack, the police said. Das had apparently lost his way while trying to reach Uluberia police station. “He said he had stopped his bike to take out his mobile phone and check the location when two men on a bike approached him from behind and demanded his belongings. The men had also asked him to leave his bike,” an officer of Howrah police said, quoting Das. “Two bullets hit him. One hit his bike. The victim told us that the two men fled after he started screaming,” a police officer said. Das had to undergo surgery for removal of the bullets. One of the bullets hit him below his neck, towards the left side of his shoulder, and the other got lodged in his right arm. Das mentioned in his statement that one of the two snatchers had pulled out a gun while asking him to hand over the bike. The man allegedly fired after Das tried to snatch the gun. Das said he alerted his family members over the phone and shared his location. He was initially taken to Uluberia State General Hospital and shifted to SSKM Hospital on Monday morning. A senior police officer said they were trying to find out whether there were any CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood where the alleged incident happened. “It is very important to either get an eyewitness or some circumstantial evidence to verify the statement of the victim,” the officer said. Das’s motorbike will be subjected to forensic tests to check the nature of the bullet mark, sources said. No one was arrested till late on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Warmest January in years, Celsius set to slide again||This January has so far been the warmest first month of the year in at least eight years. The average maximum and minimum temperatures in January are 25.8 degrees and 14.1 degrees, respectively, according to the Met statistics compiled over the past three decades. This year, the average maximum and minimum temperatures — from January 1 to 11 — have been 28.3 degrees and 16.3 degrees, respectively. The average maximum temperature for both January 2017 and 2019 was 26.3 degrees, the most after this year. The average minimum temperature of January 2016 was 15.8 degrees, the most after 2021. The Celsius is expected to slide again this week and drop below the 15-degree mark. A Western Disturbance over north and northwestern India has stalled the flow of cold north-westerly winds, triggering a rise in temperature across the northern and central parts of India. Since cold winds from Jammu and Kashmir reach south Bengal via these places — like Delhi and Uttar Pradesh — the temperature in Calcutta has been unusually high this January. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 20.9 degrees, a whopping seven degrees above normal. The maximum temperature was 28.4 degrees, three notches above normal. Woollens have already been kept back in cupboards. Even early mornings are warm. As the day progresses, fans are being switched on at many homes. Normally, January 1 to 15 is the coldest period of the year. Over the past few years, there have been fluctuations and cold days have been interrupted by a brief warm spell or a couple of days of rise in temperature. But many Calcuttans could not recall the last time the fan had to be switched on for so many days in the first fortnight of January. On four days this month, the Celsius has clocked 30 degrees. The Met office has a word of hope though. “The Western Disturbance is dissipating while moving towards China. The Celsius in Delhi has started going down. Bihar and Jharkhand are expected to follow suit from Tuesday, paving the way for the cold winds to reach Calcutta,” said G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The Celsius in Calcutta is tipped to go below 15 degrees from January 14, he said. After a cold spell that characterised the end of December, the rise in mercury started from the first week of the new year. A high-pressure system, positioned over parts of Bengal and Bihar on Sunday, has made the weather sweaty, said a Met official. “The system is drawing moisture-laden winds from the Bay. But the system has weakened and will dissipate in a day,” said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Evidence of collective callousness in Calcutta||The number of Covid-19 cases has come down and two vaccines against the disease are ready to roll out, but public health experts are worried because people are dropping their guard in the fight against the coronavirus. At most public places across Calcutta, from the zoo and the Victoria Memorial to the airport, Metro saw on Monday evidence of people’s collective callousness. Hundreds of people were  without masks and at the airport, many passengers were queuing up just like old times, almost every one breathing on the neck of the person in front. “The number of cases may have gone down but we have to keep in mind that the pandemic is far from over. We have to look around and learn from experiences of countries like the UK and Thailand, where there is a resurgence of Covid after a lull,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert who is at the forefront of the Mamata Banerjee government’s fight against Covid. “The state health department and voluntary organisations are continuously campaigning to make people adopt safety measures like wearing masks, but it seems people are not taking Covid as a threat anymore.” Chowdhury, who mentors Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and survivors of the disease, said that even two months back people were keen to know new things about Covid and preventive measures. “Two months back, at an awareness meeting in Hooghly’s Serampore, there were hundreds of people when I reached the venue at 10pm. They were asking several questions,” said Chowdhury. “Last week, at another meeting of Covid Care Network in Hooghly, there were barely 50 people. Most of them were members of the organ-isation.” It’s evident across the city that people are dropping their guard. The footfall has been on the rise at the zoo, Science City and the Victoria Memorial. The average week-day footfall at the zoo was 5,000 in the middle of November. Now, it has climbed up to around 15,000. On the last two Sundays, more than 50,000 people had turned up, an official of the zoo said. A mask is mandatory at the ticket counter and entry points, but many visitors were removing the mask once inside the zoo, said the official. “Cops posted inside the park have been pulling up people for not wearing masks but it is impossible to keep an eye on everyone,” he said. The zoo authorities, like the authorities of Science City and the Victoria Memorial, were making regular announcements on the public address system asking visitors to wear masks and sanitise hands. At the airport, officials said, passengers were wearing masks but most were seen violating the physical distancing rule. “At the queues to enter the terminal, for check-in at airline counters and security check, most passengers don’t maintain the (required) three-feet distance among each other,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. “There are passengers in groups and when airline or airport officials ask them to follow the distancing protocol, the passengers say they are in a group and have to stay close to each other.” At the gates, there are markings made for each passenger to stand but most are not following the protocol. At the boarding gates, airline officials call one passenger at a time to board aircraft. But, officials said, whenever the first passenger is called to board an aircraft, others get up and form a queue. Malls have been busy, too, but most visitors are masked. South City Mall has been witnessing around 70,000 visitors on weekends in January, said an official of the Prince Anwar Shah Road shopping address. “We are not allowing anybody inside without a mask. The stores are following the same protocol. There are enough CCTV cameras to spot a person without a mask,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Practical classes can be held:  Calcutta University VC ||Practical classes can be held on Calcutta University campuses, provided students attend them in small batches, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said on Monday. The VC made the comment when Metro asked her about a letter from the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association urging her “to allow holding practical classes in willing departments maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols” since those classes are essential for many courses. “It will be an injustice to the students to again go ahead with the teaching-learning process without holding any practical classes,” the letter reads. Chakravarti Banerjee told this newspaper: “Teachers can hold practical classes on the campus in small clusters if they want. We were not allowing the exercise on the campus because of their safety. If they want to hold practical classes following the safety protocols, they can do so. We will sanitise the facilities.” She, however, struck down the demand that the ongoing semester be extended by a month before the exams are held. The teachers made the demand so there is adequate time to complete the syllabus. “We are bound by the UGC’s deadline,” she said. Online classes at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels have been on since the middle of December. The association decided to approach the VC after the university authorities had on January 1 informed the colleges and the department heads at the postgraduate level that the exams of the first, third and fifth semesters at the undergraduate level and the first and third semesters at the postgraduate level be held between March 8 and 26. The university followed a UGC guideline on exams published in September in issuing the notification. The teachers are worried how students will appear in the practical exams since no practical classes are being held. “Practical classes cannot be held on digital platforms. Since the practical classes are not being held… the teaching-learning process is suffering immensely. The students will not be able to appear in the practical exams,” said Sankhayan Choudhury, the general secretary of the association. Another member of the association said the university should have realised the problems being faced by students of science subjects. “The UGC had also notified that for the 2020-21 academic session, the teaching-learning process may continue in offline, online and/or blended mode. So the university could take a decision on holding practical classes offline. But it chose not to act,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Post-vaccination help for recipients||Recipients of Covid-19 vaccines will be provided the contact number of a doctor or some other health-care worker who can be reached for post-vaccination support, an official of the state health department has said. The department has also decided to deploy an influencer at each vaccination site to boost the morale of the recipients. “The role of the influencers will gain in importance once people not associated with health care start getting doses,” an official of the department said. The department has identified 941 cold chain points across the state to store the doses and 47 vans to transport them, the official said. “The team at each vaccination site has to ensure that recipients are given the contact number of a doctor, an auxiliary nurse and midwifery (ANM) or an accredited social health activist (ASHA). Recipients can contact them if any post-vaccination support is required,” the official said. All recipients will have to wait for 30 minutes at the vaccination site after getting the jab. The vaccination team will check for adverse effects during the period. “If any recipient develops an unusual reaction after leaving the vaccination centre, he or she can contact the person whose number will be given,” the official said. Metro reported on Friday that health department officials had told Calcutta Municipal Corporation representatives that recipients of Covid-19 vaccines should get their shots at the site nearest to the address they would provide. This will ensure that a recipient can return to the vaccination site quickly if he or she develops some adverse effects after reaching home. Sources in the health department said the role of influencers would be crucial in vaccinating people not associated with health care. Influencers are honourary health workers or accredited social health activists who run public health campaigns and surveys, and work for prevention of vector-borne diseases. “The influencers motivated Covid-19 suspects to undergo tests during the early days of the pandemic. People know them. Their presence at vaccination sites will boost the morale of the recipients,” said an official. Those registered for the vaccination will get text messages almost at every stage of the process, the official said. A potential recipient will get the first message on confirmation of registration. The Centre has created a digital platform — CoWin — where all potential recipients have to register for vaccination. The second message will mention the date, time and venue of vaccination and the third, which will be sent after the first jab is administered, will mention the date and time of the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Calcutta||Students flag rights violations||“How can police use it (tear gas and water cannon) against citizens of our own country?” wrote one student about the farmers’ protest at the Delhi border. Calling Internet shutdowns in Kashmir an “affront to the right to free speech”, another student wrote: “When the Internet is off, people’s ability to express themselves freely is limited, the economy suffers, students are cut off from lessons and those needing health care cannot get consistent access.” Students of Modern High School for Girls did a project on human rights where the teenagers wrote about violations in India and the world. Class VIII girls raised the issues in letters that they wrote “to whom it may concern”, all of which have been posted on the school’s website. Some of the letters are accompanied by artwork by Class X students who have pictorially represented what their juniors have written. The Rohingya genocide in Myanmar, mob lynchings in India, disability rights, human trafficking, workplace discrimination, LGBTQ rights and ill-treatment of transgender prison inmates are some of the issues the Class VIII students researched and wrote about in their letters. The school said it wanted the students to “think, explore and look beyond the text and curriculum”. “It is important for children to think and reflect and not only work out answers to problems. Education should give them that tool,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High school. “They have to learn and find out for themselves and it is not right for the school or teachers to impose their ideas on the students,” she said. The girls were given a month to research issues that they thought were related to violations of human rights. “We have to sensitise students to what is happening around us. By the time they are in Classes IX and X, they are aware of rights issues and we can understand that from their tone,” said Sunita Biswas, who teaches history and guided the students in the project. “Some of them had read and researched thoroughly but it hadn’t come out in their writing. Then we asked them to explain in more detail. Though they had read from various sources, the written work had to be original,” said Biswas. “We are living in a world where violations are increasing every day and as the next generation, we have to step up and know and talk about it,” said Vaibhavi Gupta, who wrote about the Bru refugees. Some of the students chose issues that they said made them “angry and sad”, like Ishana Kandhari, who wrote about the farmers’ protest. “I was following the farmers’ protest and I was angry, sad and hurt at how the farmers’ lives are getting impacted. When this opportunity came up, I wanted to write about it,” she said. The gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Hathras unnerved 13-year-old Adrija Mukherjee. “I am a girl and it is scary that something like this can happen,” she said. “Human rights are basic rights that belong to all of us simply because we are human. Human rights are the articulation of the need for justice, tolerance, mutual respect and human dignity,” Adrija wrote. Vrinda Sarda wrote about Internet shutdowns in Kashmir. Krittika Mahipal raised the issue of human trafficking. “Not only does it (human trafficking) work on exploiting the vulnerable, but its foundations also lie in seeing humans as objects we can own and sell,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-176
12-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 248 points to end at new peak||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 248 points to end at a fresh life-time high on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Bharti Airtel amid positive global cues and persistent FPI inflows. After touching an all-time high of 49,569.14 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 247.79 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 49,517.11. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.70 points or 0.54 per cent to a fresh closing peak of 14,563.45. It scaled a record 14,590.65 during the session. On the Sensex chart, SBI was the top gainer, rallying around 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank, ITC, Axis Bank and NTPC. On the other hand, Asian Paints, HUL, Nestle India, Titan and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities remained resilient as they recovered sharply from the day's low and recorded fresh highs. Banking stocks once again defied red flags raised by RBI's Financial Stability Report by recovering sharply from early losses, he said, adding that auto stocks continued to see healthy traction as well with expectations of good Q3 earnings and strong outlook. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,138.90 crore on Monday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.60 per cent higher at USD 56.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Sensex slips over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC, Kotak Bank and ICICI Bank despite the largely positive trend in global equities and sustained FPI inflow. The 30-share BSE index was trading 117.77 points or 0.24 per cent lower at 49,151.55. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 20.95 points or 0.14 per cent to 14,463.80 in opening deals. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank was the top loser, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Titan, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra and HDFC. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, L&T, Bharti Airtel, ITC, Bajaj Finserv and TCS were among the gainers. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 486.81 points or 1 per cent higher at record 49,269.32, and Nifty surged 137.50 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 14,484.75. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,138.90 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be encouraging at the moment. Red flags highlighted in the Reserve Bank of India's Financial Stability Report about the banking sector do not augur well for the banking index, which may weigh on markets in the near term. "However, we still believe fundamentals of the market are still intact considering sustained rebound in economic activities and government's continuous endeavour to bolster economic activities," he said. US equities recorded modest correction as profit-booking was visible especially in technology companies. However, he added that investors appeared to remain focused on the possibility of large fiscal stimulus and prospects of economic recovery. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.05 per cent lower at USD 55.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||January commercial mine auction date||The next tranche of commercial mine auction will be launched this month, Union minister for coal Pralhad Joshi said on Monday though no details were provided. Speaking at an event to launch a single-window clearance system in coal, Joshi said commercial mining has been made a part of the system now. “The next tranche of commercial mining auction would be launched in January 2021, and further tranches will continue thereafter,” he said. The previous two-part auction concluded in November where companies submitted bids for 19 of the 38 coal blocks on offer. Adani Enterprises, Hindalco, Vedanta Ltd, Essel Mining of the Aditya Birla Group and Jindal Steel & Power were among the winners, besides several new and non-mining companies. On the single-window clearance system, Joshi said, “Earlier, companies were required to approach different departments, leading to a delay in the operationalisation of coal mines. Now, the complete process shall be facilitated through a single-window clearance portal in a phased way.” Union home minister Amit Shah, who was also present at the event, said the coal sector will play a significant role in the country’s goal to become a $5-trillion economy. Shah said the successful bidders have been allotted mines under the country’s first commercial coal mining auction. This will give the states an estimated revenue of about Rs 6,500 crore per year and will create more than 70,000 jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Union Budget set to go paperless||The Centre has dispensed with printing the budget papers this time as the annual tome on the health of the economy and the government’s finances goes fully digital and paperless because of the pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who had wrapped the budget documents into the dainty bahi khata — a red bag reminiscenct of the traditional account books — will now have to breathe life into the maze of numbers that make up for the government’s receipts and expenditures as they pop up on her laptop screen. With the bahi khata, Sitharaman discarded the colonial legacy of carrying the budget documents in a briefcase. The word “budget” has its origin in the French word Bougette, which means leather briefcase. The paperless budget would mean that for the first time since Independence the documents would not be printed. The printing of documents requires staff to be locked up in the basement press of the finance ministry a couple of weeks ahead of the presentation of the budget . The printing all these years began with a halwa ceremony, around January 20, that marked the staff going into the basement press only to emerge after the budget was presented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Sensex hits lifetime high, breaches 49000||The Sensex on Monday hit a lifetime high and crossed the threshold of 49000, tracking gains in IT stocks amid a largely positive trend in global equities and strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs). The gains in stock prices came on hopes of improved performance of India Inc in the third quarter with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) setting the stage for the optimistic tone last Friday. TCS reported better than expected results and its top management saw revenue rising double digits in the next fiscal on increased spending on technology. Both Infosys and Wipro will announce their third quarter results on Wednesday with market sentiment buoyed by the strong performance of TCS. Other sectors such as automobiles are also expected to fare better as they declare their numbers in the days ahead. Moreover, announcement of the vaccination process from January 16 also lifted sentiments. Provisional data showed that FPIs bought stocks worth Rs 3,139 crore during Monday’s trading. So far in January they were net buyers to the tune of over Rs 10,800 crore. While there is a disconnect between the state of the economy, which is forecast to contract by 7.7 per cent this fiscal, and stock prices, market circles are of the view that the stock momentum will continue on FPI inflows and optimism over corporate earnings as the vaccine is rolled out and economic activity comes back to the pre-Covid levels. During Monday’s trading, the 30-share Sensex opened above the 49000 mark at 49252.31 and hit an intra-day low of 48956.31 early . However, it soon gathered speed on a rally in IT and auto stocks and touched a record intra-day high of 49303.79. It later ended 486.81 points or 1 per cent higher at 49269.32, closing above the 49000-level for the first time. The broader NSE Nifty surged 137.50 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at its fresh lifetime high of 14484.75. It hit a record 14498.20 during the session. IT stocks led the rally after TCS on Friday reported a 7.2 per cent jump in December quarter net profits. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex group, rising 6.09 per cent, followed by Infosys, HDFC, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto and M&M.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Stress tests predict bad loan surge||The Reserve Bank of India has warned that the gross non-performing asset ratio of banks could rise to 13.5 per cent under a baseline scenario and almost double to 14.8 per cent in the worst case by September this year. In September last year, the gross non-performing asset ratio was 7.5 per cent. The latest financial stability report reflects the collective assessment of the sub-committee of the Financial Stability and Development Council. The bi-annual publication was re-scheduled to incorporate the first advance estimates of national income for 2020-21 that were released by the National Statistical Office on January 7. The NSO has forecast the economy will contract 7.7 per cent during this fiscal. In its previous report, the RBI had projected the gross non-performing assets (GNPA) ratio of banks may rise to 14.7 per cent by March 2021. Its latest estimate indicates the bad loan problem is likely to continue despite the economy recovering during the second quarter of the current fiscal. The central bank said in the latest report that because of Covid the data on fresh loan impairments of banks may not reflect the true underlying state of their portfolio because of regulatory forbearances such as the moratorium, standstill on asset classification and one-time restructuring. Its stress tests indicated the GNPA ratio of all commercial banks may increase from 7.5 per cent in September 2020 to 13.5 per cent by September 2021 under the baseline scenario. If the macroeconomic environment worsens into a severe stress scenario, the ratio may further escalate to 14.8 per cent. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das who has been asking banks to shore up their capital also cautioned them about the inherent NPA problem. He said that though India’s banking system had relatively sound capital and liquidity buffers built following the global financial crisis, the pandemic threatened to result in balance sheet impairments and capital shortfalls as the regulatory reliefs are rolled back. Moreover, banks will be called to meet the funding requirements of the economy as it traces a revival from the pandemic. “Consequently, maintaining the health of the banking sector remains a policy priority and preservation of the stability of the financial system is an overarching goal,’’ he observed. The RBI added that among the bank groups, the PSU banks’ GNPA ratio of 9.7 per cent in September 2020 may increase to 16.2 per cent by September 2021 under the baseline scenario while the GNPA ratio of private sector banks may increase from 4.6 per cent to 7.9 per cent and foreign banks from 2.5 per cent to 5.4 per cent over the same period. In the severe stress scenario, the GNPA ratios of PSU lenders may rise to 17.6 per cent, their private peers 8.8 per cent and foreign banks, 6.5 per cent by September 2021. “These GNPA projections are indicative of the possible economic impairment latent in banks’ portfolios, with implications for capital planning, ’’ the RBI noted. It, however, issued a caveat: considering the uncertainty regarding the unfolding economic outlook and the extent to which regulatory dispensation under restructuring is utilised, the projected ratios are susceptible to change in a “non-linear fashion”. The RBI also cautioned that though banks’ capital position had improved in September 2020 over March 2020, the actual cushion available with them could be “overstated” due to the forbearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Adani commissions 25MW solar power plant in Uttar Pradesh||Adani Solar Energy Chitrakoot One Ltd, a step-down subsidiary of Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL), has commissioned a 25MW solar power plant at Chitrakoot, Uttar Pradesh. The Adani group on Monday said in a statement that this plant has a power purchase agreement (PPA) with Noida Power Company Ltd (NPCL) at Rs 3.08 per kilowatt-hour. It added that with this commissioning, AGEL’s total operational renewable capacity has grown to 2,975MW. The plant will be connected to its Energy Network Operation Centre (ENOC) that continuously monitors and analyses performance of more than 80 solar and wind plants across diverse locations in India. Recently, AGEL also commissioned and announced 100MW solar power plant. Meanwhile, the Competition Commission of India on Monday said it has approved the acquisition of share capital in Adani Green Energy by a subsidiary of Total SE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Passenger vehicle sales rise 23.99 per cent in December||Passenger vehicle (PV) sales in December rose 23.99 per cent year-on-year to 2,71,249 units because of spill-over demand from the festive season and pre-buying ahead of the price hike announcements, automobile dealers’ body Fada said on Monday. The growth comes on a low base as most automakers had slashed production because of tepid demand amid transition to Bharat Stage-VI emission norms. However, after the price hike announcements, Fada expects a temporary blip in demand. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (Fada), which collected vehicle registration data from 1,270 of the 1,477 regional transport offices (RTOs), said PV sales stood at 2,18,775 units in December 2019. Two-wheeler sales increased 11.88 per cent to 14,24,620 units last month compared with 12,73,318 units in December 2019. Commercial vehicle sales, however, slipped 13.52 per cent to 51,454 units in December 2020 against 59,497 units a year ago. Three-wheeler sales fell 52.75 per cent to 27,715 units last month from 58,651 units in December 2019. Tractor sales, however, grew 35.49 per cent to 69,105 units last month  against 51,004 units in the same month of 2019. Total sales across categories increased 11.01 per cent to 18,44,143 units last month compared with 16,61,245 units in December 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Tata Motors shares zoom to 52-week high||Shares of Tata Motors zoomed to a 52-week high on Monday on the buzz that it was set to enter into a partnership with Tesla and that the electric vehicle giant may even take a stake in its passenger vehicle (PV) business. However, a Tata Motors spokesperson denied any such development. “Tata Motors has not taken any decision regarding a strategic partner for its PV business and categorically denies any and all rumours suggesting the same,” the company said in a statement. Last year, the homegrown auto firm had said it was looking for a partner in its PV business after its board approved the setting up of a new subsidiary in the segment. On Monday, the buzz that Tesla may choose Tata Motors for its much awaited India foray set the latter’s stock soaring on the exchanges. On the BSE, the stock rose almost 14 per cent to hit an intra-day high of Rs 225, a new 52-week high. However, it gave up some of the gains to close at Rs 220.10, a gain of 11.11 per cent over the previous close. Close to 80 lakh shares were transacted on the exchange which was higher than the two-week average quantity of 32.53 lakhs. Road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari had last month told PTI in an interview that Tesla is set to start its operations in India by setting up a distribution facility (sale centres) in India this year and based on demand, it could look to set up a manufacturing facility as well. This came after Tesla Inc co-founder and chief executive Elon Musk in October said the company would enter the Indian market in this year. “Next year for sure,” he had said while replying to a query on Tesla’s India plans on Twitter. Following this announcement, the Maharashtra government had invited Tesla for investing in the state even as it also held preliminary discussions with the company. State tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had said he and industries minister Subhash Desai held a video call with Tesla executives to invite them to the state. In fact, the Pune facility of Tata Motors is its “most versatile”. Apart from being a full range supplier of both commercial and passenger vehicles, the facility boasts of delivering more value per vehicle as it is a highly integrated plant with regard to core processes such as engines, gear box and paint shop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
12-01-2021||Business||Frontline steel companies continue to clock higher production and sales||Frontline steel companies continued to clock higher production and sales despite the shortage of iron ore, reaping the benefit of record prices of the alloy. Tata Steel and SAIL, which source ore from their own mines, ramped up production, while JSW Steel, AM/NS India and JSPL, which largely depend on market purchases, scored better in the third quarter, buoyed by a strong uptick in demand. The numbers show how the large players are gaining market share from smaller units which are unable to ramp up despite the lucrative market for want of raw materials. While top producers continued their upward march in production compared with the same period last year and the preceding quarter of this fiscal, low inventory cramped the sales of Tata Steel and JSPL, which reported a sequential decline in sales. Experts say that integrated players benefited from tight domestic supply of iron ore, which restricted smaller players from taking advantage of the healthy demand. A report by rating agency Icra noted that the share of the top six steel producers in total crude steel production, which remained at about 55 per cent historically, has risen to about 65 per cent in the recent months. Record utilisation Also, against the average industry capacity utilisation of 78 per cent for the period FY2016-FY2020, the top six steel producers have now touched a high of 85 per cent in October 2020, while the other producers are still operating at capacity utilisation rates of about 65 per cent. “These trends indicate the rising dominance of large steel players in the domestic industry and an adverse impact of the pandemic on the business performance of some of the smaller steel producers, which would find it difficult to operate at pre-Covid levels in the near term,” the Icra report pointed out. Price dynamics Benchmark hot rolled coil prices rallied Rs 13,800 per tonne during October-December to reach an unprecedented level of Rs 51,000 per tonne. However, the large players already made it clear that more rounds of hikes are on the cards given that domestic prices are still 6-8 per cent cheaper than the landed price of import. “We expect steel prices to remain high in the January-March 2021 quarter with a sequential price hike of Rs 7,000-8,500 per tonne,” a study by rating agency Crisil noted. While user industries — be it construction or engineering — have been asking the government to rein in the prices and found support from Union roadways minister Nitin Gadkari there has so far been no intervention. However, the vertically integrated players such as Tata Steel and SAIL would reap the benefit as the remaining players procure iron ore at the market price. NMDC’s iron ore prices more than doubled from May onwards and so have the prices of pellets (an iron ore intermediate) and scrap. From a low of Rs 1,960 a tonne in May, the prices of ore (64 per cent iron content) will go to Rs 4,360 a tonne. Apart from the tailwind of global prices, domestic shortage especially from Odisha, is supporting high ore prices and hurting capacity utilisation of smaller players. ICICI Securities pegged Tata Steel’s EBIDTA (standalone) at Rs 19,000 per tonne. However, the benign coking coal price will offer a cushion to large players that use the blast furnace route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
12-01-2021||Business||Amazon asks Sebi to suspend Future-RIL deal review||E-commerce major Amazon has written to Sebi yet again, apprising the market regulator of the formation of the arbitration tribunal at SIAC while urging it to suspend the review of the Rs 24,713-crore Future-RIL deal. It has also filed an appeal with the division bench of the Delhi high court against the December 21 order of the single-member bench, according to sources. On December 21, a single-member bench of the Delhi HC had rejected Future Group’s plea to restrain Amazon from writing to regulatory authorities about the SIAC (Singapore International Arbitration Centre) arbitral order but gave a go-ahead to the regulators to decide over the deal. The court had also made several observations indicating that Amazon’s attempt to control Future Retail through a conflation of agreements Amazon has with an unlisted unit of the Indian company will be violative of the Fema FDI rules. Emails sent to Amazon and Future Group seeking response on these matters did not elicit a response. In its letter dated January 5, Amazon informed Sebi that the “Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has constituted the arbitral tribunal in the arbitration proceedings initiated by Amazon against inter alia FRL, Kishore Biyani and Rakesh Biyani”. Amazon also requested Sebi to suspend a “review of the impugned transaction as well as the scheme involving the impugned transaction, and not granting any no-objection” for the Future-RIL deal. The letter also urged the market regulator to direct the Indian stock exchanges not to issue any no-objection/approval letter to Future Retail Ltd (FRL). A three-member tribunal consisting Singaporean barrister Michael Hwang has been formed at SIAC. The other two members of the tribunal are Albert van den Berg and Jan Paulsson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-174
12-01-2021||India|| Inherent safeguards in farm laws, farmers misled that their land will be taken away: Centre to SC||The Centre, on Tuesday told the Apex Court that there are inherent safeguards in the new agri laws for protection of land of farmers, who have been misled that their lands will be taken away. The government told a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which stayed the implementation of the contentious three new farm laws till further orders that it will be ensured that no farmer will lose his land. Misapprehensions have been made that your (farmers) land will go and it will be taken away. That is how the farmers have been misled, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Insofar as the apprehension regarding MSP (Minimum Support Price) being done away with, it is submitted across the Bar that the same may not be dismantled. The Solicitor General also confirmed that there are inherent safeguards, in-built in the farm laws, for the protection of the land of the farmers and that it will be ensured that no farmer will lose his land, the bench noted in its 11-page interim order. The top court, which constituted a four-member committee to address the grievances of the farmers as well as consider the views of government and make recommendations, passed the order on a batch of pleas including those challenging the validity of these farm laws, those supporting these legislations and those raising the issue of farmers protesting at Delhi borders. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench mentioned that it is concerned about protecting the lives and property of citizens and it is trying to solve the problem. When one of the lawyers alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not said anything on the issue, the bench said, “We are not going to ask the Prime Minister to do something. The Prime Minister is not a party before us.” When another lawyer pointed out that no effort should be made by the authorities to dismantle the protest and though the agitating farmers’ do not want to prevent movement of citizens, they should be given a visible place like Ramleela Maidan or Boat Club to continue with the protest. “Has any farmer organisation applied to the Commissioner of Delhi Police for permission to hold protest at Ramleela Maidan or Boat Club?” the bench asked. When the lawyer said that farmers are not allowed entry in Delhi, the bench said, “Don't say all this. You don’t need to come to Delhi for this. You can send it also.” The top court observed that the issue of law and order will be taken care of by the police as the court do not have the wherewithal to deal with it. The apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws ‑ the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act until further orders and posted the matter for further hearing after eight weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||Farmers’ unions disapprove of Supreme Court panel, says it is pro-govt||Farmers’ unions on Tuesday rejected the panel appointed by the Supreme Court to solve the impasse over the three agri laws, which they are protesting against, and said they will not appear before the panel and continue their agitation. Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border in New Delhi, Union leaders claimed the members of the committee formed by the top court are “pro-government”. Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court suspended the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders and set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmer unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations. “The members of the SC-appointed committee are not dependable as they have been writing on how agri laws are pro-farmer. We will continue our agitation,” farmer leader Balbeer Singh Rajewal said at the press conference. The farmer leader said that unions never demanded the apex court form a committee to resolve the impasse over the laws, alleging the Central government is behind these developments. “We are against the committee on principle. It is the government's way to distract attention from the protest,” he added. The framer leaders said the Supreme Court can repeal the farm laws suo motu. Another farmer leader Darshan Singh said they will not appear before any committee, adding Parliament should discuss and resolve this issue. “We don't want any external committee,” he said. However, the farmer leaders said they would attend the January 15 meeting with the government. The four members of the committee are BKU president Bhupinder Singh Mann, Shetkeri Sangathana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, South Asia Director for International Food Policy Research Institute Pramod Kumar Joshi, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. The unions have said they want a complete repeal of the laws and they do not want to appear before any committee. “It is clear that the court is being misguided by various forces even in its constitution of a committee. These are people who are known for their support to the three Acts and have actively advocated for the same,” a statement issued by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said. Addressing a press conference, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the party welcomes the Supreme Court's concern over the farm laws, but the party has issues with the composition of the committee formed by it. He said the members of the committee have already expressed their views in the past favouring the new laws “so the question arises in our minds that how justice will be done to farmers by their hands”. “All the members of the committee constituted by the Supreme Court have already supported the agricultural bill,” Congress party’s Madhya Pradesh unit tweeted while tagging newspaper articles written by Gulati and Joshi and also news reports quoting Ghanwat and Mann speaking against the repeal of the laws. Ghanwat said on Tuesday the new farm laws partially implement what his outfit has been demanding for decades. His attempt will be to improve them, he said, while coming out in support of reforms including permission for contract farming. “We are not lauding the Centre's three acts that are described as giving freedom to farmers. It was the Shetkari Sanghatana headed by late Sharad Joshi which had pressed for these changes first,” Ghanwat, whose organization has been accused of backing the Centre on the issue despite representing farmers, said. “Now the current government has tried to implement them to some extent. My role in the committee will be to protect the interest of farmers and improve these laws,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||More than 54 lakh units of Covid vaccine in place, says Centre||The Centre said 54.72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses have been received at designated national and state-level stores till Tuesday afternoon, and all the shots -- 1.1 crore from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech -- will be received by January 14. A massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process with Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across India early in the morning, four days before vaccination is scheduled to begin on January 16. Apart form the 1.1 crore doses of Covishield being procured from the Serum Institute of India, 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin were being obtained from Bharat Biotech, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference. "Fifty-five lakh doses of Covaxin are being procured from Bharat Biotech. For 38.5 lakh doses the price is Rs 295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of Covaxin down to Rs 206 per dose," he said. Bhushan said there are four Central Government Medical Stores Depots at Chennai, Karnal, Kolkata and Mumbai where the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, doses are being received. Besides this, all states have at least one regional vaccine store. Some big states have multiple stores. Uttar Pradesh has nine such stores, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat four each, Kerala has three such facilities, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Rajasthan two each, he said. "As we speak, 54,72,000 doses have already been received till 4 pm at these vaccine stores, while 100 per cent doses, 1.1 crore from Serum Institute and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech, will be received by January 14 in all states and Union Territories," the health secretary added. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, Covishield and Covaxin have been tested on thousands of people. "They are the safest and there is no risk of any significant side effect." Bhushan said that Zydus Cadila, Russia's Sputnik V, Biological E and Gennova are the other vaccines which are in advanced stages of clinical trials in India. "In the coming days some of these vaccines too may be approaching the drug controller for emergency use authorisation. There will be sequential roll-out of COVID-19 vaccination. "Healthcare workers will be on the top of priority list, followed by frontline workers and prioritized age groups. The cost of vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government," the Union health secretary said. Giving a scenario of the price of vaccines available round the world, Bhushan said each dose of the vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech costs Rs 1,431 per dose, Moderna Rs 2,348 to Rs 2,715, Sinovac Rs 1,027, Novavax Rs 1,114, Sputnik V less than Rs 734 and the one developed by Johnson and Johnson at Rs 734. "All these vaccines except the one developed by Pfizer can be stored between two to eight degrees Celsius. The one developed by Pfizer needs to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius," he added. About the effectiveness of the vaccines, Bhushan said those can be observed only after 14 days. "So we urge people to keep following COVID-appropriate behaviour." The health secretary said the five key principles for anti-coronavirus vaccination are to ensure people's participation, utilise the experience of elections and universal immunisation programme, making no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms and neither on existing healthcare services. Noting that the COVID-19 situation is worrisome around the world, he said even though daily new cases are declining in India, there should not be any laxity in following COVID-appropriate behaviour. India's overall COVID-19 positivity rate stands at 5.7 per cent while positivity rate in the last one week was recorded at 2 per cent, Bhushan said, adding that about 43.96 per cent of the total COVID-19 patients are in healthcare facilities while 56.04 per cent patients are in home isolation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||Two persons granted bail in Delhi riot case||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to two persons in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots while casting doubts on the credibility of the two police witnesses in the matter. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Mohd Shoaib and Shahrukh on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with surety of like amount in the case of alleged vandalism and torching of a shop by a riotous mob in Gokalpuri area. The court noted that the prosecution was opposing both the bail pleas on the strength of their categorical identification by beat officers -- Constable Vipin and Head Constable Hari Babu -- in their statements recorded under section 161 (examination by police) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on April 7, 2020. Their identification was hardly of any consequence, it said, adding that even though they were posted as beat officers in the area at the relevant time of the incident, they waited till April to name the accused when they had categorically seen and identified them allegedly indulging in riots on February 25, 2020. Being police officials, what stopped them from reporting the matter then and there in the police station or to bring the same in the knowledge of higher police officers. This cast serious doubt on the credibility of two police witnesses, the cour said in its order. It further said that the CCTV footage relied upon by the police in the case pertained to February 24, 2020, whereas the incident took place the next day. No CCTV/video footage of February 25, 2020, (on which date the incident in question took place) has been placed on record by the investigating agency. "The applicants (Shoaib and Shahrukh) were not arrested from the spot, instead their arrest has been formally affected in the case on April 15, 2020 (i.e after lapse of about 55 days of the date of incident) in Mandoli Jail..., it added. It also said both the accused were entitled for grant of bail on the ground of parity as the role assigned to them was on identical footing as co-accused Rashid who was already enlarged on bail. Be that as it may, the investigation in the matter is complete; charge sheet has also been filed; trial in the matter is likely to take long time; applicants cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter, it said. It directed both the accused not to tamper with evidence and to install Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. During the hearing, advocate Salim Malik, appearing for the accused, claimed they have been falsely implicated in the matter and were mere bonafide bystanders. Special Public Prosecutor D K Bhatia, appearing for the police, argued that both the accused were allegedly present at the spot with an unlawful assembly which was armed with stones, sticks, petrol bombs and acid bottles. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||Rahul to visit Madurai to witness ‘Jallikattu’, lend moral support to farmers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to visit Jamil Nadu on January 14, on the day of Pongal, and witness its bull-taming event ‘Jallikattu’, the party’s state chief K.S. Alagiri said on Tuesday. Gandhi would lend his moral support to farmers protesting against the new farm laws across the country by witnessing the sport at Avaniyapuram in Madurai district, he told reporters here. “The bull is a symbol of farmers and part of their lives,” the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president said. The leader’s visit is aimed at honouring “the farmers and the valorous Tamil culture on the day of harvest festival and he will not engage in election campaigns on that day,” Alagiri said. Assembly elections in tamil Nadu are due in April-May. "The general public should gather in large numbers for the event." Billing Gandhi’s event as ‘Rahulin Tamil Vanakkam’, he said it was also intended to dislodge the ‘inept’ AIADMK regime, ‘subservient’ to the Centre. Only Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his party the AIADMK supported the Central government's three farm laws and no other political party favoured it, he claimed. Gandhi is scheduled to arrive at Madurai by 11 am on Pongal day and would be spending about four hours in the temple town. “Though there are no other scheduled events like interaction with farmers, such programmes might take place if the leader so desired,” Alagiri said. Gandhi also has no plans to visit the alliance party DMK’s president M.K. Stalin or other leaders, he said. During his visit to western Tamil Nadu, likely towards the month end, Gandhi could meet allies, he said adding his party senior leader had a plan to campaign extensively in Tamil Nadu. Priyanka Gandhi would also be invited to the state in the run up to the polls, he said. To a question, he mocked the AIADMK alliance in Tamil Nadu and alleged the partners in the ruling party led combine could not even agree upon the Chief Ministerial candidate. The BJP, after maintaining for some time that NDA would announce the CM candidate said on Monday that the AIADMK, the 'major' partner would decide it. The TNCC chief said his party stood behind DMK chief M K Stalin and he is the CM candidate of the alliance. Harmony prevailed in the DMK camp and it was absent in the AIADMK combine, he claimed ruling out scope for discord between Congress and DMK in seat sharing for the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Army Chief hopeful of solution on eastern Ladakh standoff||Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday said he was hopeful that India and China will be able to reach an agreement to resolve the eastern Ladakh standoff but at the same time asserted that Indian troops will maintain a high state of combat readiness to deal with any eventuality. Addressing a press conference ahead of the Army Day, Gen Naravane said the operational preparedness of the Indian armed forces has been of very high level and they will continue to hold onto their ground. "We are prepared to hold our ground as long it takes to achieve our national goals and objectives," he said. Talking about increasing security challenges at the Line of Actual Control, the Chief of Army Staff said a need was felt about "rebalancing" of troops along the northern borders, adding "that is what we have put in place now." The Chief of Army staff said he was hopeful that India and China will be able to reach an agreement for disengagement and de-escalation based on an approach of mutual and equal security. "I am confident of finding a solution to the issue on the basis of mutual and equal security," he said. Gen Naravane said there was no reduction in the deployment of troops by both India and China in eastern Ladakh. The Chief of Army Staff said Indian troops are maintaining high level of alertness all along the Line of Actual Control and not just Ladakh. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Farmer leaders welcome SC verdict staying implementation of farm laws||Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court's order to stay the implementation of three farm laws on Tuesday but said they would not call off their protest until the legislations are repealed. The Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting farmer unions, has called a meeting later in the day to decide the next course of action. The farmer leaders said they are not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee appointed by the Supreme Court, but a formal decision on this will be taken by the Morcha. "We welcome the court's order to stay the implementation of the farm laws, but we want a complete repeal of these laws," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior leader of the Morcha, told PTI. Another farmer leader, Harinder Lokhwal, said the protest will continue until the contentious farm laws are repealed. The Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders on Tuesday and decided to set up a committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmers' unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it will pass an order to this effect. The committee will look into the farmers' grievances against the three laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Dynasty politics the poison in democracy, asserts PM||Describing dynastic politics as the "biggest enemy of democracy", Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it has to be rooted out completely and asserted that the fortune of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are now dwindling. Addressing the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival through video conference, Modi exhorted young people to join politics and said the "poison of dynastic politics" will continue to weaken democracy unless they enter it. "The biggest enemy of democracy still exists and that is dynastic politics. Dynastic politics is such a challenge before the country and it has to be rooted out," Modi said. "It is true that (in politics) the fortunes of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are dwindling. But in politics, this disease of dynastic politics is not completely finished. There are still people whose politics is aimed at saving their family," he said in an apparent swipe at several opposition parties, including the Congress. It is never "nation first" for those practising dynastic politics and it is all about "me and my family" for them, he said. "Like all sectors, politics also needs youth. Their thinking, energy, enthusiasm is needed by the politics in the country. Earlier there was the sentiment that if any youth used to turn toward politics, then their family used to say that the youth is going astray," Modi said. Noting that people used to say everything can change but not politics, Modi said today the people of the country have become so aware that they stand with honest people and give them a chance. The people stand resolutely with people who come in politics with honesty and are committed to the welfare, he noted. "The awareness that has come in the country has created pressure, those whose legacy was corruption, their corruption has become a burden on them. This is the power of the awareness of the common citizen," Modi said. Three national winners of the festival also expressed their views during the event in the central hall of Parliament. In his address, Modi also paid rich tributes to Swami Vivekananda, whose birth anniversary fell on Tuesday, and said his ideals have inspired people, including during the freedom struggle, of every generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||SC suspends three farm laws for now, sets up committee||The Supreme Court suspended the implementation of three contentious farm laws till further notice on Tuesday and formed a committee of experts to facilitate talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers and resolve the impasse. Before pronouncing the order, the bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde commenced the hearing and urged the farmers' unions to cooperate and go before the committee to be appointed by it to resolve the dispute. "We are concerned about protecting the lives and property of citizens of India and we want to solve the problem," said the bench which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- against which several petitions have been filed challenging their constitutional validity. The bench, which read out names of four members of the committee, said it would look into the farmers' grievances.  The four are: Bhupinder Singh Mann, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkeri Sangthana, Maharashtra; Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, it said no power can prevent us from making committee to resolve the impasse on new farm laws. It reiterated the apex court has powers to suspend the legislation in order to solve the problem. The bench said those who "genuinely want resolution, will go to the committee" on farm laws. It highlighted the difference between judiciary and the politics and asked the farmers to cooperate with it. "This is not politics. There is a difference between politics and judiciary and you will have to cooperate", it said to farmer unions. The SC also sought response from the Centre on whether a banned organisation had infiltrated the farmers’ protests. The direction came after P S Narasimha, who represented a petitioner supporting the farm laws, claimed members of  “Sikhs for Justice” were  helping the protests, reported The Indian Express. The bench said it deems fit to pass the interim order with the hope and expectation that both parties will take this in the right spirit and attempt to arrive at a fair, equitable and just solution to the problems . The bench also lauded the farmers for carrying out agitation against the farm laws peacefully and without any untoward incident. While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others, the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing after eight weeks. Saying Khalistanis were part of the protests, the Attorney General said he would file an affidavit with Intelligence Bureau records by Wednesday. The apex court also issued notices on Delhi Police petition seeking to stop the tractor rally planned by farmers on Republic Day. The Centre and farmer unions have engaged in eight rounds of talks so far, but failed to break the impasse. Their next meeting is scheduled on January 15. On Monday, the apex court had pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers protest against the new farm laws saying it is extremely disappointed with the way negotiations between them were going. It also spoke of constituting a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India to resolve the impasse. The protesting farmers on Monday night thanked the Supreme Court but politely declined to join the proceedings of the committee citing the “stubborn attitude of the government”. Later in the day on Monday, the Centre filed a 45-page affidavit in the court to claim that only a “limited number of farmers” and “others” were opposing the laws and that “farmers of the nation are happy”, PTI reported. The affidavit described the demand for repeal of the laws as “neither justifiable nor acceptable”. It also denied that the laws were “passed hurriedly” without consultation. At night, the Morcha issued a statement in which it expressed great respect for the apex court and for its “understanding of the problem and comforting words expressed during the hearing”. It said they have decided not to participate in the committee’s proceedings either individually or collectively because the “attitude and approach’’ of the government in court had made it clear they will not agree to any discussion on repeal of the laws that the farmers’ believe will be their “death warrant”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Relocated tiger flees from Rajaji Tiger Reserve||A tiger translocated recently to Rajaji Tiger Reserve has fled from its Motichoor range creating panic among people living in the periphery of the forest area. The five-year-old male tiger dropped its radio-collar in the enclosure meant for it and fled somewhere, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Rajiv Bhartari said. The big cat was translocated to Rajaji Tiger Reserve from Corbett Tiger Reserve recently. This is the mating season for tigers and the translocation had been done in the hope of strengthening the tiger population at Rajaji Tiger Reserve, especially in the western part, according to officials. Bhartari admitted that fleeing of the big cat from its enclosure was a jolt to the tiger relocation project of the Uttarakhand government. In the present circumstances it has become difficult to keep track of the movement of the big cat, he asserted. However, as the radio collar had been dropped in the enclosure, forest guards remained under the illusion that the tiger was still there. The situation is being reviewed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority to deal with the challenge and ensure that an incident like this does not occur in future, Bhartari said. He said it will also be probed who radio-collared the tiger after tranquilising it before translocating it from the Dhela range of Corbett to Rajaji Tiger Reserve. All efforts are focussed at the moment on tracing the tiger, the official said. People living on the outer fringe of Rajaji Tiger Reserve are in panic with a big cat on the loose in the area. Director of Wildlife Institute of India Dhananjay Mohan said such incidents have also occurred in the past. There can be many factors behind it, he added. "There are other ways to monitor the movement of the tiger which will be utilised to track him, Mohan said. The Wildlife Institute of India is a partner in the ongoing tiger relocation project of Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||India logs 12,584 fresh Covid cases, 167 casualties in a day||India recorded 12,584 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in around seven months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,04,79,179, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,51,327 with 167 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,11,294 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.49 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,16,558 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.07 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,26,52,887 samples have been tested up to January 11 with 8,97,056 samples being tested on Monday. The 167 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 16 from West Bengal, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 13 from Delhi. A total of 151327 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,101 from Maharashtra followed by 12,228 from Tamil Nadu, 12,144 from Karnataka, 10,691 from Delhi, 9,957 from West Bengal, 8,504 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,131 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,447 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature down to under five degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and is likely to dip further in the coming days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.3 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, an IMD official said. Delhi had been registering above normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. Delhi's minimum had settled at 7 degrees on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said. The mercury is set to drop further. Moderate to dense fog is also predicted over the capital on Thursday and Friday, the IMD official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Sri Jagannath temple to lift Covid report requirement||The administration of the Sri Jagannath temple in Puri on Sunday announced relaxations to the restrictions imposed on the visitors to the shrine that reopened recently after a nine-month closure forced by the corona pandemic. The 12th Century temple administration, following a high-level meeting on Sunday, decided that devotees will no more have to submit Covid-19 negative reports for darshan of the deities from January 21. This was announced by the chief temple administrator Krishan Kumar. Kumar said the decision to relax restrictions was taken in the interest of devotees. Now the temple administration will make special arrangements to facilitate the “darshan’ of the deities by elderly people. “The temple will remain closed once a week (Sundays) to carry out sanitation and disinfection measures. Steps have been taken to make provision of darshan by nearly 30,000 devotees per day. All the Covid-19 related restrictions will continue to remain in force,” said Kumar. The temple had reopened on December 23, 2020 but initially only the temple servitors and their family members were only allowed to have “darshan” of the deities. The ordinary citizens of Puri were allowed entry into the temple between December 26 and 31. Later, the temple opened its doors to the public but Covid-19 negative report was made mandatory for entry. Visitors are also screened at the special counters set up outside the temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik first to submit property list||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has become the first to put his property details in the public domain, making the move within weeks of announcing that all public representatives and bureaucrats of the state will submit their property lists that will be open to public scrutiny and also referred to the Lokayukta. According to the details uploaded on the official website of the chief minister’s office (CMO), Naveen was worth around Rs 78 crore as on March 31, 2020. Last year, his net assets had totalled Rs 63.87 crore, according to the affidavit submitted by him while filing his nomination for the Hinjili Assembly seat. In 2015, his assets were valued at Rs 48 crore. The statement uploaded on the CMO site shows his total assets valued at Rs 77,93,19,764. These include movable assets such as bank accounts, jewellery and a vehicle amounting to Rs 13,04,04,503, immovable assets worth Rs 63,64,15,261 and liabilities amounting to Rs 1,25,00,000. His moveable properties include cash in some bank accounts including Rs 16,76,018.63 in the savings account of Bank of India, Janpath, New Delhi branch, a term deposit worth Rs 1,03,13,499 in the same bank branch. He also has some small deposits in banks in Odisha. The chief minister owns jewellery worth around Rs 2,89,587 and a 1980 model ambassador car worth around Rs 8,905. Similarly, his immoveable properties, all inherited, include farmland and a building situated in village Tikrikhera, Sohna Road, Dist. Faridabad. The farmland that measures 22.7 acres was valued at around Rs. 10,75,51,071 according to estimates made on March 31, 2017. Then he has 2\3rd share in “Naveen Nivas”, the sprawling bungalow on Bhubaneswar’s Airport Road in which he presently lives. It has been valued at around Rs 9,52,46,190. Similarly, he has 50% share in a property situated on 3, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Road in New Delhi valued at around Rs 43,36,18,000. He inherited this property from his late parents, Biju Patnaik and Gyan Patnaik. On the liability side he has taken an advance of Rs 1,25,00,000 against the sale of farmland at Faridabad vide agreement to sell dated 18th September 2019. Patnaik, thus, may appear rich in terms of his total wealth but the bulk of it is made up of inherited immoveable property. It is quite apparent that the socialite author-turned-politician is neither a great lover of jewellery nor cars. The total jewellery in his possession is just worth around Rs 2,89,587 while the only vehicle he owns is a 1980 model ambassador car worth around Rs 8,905. Patnaik, who holds the unique record of leading his party to five back-to-back elections in the state, is known for simple life style. Invariably clad in a crumpled but clean kurta-pyjama he has been laying special emphasis on cleanliness in public life and transparency in governance. His policy of zero tolerance for corruption has paid rich dividends in elections. Addressing ruling Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD) state executive council meeting over two weeks ago the chief minister, who also happens to be the president of the party, had announced that property details of BJD ministers, MLAs, MPs, chairpersons of panchayat samitis, zilla parishad presidents and sarpanches would be available in the public domain. He had said that all government employees, including the chief secretary, would also have to submit their property lists to the Lokayukta, state’s anti-corruption ombusdsman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||SC willing to stay implementation of the new farm laws||The Supreme Court said on Monday that it was willing to put on hold the implementation of the new farm laws and explore the possibility of appointing a committee headed by one of its former judges to broker a solution. The court criticised the Centre for the inadequate consultative process and said: “We are extremely disappointed at the way the government is handling all this.” The protesting farmers, who have been insisting on the full repeal of the new laws that they fear will leave them at the mercy of corporate groups, expressed great respect for the court’s views but cited the government’s stubborn attitude to say they would not take part in the proceedings of the proposed committee. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, emphasised that it was considering a stay only on the implementation of the laws, not the laws themselves. A formal order is expected at noon on Tuesday. However, the legal fraternity appeared divided over whether the court can stay even the implementation of laws passed by Parliament and whether a committee appointed by the court can look into an issue that falls within the domain of the legislature. A section of lawyers felt that, instead of getting embroiled in legislative matters, the Supreme Court should look into whether the Centre could have passed such laws in a matter involving the states, too. Agriculture by itself is a state subject but certain components, such as interstate trade in commodities, figure on the concurrent list. The lawyers who endorsed the initiative by the bench felt that Article 142, which legalises an order issued by the Supreme Court for ensuring complete justice in a matter pending before it, empowers the top court to do so. While a law is enacted by Parliament, it is implemented by the executive, which can be stayed by the court, they added. Responding to a lawyer’s suggestion, the court said it was not averse to appointing former judge R.S. Lodha, who had recommended changes in the cricket administration, as head of the proposed committee. During Monday’s hearing, the bench, whose other judges are Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said: “We are the Supreme Court of India and we will do our job. You made a law without enough consultations…. We are extremely disappointed at the way the government is handling all this. We don’t know what consultative process you followed before the laws were enacted. Many states are up in rebellion. There are protests all over and strikes are on.” Justice Bobde said: “We are sorry to say that you, as the Union of India, are not able to solve the problem. You have made a law without consultations. We think you can resolve it. But you are not able to do it. As we said, we want to appoint a committee.” Addressing attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, both appearing for the Centre, the Chief Justice said: “You tell us if you will put on hold the implementation of the laws. Otherwise, we will do it. What is your (the Centre’s) problem in keeping it in abeyance?” The attorney-general said the court should not interfere in the matter unless Parliament lacked the legislative competence to enact such laws. The court should not rush through the matter, Venugopal said. “Don’t tell us that. We have so far given you a very long rope. So, don’t lecture us on patience,” Justice Bobde responded. The Chief Justice reminded the attorney-general that there was a difference between staying a law and staying the implementation of the law. “We are not on the merits of the law. We are not on repeal. This is a very delicate situation in the country…. We don’t see why there is an insistence on implementation of the law,” Justice Bobde said. He remarked that there was not a single petition before the court saying the new laws were beneficial to the farmers. However, after these observations, a couple of farmer organisations said they supported the new laws. “If the law is beneficial, let the vast majority of the country tell the committee…. People are committing suicide. People are calling names. People are suffering in cold and pandemic,” the court said. “We want to make it clear we are not stifling protest. You can carry (on with) the protest. But the question is, whether protest should be held at the same site? We want to ensure no violence or bloodshed in the streets,” the court told senior advocates Dushyant Dave, P.S. Phoolka and Colin Gonzalves, who were appearing for various farmers’ groups. Justice Bobde asked these senior lawyers to go back to the farmers and ask them to return home as the court would stay the implementation of the laws. The court said it was also concerned about the plight of the protesters, many of whom are women and children. The Centre later filed an affidavit defending the way the laws had been passed and seeking a restraint on the farmers’ tractor rally, scheduled for January 26, TV channels reported on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Centre to bear expenses for the first stage of Covid vaccine drive||The Centre will bear the expenses for the first stage of the Covid vaccination campaign that seeks to immunise around 30 million healthcare and frontline workers nationwide, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday. The announcement and a reported reply by the Prime Minister to a question from chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggest the Centre has not yet decided whether to give the vaccine free in the second stage and subsequent rounds covering the larger population. Mamata had asked Modi what the Centre’s policy would be on providing the vaccine to the remaining 127 crore people in the country. “She requested him to roll out a detailed road map regarding vaccination of the people at large…. She also wanted the Centre to make it clear whether the states need to procure vaccines for the rest of the population (beyond the priority categories),” said an official. Modi told Mamata the issue would be discussed with the states on completion of the first two phases of the vaccination campaign, sources said. “The chief minister made it clear that the state was ready to procure vaccines for the larger population and, in that case, the Centre should provide the necessary guidance about the procurement,” an official said. CNBC-TV18 channel reported on Monday that the government had placed an order for 11 million doses with the Serum Institute of India at Rs 200 a dose. A Serum Institute source told The Telegraph the quoted price was correct, but declined comment on the doses ordered. At Rs 200 per dose for Covishield, the first stage of the campaign to vaccinate 30 million healthcare and frontline workers would cost Rs 1,200 crore. The total cost would change if the Centre also plans to use the home-grown Covaxin and if the price of that vaccine is different. Modi, who chaired an online conference with chief ministers on the vaccination campaign, scheduled to start on January 16, iterated that everyone above 50 years, and those below 50 with chronic health disorders, would be vaccinated during the second stage. All healthcare workers from government and private institutions and frontline workers such as police and paramilitary personnel, municipal workers, home guards, disaster management volunteers and revenue officials would be covered in the first stage. State governments will not have to bear any cost towards vaccinating these 30 million people, Modi told the chief ministers, adding that the Centre would bear this cost. India aims to achieve vaccination for 300 million people in the next few months, he said. Health officials had earlier indicated that the campaign could take six to eight months. The government is expected to rely on two vaccines approved for restricted emergency use by India's regulatory authority - the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, made in India by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. The Union health ministry has not yet said how many doses of which vaccine would be used where but, a health official guiding the vaccination strategy said, one option would be to distribute the two vaccines across different geographical areas. Both vaccines involve two doses and the recipients must receive the same vaccine as the second dose. Health experts say the pace of immunisation would depend on the vaccine supply as well as the number of vaccines that can be administered per day. The health ministry had earlier said it had trained around 96 million vaccinators for the campaign. Modi, during the conference, said all states and Union Territories would need to put in place mechanisms to keep rumours related to vaccination in check. The health ministry had asserted that those who received the vaccines would need to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour — wearing masks, avoiding crowds and following hand-washing hygiene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Govt to elite campuses: regular appointments to only 60%  teachers||An array of educational institutions the government has handpicked to achieve global excellence have now been told they need to give regular appointments to only 60 per cent of their teachers, a move academics said would lower standards at these elite campuses. Till now, all higher-education institutions were expected to appoint only regular teachers, though there was no hard and fast rule. Despite a recent trend of recruiting ad-hoc teachers, regular teachers now make up 80 to 95 per cent of the faculty strength at the best colleges and universities. However, the University Grants Commission (UGC) last week notified the 60 per cent rule in an amendment to its regulations for deemed-to-be universities that have been granted Institute of Eminence status. In 2018 and 2019, the government had granted the exalted status to 10 public-funded and 10 privately funded institutions, allowing them to decide their fees and courses so they could achieve global excellence. Among these were IISc Bangalore, the IITs in Mumbai, Delhi, Kharagpur and Madras, and Delhi University. Last week’s notification applies to most of the private institutions with Eminence status, as well as IISc Bangalore. Education ministry officials said the relaxation was likely to be extended soon to the rest of the Institutes of Eminence. Abha Deb Habib, former DU executive council member, said the new norms would encourage “institutionalisation” of the system of appointing ad-hoc and guest teachers. “Guest and visiting faculty cannot be the strength of an institution. Institutions grow because of the constant contributions from regular faculty who carry out a lot of responsibilities apart from teaching,” she said. “An increase in the number of part-time or contractual faculty will severely compromise the stability of units and academic standards.” Many universities have shown an inclination to have part-time teachers -– such as guest teachers, contractual teachers and visiting teachers, appointed for short periods -– because they are paid less and are not entitled to pension or gratuity. Under the original regulations for the Institutions of Eminence, devised in 2017, their faculty-student ratio could not be less than 1:20 at the time their Eminence status was notified. Further, within five years, this ratio had to rise to not less than 1:10. “Faculty” in this context included regular teachers as well as adjunct teachers and long-term teachers, who tended to be experts from industry or other fields and were appointed for periods ranging from six months to three years. Part-time teachers were, however, left out of the calculation. Under the latest amendment, every kind of teacher counts while determining the faculty-student ratio, including overseas faculty teaching online. “Provided that 60 per cent of faculty shall be appointed on permanent/ regular basis,” the notification said. Habib flagged several downsides of the amended rules, which many academics fear may later be extended to all universities. One, UGC regulations allow only regular teachers to supervise PhD scholars. “This (a fall in the number of regular teachers) will affect research output. A regular faculty member can guide only a fixed number of students. So, the number of PhD students will fall (for a lack of guides),” Habib said. Two, “if ad-hocism is institutionalised, why should any talented person think of joining academics instead of corporate jobs?” she said. DU academic council member Sudhanshu Kumar said that guest and visiting faculty, who are paid less and have no opportunities for career growth, do not help with the management of examinations, admissions, hostels or placements. He saw a wider agenda behind the notification. “The government does not want any institution to recruit permanent teachers. This betrays its neglect of higher education,” he said. He feared the chronic neglect would damage all government universities, hurting “students from the socially backward classes, who are largely poor, the most”. A senior IIT Kharagpur official said the government had in the past five years twice raised the institute’s student strength, first by 20 per cent to create supernumerary seats for female students and then by another 25 per cent to accommodate the economically weaker sections quota. However, on neither occasion was the faculty strength bolstered. “This 60 per cent norm will severely affect the pursuit for excellence. Our faculty-student ratio has already worsened over the last five years because of the EWS quota and supernumerary seats for female students,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers refuse to join proceedings of SC appointed committee||The protesting farmers on Monday night thanked the Supreme Court but politely declined to join the proceedings of the committee it plans to appoint to broker a solution on the three farm laws, citing the “stubborn attitude of the government”. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which farmer unions and collectives from across the country are demanding the repeal of the laws, had been silent all day after the hearing in the Supreme Court in the morning. Later in the day, the Centre filed a 45-page affidavit in the court to claim that only a “limited number of farmers” and “others” were opposing the laws and that “farmers of the nation are happy”, PTI reported. The affidavit described the demand for repeal of the laws as “neither justifiable nor acceptable”. It also denied that the laws were “passed hurriedly” without consultation. At night, the Morcha issued a statement in which it expressed great respect for the apex court and for its “understanding of the problem and comforting words expressed during the hearing”. It said they have decided not to participate in the committee’s proceedings either individually or collectively because the “attitude and approach’’ of the government in court had made it clear they will not agree to any discussion on repeal of the laws that the farmers’ believe will be their “death warrant”. The protesting farmers anticipate that the committee would be a repetition of what has happened in the eight meetings they have held with the government since November 26, when they began gathering at Delhi’s borders on the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s (AIKSCC) call for Dilli Chalo. Tens of thousands of farmers are camped at Delhi’s borders for over 40 days in the bitter cold and more than 70 have died. While the bulk are from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, many farmers have come from as far away as Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. “Farmers and we as their representatives once again express our gratitude to the Honourable Supreme Court but regret our inability to accede their suggestions,’’ the statement said. The consultations on this issue were held by the eight union leaders who had been issued notices in the case and their lawyers, it added. Since the Morcha and AIKSCC had early in the agitation decided not to approach the court for repeal of the laws, none other than the eight that were served notices by the court had impleaded in the case. On Sunday, the AIKSCC had said that the “Supreme Court does not and cannot have any role” in resolving the political deadlock over the contentious farm laws, arguing that the decision to enact them was a political choice the Modi government made to give preference to corporate interests over farmers. “The Modi government is shirking political responsibility of solving the crisis of it’s own making... It is misusing the Supreme Court as a political shield,’’ the AIKSCC said. On Friday, after agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had asked them to go to court as the government was not prepared to repeal the laws, the farmer unions had made it clear that they would continue with their agitation till their goal is met, even if the Supreme Court verdict is not in their favour. The Morcha issued its statement late in the night after the court’s cause list was released for Tuesday, which made it clear that there would not be any more hearings but only pronouncement of orders. According to the Morcha, its lawyers had requested another hearing on Tuesday to be able to get back after consulting the organisations they represent on the suggestions made by the court. The Opposition parties, which are supporting the farmers’ demand for repeal of the laws rushed through Parliament in September overriding their protests, said they would take a call on their own future course of action depending on the Supreme Court verdict and the farming community’s response to it. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and his CPI counterpart D. Raja met NCP leader Sharad Pawar in the capital on Monday and discussed the farmers’ agitation. Raja later told reporters that the three discussed the hearing. “But the decision on what has to be done has to be taken by the farmers. They have to react to it. We stand by their demand for the repeal of the laws.’’ After the verdict and after the farmers reveal their cards, the Opposition parties could hold an all-party meeting in the coming days, and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi has begun working the phones for it. Meanwhile, Haryana police have filed a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni and others for vandalisation of the venue of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s meeting in Karnal on Sunday. Chaduni told reporters he took full responsibility for not allowing Khattar to hold his meeting to promote the bills, saying this was in response to the BJP’s efforts to break the farmers’ protest. Khattar reached the site but his chopper could not land as the protesting farmers far outnumbered the BJP gathering and security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Republic Day tractor parade ||When tanks move down Rajpath on January 26, the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders will be attempting their own Republic Day “march-past” with their tractors to try and enter the national capital, a farmer leader said on Monday. “There will be tanks on Rajpath on Republic Day. There will also be tractors at Delhi’s borders, trying to enter the national capital,” Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told reporters at the Delhi-Saharanpur border in Baghpat district. “While army, navy and air force personnel march down Rajpath, we will be parading on the highways leading to Delhi.” Reminded that this could set up a confrontation with the police who have barricaded Delhi’s borders, Tikait said: “We shall be carrying the national flag and singing the national anthem. Let’s see how the police treat a group of patriotic, national-anthem-chanting farmers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Sanitation worry at farmers protests ||Choked toilets, heaps of garbage, stagnant water and bitter cold are posing a tough challenge to the health of the farmers protesting near Delhi’s borders, a report says. A survey of five protest sites has found the administration woefully absent, with makeshift facilities stretched beyond their capacity leaving the farmers prey to diseases like cholera and dysentery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Some “57.5 per cent, almost three in every five respondents, have to rely on open sites for defecation. In Singhu, where the highest number of protesters have gathered, open defecation is also high due to unmet needs of sanitation facilities — seven in every ten respondents,” says the report, released on Monday by health rights group Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. “Only one in ten (among the) respondents (is) able to use mobile toilets arranged by various local and state governments.... Half of them observed that water was not available, 48 per cent said that there is always a long queue in those toilets and 47 per cent said they are located in far-off places, creating difficulties in accessing those. Their responses clearly point out that there is scarcity of these toilets and the available ones are not being maintained properly.” The report, “Findings from rapid assessment of basic amenities at protest sites”, adds: “Around 40 per cent respondents observed that there is water stagnation around the protest sites. It was most severe at Ghazipur where more than nine out of every ten found water stagnation; the situation was also poor in Singhu — as 62.7 per cent respondents reported stagnation.... “Lack of government effort in disposing of solid waste is clearly visible. When asked if respondents found solid waste getting accumulated, only 23.6 per cent said it is getting disposed of regularly. In Shahjahanpur, the situation seems to be better as 56.5 per cent respondents said they have found waste getting disposed of regularly. In Singhu and Tikri, the two biggest protest sites, littering is a common sight, so are heaps of accumulated waste.” The report covered 201 respondents from the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri on the Delhi-Haryana border, Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border and Palwal in Haryana. The respondents were from 40 districts in five states and the Union territory of Delhi. Of them, 56 per cent were from Punjab, 30 per cent from Haryana and the rest from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Women (11 per cent of the respondents) said they rarely got sanitary napkins at the health camps, and there was no proper facility to dispose of them. The report says the multitude of police barricades is a hindrance to garbage removal. “Approximately, one in every four respondents (24 per cent) said they have faced the problem of mosquitoes in the protest sites,” it says. “The problem is more pronounced in Ghazipur and Palwal as 62.5 per cent of respondents there reported mosquito problem. A bigger menace, however, is the problem of flies which may spread infections through food.” Doctors at the JSA’s health camps at Singhu and Tikri said that most of the illnesses reported had to do with non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension. The report is silent on Covid-19, although the JSA says it did not need to refer any of the 14,000-odd people who came to its health camps for Covid testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||500 Kerala farmers on bus to Delhi ||A delegation of 500 farmers from Kerala left for Delhi on Monday by bus from here to join their counterparts who have been protesting against the contentious farm laws since November 26 last year at the borders of Delhi. The farmers belong to Kerala Karshaka Sangham, the state chapter of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), one of the organisations at the forefront of the protest. AIKS vice-president S. Ramachandra Pillai flagged off the bus, which is expected to reach Delhi on January 14. They would participate in the protest at Shahjahanpur. K.N. Balagopal, secretary of Kerala Karshaka Sangham, told PTI that the next batch would also leave soon. “We are not going just for expressing solidarity. We are going to participate in the agitation because the farm laws affect the state in a very serious manner. It affects the food security, price of our food grains will be affected by these laws,” Balagopal said. In Kerala, the farmers have been on an indefinite protest since December 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Centre told to decide on second round of UPSC exam||The Supreme Court on Monday granted the Centre time till January 22 to take a decision on the plea for conduct of a second round of civil services exams to those candidates who could not appear on October 4 due to Covid-19 related problems. “See that you take a decision before the last date for filling the forms are over…” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a three judge bench, told additional solicitor-general S.V. Raju during a brief hearing. The bench, also comprising Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, adjourned the matter till January 22 to enable Raju to seek instructions from the Union Public Service Commission on the issue but declined his plea for hearing the matter in the first or second week of February. At the last hearing on December 18, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who had appeared in the matter, told the court that the UPSC was in the process of examining the plea and the government was viewing it in a positive manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||BJP veiled threat to split RJD after January 15||A senior BJP leader’s veiled threat to split the Rashtriya Janata Dal has triggered a backlash amid speculation that tensions with ally Janata Dal United may be encouraging the BJP to wield its famed defection-inducing skills as an insurance policy. Bhupender Yadav, BJP national general secretary in charge of Bihar, told his party’s district working committee in Patna on Sunday evening that the RJD could split after the kharmas, the one-month “inauspicious” period that ends with Makar Sankranti on January 15. “Let (RJD leader) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav save his party if he can. Because of kharmas, we have not reacted to the RJD’s comments. But Makar Sankranti is coming. The party is bound to split,” Bhupender, a Rajya Sabha member who also has charge of Gujarat, said. “There’s clear frustration in the RJD over dynastic politics and nepotism in the party. Tejashwi should focus on saving his own party.” Nitish Kumar’s government has a narrow majority in the 243-member Assembly, its 125 seats just 3 clear of the majority mark of 122. The RJD is the largest party with 75 seats, while the BJP has 74 and the JDU 43. Two smaller ruling allies have four seats each. Observers said the BJP’s talk of splitting the Opposition was hardly surprising, especially since it would like to secure its position in case Nitish decided to go his separate way. The RJD dismissed Bhupender’s threat. “We too challenge the BJP to save the government if it can,” spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said on Monday. “If it becomes more restless, we shall enter the scene and destroy it in the state during the kharmas — we won’t wait for Makar Sankranti.” The JDU ostensibly backed Bhupender’s remarks, but with a comment that appeared a dig at the ally over the Arunachal defections. To a reporter’s question, JDU MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh aka Lalan Singh said: “Bhupenderji made no tall claims. If he makes up his mind, he can even get the RJD to merge with the BJP. It won’t be a big deal for him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Avian influenza alert to states ||The Centre on Monday asked all states to intensify surveillance in poultry farms, bird markets, zoos and lakes amid concerns that avian influenza has killed birds in 10 states and caused poultry sector sales to shrink in parts of India. Tests by animal disease specialists have revealed avian influenza in Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, and Uttar Pradesh, the Union ministry for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy said. The avian influenza virus has turned up among ducks in Kerala and egg-layer poultry birds in Haryana, and in wild birds in other states. In the other states, the infection has killed crows and migratory birds. The affected districts, include Alappuzha and Kottayam in Kerala, Panchkula in Haryana, Surat and Valsad in Gujarat, Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, Tonk, Karauli, Bhilwara, and Sirohi in Rajasthan, and Kotdwar and Dehradun in Uttarakhand, the ministry said. In Delhi, crows and ducks have died. Avian influenza viruses occur naturally among wild birds worldwide and sometimes slip into domestic poultry birds. While these viruses do not normally infect humans, sporadic human infections with avian influenza viruses have occurred in the past. The outbreaks in domesticated birds have prompted culling of birds in Haryana and Kerala. “We estimate that around 166,000 layer birds have been culled in Haryana,” Ramesh Chander Khatri, the president of the Poultry Federation of India told The Telegraph. Khatri said fears about avian influenza have already hit sales in the poultry sector which the Federation estimates has a turnover of Rs 100,000 crore and provides earnings to an estimated 100 million to 150 million people across the country. Infectious disease experts have long asserted that avian influenza viruses do not spread through well-cooked chicken and eggs. “Yet, some states have talked about a ban on transport of even processed poultry – this is completely illogical,” Khatri said. The animal husbandry ministry said it has asked states to build awareness among the public to curb the spread of any misinformation about avian influenza. The husbandry department has also written to states urging close vigilance of the disease and steps to minimise the risk of the infection jumping from birds into humans. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during an online conference on Monday with chief ministers to discuss the planned Covid-19 vaccination campaign, also referred to the avian influenza outbreak and urged the affected states to maintain “constant vigil.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India|| ‘Father of fibre optics’ dead ||When Narinder S. Kapany was in high school in the 1940s in Dehradun, his science teacher told him that light travels only in straight lines. By then he had already spent years playing around with a box camera, and he knew that light could at least be turned in different directions, through lenses and prisms. Something about the teacher’s attitude, he later said, made him want to go further, to prove him wrong by figuring out how to actually bend light. By the time he entered graduate school at Imperial College London in 1952, he realised he wasn’t alone. For decades researchers across Europe had been studying ways to transmit light through flexible glass fibres. He persuaded one of those scientists, Harold Hopkins, to hire him as a research assistant, and the two clicked. Professor Hopkins, a formidable theoretician, provided the ideas; Kapany, more technically minded, figured out the practical side. In 1954 the pair announced a breakthrough in the journal Nature, demonstrating how to bundle thousands of impossibly thin glass fibres together and then connect them end to end. Their paper, along with a separate article by another author in the same issue, marked the birth of fibre optics, the now-ubiquitous communications technology that carries phone calls, television shows and billions of cat memes around the world every day. In later years, journalists took to calling Kapany the “father of fibre optics,” and several even claimed that he had been robbed of the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics, which instead went to Charles Kao for his own groundbreaking work in fibre optics. That claim re-emerged after Kapany died on December 3 in Redwood City, California, at 94. Whether Kapany’s scientific contributions stand alongside Kao’s is debatable, but his work as an intellectual evangelist for the burgeoning field of fibre optics is undeniable. “He was a pioneer,” the science journalist Jeff Hecht said in an interview, an “enthusiastic promoter” of a technology that long seemed more like science fiction than fact. According to Hecht’s 1999 history of fibre optics, City of Light, between 1955, when Kapany received his doctorate, and 1965, he was the lead author or co-author of 56 scientific papers, an astounding 30 per cent of all research published in the field during that decade. He wrote the first book on fibre optics and, in a 1960 cover article he wrote for Scientific American, even coined the term itself. Narinder Singh Kapany was born on October 31, 1926, in Moga, a town in Punjab, and raised in Dehradun. His father, Sundar Singh Kapany, worked in the coal industry; his mother, Kundan Kaur Kapany, was a homemaker. After graduating from Agra University, he worked for a government munitions factory in Dehradun before moving to England. Kapany had originally moved to Britain for an internship at an optics firm in Scotland, to learn skills he could use in starting his own company back in India. But the opportunity to work with Professor Hopkins, a towering figure in the world of optics, was too tempting to resist. However, their relationship, though fruitful, proved unstable: Both of them were men with outsize personalities, and they fell out soon after publishing their seminal paper in Nature. In 1954, soon after the Nature article appeared, Kapany married Satinder Kaur, who was studying dance in London. The next year the two sailed to New York after he was offered a job at the University of Rochester and a consulting contract with Bausch & Lomb, the eye care company. Two years later, after the birth of their son, Raj, the Kapanys moved to Illinois, where Kapany took a job teaching at the Illinois Institute of Technology and where their daughter, Kiran, was born. But Kapany was growing restless in academia, and in 1960 he moved his family to California to start a new company, Optics Technology, to commercialise his research. He based it in Palo Alto, then just emerging as a tech hub, and received funding from Draper, Gaither & Anderson, one of the first venture-capital firms on the West Coast. Kapany took the company public in 1967. He left that same year and, in 1973, founded a new company, Kaptron, which made fibre optics equipment. He founded yet another company, K2 Optronics, in 1999. But Kapany never fully left academia: He taught at the University of California, Santa Cruz, from 1977 to 1983, and he later endowed chairs at several University of California schools in optics and in Sikh studies. Kapany was a practising Sikh and fiercely proud of his heritage. He amassed one of the world’s largest collections of Sikh art and sponsored rooms to feature it in museums. “My father became convinced that the world at large should know who the Sikhs are and the Sikh people themselves should not forget who they are as they emigrate to other lands far from their original roots,” his daughter said. But he was also aware of how exotic he seemed to some as an Indian in early post-war America. Whenever he demonstrated fibre optics to visitors, he called it his “Indian optical rope trick”. And he adopted an American accent, retaining just enough of his Indian and English tenor to make him stand out. “He used that turban like a lethal weapon,” his son said. “When you see a guy who looked like that and who spoke like JFK, you’re not going to forget him.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||BJP flag around Gandhi bust in Kerala||A BJP flag was found tied around the shoulder of a bust of Mahatma Gandhi on the Palakkad municipality compound in Kerala on Monday, the “insult” triggering protests by the Congress and the CPM. Congress and  CPM councillors had noticed the flag after elections to the municipal standing committee at the BJP-ruled civic body ended around 11.30am. A large number of Congress and CPM workers rushed to the spot. Workers of CPM youth wing DYFI marched in with portraits of Gandhi, chanted anti-BJP slogans and demanded action against those responsible. They garlanded the bust after police arrived and removed the BJP flag. The BJP denied any role and suggested a Congress conspiracy. Less than a month ago, the municipality had witnessed a similar controversy after the BJP retained it in the local body elections. BJP workers had then hung two massive banners from the roof of the municipality building, one emblazoned with “Jai Sri Ram” and the other carrying pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Following a complaint from the municipality secretary — a government official — the police had arrested a few BJP workers on the charge of disturbing amity. Former Palakkad MP and CPI member M.B. Rajesh described the flag incident as “another direct and brazenly defiant attack on the idea of India as propounded by Gandhiji”. “It’s not that they didn’t have any other place to tie their flag. This is their way of declaring their true intent for a theocratic state, sidelining Gandhiji’s secular ideals,” Rajesh told The Telegraph. “Winning just one municipality (in Kerala) has turned them so arrogant. Imagine if they win a few more....” District BJP president E. Krishnadas called it a “drama” staged by the Congress. “We have nothing to do with this. In fact, our people saw about 50 Congress workers rushing towards the statue around 11.30am with their party flags. My question is, why did they come to the municipality complex with their party flags?” Krishnadas said. “This is a well-scripted drama by the Congress to create a controversy and blame us for something we didn’t do.” He said no one had seen the BJP flag when the premises were cleaned earlier in the morning. Senior Congress leader Pandalam Sudhakaran said: “Everyone knows the BJP is against Mahatma Gandhi’s message of peace and secularism. It’s arrogance, not ignorance, that led them to insult the Father of the Nation.” He demanded the police arrest the “real anti-nationals” behind the “sacrilege”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier held in Ladakh sent back||A Chinese soldier apprehended by the Indian Army in eastern Ladakh last Friday was handed back to China on Monday morning. The People’s Liberation Army soldier was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo at 10.10am, the army said. He was taken into custody early on January 8 after he transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC), south of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, where the armies of the two countries have been locked in a standoff since May. Sources said no espionage angle was found and the soldier had crossed over inadvertently. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday arrived in Ladakh to assess and review ground requirements of the force deployed at forward locations in freezing temperatures. Sources said Rawat, during his two-day visit, will be briefed by 14 Corps Commander and other commanders on the ground. The standoff in Ladakh continues with no signs of a breakthrough after several rounds of talks. The Indian Army has also been maintaining a strong vigil in other sectors of the Line of Actual Control. The Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the Line of Actual Control in the Ladakh sector where the temperature has now reached minus 40. Earlier this month, Rawat had visited forward air bases in Arunachal Pradesh and interacted with soldiers of the army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, and Special Frontier Force deployed along the Line of Actual Control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||Pangong Lake opens to tourists after a year||The Ladakh administration has re-opened Pangong Lake, the region’s most prized picnic spot and one of the main theatres of the ongoing standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies, for tourists after nearly a year. “The majestic Pangong Lake has been reopened for tourists starting January 10. So, get inner line permit (ILP) at http://lahdclehpermit.in, and visit this spellbinding lake,” tweeted Ladakh Tourism, the official Twitter handle of the tourism department of Ladakh Union Territory on Sunday. The lake was shut for tourists last year because of the pandemic and border tensions, which broke out around the same time. China holds more than two-thirds of the 134km-long lake. The area in and around the lake saw India and China engaging in some of the worst confrontations in the whole of eastern region after reports that China has occupied the heights in Finger 4 area. Konchok Stanzin, the elected councilor of Chushul Constituency, which is also home to Pangong lake, said the restrictions on tourist arrivals were lifted on January 10 and tourists were free to visit the area. “The tourists are safe to visit the area. They can only go to the starting point of the lake which is far off from that place,” Stanzin told The Telegraph. The councillor, however, said there is no improvement in the situation across eastern Ladakh. “The situation is the same. It is no different (from what it was over months),” he said. China apparently had thrown their side of the lake open in September last year, when videos surfaced showing Chinese welcoming the international tourists. Stanzin had earlier claimed Chinese infrastructure including tents, bunkers and vehicles are clearly seen in Chushul and some other villages, suggesting they are in mood to leave. The Chushul councillor last week met Defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi, where he had complained about the lack of internet facility in areas close to Line of Actual Control, which was suspended in view of the hostilities. “In the absence of reliable Internet connecting these villages to the mainstream India, we feel neglected and digital India programme will fail in its primary aim. The Covid-19 has immensely disadvantaged our student’s community in terms of access to education. Many students and their families have shifted cities like Leh for want of internet to attend online classes,” a memorandum submitted by him to the minister reads. The decision to reopen Pangong came a day ahead of Indian army’s move to hand back a Chinese soldier, who was apprehended by the Indian side in the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The soldier had transgressed to this side. The soldier was returned to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh at 10.10 am today. China yesterday had called for an immediate return of the soldier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||Centre nudges out education calendars for central institutions||The government has prevented central educational institutions, including the IITs, from printing calendars and diaries citing the need for austerity measures and instructed them to use those brought out by the Centre this year, triggering allegations of interference and peddling of propaganda. Calendars and diaries, particularly the former, are used by educational institutions to showcase their achievements, recognitions received and the infrastructure facilities of repute, and also convey through pictures and text the essence of the institute in a nutshell. The government on Friday released a digital calendar and diary carrying pictures and information on various government schemes and programmes. Sections of academics described the move as yet another instance of the Centre’s meddling in the functioning of autonomous institutions and also an attempt to propagate government schemes instead of allowing the educational outfits to display their own individuality. No institution has officially opposed the instructions of the education ministry and the University Grants Commission. Most institutions are planning to ask their faculty and other staff to follow the central government’s digital calendar, launched by information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar. At least half a dozen administrative officials from IITs and central universities told The Telegraph that they were feeling handicapped by the lack of their own calendars and diaries. “We gift our calendars and diaries to visiting dignitaries who come to deliver talks or attend programmes. Now we have nothing of our own to gift,” the vice-chancellor of a central university said. “The calendars and diaries are used to showcase our achievements and strengths through pictures and descriptions. They are a short presentation on the institute,” the vice-chancellor added. The academics said the printing cost was just a fraction of the funds they receive from the government. They said the institutions incurred a cost of around Rs 1 lakh to print calendars and diaries, while each institution receives over Rs 100 crore a year for maintenance of facilities and paying salary and pension to faculty and other staff. The vice-chancellor highlighted the farcical situation through a story. “It goes like this. Some people were carrying the body of a man to the cremation ground. They found it heavy. They discussed among themselves and decided to remove the hair from the body to make it lighter. That is what the government is doing in the name of austerity,” he said. Although a handful of institutions have gone ahead and brought out their own digital calendars, the vice-chancellor said his institution had not “since a digital calendar does not have the same impact as a physical calendar”. The Centre had earlier in 2018 and 2019 directed five central universities, including Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan and Delhi University (DU), to close down their presses, saying printing was not a core activity of an educational institution. Delhi University Press, which was started in 1961 and was self-sufficient financially, stopped work in August 2019. It used to print the prospectus, annual reports, calendars, diaries, application forms and letterheads. Last year, the university got these materials published from outside. DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said closing down printing presses, giving directions on research themes, asking institutions to set up walls on martyrs and advising them to observe “Surgical Strike Day” were part of a series of government measures that interfered with the matters of autonomous institutions. The direction to stop printing calendars and diaries is the latest addition, he said. “Now that the government has stopped the institutions from printing calendars, many will follow the central government calendar. The government is not only interfering in university affairs but also using them for publicity of its schemes through its calendar. This is centralised propaganda,” Jha said. UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said the universities were free to prepare their own digital calendars. The government calendar, available for free in 11 languages, is part of an app that also has a digital diary. The calendar has the picture of a famous personality for each month and provides information on government schemes. The app also provides a timeline of various government programmes. The personalities highlighted for the months of February and March are Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Vivekananda, respectively. The theme for February is farmers’ welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||West Bengal||First consignment of 6.89 lakh vaccines arrives in Bengal||The first consignment of around 6.89 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines arrived here on Tuesday in a special flight from Pune, a senior official of the West Bengal health department said. "The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines from Pune reached the city at around 1.40 pm. There are around 6.89 lakh doses of the vaccines," he told PTI. The consignment will be transported in two insulated vans from the city airport to a state-owned store at Baghbazar, the official said. The vaccines will be dispatched from the depot to various districts on Wednesday. Five walk-in-coolers and four walk-in-freezers have been installed in the Baghbazar store to keep the vaccines, he said. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. The country had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC's Sisir Adhikari removed as development agency chairman||Senior Trinamul Congress MP Sisir Adhikari was removed as the chairman of the Digha Shankarpur Development Authority (DSDA), which is responsible for development works in the beach town in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, as per an official notification. Adhikari, the father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, was replaced with MLA Akhil Giri, known to be his detractor in the Trinamool Congress. "He did not do anything as the chairman of the DSDA. So he has been removed," Giri told reporters on Tuesday. Adhikari is at present the district president of the TMC in Purba Medinipur. Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said Adhikari was not being able to perform as the chairman of the agency. "Sisir-da is a veteran leader. Maybe he was unwell. But we were pained when he did not utter any word against his sons Suevndu and Soumendu who had been constantly attacking the TMC after switching over to the BJP," he said. Adhikari, however, remained unfazed with the development. "They can do whatever they want. I am not bothered," he said. Suvendu switched over to the BJP last month and later helped his brother Soumendu change sides after he was removed as administrator of the Kanthi Municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Shrikant Mohta gets bail ||Film producer Shrikant Mohta was granted bail by the Supreme Court on Monday, almost two years after he had been arrested from his office in Calcutta in connection with a Rose Valley default case. The court granted the bail on medical grounds, considering that Mohta had suffered two strokes for which he was being treated initially at the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack and later at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. Mohta had been lodged in Bhubaneswar jail since his arrest by the CBI in January 2019. His bail petitions had been rejected several times until Monday. Co-owner of the Shree Venkatesh Films, Mohta is expected to reach Calcutta either on Tuesday or Wednesday. “We had complete faith in India’s judicial system and hoped for the best. We did not lose hope and always worked towards it. Finally, we got the good news. We, his family, friends and employees are elated on this news,” co-founder and director of SVF Mahendra Soni told The Telegraph sometime after Mohta was granted bail on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata poser to PM on vaccines’ scientific nod||Mamata Banerjee asked whether “adequate scientific confirmation” was available in favour of two Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) being offered by the Centre during her video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday afternoon. The question assumes significance at a time several scientists have also raised similar questions. “The chief minister wondered whether adequate scientific confirmation was available in favour of the two vaccines which will be administered in the first phase,” said a source. During the meeting, the Bengal chief minister also asked why the states were left with no option of choosing from among the candidate vaccines before wondering whether the vaccines were fast tracked, a senior official aware of the discussions held at the meeting told this correspondent. Mamata was one of the handful of speakers in the video conference between the chief ministers of all states and the Prime Minister, sources said. “The chief minister argued that optimal number of trials and fool-proof studies through such trials were needed,” said a source. Sources at Nabanna said professor Vinod K. Paul, member of Niti Ayog, responded to the chief minister’s worries and assured her that both the vaccines were completely safe based on scientific evidence. “He told the chief minister that there was no evidence of serious side-effects,” said a source. The chief minister then assured the Prime Minister that Bengal was fully prepared with 44,000 vaccinators and 4,000 vaccine administration centres. Mamata also asked Modi what the Centre’s policy on providing Covid-19 vaccines to the remaining 127 crore population in the country would be. The question was raised after he had made it clear that the Centre would provide free vaccines to 3 crore health workers and frontline workers, who would be administered vaccines in the first two phases. “She requested him to roll out a detailed roadmap regarding vaccination of people at large… She also wanted the Centre to make it clear whether the states need to procure vaccines for the rest of the population (beyond the prioritised categories),” said an official. In his reply, the Prime Minister told Mamata that the issue would be discussed with the states on completion of the first two phases of vaccines, the sources said. “The chief minister made it clear that the state is ready to procure vaccines for the larger section of the society and in that case the centre should provide necessary guidance in procuring vaccines,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Bagdogra taxis to stay off road||Around 1,200 taxis which ferry passengers from Bagdogra airport will stay off the road for an indefinite period from Tuesday to demand revision of fare among others. The Bagdogra Airport All Taxi Association (BAATA) — a joint forum of seven taxi associations, including trade unions like the Citu, Intuc and the Inttuc — has called the strike at a time tourists are pouring into the region. The fare was revised last in 2008. Siraj Bhowmik, the president of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association — a constituent of the forum — said they had been demanding revision of the fare for years. “A number of memoranda have been submitted to different quarters and on December 17 last year, we had even sent a memorandum to chief minister Mamata Banerjee through the state tourism minister. However, there has been no response. These days, it is not possible for us to run our vehicles at old rates. That is why we have decided to stop our services at the airport,” said Bhowmik. The Siliguri Luxury Drivers’ Union extend support to the agitation and declared a one-day strike on Tuesday. “Altogether, over 3,000 taxis will remain off the roads on Tuesday. Many other associations have extended support to us and have hinted that if there is no move from the state’s side, they would eventually join the strike,” said a BAATA representative. Transporters claimed that around 25,000 light vehicles run in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and in some parts of the neighbouring Jalpaiguri districts. “Altogether, the state earns around Rs 350 crore as tax from these vehicles. We believe the government should think of providing some relief to us and also come up with a revised fare chart,” said a transporter. Those associated with the tourism sector are keeping fingers crossed. “After a long gap, tourists have started pouring into the Darjeeling hills and the Dooars. If cabs are not available at the airport and luxury taxis also go off the roads, we don’t know how to ferry tourists to a destination from Bagdogra or vice-versa,” said a tour operator of the city. State tourism minister Gautam Deb said that the state government would surely look into the demands. “But taxi owners should refrain from taking any step that can cause inconvenience to people,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||939 more cured, total Covid cases drop further||Bengal on Monday logged 939 Covid-19 recoveries, 612 infections and 16 deaths as total of active cases fell for the 77th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total active cases on Monday was 7,538, having improved by nearly 80 per cent from 37,190 on October 26. Bengal now has around 3.5 per cent of the national total of active cases, half of the seven per cent it had about a month ago. It is now eighth on the list of states with the most active cases, having improved from the third place in barely a month’s time. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. “Monday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 2…. We have been monitoring the data and trends closely. There are enough indicators by now to suggest that even the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry passed without worsening of the outbreak,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has reported nearly 2.34 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.07 lakh new infections detected. The recovery rate has risen for 81 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.88 per cent. The national rate now is 96.47 per cent. “We are looking at completing a 100-day streak of continuous rise in the recovery rate by the end of this month, by which time we ought to surpass the 98 per cent mark,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.523 per cent, having improved steadily from the 8.27 of November 20. Bengal’s total test count — including 23,313 tests on Monday — went past 74.64 lakh, at 82,942 tests per million people. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.61 lakh cases includes nearly 5.44 lakh recoveries and 9,957 deaths. The 16 deaths reported on Monday included three from the city. The state attributed 8,356 (83.9 per cent) of the total casualty count to co-morbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Now, priests vex BJP with flex on Chaitanya: ‘Will you forgive them?’||A Trinamul Congress-backed outfit of Hindu priests put up around  100 flexes in and around East Burdwan’s Katwa on Monday asking people whether they would forgive those who had distorted facts regarding Chaitanya Mahaprabhu’s temple of initiation. The posters by the West Bengal State Sanatan Brahman Trust refer to BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s faux pas when he claimed at a rally in Katwa on Saturday that he had offered prayers at the Jagadanandapur temple where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu had received initiation. “Mitron, aaj main Radha Govindji ke puratan mandir mei gaya, jahan Chaitanya Mahaprabhu ney diksha li thi (Friends, today I went to an old temple of Radha Govind, where Chaitanya Mahaprabhu received initiation),” Nadda said, oblivious to the fact that the initiation of the saint had taken place in 1510, which is 329 years before the Jagadanandapur temple came up. If Nadda had on Saturday handed over ammunition to Trinamul, which has been attacking the BJP for its lack of connect with Bengal’s culture, the saffron party’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh caused further damage on Sunday by asserting that Chaitanya received initiation at the Jagadanandapur temple because “he” said it and so it was right. “BJP-r sarba Bharatiya sabhapati JP Nadda bollen, Jagadanandapurer Radha Govinda mandir shri Chaitanyadev er diksha sthal. ‘Apni bolle hobe na, ami bolchi otai thik’ sangbadikder bollen BJP-r rajya sabhapati Dilip Ghosh. Mahaprabhu Shri Chaitanyadev ke niye opobyakshakarider apnara ki khoma korben? (BJP national president JP Nadda said that the Radha Govinda temple was the site of initiation of Shri Chaitanyadev. BJP’s state president told the journalists ‘Your claim does not make it so. What I am saying is right’. Will you forgive those who have distorted facts about Shri Chaitanyadev?),” the flex reads. “We have already put up 100 such large size flexes in and around Katwa town. We have ordered more than thousand flexes to put them up at nearby villages. We can’t accept that the national leader of the BJP will distort facts and their leader in the state will force us to agree to what is wrong. It has hurt the sentiments of the people of Katwa and those who love Chaitanya Mahaprabhu,” said Alok Banerjee, Katwa unit secretary of the priests’ outfit. Sources said an instruction from Trinamul had already reached the party leadership in Katwa and East Burdwan to take the campaign on the distortion of facts about Chaitanya to the people. “The priests’ outfit have set up flexes and we will hold small rallies at villages to let people know how the BJP is distorting fact about Chaitanya,” said Rabindranath Chatterjee, the Trinamul MLA from Katwa. Sources said Trinamul would soon hold a protest rally on the issue in Katwa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||CM: CAA will put Matuas in trouble||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Citizenship Amendment Act would put Matuas in deep trouble as the altered law would force those who had already become Indians to apply for citizenship afresh. The chief minister’s interpretation of the CAA was aimed at driving a wedge between the BJP and the Matuas, lower caste Hindus, most of whom were believed to have supported the saffron party in the 2019 general election. “Many of you have been living here for over 50 years...You are all naturally Indian citizens. How can they offer you citizenship through the act?” the Trinamul Congress chief asked at a rally in Habibpur, which is considered as a Matua stronghold in Nadia. “Once you apply for citizenship, you will become a foreigner,” she added during her half an hour address. It was clear that Mamata’s visit to Habibpur was aimed at wooing the Matuas back to the Trinamul fold at a time the delay in the implementation of the CAA created discontent in the community. In her mission to drill holes into the BJP’s narrative that the CAA would solve all the problems that the immigrant community was facing, the chief minister tried her best to explain her version of the new act. “The BJP has brought this act which will ask you the date of birth of your grandparents and unless you submit papers, they will drive you out of the country,” she said. After explaining what the implementation of the new act may meant for the Matuas, the chief minister promised that whoever had come to Bengal and lived here for years had become Indian citizens naturally and nobody could drive them out. “I as the chief minister of Bengal assure you that no one can drive you out of this state,” said Mamata to a thunderous applause. The chief minister also said her government was determined to give free-hold land rights to the residents of 300-odd refugee colonies in the state soon to ensure that they didn’t face any question over their citizenship. “Residents of 96 refugee colonies have already got the land rights. A process has begun to provide free hold deeds to 213 more colonies which will ensure your rights,” she said. Sources in the state administration said the chief minister was keen to resolve the practical problems the Matuas were facing. “It becomes difficult for many from the community to get a passport as they cannot produce proper documents to establish their address. They are often denied bank loans because of the same problem. The chief minister wanted to solve the problem the Matuas are facing by giving them a proper address,” said an official. Trinamul insiders said the move was a smart one as it would help them convince the Matuas that they didn’t need to depend on the BJP for implementing the CAA as they would get land records in their names to get rid of their perennial problems ahead of the Assembly polls. “The prime target is to convince the Matuas that they don’t need an Act to be citizens. The chief minister was eager to send a message before Amit Shah visits Bongaon later this month to address the Matuas on the implementation of the CAA,” said a Trinamul MLA from North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
12-01-2021||West Bengal||March against professor suspension||Over 200 students, teachers and academics owing allegiance to the Left Front took out a march in Bolpur on Monday to protest against the suspension of Visva-Bharati professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and his alleged bid to “saffronise” the varsity. The procession was held a day after over 500 academics from across the globe had signed an online petition to protest the economics professor’s suspension. Monday’s rally was held under the banner of the Right to Education Forum — a Left-wing platform for teachers and students. Along with the forum’s members, supporters of the SFI, DYFI and a few senior CPM leaders assembled at the Fire Brigade More in Bolpur on Monday morning for a demonstration. “The present VC and his administration have snatched away the right to freedom of expression from varsity teachers and employees. The suspension of professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya goes to show that the VC is working to implement the agenda of the BJP on the campus. The VC is out to take revenge as the varsity teacher had exposed the his false claim about a conversation with Nobel laureate Amartya Sen,” said Wasif Iqbal, the Birbhum secretary of the SFI. A section of the protesters, including former varsity teachers, claimed that there were at least a dozen examples to show that the VC and his administration were trying to saffronise the campus and ruin the tradition and culture of the institution founded by Rabindranath Tagore. “The saffronisation programme of the VC became evident when the BJP’s youth wing publicly supported Chakrabarty’s protest show demanding control of the road that linked Santiniketan to Sriniketan,” said a former teacher who attended the demonstration. After the demonstration, the protesters took out a rally that covered a distance of 1.5km and culminated near the VC’s office on the campus. A section of teachers said the Visva-Bharati’s public relations officer Anirban Sircar had circulated an online petition among the employees to show solidarity with the principal whose appointment Bhattacharyya had questioned. A group of students started a signature campaign to counter the “propaganda” of the VC, said a varsity student. Bengal’s teaching community, led by the Left-affiliated West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association (WBCUTA), has decided to take the protest against the “autocratic” and “anarchist” style of functioning of the Visva-Bharati administration to the varsity’s office in Calcutta. A protest rally has been convened outside the Visva-Bharati’s Calcutta office on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Protest halts forest safari||The jeep safari into the Chilapara forest of Alipurduar district — a popular tourist destination in eastern Dooars — has come to a halt for around six days because of a demonstration that has been launched by a section of villagers in front of a range office of the state forest department in protest against an alleged anomaly over recruitment of contractual workers in the department. Last year, the department decided to recruit “Ban Sahayaks” (contractual workers for forest management and protection). However, as the recruitment started, a section of villagers dwelling on the fringes of Chilapata raised questions and alleged that instead of locals, the department is engaging people who are associated with Trinamul and also relatives and acquaintances of forest employees. Last week, some of them walked up to the range office in Chilapata – the same office from where permits are issued for the jeep safari, locked it down and launched an indefinite demonstration. In a similar manner, range offices of East Rajabhatkhawa and Damanpur of Buxa Tiger Reserve and the Madarihat range office of Jaldapara wildlife division were also closed by foresters. While on one hand official works at these offices got affected due to such closure, the tourism sector was also hit in Chilapata as cab owners who take tourists on the safari, could not manage to obtain the permits. Those associated with tourism in and around Chilapata said every day around 200 tourists enter the forest in safari. “In Chilapata, jeep safari is the prime attraction for tourists. Now that tourists could not enjoy the safari, many of them are cancelling their trips. The cab owners, resort owners and many others are bearing losses. It is unfortunate that at a time when tourists have started pouring into the region, we have to face such a situation,” said Ganesh Sha, secretary, Chilapata Lodge Owners’ Association. According to him, around 1,500 people are directly or indirectly associated with tourism in Chilapata. As the villagers continued their demonstration, the cab owners, who ferry tourists to the forests, raised a token road blockade for an hour along the Chilapata-Sonapur Road on Monday. A section of them appealed to forest officials to open the range office. The latter, however, made it clear that unless the demonstrators move away, they cannot open the office. “We are also local residents. Why should we suffer for another protest? The state forest department and the district administration should look into the issue,” said a cab owner. A forest official, when asked about the impasse, said they have passed the information to their senior officers. “We understand the situation. But unless there is any specific instruction from higher levels, we cannot make a move,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Hunt for plots for Kamtapuri schools||The state education department has instructed the Jalpaiguri district administration to find vacant plots at two locations for setting up primary schools where students will be taught in Kamtapuri language. Last week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that the state government would check out the infrastructure of 200-odd informal schools where the medium of instruction is Rajbanshi language and was mulling over the proposal to regularise such institutions. “We have received a letter from the state education department to find out land for opening two schools where students would be taught in Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi) language. Our officers have started collecting details about such land in different locations of the district,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate. The Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy welcomed the decision to look for the plots. “We thank the chief minister for the decision. We will soon meet her and the state education minister and urge them to start classes in the language on a temporary basis at some Bengali-medium primary schools where vacant classrooms are available. Also, we would seek the approval of some more Kamtapuri-medium schools,” said Atul Roy, the vice-chairman of the academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Thapa seeks teacher recruit body for hills||GTA head Anit Thapa has batted for the establishment of a School Service Commission (SSC) exclusively for the Darjeeling hills. “Most systems have collapsed in the hills. We must have a system to recruit teachers. We must have a School Service Commission. I have had a word with chief minister Mamata Banerjee in this regard,” Thapa said while addressing a public meeting organised by various teachers’ organisations in Darjeeling on Monday. He is the chairman of the board of administrators constituted by the state government to run the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The SSC issue has had a roller coaster ride in the hills and many believe the best candidates have not landed the teachers job here because of the absence of a proper teacher recruitment policy. In 1997, the government had conducted an SSC test for teacher recruitment which was cleared by 182 candidates from the hills. The examination was conducted by Malda regional centre. The then hill body, Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC), did not allow the candidates to join work and demanded that a separate zone be formed for the hills. In 1999, the state government did form the hill zone and an SSC examination was also conducted. Forty candidates passed the test, but the DGHC once again stalled their appointment and raised a fresh demand for handing over the SSC (hill zone) to the DGHC. The state government then stated that a bill would be placed in the Assembly to hand over the SSC to the DGHC but the GNLF, which was in power, stated that it would not accept the SSC as almost all hill school were “linguistic minorities” and argued that minorities schools were out of the SSC’s ambit. On September 5, 2003, the state government directed the secretary, SSC (hill zone), to keep the office “under suspension” and asked the official “to lock the office and hand its custody to the district magistrate.” The DGHC continued recruiting “ad-hoc” teachers — there were allegations of political nepotism in appointment — providing them with a meagre remuneration. Many hill institutions also appointed “voluntary teachers” whose remuneration was not fixed to fill up vacant space. Over the years, there have been constant demands for regularisation of jobs of the ad-hoc and voluntary teachers. Many of these teachers were made permanent in the past two years but there are many who are still raising regularisation demand. The 220-odd candidates who had cleared the SSC examination finally landed jobs through court verdict many years later. “In the past few years, many teachers have had their job regularised and they were thanking me today but I do not deserve this gratitude,” said Thapa. Speaking upfront, he said: “I know how teachers had to run from one leader’s house to another, run from one court to another to get their job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul worker body in canal||A Trinamul Congress worker was found dead with multiple injuries in a canal near Tapan in South Dinajpur on Monday morning. Police suspect Milan Biswas, 24, a fish seller, was murdered with a sharp weapons. Sources said Biswas used to ride to the wholesale fish market at Gangarampur on his motorcycle every morning. Later in the day, he would sell fish at the market in Nababnagar. “He left for Gangarampur on his motorcycle this morning but did not return home. After some hours, his body was found in a canal near his house. We suspect he has been murdered. Gold ornaments which he was wearing and around Rs 15,000 with him are missing,” said a police officer. Raju Das, a Trinamul leader at Tapan, said the party suspected that the BJP had a hand in Biswas’s murder. The BJP rejected the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||West Bengal||Delhi blamed for growth pangs||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Monday alleged that it was because of the Centre that the Bagdogra airport’s expansion was delayed and traffic snarls along a stretch of NH31 near Darjeeling More, the principal entry point to Siliguri, couldn’t be ended. “The Union ministry of civil aviation had decided to pay Rs 25 crore as compensation for the land that the state government had arranged for the expansion of the Bagdogra airport. The money hasn’t, however, reached the state government. So, the process of providing the land to the Airports Authority of India has not yet ended…… eventually, the expansion of the airport is getting delayed,” Deb told newspersons at Mainak Tourist Lodge complex here. The minister pointed out that it was because of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s decision to waive the surcharge on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) that flights had increased at Bagdogra and led to a steady surge in the number of passengers in the past few years. “We are well aware that the existing infrastructure at the airport is inadequate to handle the rush of passengers. It needs an expansion immediately,” he added. The minister said the central government had taken a similar “negligent” approach to address the issue of traffic congestion at Darjeeling More — the junction of NH 31 and NH 55. “To reduce the congestion to some extent, we have thought of installing a temporary bailey bridge over the rail track that moves through the area. Earlier, tall talks were made by central ministers and MPs that the two-lane highway would be expanded to a four-lane or a six-lane road but no initiative has been taken so far. Land is also available for the project,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-238
12-01-2021||North East||Assam’s Laika villagers firm on relief||The death of 24-year-old Kusmita Morang on Friday has only steeled the resolve of villagers from Laika in Tinsukia district of Assam and Dodhia in adjoining Dibrugarh district who are protesting and living in makeshift camps near the Tinsukia deputy commissioner’s office since December 22 last year seeking permanent rehabilitation. Kusmita, one of the protesters, who suffered a miscarriage on Wednesday, passed away on Friday. Two protesters have died so far while another was shifted to Dibrugarh Medical College and Hospital on Friday. There are 14 others, including children, who are unwell, said a representative of the protesters, most suffering from cold and fever. Around 1,480 families from three villages under Laika and four from Dodhia have been affected after the forest reserves under which they fall were converted into the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in 1999. They were settled by the state government in these villages, dominated by the Mising community, after the massive 1950 earthquake. Now they cannot build anything “permanent” because they live in a national park. Government schemes too have “stopped” reaching the villages because of strict environmental laws. Their rehabilitation has been hampered because of alleged dilly-dallying by the government. The affected people said that the forest department should have rehabilitated them before declaring Dibru-Saikhowa a national park. Many have started comparing the protest in Tinsukia with the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws as far as resolve and intensity are concerned, reflected in the reaction to the deaths. “We have already lost two of our own. They were part of the protest. We are not going anywhere till we are properly rehabilitated. We have nowhere to go. We cannot return to our villages because we have no future. We also understand the importance of a national park,” said Mintu Morang, chief convener of the Laika-Dodhia Rehabilitation Committee He further said: “If we have to die protesting, so be it. We have made this clear to the administration. Our fight for rehabilitation started 21 years ago. We will continue for some more. For us, it is now or never.” Rebati Pao, the first protester who died on December 30 last year, was in her fifties, he said. The protesters are staying put in the cold despite chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, after a meeting with representatives of the seven villages falling under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, directing the forest department to “permanently rehabilitate” the affected families by January 31. The number of protesters has come down from around 3,000 to 1,200 because of the rotation system employed by the villagers so that they can continue the agitation for a longer duration. Their villages are 22km away from the protest site. The camps are being run by donation from well-wishers and local organisations. The district administration too is extending help after the talks with the chief minister. The protesters are also firm in their resolve because twice in the past, in July 2017 and in December 2019, their rehabilitation was allegedly scuttled at the last moment. Morung said the survey ordered by the chief minister to find suitable plots for their rehabilitation is over but they had reservations about the plots in Lakhimpur because the area is flood-prone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
12-01-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi to head Raijor Dal||Akhil Gogoi, who has been in jail since his arrest on December 12, 2019, at the peak of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act movement in Assam, will lead the recently floated Raijor Dal as its first president. The regional party named Akhil its president in the wee hours of Saturday at its first executive meeting held in Moran in Sivasagar district. Akhil, 44, appeared to be the unanimous choice for the post because he was the founding member of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, was also the brain behind Raijor Dal and one of the most recognisable faces in contemporary state politics, a senior participant told The Telegraph. One of the participants said that Akhil is likely to contest the polls from behind bars from Sivasagar district. Several members said the government was afraid of Akhil because of his fearlessness and growing popularity, a reason for “somehow” keeping him in jail till at least the elections. The National Investigation Agency court here had on Thursday rejected Akhil’s bail plea for his alleged links with Maoists. Senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had later said that Akhil was in jail because of his Maoist links and not because of his involvement in the anti-CAA protests. Akhil has been a vocal critic of the state government, often criticising its plans and policies. The 90-member executive committee of Raijor Dal also named KMSS president Bhasco de Saikia, K.C. Phukan and Jitul Deka as the working presidents, and nine general secretaries, including Kamal Kumar Medhi and Hussain Mohammad Shahjahan. The other highlight of the three-day convention was the presence of Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) general secretary Chittaranjan Basumatary at the final-day open session on Saturday, fuelling speculations about a tie-up between the two regional outfits, formed around the same time last year, to take on the ruling BJP in the Assembly polls this year. The AJP is led by former All Assam Students Union general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi, who has said that the doors for alliance with regional parties are always open. Akhil being named as president and the presence of a senior AJP leader were the two high points of the convention which also discussed its roadmap, party sources said. Akhil’s mother and family were present at the open session. One of the Raijor Dal advisers, educationist Sitanath Lahkar, said the BJP rule in the state has made it difficult for one to survive with personal liberty and rights. “They invoke Xankardeb but they don’t believe in his teachings of secularism and equality. The party (BJP) has to be defeated for the harm it has caused to the social fabric of Assam and personal liberty of individuals,” Lahkar said. He had also suggested a few slogans for the party to be used during the polls, one of which — “Bol Bogorao” (lets displace or unseat) — has found traction on social media. The presence of both Raijor Dal (people’s party) and the AJP is likely to hit the regional Asom Gana Parishad most. The AGP is an ally of the BJP in the state. Both the Raijor Dal and the AJP have also made it clear about having no truck with either the BJP, the Congress or the AIUDF. Their poll plank will be an inclusive, developed and self-sufficient Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
12-01-2021||North East||Assam poultry ban not to affect Bihu   ||Assam can cope with the bird flu-triggered temporary ban on poultry for about six weeks but anything beyond that could severely impact the booming sector that was just about recovering after being hit by the Covid pandemic. The state government had on Friday imposed the temporary ban as a preventive measure to check the possible outbreak of bird flu in the state. Neighbouring states have also stepped up vigil. The ban came just days ahead of one of the state’s most popular festivals (Bhogali Bihu or Magh Bihu) of which feasting is an integral part, sparking off apprehension about possible shortage and price hike of poultry. Both Assam Livestock & Poultry Corporation Limited (ALPCL) chairman Manoj Saikia and All Assam Poultry Farmers & Traders Association president Dr Mridul Borah in separate conversation with The Telegraph that the state is self-sufficient in chicken, a must during the Bhogali Bihu feast, for about six weeks. “We are self-sufficient for six weeks. Price line will not be affected. Moreover, there is no ban on import of feed or eggs. So we have nothing to worry. The ban was imposed to save local farmers who have already suffered due to Covid-19 and also save the poultry business in the Northeast because everything imported has to pass through Assam, through the two check gates in Kokrajhar and Dhubri districts,” Saikia said. Assam produces 60 lakh kg of chicken meat a week against a requirement of 58 lakh kg. Besides domestic consumption, it also exports to Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Manipur. On the other hand, it  imports about 60 tonne chicken a day from outside, most of which goes to other states in the region. APF&TA president Borah said there is nothing to worry about availability of chicken for six weeks, no ban on consumption of chicken and other fowl because there is “no infection from bird to human” and prices will remain stable. “Cause of concern would have been a ban on import of eggs and feed but luckily these have been allowed. Our members have been alerted to remain vigilant against possible outbreak,” Borah said. Assam requirement of egg is 53 lakh a day but it produces only two lakh a day, a huge shortfall. According to Borah, the poultry sector suffered an average loss of Rs 100 crore a month during the pandemic. “If bird flu strikes us, this average loss will mount to Rs 150 crore a month due to rise in input cost during Covid-19, an amount which will not only aversely impact the sector but will force many to fold up. We just hope these precautionary measures yield the desired results,” Borah said. Around 35,000 families from Assam are involved in the poultry sector, mostly in farming. Officials said the veterinary department will be holding a meeting with the health department to take stock of the emerging situation and jointly announce steps to tackle the same, including removing any confusion related to the ban. “This is a welcome step, removing confusion over consumption and what is banned. For example, there is no harm in consumption since no case has been reported in the state, that there is no ban on import of eggs and feeds. Ban leads to panic sale which is not good,” a poultry farmer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
12-01-2021||North East||Nadda vows to protect Assam culture ||BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Monday said the ruling party was, is and will remain committed to protecting Assam’s culture, language and identity but remained silent on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, just like Union home minister Amit Shah during his poll-oriented visit to the state in December last year. Addressing a massive Vijay Sankalpa Samabesh at the Police Parade Ground in Silchar town in Cachar district, Nadda said: “ It is our responsibility... The BJP has always given due importance to the protection of Assam’s culture, language and identity. It is also working for the development of the state by ensuring the interests of all communities.” Asserting it was the saffron party which had stood by the Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, Nadda said: “ It was Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji who raised the issue (Assam Movement from 1979 to 1985) both within Parliament and outside. He made it a national issue. The BJP stood by Assam.” He also harped on the speedy development that has taken place under the Narendra Modi regime and also the accords signed for peace in the Northeast, including the Bodo and the Bru accords. Though Nadda talked about preserving culture and identity, he was silent on the CAA, which makes it easier for non-Muslims from neighbouring Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. Those opposed to the CAA say that the law is anti-Assam and is a threat to the very culture and identity the ruling party vows to protect.  On December 26 last year, home minister Shah, while launching the campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls in Guwahati, also harped on the development issues and targeted the Opposition but had also steered clear of the CAA, which is widely opposed in the state, except in most of Barak Valley. Shah too had asserted on protecting and preserving the language, literature, culture and heritage of Assam while dwelling on the development of Batadrava Than, the birthplace of saint-reformer Srimanta Xankardeb, and naamghars (community prayer halls) as these were an integral part of the state’s culture. The CAA was passed by Parliament in December 2019 but rules for its implementation have not yet been framed. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Monday that the ruling BJP will ensure the security of the Hindu Bengalis living in the state, now and forever. “Let there be no doubt (about the security of Hindu Bengalis) since it was the party’s commitment,” Sonowal said. But he too did not mention about the CAA which most believe will help regularise those who have illegally entered India till 2014. Barak Valley, comprising three districts in south Assam, is dominated by a Bengali-speaking population. While Hindus enjoy clear majority in Cachar district, Hailakandi and Karimganj are Muslim-majority but with significant Hindu population. It has 15 Assembly seats, of which the BJP had won eight in 2016 and wants to win all this time. Nadda, while highlighting the achievements of the BJP in his around 30-minute speech, said: “One should remember the development that has taken place under the BJP-led government... We have also given land pattas (documents), improved law and order and stopped trafficking. I am sure the party will retain power because of the all-round development taking place under the BJP-led government. Given the enthusiasm of the people, I am sure it will be BJP Plus (BJP and allies), 100 Plus (over 100 seats).” The BJP president also said they had granted Scheduled Tribe status to six communities — Chutia, Koch-Rajbongshi, Matak, Moran, Tai-Ahom and Adivasi/tea tribes — without affecting the existing communities enjoying ST status. But representatives of two communities — Tai Ahom and tea tribes — said they were unaware of any such development. “ It is news to us. We will have to check. We had sent a letter seeking to know whether the group of ministers submitted any report to the Centre to expedite the process in October as assured by them. We are yet to receive a reply,” chief spokesperson of the Tai Ahom Yuba Parishad, Gunakanta Gogoi, told this newspaper. Rupesh Gowala, a tea community leader, too said he was unaware of such decisions till now. Nadda flew to Guwahati from Silchar and held back to back meetings in connection with the ensuing polls. The Assembly polls are due in Assam around April. The BJP had unseated the Congress in 2016 convincingly and has since won every election, enjoying an edge over its rivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-27
12-01-2021||Opinion||Gloomy weather: GDP growth rate grim||The current forecasts for the growth rates of gross domestic product are, expectedly, quite grim. The real GDP, that is national income corrected for price changes, is estimated to contract by 7.7 per cent in 2020-21 compared to a positive growth of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The nominal GDP, measured at current prices, is also expected to shrink by 4.2 per cent this fiscal. The contraction in both real and nominal GDP is unprecedented in India’s history. It has never happened before, even though the economy has experienced many shocks and slowdowns in the past 73 years. Part of this can certainly be attributed to the pandemic. However, the policy response to the pandemic in terms of a strict and sudden lockdown has much to do with the magnitude of the contraction. Moreover, the policy response to the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic has been inadequate and misdirected. Instead of boosting aggregate demand, policies were focused on the availability of credit on the supply side. In other words, a more demand-generating policy stimulus would have kept the contraction a little more in check. It is important to note that the Union government’s budgetary proposals are based on the estimated nominal GDP. Hence, the finance minister will have a difficult task fixing fiscal strategies and budgetary schemes on February 1 when the new proposals are placed before the nation for the year, 2021-22. The supply-side strategy has not worked. The financial sector is in a mess, with a lot of confusion regarding the plethora of schemes that were announced in the earlier part of the fiscal year. Unemployment is high. Retail inflation is out of target. Food insecurity looms large for poor Indians. Some industries are on the verge of complete collapse. The core sector industries are shrinking on account of the lack of demand. The finance minister has hardly any choice but to increase the fiscal deficit. There is nothing wrong per se with a hike in the deficit, especially in an extraordinary year. However, much depends on how the additional borrowed resources are spent. If they are spent in areas where mass consumption demand is not affected, like defence spending, for instance, the deficit will not spur growth. On the other hand, if they are spent wisely to boost demand for mass consumption goods like cheap textiles, the deficit can be a way for everybody, both the private and the public sectors, to earn more in the near future. Only then can the economy slowly claw its way out of the deep ditch where it is now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Opinion||Knuckle rap: Centre shows farmers the court||The Narendra Modi government’s strategy of wriggling out of sticky situations — they are usually of the Centre’s making — is quite touching. It simply lobs the proverbial ball to the Supreme Court for deliverance. This came to pass, once again, last week when, after eight rounds of fruitless negotiations with farmers demanding the repeal of three controversial agricultural laws, a haughty government informed the representatives of farmer groups that they could approach the Supreme Court. It is another matter that the farmer unions have remained cold to such a suggestion. Their rationale — the legislations are an outcome of policy formulation — cannot be dismissed. What cannot be dismissed either is the Centre’s brazen reliance on the court to bail it out. This is especially so because Mr Modi and his lieutenants are guilty of pushing through these laws without adequate representative consultation. The Centre opted for the ordinance route, refused to expansively debate the matter in Parliament and then — adamantly — turned a deaf ear to the demands to send the bills to a parliamentary committee. There was — this is typical of Mr Modi — no attempt to reach out to or consider the opinions of the primary constituency — the farmers — that is expected to be affected by the legislations. Force and vilification, two other favoured strategies of the regime, were then employed to stall the protesters. Even that failed to deter the farmers, forcing the Centre to engage in consultations that are yet to break the deadlock. The Centre’s unwillingness to hold itself accountable and turn to the court to give its nod to an executive policy is quite unprecedented. Monday’s proceedings at the court are unlikely to lift the Centre’s spirits. In a stern statement, a bench of the Supreme Court castigated the Centre for its handling of the crisis, taking exception to the attorney-general’s observation of the perceived haste to pass an order. The bench headed by the Chief Justice of India urged the Centre to put the laws on hold, adding that the court would do the needful otherwise. Irrespective of the verdict — it is expected to be passed today — the Centre should pay heed to the court’s stinging observations. Adhering to the time-honoured rituals of consultation would have spared Mr Modi this rap on the knuckle from the court. It cannot be a healthy sign for a democracy when the judiciary has to remind an elected government of the need to hold consultations in order to address the concerns of an aggrieved people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Opinion||The challenges before cricket||There is hardly any game other than cricket that is experiencing numerous basic changes. Cricket now has three championships for three formats — Tests, ODIs and T20s — making it unique. The International Cricket Council has also introduced day/night cricket, four-day Tests, and a World Test Championship to generate more interest in Test cricket. However, none of these measures is bereft of criticism. Changes in the playing conditions during the ‘day’ of a D/N Test are being debated. The four-day Test has become a talking point. The WTC has also been criticized for its itinerary. The itinerary is asymmetric since neither do countries play the same number of Tests — home or away — nor against all opponents. It seems that time constraints and the fear of waning public interest have played a role in this abridged itinerary. The points system has been criticized as well. A two-Test series carries the same weightage (120 points) as a five-Test series. Lastly, the championship involves only nine out of the 12 Test-playing nations (Ireland, Afghanistan and Zimbabwe have been excluded). The ICC had awarded Test status to Ireland and Afghanistan in 2017 but can they withstand the rigours of Test cricket? Their first-class infrastructure and performance in their maiden series leave a lot to be desired. Going by the principle of ‘maturity gradation of a sport’ (John Beech), cricket has entered its post-commercialization phase with the advent of the Indian Premier League and similar franchise-based T10 and T20 leagues. In this phase, not only are spectators willing to pay to watch the game but the players also earn their livelihood by playing cricket as a full-time job. The ‘business’ of cricket — sponsorship, media rights — also flourishes throughout the year irrespective of any ‘season’. European professional football is already in the post-commercialization phase. Fifa, too, has embraced the networked governance model by shunning a hierarchical governance structure in which the bottom of the pyramid is expected to comply with regulations and policies devised by the apex body. The globalization and the commercialization of a sport create competing interests given the increasing role of sports agents, media rights and sponsors. The networked or flat governance model is more democratic by nature; each stakeholder has a say on requirements and policy-making. Fifa has brought on-board the Uefa, media, sponsors, agents, supporters, national boards, governments and even clubs in the governing of football. The International Olympic Committee has opted for a similar approach. Cricket can emulate these footsteps to create an ecosystem where each format has a context and a future, spectators receive their money’s worth and cricketers are well-compensated. In a recent study by the author, the opinions expressed during 2015-18 by cricket-related professionals — past and present cricketers, administrators, coaches, sports journalists and so on — were examined to create a repository of stakeholders’ opinion. Using text analysis, the common viewpoints were extracted from the repository and when they were compared with the actions taken by ICC during the same period, it yielded some major gaps. These are as follows: i) T20 has been a punching bag for the declining interest in Test matches but the influence of one format of the game on another has remained unexplored. ii) It is pertinent to see how cricketers are embracing the increasing volume and variety of cricket. Grooming cricketers from childhood assumes importance in this context. Do we need to start specialization? If so, from what stage? iii) How can the pursuit of money be integrated with quality and integrity in cricket? Unless this is achieved, conflict of interest or even the dilution of ethics cannot be ruled out. iv) The ICC’s 2018 market survey on cricket was a revelation. With the cricket fan count crossing the billion mark, it is imperative to understand their demands and choices. Finally, the ICC needs to work on the proportion of the three formats for each Test-playing and emerging country. Established countries must carry the mantle of Test matches if the latter are to survive, whereas the shorter formats may be played more in emerging countries for its population to develop a taste of cricket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Opinion||Troubled legacies||In early 1979, the US-backed Pahlavi regime was overthrown in Iran, bringing Ayatollah Khomeini to power. In November '79, Americans in the US embassy in Tehran were taken hostage; a month later, Soviet troops brazenly rolled into Afghanistan. In America, these events were widely perceived as national humiliations, ensuring that Jimmy Carter — one of the most decent and thoughtful men to occupy the White House — became a one-term president. Forty years ago this month, Ronald Reagan, a B-grade Hollywood actor, a know-nothing and clumsy blusterer, took oath as president of the United States of America. Over the next eight years, Reagan and his Republican Party minders normalized several things that were, till then, only latent in American politics. Chief among these was the acceptance in top Republican political circles that a US president had no need for any great intellectual ability, he could get away with being a TV-friendly ‘face’, a constructed icon and a delivery-vehicle for vote-winning rhetoric, while his shadowy manipulators executed the agenda of the rich and the powerful. Attached to this was the rebooting of naked American jingoism, the motto of ‘My country, right or wrong’, that had taken a much-deserved beating in the 1960s and 1970s. In this, Reagan and his cohorts were helped by the falling of historical dice. As the US government propped up all sorts of brutally murderous gangs — from the Contras in Nicaragua to the Apartheid fascists in South Africa to Zia in Pakistan and, via him, the Afghan mujahideen, which, later, mutated into al Qaida and the Taliban — the Soviet Union began to collapse under its own contradictions and deep-seated rot. By the end of the 1980s, the Soviet game was up and the Reaganites were quick to claim undeserved credit for the demise of the ‘Evil Empire’. If American jingoism was projected shamelessly around the world, the Thatcher-Reagan economic mantra of selfishness and ‘me-first’ was disseminated equally forcefully at home, repeatedly convincing voters that the ‘trickle-down’ theory was not actually a monumental fraud perpetrated on a majority of Americans but a viable economic policy. The great public programmes stemming from the FDR years and the Kennedy-Johnson administrations were ruthlessly shrunk. The idea that civil rights, education, healthcare and economic opportunity should all be increasingly available to the underprivileged of the richest country in the world was relentlessly attacked and dismantled. Alongside this began a set of surreptitious programmes aiming to narrow the voting rights for African-Americans and other historically deprived minorities because the Republicans understood fully well that poor people of colour were unlikely to vote for a party that was aiming to keep them poor indefinitely. When Reagan came to power, the 15 richest Americans made on average 27 times more than that of the bottom 50 per cent. Today, the top 1 per cent makes 81 times more than that of the bottom half of the US population. Such is the absurd momentum of what Reagan and his minders set in motion and so hard has it been to reverse in the 16 years of Democratic presidencies since 1981 (presidencies not often blessed with a Democrat majority House or Senate) that in 2018 the top 400 Americans paid a lower effective tax rate (23 per cent) on their incomes than the bottom 50 per cent (which paid 24.2 per cent). The story, however, can’t be understood only through the lens of economic data. I was newly at my strongly left-leaning liberal arts college in Vermont when Reagan defeated Carter. My campus, often visited by the local activist, Bernie Sanders, went into mourning. I was flummoxed as to how a country could choose an obvious shyster like Ronald Reagan over Jimmy Carter. When I got to America, I imagined I had arrived into one of the most advanced zones of knowledge in the history of humanity. In one sense, this was absolutely true: areas of the US were home to the most complex study of science in the world, the most advanced medical institutions, the most sophisticated and nuanced milieus of social sciences, arts and culture. Yet, it quickly became apparent that a frightening number of Americans across all classes were abysmally ignorant about the world, many of them steeped in archaic beliefs that would be right at home in the most backward village in India; with a shock, I realized that a huge surplus of money and comfort did not necessarily equal being educated or knowledgeable; this last I already knew from many people of my own class at home, I just did not expect to find the same disjunction in America. Twenty years later, by the time the ‘hanging chads’ ‘swung’ the election in favour of George Dubya Bush, I had no reserves of surprise left; I felt only dismay and horror. Al Gore and George W. Bush were both from elite American colleges, but by then I knew that an Ivy League education didn’t matter in US politics. Gore might be the thinking and informed man that he was, but the cloddish Bush had the larger silver spoon and his daddy’s posse of devious back room politicos. The people who had voted Reagan into power and their ideological children had now voted in another ignorant, narrow-minded puppet of wealthy manipulators, even if it was by a questionable, hair-thin margin. Till another silver-spooner took the presidential oath four years ago, I thought Bush Junior was the worst person to have as American president when 9/11 happened. After a week or two of Trump’s presidency, I found myself being grateful Trump hadn’t been in charge in 2001. The sad tragedy is that the mix of the uneducated poor and the privileged cynics weren’t the only people who brought Dubya B and Donald T to power. Even after the devastations of the last four years, 74 million Americans still voted for Trump’s continuation. Among them, for instance, was Brad Raffensperger, the secretary of state for Georgia and the administrative ‘hero’ of the Georgia elections, who, from all evidence, is neither uneducated nor ignorant. They voted for Trump despite the horrific separation of children from immigrant parents; despite Trump’s backing of neo-Nazis and murderously racist police; despite strong indications that Trump had treasonously conspired with Russians to cheat himself into the presidency. The mob that broke into the Capitol on January 6 was, arguably, a fringe of the crazed, stupid people that you find in any country, but it was also the tip of an iceberg that runs 40 million Americans deep, as in the number of Trump voters who believe — on no evidence whatsoever — that the election was stolen from them. Those people and their worldview are the throbbing legacies of Joseph McCarthy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Dubya Bush. Anyone who has studied recent American history should stay worried, very worried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Education minister’s brother and six others get life imprisonment for killing tutor||The Bermo Sub-Divisional Court on Tuesday awarded life imprisonment to seven people including Baijnath Mahto, younger brother of state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, for murdering a teacher Santosh Pandey in 2014. Pandey was thrashed by the accused before a Kangaroo Court for having eloped with one of his female student. “Additional district and session judge-1 Rajeev Ranjan awarded life imprisonment to the accused (Baijnath Mahto, Ganesh Bharti, Nemi Puri, Kailash Puri, Jitendra Puri, Neeraj Puri and Kewal Mahato) under sector 302/120B (Murder/Criminal conspiracy). The court also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of the culprits,” said Sanjay Singh, additional public prosecutor of Bermo court. Originally, in the FIR lodged by Pandey’s elder brother Anant Lal Pandey with Nawadih police station on March 20, 2014, 11 individuals including Jagarnath Mahto had been accused of the crime. However, later, Jagarnath Mahto’s name was removed by the police since ‘no evidence’ was found against him. For the same reason, names of three others accused in the case ‑ Satyendra Giri, Mehlal Puri and Suraj Puri were also dropped. The minister had undergone a lung transfer following a coronavirus infection that kept him bedridden for nearly two months. At present, he is fit and leading a normal life again. Pandey, a resident of Alargo village, was only 25-year-old when fell in love with the girl. When they decided to spend the entire life together, they eloped to Chennai only to be brought back by the girl’s relatives. Following which he was trashed by the accused before the Kangaroo Court. He was admitted to Chandrapura Hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Angry mobs protested after his death and even gheraoed Jagarnath Mahto’s residence for several hours. They even pelted stones at the girl’s residence. However, before his death, Pandey in his statement said Baidyanath and six others, barring Jagarnath Mahto, had thrashed him. The police sent the video recording for a forensic test and which was later produced before the court along with its report. The court convicted seven people in the case on January 4. Earlier, the deposition of 34 witnesses was also recorded. During the lockdown, the trial was done through video conferencing. Baidyanath was jailed at that time, while the remaining six were awarded imprisonment on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police find severed head from farm belonging to prime accused||Ranchi police have recovered a severed head from the farm of Sheikh Bilal, the man suspected to have murdered a girl whose headless body was recovered from Ormanjhi nine days ago, but are awaiting test results to confirm that it’s the victim’s. Senior SP S.K. Jha told reporters on Tuesday that they were using medical and forensic teams to confirm the connection. “We suspect the head to be of that of the deceased but unless it is clinically and scientifically proven, nothing can be said for sure,” he said. Police deployed a dog squad at Bilal’s village in Chandwe Basti under Pithoria police station area since morning. The breakthrough came in the afternoon when the head, wrapped in a jute bag stuffed with salt, was recovered. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said investigations took a turn after a woman from Chanho approached police, saying she feared the deceased was her daughter because of certain circumstantial evidence. She identified the deceased on the basis of a burn mark on her leg, the result of childhood mishap while working in the kitchen. The woman also told police that her daughter got married to her lover, identified as Khalid, who was from a neighbouring village, 10 months ago. However, the two separated two months back after she learnt that Khalid was already married to someone else. Later, she fell in love with Sheikh Bilal and started living with her. The woman’s statements led police to suspect Sheikh after which they decided to release his pictures in the media as a prime suspect. “Efforts are on to nab Bilal,” said Alam. The murder triggered an outrage in Ranchi with both ruling and Opposition camps criticising each other over growing “lawlessness” in the state. Several protests and demonstrations were held across the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||MLAs suggest rehabilitation for 1.04 lakh families||Dhanbad MLAs led by MP PN Singh on Tuesday suggested comprehensive rehabilitation for 1.04 lakh families of 595 fire-affected sites of Jharia. They have also demanded job creation, compensation and all basic amenities to be provided to these families in the proposed smart city, which will be developed on Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) land. A comprehensive meeting regarding Jharia rehabilitation was organised under the chairmanship of Dhanbad’s deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. Also, present in the meet where chairman and managing director of BCCL Gopal Singh, Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto, Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto and Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta. Elaborating on the discussion that took place, the DC said, “We are taking the opinion of public representatives, which in turn will help in policy-making for the rehabilitation.” He further assured the MLAs that the rehabilitation would be carried out by developing smart city on the BCCL lands. MP PN Singh said, “People from the underground fire-affected areas should be rehabilitated in the nearby non-coal bearing areas to avoid discomfort”. He also stressed on the need to provide employment to the rehabilitated people. “Any rehabilitation can’t be complete without ensuring the source of livelihood,” he said. On the other hand, Jharia MLA Purnima Singh has suggested the 4C formula for rehabilitation including implementation of 2004 cut-off date for settlement in fire-affected areas, timely compensation, movement from fire-affected areas in clusters and provision of all basic facilities in the countryside where people would be rehabilitated. “It is really difficult to win the confidence of the people by just promising them that they will get all the facilities before carrying out the rehabilitation work,” said Singh. Meanwhile, Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta and Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto suggested the development of smart villages along with the smart city. BCCL CMD said, “The smart city will be equipped with all the facilities”. He further added that they will solve all the difficulties of people living in underground fire-affected areas. Since the rehabilitation work started on March 25, 2010, only 4,500 families out of 1.04 lakh living in the 595 underground fire-affected areas have been rehabilitated to the newly developed quarters at Belgarhia area of Baliapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand|| National Youth Day: cycle rally, blood donation camps||Dhanbad celebrated the National Youth Day on Tuesday to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda through a host of events, including unveiling a statue of him, a blood donation camp and a cycle rally. The day began with the unveiling of a renovated statue of Swami Vivekananda by a host of dignitaries including ADM (Law and Order), Chandan Kumar; Deputy Development Officer, Dasrath Chandra Das; Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha; Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh and former mayor, Chandrashekhar Agarwal at Vivekand Chowk in Hirapur. The Vivekanada Chowk, which has been renovated, was also inaugurated by them in the presence of office bearers of Bengali Welfare Society, a social organisation that carried out the renovation work. Speaking on the occasion, Chandan Kumar said, “The youth of the nation should learn from the life and work of Swami Vivekananda, who taught us how to become a better person.” Talking to The Telegraph Online, Gopal Bhattacharya, General secretary of the Bengali Welfare Society said, “We completed the renovation of the chowk about a week ago, while the statue was renovated more than a month ago after a two-month exercise.” Meanwhile, the Dhanbad District Olympic Association organised a blood donation camp at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College, Dhanbad. A total of 46 units of blood were donated by the members of the association. General Secretary of the association, Ranjit Keshri said, “We organised the camp this year on the occasion of the youth day and will continue to hold the camp year from next year in order to encourage people to give back to the society and extend unconditional love to the society” A cycle rally was also taken out jointly by the Jharkhand Cycling Association, Youth Hostel Association of India, Dhanbad District Cycling Association and Aryan Sports from Digwadih. It passed through Ganesh Puja Maidan and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and returned to Digwadih. Founder of Digwadih Sports Club, Rahul Anand who flagged of the rally said, “Swami Vivekananda life stressed on physical fitness and sports and the youth should follow his ideals.” MK Thakur, another founder member of Digwadih Sports Club, while speaking during the flagging off of the cycle rally said, “Swami Vivekananda was an ardent advocate of masculinity and sports.” General Secretary of the association, Ranjit Keshri said, “We organised the camp this year on the occasion of the youth day and will continue to hold the camp year from next year in order to encourage people to give back to the society and extend unconditional love to the society” A cycle rally was also taken out jointly by the Jharkhand Cycling Association, Youth Hostel Association of India, Dhanbad District Cycling Association and Aryan Sports from Digwadih. It passed through Ganesh Puja Maidan and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and returned to Digwadih. Founder of Digwadih Sports Club, Rahul Anand who flagged of the rally said, “Swami Vivekananda life stressed on physical fitness and sports and the youth should follow his ideals.” MK Thakur, another founder member of Digwadih Sports Club, while speaking during the flagging off of the cycle rally said, “Swami Vivekananda was an ardent advocate of masculinity and sports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two arrested, liquor worth Rs 1.5 lakh seized in steel city||Acting on a tip-off, officials of state excise department seized Indian-made foreign liquor worth over Rs 1.5 lakh from a car at Pardih Chowk on NH-33 under Mango police station area in Jamshedpur, the police said on Tuesday morning. The police said the consignment was being smuggled to Jamshedpur from Arunachal Pradesh by two city-based youths, who have also been arrested. The accused were identified as Santosh Singh alias Bablu and Pawan Kumar Srivastava. Both are the residents of Bagbera locality. The consignment consists of 25 cartons of a particular liquor brand. Assistant commissioner, Jharkhand excise, Arun Kumar Mishra said they got information about a gang who were smuggling high-end liquor from Arunachal Pradesh. While talking to The Telegraph Online, Mishra said, “After getting the information, we have deployed a team at Pardih Chowk on the NH-33 at 1 am on Tuesday. We have even intercepted each and every vehicle that was passing through the same route. At around 2 am, we have stopped a car in which Bablu and Srivastava were travelling. During a check, we have recovered the liquor cartons.” According to the assistant commissioner, they have recovered as many as five cartons in which there were 225 liquor bottles. He informed that there is a label on each bottle which says, “To be sold in Arunachal Pradesh only”. Mishra said both the accused were sent to jail after producing them before the judicial magistrate by 10 am. The police are now interrogating the accused to get more information about their gang which is active in Arunachal Pradesh. “We will continue the interrogation to find out the actual source from where they get the consignments and those who are also purchasing them," said Mishra. Excise department sources said Singh is a liquor mafia who also owned a liquor shop. But since a couple of years, he had been running this illegal business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||400 women allege cheating by Ranchi-based trader||Around 400 women of Hazaribagh lodged a complaint against a Ranchi trader for cheating and taking Rs 12 lakhs from them. Hazaribagh SP Karthik S said an investigation has been launched in this regard. The women said Dileep Kumar Gupta, owner of Gupta Traders in Ranchi, had  promised to install a spice and papad factory in their area, Ichak, and taken Rs 2,000 from each of them. Giving details, the complainants said that Gupta had visited their area in September, attended every panchayat meeting, and claimed to install the factory in the Ichak block of Hazaribagh. He made a number of women self-help groups promising to give them work but asked all 400 members to contribute Rs. 2,000 for the purpose, for which the women had to take loans. The women accused Gupta, a resident of Bariatu in Ranchi, of not picking up the phone after he went away. Karthik assured them of justice and asked the Ichak Police to probe the case. In other news, the police busted a mini gun factory and recovered arms and ammunition at Barkagaon, while arresting two, Karthik informed. He said the police acted on the basis of a tip-off and found out the gun factory was being run in the house of Mohan Rana, in Mahugaikala village of Barkagaon block. The tipoff informed that on Monday afternoon two men carrying arms would be going Badam of Barkagaon via Phatha and Motra Ghati of Katkamdag. This prompted the SP to immediately constitute a team, which arrested the two -- Ravi Ganjhu and Ishak Ekka. The raid was conducted at rana’s house after the duo passed on the information. Rana has also been nabbed, Karthik said, adding that they had recovered two country made rifles, one live bullet, eight pipes used in rifle making among other things. The SP said they were investigating to find out if the accused had any links with extremist groups and also find out who purchased the equipment from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Winter conditions back, nights to get colder||Cloud cover in most parts of Jharkhand cleared on Tuesday, signalling the likelihood of an abrupt fall in night temperatures coupled with morning fog and mist in some pockets of the state. IMD officials said that favourable winter conditions had returned after about a week or so. "The western disturbance which resulted in clouds and unfavourable wind patterns during the past few days, have cleared. The weather will be dry with clear skies for the next few days,” " said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorlogical Centre. He said night readings would now plummet and there would be moderate to heavy fog in several districts, especially those in southern Jharkhand. He ruled out any adverse weather conditions at least in the next five days. "A clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the entire state. This will result in abrupt fall in minimum temperature by three to five degree Celsius in most places," he said adding that with the moisture getting reduced in the atmosphere north-westerly winds would continue to dominate in most parts of the state. Tuesday’s Met statistics indicated at fall in minimum readings. The temperature dropped to 12.8 degree Celsius in Ranchi and its adjoining areas. The capital had recorded a minimum of 16.3 degree Celsius on Monday. Met department forecasts at least another three degree fall in minimum readings in Ranchi in the next 48-hours. Similarly, the minimum readings dropped to 16.2 degree Celsius in Jamshedpur on Tuesday against Monday’s 18 degree Celsius.  In Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, and its adjoining districts, the minimum temperature dropped to around 14 degree Celsius against Monday's 15. Met department forecasts three degree fall in minimum readings in both the places- Jamshedpur and Daltonganj in next 48 hours. Weathermen at Ranchi warned of dense morning fog at a few isolated pockets of the state in the next two days. Fog is expected to reduce surface visibility to below 1,000 metre. The north wind, which had stopped due to the western disturbance, had resumed which would lead to colder nights. Depending on the intensity of the north-westerly wind, minimum readings could take a further plunge, hinted a weather analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||129 centres, 4 with webcasting facilities, ready for Covid shots  ||Two out of the 129 centres that have been set up in the state for administering the Covid-19 vaccine on Day One of its nationwide rollout on January 16 will have webcasting facilities for both central and state authorities to monitor. Sources in the state health department said the two centres with live screening facilities were set up following Union health ministry directives asking officials to be in a state of readiness for the Prime Minister who may wish to speak to a beneficiary. State nodal officer of the immunisation programme Dr Ajit Prasad said vaccination centres at Ranchi’s Sadar hospital and MGM hospital in Jamshedpur would have live streaming facilities. “This is for officials of the state and centre to monitor,” he said. “Vaccine shots will be administered in all the 24 districts on January 16. Health workers will be the first to get the shots,” said state director of National Health Mission (NHM), Ravi Shankar Shukla. Besides, according to Ranchi district administration sources, webcasting facilities were also being set up in four other vaccine centres in the district for better surveillance and monitoring. The Centre has authorised two vaccines – Bharat Biotec’s Covaxin and Oxford-Astra Zeneca & Serum Institute of India’s Covishield – for emergency use in India. While many states have begun receiving consignments from Tuesday, the state health department said Jharkhand was expecting stocks of Covishield on Wednesday. The vaccine, health officials said, will generate protective levels of antibodies in the body two weeks after the second dose. NHM further stated that people would have to continue taking precautionary measures against the virus even after getting the vaccine shots. The health department had earlier stated that a photo identity proof would be a must for any person to get Covid-19 vaccine shots. Voter ID cards, school certificates, MGNREGA job cards, PAN cards and passports are some of the identity proofs that can be used to register for the vaccination. Also, the person getting vaccinated has to produce his photo identity proof at the vaccination centre, failing which he/she will not be administered the vaccine shot. On Day One of the vaccine drive, approximately 12,900 people would be immunised across the state. “For January 16, 129 centres have been set up and at each centre, 100 people will be vaccinated. Slowly, the number of centre’s will be increased,” said Prasad. As for security, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said magistrates would be deployed cluster-wise across the district. “Armed guards and a magistrate will be deployed at every vaccination centre. Directives have been issued to the city police to ensure proper deployment. Above them, at every block, one magistrate will be appointed for overall supervision of five to six centres,” he said. About 1.25 lakh people—mostly frontline medical workers—have been identified for immunisation in the first phase. For the entire vaccination programme, the state government has prepared a list of 99.89 lakh people based on a priority list. In terms of logistics and manpower, 275 vaccine storage points have been set up, nine walk-in coolers, five ice-lined refrigerators, 700 deep freezers, and 5,505 cold boxes have been readied, besides training 41,979 vaccine carriers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Student’s body found floating in Patratu Dam||The body of a 20-year-old college student was found floating in Patratu Dam in ​​Ramgarh district in Tuesday, the police said. Patratu SDPO Prakash Chandra said they have identified the victim, who was a first-year student of Hazaribagh Medical College and a resident of Lohia Nagar in Godda. Chandra said the girl’s body in jeans and jacket was tied with a rope when it was found floating near Uchringa area. Her body was first spotted by local residents who immediately informed the matter to the police. DIG Hazaribagh range Amol Venukant Homkar and Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar went to the spot with a team to investigate the matter. During the inspection, the police have recovered her bag which was lying in the bushes. According to information, she was missing since Monday evening. Chandra said, “After identifying the body, we have informed the matter to her family members. We are suspecting that the student was killed somewhere else and later her body was left in the dam. We will send her body for post-mortem at Sadar hospital.” Tension prevailed in the entire area after the incident was reported. Chandra said they have recovered food items, a water bottle and a belt from her bag. He said, “We are carrying out further investigation into the matter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia Congress leader receives life threat, lodges complaint with police||Senior Congress leader and All India Congress Committee member Santosh Singh on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Jharia Police against an unidentified person, who had given him death threats on Monday at around 8 pm. Singh in his complaint letter to PK Singh, the inspector cum officer-in charge-of Jharia Police Station, demanded security in the wake of the latest threat to him as well as previous attacks he faced in 2004 and 2009. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday noon, Singh said, “I received the threat both on message and a call made from the same mobile number on Monday night and lodged the complaint accordingly.” “I had skipped the message that threatened to take my life if I continued to be in politics. However, I immediately received a call from the same number, saying the same thing,” the 51-year-old leader said. Singh said he had told the caller that he was not afraid of such threats, as he gets plenty of them. “I ask the police to take proper steps in this regard and conduct a detailed probe. In 2004, too,  bombs were hurled and people opened fire on us at Bartand in Dhanbad when I was travelling along with the former treasurer of the district unit of Congress, late Suresh Singh, in his car,” he said. The AICC member added that he had also faced an attack at the Jharia Bazar area in 2009. “I have also received a threat call from UP based gangster Munna Bajrangi in 2011 and thus asking the police to ensure security for me,” said Singh. On January 8, Kailash Pandey, the general manager of a private coal excavator, Hilltop Highrise Private Limited, working on behalf of the BCCL, had filed an FIR in Saraidhela police station against unidentified people. He said that he received a message several times on his mobile number, demanding Rs 50 lakh as one time amount and Rs 7 lakh per month as extortion, otherwise he and his family members would be killed. On January 4, a video went viral where a gun toting person, claiming to be a member of the Sujit Sinha gang, threatened Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto and some private coal excavators. Mahto had held a press conference following the incident and demanded a probe into the incident. “The extortion-demand issue has been going on since a month and police have acted on the issue. We have arrested a person in this regard about  two weeks ago,” Dhanbad SSP Assem Vikrant Minz said. “We are acting against the criminals and simultaneously also trying to increase the security of those who are receiving the threat or extortion calls,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in Jharkhand||At least 229 Covid recoveries against 144 fresh cases brought the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection below 1400 in Jharkhand on Monday, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Despite reporting the highest number of cases among all the districts in Jharkhand on Monday, Ranchi reported a fall in the count of active cases on the day. At least 71 people were found infected in Ranchi during the past 24 hours, while 124 patients recovered here, bringing the number of patients down to 678, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The NHM on Monday released weekly trends on Covid-19, which revealed that Ranchi reported 50.2 per cent of the total Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand from December 14 to January 10. Dhanbad accounted for 10 per cent of cases during this period, while East Singhbhum reported 9.9 per cent of cases, the NHM stated in its report. Bokaro reported 5.9 per cent of cases during these four weeks, while Palamu reported 4.9 per cent of cases. As per government data, as many as 1382 people were battling the viral infection across Jharkhand by the end of Monday, and close to 50 per cent of them were residents of Ranchi. At least 157 people were infected in East Singhbhum, while all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases by Monday evening. At least nine of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day, Palamu, Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad and Ranchi reported a double-digit-spike. East Singhbhum reported 15 cases against 24 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 14 cases against 19 recoveries. At least 12 people were found infected in Bokaro and 10 in Palamu in 24 hours. A Covid patient from Bokaro died during treatment on Monday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1048, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 13058 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 49.70 lakh people and tested 49.62 lakh of them. As many as 116961 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, and 97.92 per cent of them have recovered, states government data. As per government figures, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14 per cent against the national average of 0.15 per cent. It would take 503 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand and 459.86 days for the cases to double across India, the NHM stated in its bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||High minimum temperature in Ranchi||The Jharkhand capital recorded its highest minimum temperature — 17.6 degrees Celsius — on Sunday. The minimum temperature recorded in Ranchi on the intervening night of January 9 and 10, was almost eight notches or 7.9 degrees to be specific, above normal. “It was the highest minimum temperature recorded in Ranchi so far,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said the earlier highest minimum temperature recorded was 17.2 degrees Celsius on January 3, 2015, and January 8 this year. This has prompted the meteorologists to believe that the impact of climate change was being felt more in recent years. “The minimum temperature of Ranchi always remained below 10 degrees Celsius during the first week of January in 2018 and 2019. But it crossed that mark thrice in 2020 and five times in 2021,” Anand said. The rise of temperature was due to a Western Disturbance that impacted the weather coupled with negligible speed of the wind, he added. The minimum temperature of Ranchi never crossed 15 degrees Celsius in the first week of January in the two decades since 1980, while it crossed that mark 14 times during the next two decade till 2020, Anand said. “The impact of Western Disturbances was not significantly seen during the two decades since 1980 but it became more frequent and visible during the next two decades,” he further said, adding that the impact of such climate change was felt in the entire state. The minimum temperature is, however, likely to slide down from Tuesday night because the impact of the prevailing Western Disturbance would be over by then and the wind is also likely to pick up some speed, he said. The night temperature will start sliding and is expected to touch 8 degrees Celsius in Ranchi by January 15, the Met office forecast. It said the minimum temperature was expected to be the same (8 degrees Celsius) in some other districts such as Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih, Godda, Pakur, Sahibganj, Koderma, Chatra, Lohardaga, Palamau and Hazaribagh. The four other districts, however, are likely to be colder. While a minimum temperature of 7 degrees Celsius is expected in Simsega on January 15, in Jamtara, Ramgarh and Khunti, it is expected to slide down another notch to 6 degrees Celsius by then, the Met office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dead crows raise bird flu alert in Jharkhand ||Alarm bells are ringing among Jharkhand government officials after the recovery of carcasses of crows and Indian myna at Pokharia village in Shikaripara block of Dumka district, around 310 km north east of capital Ranchi. Bird flu has been confirmed in 10 states so far. As the carcasses were recovered at a field in Pokharia village at around 8am on Monday, the Dumka animal husbandry officer, Dr Awadesh Kumar Singh, immediately sent a message to the animal husbandry unit in Ranchi and following directive arranged for PPE kits and other accessories to collected tracheal and cloacal swab from the carcasses. “The samples of one crow and seven mynas have been collected and sent for test at the livestock research centre lab (at Kanke in Ranchi) and would again be sent for confirmation at the regional diseases diagnostic laboratory in Belgachia (Calcutta) and if the reports are positive for Avian influenza the samples would be sent for final confirmation at the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal to identify the strain of the virus,” said Dr Singh. The district animal husbandry officer further said that no bird deaths have been reported anywhere else in any other village or block of the district. “There are no external symptoms of death due to bird flu but we are not taking any chances and sent the samples for confirmatory tests. No death of any avian species has been reported anywhere else in the district. Even in the Pokharia village no deaths have been reported anywhere else. We assume that it might be due to some local development. But everything would be clear after the lab report,” said Dr Singh. Meanwhile, acting on the directive of the Dumka deputy commissioner B. Rajeshwari, poultry products coming from other districts and neighbouring Bengal are being strictly monitored. “We are regularly holding meeting with wholesale poultry suppliers to inform immediately about any symptoms of bird flu from poultry products brought from other district or other states like Bengal so that sample can be arranged to be sent for test,” added Dr Singh. The samples from four crows found near Jubilee Park in Jamshedpur is yet to arrive with the animal husbandry department. “It takes nearly a fortnight for reports to come from the laboratory and we are yet to get any reports so far about the samples from crow carcasses. No other death of bird species has been reported from anywhere else in the district or even in neighbouring districts,” said Jamshedpur animal husbandry officer Dr Rajesh Kumar Singh. The state animal husbandry unit director Nancy Sahay said that they are prepared to handle any situation. “So far there have not been any deaths of birds in any of our neighbouring states but we are taking all precautions as safety measures. We are prepared to handle any situation and have stock of animal vaccines in our stores. “All the standard operation procedures have been communicated to the district animal husbandry officers across all the districts. We have appointed a nodal officer for bird flu and a contact number to address any such issues 24x7,” said Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
12-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police release pictures of Ormanjhi case prime suspect||A week after recovering the headless body of a young girl from Ormanjhi, Ranchi police got a breakthrough in this blind case. On Monday, it released four different pictures of one Sheikh Bilal, seeking information about his whereabouts, after announcing him as the prime accused in the case. The lead came after a lady from Chatwal village, which falls under Chanho police station in Ranchi, contacted the police, suspecting that the recovered body was that of her daughter. On Monday morning, the police have initiated a DNA test for the headless body, following which they released a communiqué bearing Bilal’s pictures. The accused is a resident of Chandwe basti, which falls under Pithoria police station of Ranchi. The communiqué read, “Sheikh Bilal is wanted in connection with the murder of a girl, whose headless body was found in a naked condition in Ormanjhi. He is currently absconding. Anyone giving information about his whereabouts will be rewarded. His identity will be kept confidential. On the other hand, if anyone tries to help him, he/she will be tried under relevant sections of IPC.” Sources in Ranchi police said that the lady who claimed that the deceased is her daughter had identified her on the basis of a burn mark (on one of her legs), which the deceased suffered during her childhood while working in the kitchen. The lady also told police that her daughter had married her lover, from the neighbouring village 10 months back. However, the two went their separate ways two months back after her daughter learned that he was already married. After returning to her maternal house, her daughter fell in love with Sheikh Bilal. However, she was living with her. “We are waiting for the DNA report, but considering the circumstantial evidence provided by the deceased’s mother, we are of the view that the deceased is her daughter. Once we catch hold of Bilal, anything further can be said,” remarked a senior cop, unwilling to be identified. Notably, the murder incident triggered massive outrage in Ranchi.  The ruling and the opposition camps fired salvos at each other over the growing ‘lawlessness’ in the state. Many protests and demonstrations were staged across the district since then by different social groups and also BJP. One such protest organized at Kishoreganj chowk last Monday turned violent after agitators attacked chief minister Hemant Soren’s pilot car, thereby raising a question mark over police’s intelligence gathering mechanism. While the ruling JMM and Congress accused BJP of orchestrating attacks on CM, the saffron camp blamed the state government for trying to silence dissent. On Sunday, BJP also demanded a CBI probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-176
