13-01-2021||Calcutta||Massive fire at Calcutta’s Baghbazar area||A massive fire broke out at a slum in Calcutta’s Bagbazar area on Wednesday evening, said the police. At least twenty five fire tenders were pressed into service to bring down the fire that engulfed several houses in the slum on Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue beside the Bagbazar Women's College near Chitpore Lock Gate Bridge. According to officials blasts were heard in the slum, which the police suspect to be of gas cylinders that burst in houses that caught fire, officials said. There were no reports of any casualty yet, they maintained. “The reason for the fire is not known. The firemen are fighting it tooth and nail and hopefully, it will soon be under control,” a senior officer of the Calcutta Police said. “The blaze also spread to the adjacent Sarada Mayer Bari as the firefighters escorted the saints out,” an officer of the fire department said. “The reason for the fire is not yet known. The firemen are fighting it tooth and nail and hopefully, it will soon be under control. We have emptied the entire area. There were several blasts, which could be because of the gas cylinders,” a senior police officer said. Locals alleged that firefighters reached the spot at least an hour late, because of which the fire went out of control. A couple of police vehicles were vandalised, following which a team of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) was deployed to control the irate mob. The fire during the evening rush hours led to a massive traffic snarl in the area, informed the officials. “Traffic movement on the Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue as well as the Chitpore Lock Gate Bridge, the lifeline of the people living in the northern fringes of the city, was totally stopped,”he said. “We have also snapped electricity supply in the entire area. There are at least 40 families whose houses have been gutted in the fire. A godown of books has also gutted,” the police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid museum on cards in Calcutta to commemorate pandemic fight||Doctors in Calcutta have decided to set up a museum to commemorate the frontline workers who died in the battle against coronavirus. They are planning t document how lives changed amid the pandemic and how the healthcare industry came to the rescue of the common man. “The museum will be showcasing items like PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers, besides several other materials that became essential in the fight against the lethal virus,” West Bengal Doctors’Forum (WBDF) office-bearer Dr Rajiv Pandey said on Wednesday. “A proposal has been sent to the state government and a final nod is awaited,” he added. “This pandemic has come after more than 100 years, even our grandparents have never seen something that we are witnessing,” he told PTI. According to him, West Bengal alone lost 90 doctors to the pandemic. He said, “We have already lost around 90 doctors in our state to the pandemic. Like so many other things, this time and these people will be forgotten. Future generations should not be allowed to forget the sacrifices made by the doctors. That’s the reason we have planned this museum,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Tintin set to step into your phones in February||The adventures of the world’s most-loved scribe can be read in Bengali on mobile phones from next month. Moulinsart, the exclusive owner of worldwide digital rights of Herge’s works, and Ananda Publishers have come together to launch all 24 albums in The Adventures of Tintin series as Bengali e-books. They will be available across Android and iOS  devices. “During year 2021, Moulinsart will make available each book from the series in Bengali on The Adventures of Tintin app. Meanwhile, Ananda Publishers Pvt Ltd will make 23 eBooks on the Ananda Publishers App by 28th February 2021 and the Bengali translation of Tintin et l’Alph-Art (Tintin and Alph-Art) will be published in Bengali by the end of this year,” said a joint statement from the collaborators. Translated into more than 120 languages across the world, Tintin has enjoyed immense popularity among readers young and old. With over 250 million copies sold, the stories of the young investigative reporter and his various adventures have been adapted for radio, TV, theatre and film. Ananda Publishers has been publishing the series in Bengali since 1975. The first translations of Tintin appeared in Anandamela, a children’s magazine of the ABP group. Over the next few decades, 23 Tintin albums were serialised in Anandamela. They were then published as individual books by Ananda Publishers. “Herge had been personally involved in the rights process for Tintin to be published in Bengali and was in close contact with ABP Group throughout his lifetime. It is said that a large chunk of his fan mails at that time consisted of adoring missives from young Bengali readers,” the statement said. The stories will be available to read on a phone or a tablet by downloading the Ananda Publishers app and The Adventures of Tintin app from iOS App Store or Google Play Store.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Swamiji did not exhort us to arise, awake and stop not blaring music till eardrums of those in distress burst||The message of Swami Vivekananda is more relevant now than ever before. On Swamiji’s 158th birth anniversary on Tuesday, what used to be a solemn celebration was transformed into a show of competitive political power in many places in the city. At least 100 rallies were brought out in the city, according to police sources. Many of these eventually turned into a political slugfest. Not all tributes were reduced to vote-catching affairs. Three instances of how the annual milestone can be celebrated in an inspiring manner are featured on Page 8. Metro shares one account on how a  Ballygunge home suffered on Tuesday. I was woken up on Tuesday morning by two assaulting streams of sound converging in my mother’s room, where I had taken shelter the previous night as I had feared something like this. I had expected the noise to hit only my room, though. But now it was everywhere. Swami Vivekananda, on his birth anniversary, was being paid tributes to on two different spots in my para in Ballygunge Place. My 74-year-old mother is in very poor health. She suffered a cerebral stroke 11 years ago and did not recover. Now she is really ill. She shuddered while two mighty songs were delivered simultaneously and deafeningly into her ears: the Rabindrasangeet ‘Ami tomaro songe bendhechhi amaro pran’ from one direction and the folk song ‘Boli o nonodi’ from another. My brain felt damaged. In another room my niece was trying to study. She is visiting from Mumbai where Vivekananda is yet to be as popular as he is here. She had an online exam at noon. It was impossible to make even a phone call. At first, I thought that the events were being organised by the Trinamul Congress and the BJP: both parties have claimed Vivekananda for themselves. I found out that both events were being organised by the Trinamul. Actually one event, meeting diagonally through sound waves in our house. A stage had been set up next to the Vivekananda statue in front of our house. A street had been blocked. Rows of green plastic chairs faced the dais. A crowd had accumulated. Was the virus gone? Noise and power — and if I may add, the virus — transmit in the same ways, invisibly, inexorably. But noise is power, espec-ially when it’s being delivered by the authorities. Both demand unquestioning submission. I had felt a similar helplessness when my mother fell severely ill one month ago and I was frantically looking for an oxygen cylinder. The neighbourhood did not yield a single one. She was eventually hospitalised. I tried my bit to block the present noise. I messaged the councillor. I went out and spoke to other organisers. They listened to me and turned the volume down. The other loudspeaker had been muted by then. Two of the organisers came over to my house, apologised for the inconvenience caused, and promised that this would not happen again. But they also informed us that there would be a “cultural programme” of baul gaan in the evening, and on the same stage, right in front of my house, and would we kindly bear with it? The loudspeaker was also turned away from our house. In the afternoon, police sources had said sound limiters had not been used and the permission for the event had been obtained verbally. Late afternoon, however, the muted loudspeaker on the other side of the house began to sputter again, now in the form of eardrum-shattering Shyamasangeet. It went on for an hour almost. Meanwhile, the state pollution control board had been informed, and I was told that it had taken action. The cultural event started, not at 6pm, as informed earlier, but at 7.30. At that time, the decibel level in a room in my house, which had one door open but windows closed, measured 80.4 decibels.  The reading on the balcony was 90.6 decibels. The legally permitted limit of ambient noise in a residential area in India is 55 decibels. And with every increase of three decibels, sound intensity doubles. Which is why sound hurts so much. Vivekananda had borrowed the famous words from Katha Upanishada to ask us to arise, awake and not rest till our goals were achieved. Did he also say that loudspeakers should be used in his name to pulp our brains? I went up to his statue to ask. His gaze was averted. Additional reporting by Jayanta Basu and Debraj Mitra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta|| Part of Sealdah flyover to be closed ||A portion of the Sealdah flyover, between its crossings with MG Road and Beleghata Road, will be closed to traffic from Friday night till Tuesday morning to facilitate the construction of the Bowbazar-bound tunnel of East-West Metro, police said. The tunnel-boring work for the Metro corridor — which, once fully functional, will link Sector V in Salt Lake with Howrah Maidan — had resumed in June after remaining suspended for over three months because of Covid-19. “The part of the Sealdah flyover between the two crossings will be blocked from 11pm on January 15 till 6am on January 19,” an officer said. “Tram services will remain suspended on APC Road, MG Road, College Street, Bidhan Sarani, Nirmal Chunder Street, Lenin Sarani and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road during the period.” While Sealdah station-bound vehicles from Entally will face no restriction, those from Shyambazar in the north along APC Road will be diverted from the Rajabazar intersection to Narkeldanga Main Road. The vehicles will reach the Phoolbagan crossing through Narkeldanga Main Road and move down RL Mitra Road and Beleghata Main Road before reaching Sealdah. “A detailed diversion plan has been prepared and all bus and minibus operators are being informed through a series of meetings with their respective unions,” said an officer of Calcutta police. According to the blueprint, buses and minibuses of at least six routes plying along AJC Bose Road and headed for north Calcutta will be terminated at a stand on AJC Bose Road, near the NRS Medical College and Hospital. Buses and minibuses headed for Sealdah, Beleghata, Phoolbagan and other parts and moving along MG Road will be diverted via APC Road and Narkeldanga Main Road. These vehicles will have to return along Narkeldanga Main Road, APC Road and MG Road. Cars and other small vehicles moving towards Shyambazar along AJC Bose Road will be diverted from the Moulali crossing towards SN Banerjee Road. They will ply down Central Avenue, Colootola Street or Vivekananda Road. Some smaller vehicles bound for Sealdah from the Exide crossing and headed towards Rajabazar via Sealdah will ply through Central Avenue. Buses and minibuses moving along APC Road with their terminating points further south of Moulali will be diverted from the Maniktala crossing via Vivekananda Road, Amherst Street, BB Ganguly Street and Lenin Sarani. A part of the Sealdah flyover was earlier closed to traffic for three days from October 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Cool Siliguri is city’s envy but all flights hit||All 42 flights were cancelled at the Bagdogra airport on Tuesday because of dense fog at Siliguri and its surrounding areas on Tuesday. Residents of Siliguri experienced the season’s first chill as the mercury dipped to around 15 degrees Celsius during the daytime and the city remained under a dense fog cover throughout the day. Hundreds of passengers got stranded at the Bagdogra airport and many could not reach the airport because of the fog. “All flights scheduled to land at the Bagdogra airport today were cancelled because of bad weather and poor visibility. It was almost a zero visibility situation,” said Subramani P, the airport director. Like the situation in south Bengal, the chill feel had been missing for the past few days in Siliguri and neighbouring areas. The days were in fact warmer as the temperature hovered above 22 degrees and even the night temperatures didn’t fall according to January levels. “However, from yesterday (Monday) evening, there has been a major change in the weather and today, the day temperature dipped,” said a Met department official. Since Monday night, fog had started engulfing the city. In the morning, the city was covered in dense fog that lingered throughout the day. Some places received intermittent rain and there was snowfall in the upper reaches of Sikkim. “It was a contrasting experience. A few days ago I was in Calcutta, where I didn’t feel much cold. I had occasionally switched on the fan as it was quite warm. But when I reached New Jalpaiguri station this morning, it was pretty cold. There was also dense fog,” said Tarun Dutta, a salesperson based in Siliguri. Weather experts said similar weather conditions would prevail in the next two-three days. Darjeeling’s minimum temperature in the past 24 hours was five degrees, while it was 8.2 degrees in Gangtok and 12.8 degrees in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Vivekananda’s words echo across campuses||At NIT Durgapur, the institute’s director reminded students that Swami Vivekananda stood for humanism that “regards faith not as an amalgam of illogical beliefs but as an inherent quality of the soul; a reaffirmation of the concept of the unity of existence”. At Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, the vice-principal told the students: “It is immaterial that a person comes from which background, which family, which caste, creed or belonging to which religion. The essence is, by nature man is the son of immortal bliss and that is how Vivekananda defined religion.” Vivekananda’s vision against illogical faith and religious dogma formed a key ingredient in the message to the students on the two campuses, separated by about 170km. The NIT held its 16th convocation on Monday and director Anupam Basu in his address invoked Swami Vivekananda on his birth anniversary. Basu said in his virtual address: “Swami Vivekananda cleaned religion of superstitions and put forth humanism at the frontal pedestal…. Swami Vivekananda’s humanism has a spiritual praxis. It regards faith not as an amalgam of illogical beliefs but as an inherent quality of the soul.” The director, deans and members of the institute’s board of governors were seated on the dais inside an auditorium on the campus and the speech was live-streamed. At Vidyamandira, vice-principal Swami Mahaprajnananda stressed the need to realise how Swami Vivekananda defined religion. “What is religion? According to Swami Vivekananda, religion is the manifestation of the divinity already in man. We are becoming oblivious to this. What are we saying? We are saying this is my identity: I am a son of him or her, I have come from this background, I belong to this caste, creed or religion. But we have forgotten that man is the son of immortal bliss.” He said: “It is immaterial….To be good and to do good, that is whole of religion. The heart of this monk would weep for everybody. Swami Vivekananda was that monk who could say that he did not believe in a god... who could not ensure food for the hungry.” At NIT Durgapur, 663 people received their undergraduate degrees, 311 postgraduate degrees and 128 doctorate degrees in an animated mode. Director Basu said: “This day is also the day of martyrdom in 1934 of Mastarda Surya Sen of Chittagong Armory Raid fame…. As his pallbearer from posterity, especially the young graduates must vow to make India to be really free from hunger, corruption, exploitation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine doses fewer than required: Officials||The Covid-19 vaccination is set to start across Bengal at 9am on Saturday but senior government officials said the number of Covishield doses the state received on Tuesday was far fewer compared with the number of health-care workers. The state has registered the names of a little over 6 lakh health-care workers for vaccination and needs 12 lakh doses. On Tuesday, Bengal received 6.89 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, health department officials said. There was no clarity on when the remaining doses will arrive. “We will be able to vaccinate about 3 lakh health-care workers with the doses we have received. We have registered about 6 lakh health-care workers for the vaccination. Usually, about 10 per cent of the doses of any vaccine go to waste. Since this is a two-dose vaccine, only about 3 lakh people can be inoculated by the 6.89 lakh doses,” an official said. The first consignment that reached Calcutta from the Serum Institute of India in Pune, which is manufacturing Covishield, contained nearly 10 lakh doses. Of that, around 3 lakh are for the northeastern states. The official said the state government would talk to the Centre about the remaining doses. The health workers who will get the jab on the first day will get a text message by Friday. The message will mention the venue and the date of vaccination and when they have to reach the site. “The beneficiaries will be selected randomly. They will receive a text message once they are selected,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. “The vaccination will begin at 9am and is likely to continue till 4pm.” Health department sources said two text messages will be sent simultaneously, one to the potential recipient and the other to the in-charge of the site where he or she will get the jab. While the message for the beneficiary will mention the time, date and venue, the one for the in-charge will have the name and other details of the recipient. In Bengal, 353 venues have been identified for vaccination but all may not be in use on Day 1. The health department had till Tuesday fixed eight venues in Calcutta - Calcutta Medical College, Calcutta National Medical College, RG Kar Medical College, NRS Medical College, SSKM Hospital, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan, Beleghata ID Hospital and BC Roy Children Hospital. An official in the health department said they were trying to increase the number of venues. Each venue will have multiple vaccination sites. Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent of Calcutta Medical College, said they were prepared to run five sites. According to the Centre’s guidelines, 100 people will be vaccinated at each site every day. No one whose name is not registered on Co-Win, a digital platform created for the Covid-19 vaccination, will get a jab. The recipients have to show their identity documents at the gate. In the first room, their credentials will be checked once more. From there they will enter the vaccination room one at a time. After the vaccine is administered, a recipient has to wait in the third room for 30 minutes. The vaccination team will check whether the recipients are having any adverse effect during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine distribution from today in Calcutta||A consignment of nearly 10 lakh doses of Covishield, a Covid-19 vaccine, reached Calcutta on Tuesday afternoon on a Spicejet flight, with 6.89 lakh doses earmarked for Bengal. The rest will be sent to the northeastern states. The doses arrived in 83 special boxes from the Serum Institute of India in Pune, which is manufacturing the vaccine. The doses meant to be distributed across Bengal have been stored in 57 boxes, kept in two walk-in coolers, at the Central Family Welfare Store in Bagbazar. Over 900 cold chain points have been readied across Bengal for storing the doses. In Calcutta, the cold chain points at five government-run medical colleges, Beleghata ID Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge will be used for the purpose, officials said. The bulk of the doses for Calcutta will reach the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s (CMC) vaccine depot on Ballygunge Circular Road by Wednesday afternoon. From there they will be moved to other cold chain points. The health department installed two ice-lined refrigerators at the Ballygunge depot on Sunday afternoon for storing Covid vaccines. They have already been switched on. “The refrigerators have to run for at least 48 hours before vaccines can be kept in them,” a CMC official said. From the Ballygunge depot, vials containing the doses will be distributed to the boroughs in Calcutta and from there to the vaccination venues. “Each of the 16 boroughs of Calcutta has a cold chain point. Doses will be stored there as well,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC in charge of health. The health department started transporting vials to some of the neighbouring districts, including North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah, late on Tuesday, within hours of the arrival of the doses at the Bagbazar store. Senior officials of the department tracked the movement of the vials and supervised other logistics from Swasthya Bhavan. “A task force headed by the chief secretary, and including the health secretary and other senior officials, has been set up to coordinate with the district-level task forces over distribution of Covishield doses,” a health department official said. “The supply chain that is utilised for transporting other vaccines, including polio and tuberculosis vaccines, is being used for the Covid-19 vaccine.” Over 40 insulated trucks, which can maintain temperature at required levels, have been readied to transport doses from Calcutta to the various district headquarters and farther away to rural hospitals. To streamline distribution logistics, the districts far away from Calcutta have been split into three zones — North Bengal, Malda and Murshidabad, and Bankura and Purulia. The entire process of distributing the doses will be wrapped up in two days, senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said. The health department will start inoculation in over 350 centres on January 16, the day the Covid vaccine will be rolled out across the country. Senior officials said chief minister Mamata Banerjee could speak to some of recipients on the first day. “Separate sessions are being planned so that the first round of inoculation of health care-workers is over at the earliest,” a senior official at Swasthya Bhavan said. Arrangements for alternative vaccine carriers have been made so that transportation is not hampered if a vehicle develops a snag. Police officers from across the districts have been informed about the movement of doses from Calcutta and asked to prevent any delay on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||BSF team rescues rare birds in Bengal||Three helmeted currasows, an endangered species of birds found in Columbia and Venezuela, and over a dozen pigeons of various varieties were rescued by a BSF team while they were being allegedly smuggled into the city from Bangladesh on Tuesday. According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Threatened Species, the helmeted curassow population is on the decline because of habitat loss and hunting. It is estimated that less than 3,000 mature individuals can be found. The BSF had information that the birds would be smuggled from Bangladesh near the Dobila border outpost near Swarupnagar in North 24-Parganas. The team on duty spotted a man with a basket on his head, a BSF officer said. Asked to stop, he dropped the basket and fled. The team found the birds crammed inside the basket. The birds were later identified by forest department officers. They will be sent to the Alipore zoo soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Swamiji’s teachings highly relevant today: Fr Savio||The values of indiscrimination and universal brotherhood, propagated by Swami Vivekananda, are highly relevant in the present society, the principal of St Xavier’s College said on the 158th birth anniversary of the monk. “The values and doctrines propagated by Swamiji like honest practices, persistence and focus on goals, self-belief, indiscrimination, facing problem with courage, introspection and reflection, pure and positive thinking, risk taking and learning from failure, among others, are highly relevant in the present society,” Father Dominic Savio said. Father Savio and Father Jeyaraj Veluswami, the rector of the Park Street institution, paid floral tributes to Swami Vivekananda on Tuesday. “His teaching of universal brotherhood, love for mankind and empowerment of youth in nation building should be followed in letter and spirit,” said Father Savio. The principal also recollected the monk’s adoration for Jesus Christ and the bond between the Jesuit Order and the Ramakrishna Mission. He spoke about the formative monks of Ramakrishna Mission and direct disciples of Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa who were students of St Xavier's College, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Stalker on Calcutta Metro arrested||A 26-year-old woman who said a man had been stalking her and touching her inappropriately on Metro trains over the past two months got her alleged harasser arrested on Monday. The woman raised the alarm when the man, later identified as Amit Das, was allegedly trying to molest her while boarding a train at Kavi Nazrul station. She boards a Metro train daily at Kavi Nazrul on her way to office and gets off at Esplanade, Police said she told them that she had been noticing a man follow her in Metro over the past two months. “She alleged the man would intentionally stand next to her, especially when the train is crowded, and would try to touch her inappropriately. She said she had been noticing that the man would follow her into the compartment every day. Today she caught him red-handed when he tried to molest her while she was boarding the train,” said an officer of Patuli police station. The woman screamed when Das allegedly touched her inappropriately while she was boarding the train around 12.45pm, the police said. Instead of boarding, the woman pushed the man on the platform and got off the train herself before screaming for help. The Metro Railway Police rushed to her help and took custody of the man. He was handed over to Patuli police station. The woman accompanied the police to the police station and filed a complaint, based on which Das was arrested and a case under IPC sections related to stalking and outrage of modesty registered against him. Das, a resident of Sonarpur, will be produced in court on Tuesday. If convicted, he can be jailed for five years. Senior police officers lauded the woman for the courage she had shown in getting her alleged tormentor arrested and urged victims of similar circumstances to follow her example, instead of fearing social stigma. “Most such cases of sexual harassment go unreported because the victims are scared of the stigma or they do not want to get involved in a legal tangle by approaching the police. It is a welcome change that women are more confident these days and are coming out to report the cases to the police,” said a senior police officer of the south suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Calcutta||Shield yourself from bird flu: Advice to poultry handlers||The health department has instructed poultry farm workers and others who handle birds and animals to wear protective gowns, gloves and goggles to protect themselves from the avian influenza (HSN1) virus. There have been reports of outbreak of the disease in some states but so far the virus has not been detected in Bengal or the adjoining states - Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha. The Union health ministry has said the disease is zoonotic, which means it can spread between animals and people, but infection in humans has not yet been reported in India. Experts have said the virus doesn't spread from cooked or boiled poultry products. The health ministry has also advised states to tackle rumors that may influence poultry product consumers. In a two-page advisory to the chief medical health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and his counterparts in 23 districts of Bengal, the deputy director of health services (public health) has said those working in poultry farms and handling animals and birds should wear gowns, gloves, goggles and shoes. At the end of the day's work, the protective gear should be discarded or sanitised. No one should eat or smoke while working in poultry farms or handling animals and birds. “The idea is to spread awareness, stop rumors and prepare our officials to tackle a situation,” said an official at Swasthya Bhavan, the health department headquarters. “The municipal health officer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has been requested to step up surveillance in all 144 wards. The deputy CMOHs have been instructed to circulate the guideline among community-level workers, including health assistants and Asha workers.” Monday’s advisory refers to the recent death of migratory and other birds in Himachal Pradesh and an order issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change to states and Union Territories to take “steps for containing the spread of the disease”. Bengal is the third meat producing state in India after Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. Bengal produces around 2.5 crore kg of chicken every week and consumes around 2 crore kg. The rest is exported to neighbouring states. Around 5 lakh farmers are directly involved in the poultry business and another 10 lakh are involved indirectly, according to officials of the West Bengal Poultry Federation. “There have been no reports of bird flu in Bengal or its adjoining states as of now. So don’t get alarmed,” said Madan Mohan Maity, the general secretary of the federation. “We urge people to eat more chicken and eggs because that is the cheapest way to build protein.” The advisory spells out that avian bird flu doesn't spread from cooked food and asks officials to keep all those who have been exposed to dead or sick birds under surveillance and provide them antiviral medicines for 10 days. “We have been asked to get in touch with public health officials and their counterparts in the animal resources development (ARD) department immediately if there are reports of unusual symptoms or death of common birds, wild birds and those in poultries," said an official of Birbhum district, which had witnessed over 61,000 poultry deaths during the last outbreak of bird flu in India in 2008. The advisory also instructs health officials to find ways to minimise bird-human interface and use masks, goggles and gloves while handling sick and dead birds. Officials in the district have been asked to keep adequate stock of masks, personal protective equipment, swab sticks and antiviral medicines as a preventive measure. Health workers have been instructed to spread awareness among farmers so they remain alert to certain symptoms among birds such as vigorous shaking and drooping heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-175
13-01-2021||Business||Sensex ends marginally lower after choppy trade||Retreating from its record peak, equity benchmark Sensex ended 25 points lower after a volatile session on Wednesday as investors booked profits amid mixed cues from global markets. After gyrating over 721 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 24.79 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 49,492.32. It scaled a record intra-day peak of 49,795.19. The broader NSE Nifty inched up 1.40 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,564.85. The index touched a lifetime high of 14,653.35 during the day. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, ITC, NTPC, Bharti Airtel and ONGC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, Bajaj Finserv, Titan, Sun Pharma and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities were volatile and gave-up early gains as profit booking was visible in a large number of stocks. "While contraction in November 2020 IIP data indicates more measures by FM in the budget to stimulate economic activities, better than anticipated softening in CPI data for December 2020 negates the looming concerns over low-interest rate scenarios. "We continue to believe that that a sharp rebound in high-frequency key economic data for December 2020 indicates demand revival, which bodes well for the markets. Further, 3Q FY21 corporate earnings are progressing well and are expected to sustain growth, which along with the weak dollar and soft monetary policy of global bankers should continue to attract FPIs into domestic equities," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with losses, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.28 per cent higher at USD 56.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points to new high||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points to scale a fresh intra-day peak in early trade on Wednesday, led by gains in ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel and Reliance Industries amid sustained foreign fund inflow. After touching a life-time high of 49,776.29 in early session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 201.65 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 49,718.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 70.55 points or 0.48 per cent to 14,634 in opening deals. Bharti Airtel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, SBI, ICICI Bank, M&M, NTPC, L&T and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Titan, Kotak Bank, Dr Reddy's, TCS and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex ended 247.79 points or 0.50 per cent higher at 49,517.11, and Nifty advanced 78.70 points or 0.54 per cent to a fresh closing peak of 14,563.45. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 571.47 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look firm and resilient. The contraction in IIP data indicates more measures by the Finance Minister in the Budget to stimulate economic activities. Similarly, better than anticipated softening in CPI data for December 2020 negates the looming concerns over low interest rate scenarios, he stated. "We still believe that a sharp rebound in high-frequency key economic data for December 2020 indicates demand revival, which bodes well for the markets. Further, 3QFY21 corporate earnings are progressing well and are expected to sustain growth, which along with the weak dollar and soft monetary policy of global bankers should continue to attract FPIs into domestic equities," he added. US equities ended slightly higher as investors remained hopeful about a large fiscal stimulus to be announced from the Biden administration. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive territory. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.41 per cent higher at USD 57.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor ends lockout ||Toyota Kirloskar Motor has withdrawn the lockout at its plants at Bidadi after the law and order situation improved at the plants. The management had been forced to announce a second lock-out on November 23, 2020  as TKM Workers’ Union members continued with their strike. However, the company had resumed production with about 1,200 team members who had expressed their intention to work. After a recent meeting held between Ashwathnarayan, the deputy chief minister of the Karnataka, and the TKM management, the company decided to withdraw the lock-out. Both the plants have commenced production in two shifts from Tuesday. Employees returning to work are being made to sign an undertaking of good conduct. The suspension pending enquiry of 66 unionised employees for serious misconduct will continue and enquiries will be conducted, said a TKM spokesperson. The company had first declared a lockout on November 10 after workers protested the suspension of an office bearer of the union. The Competition Commission of India (CCI) is understood to have received a report from its investigation wing on complaints  made against Maruti Suzuki. The report said that Maruti Suzuki discouraged competition between dealers and it also sent decoy customers to see whether a dealer gave extra discount to customers. Tesla has registered its Indian arm amid indications that the company is set to enter the country's automobile market. The firm has registered Tesla India Motors and Energy Pvt Ltd with RoC Bangalore. The company has been registered as an unlisted private entity with a paid up capital of Rs 1 lakh. Vaibhav Taneja, Venkatrangam Sreeram and David Jon Feinstein have been appointed as directors of Tesla India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Short-term bond yields jump||The sudden announcement by the Reserve Bank of India of a variable rate, term reverse repo auction to restore normal liquidity management operations has taken markets by surprise even as it has led to the shorter-tenor yields rising since Monday. Last Friday, the central bank had announced the normality of operations: as part of the process, it will hold a variable reverse repo auction on January 15 for Rs 2 lakh crore. Analysts and market participants were taken by surprise on the RBI’s move, especially as the apex bank did not express any concern about liquidity in the last monetary policy meet on December 4. On Monday, shorter term bond yields — they are inversely related to prices —  rose 10-15 basis points and their gains continued on Tuesday. There was also some impact on longer tenor security with yields on the benchmark 10-year bond rising around three basis points to 5.91 per cent. According to Anurag Mittal, senior fund manager, fixed income, IDFC AMC, in recent months, as system liquidity — banking system liquidity plus government cash balance — increased to over Rs 8 lakh because of RBI’s sterilisation of foreign exchange inflows, it led to considerable collapse in overnight rates. This caused concern amongst market participants and economic commentators including MPC members regarding policy efficacy and many market participants expected RBI to act in its December policy to correct this polarity. However, the central bank said that the fall in overnight rates was primarily due to “asymmetrical distribution” of liquidity. However, Madhavi Arora of Emkay feels the RBI action of gradually reverting to pre-Covid tools of liquidity management is unlikely to immediately alter the quantum of excess system liquidity. “The markets have been taken by surprise by the RBI’s statement on restoring normalcy on liquidity management.. Even as the shorter-tenor yields have shot up by around 10-15 basis points, we believe some of the knee-jerk reaction will reverse in the coming days,” Arora said. This is because the current policy aim is to only smoothen the distribution of liquidity (and not change its quantum) across the skewed yield curve. The liquidity stance is unlikely to diverge from the accommodative policy stance in the near term, especially as current liquidity deluge is not necessarily feeding into present inflation dynamics’’, Arora added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp clears air on privacy||WhatsApp on Tuesday said its latest policy update does not affect the privacy of messages as the Facebook-owned company sought to address concerns around the security of user data on the platform. In a blogpost, WhatsApp emphasised that it does not share users’ contact lists or data of groups with Facebook for advertising purposes, and that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can read messages or hear calls between users on WhatsApp. “We want to be clear that the policy update does not affect the privacy of your messages with friends or family in any way. Instead, this update includes changes related to messaging a business on WhatsApp, which is optional, and provides further transparency about how we collect and use data,” WhatsApp said. Last week, WhatsApp had informed users of an update in its terms of service and privacy policy. It also stated that users will have to agree to the new terms and policy by February 8, 2021 to continue using WhatsApp's service. This kickstarted a spate of conversations and memes on the internet over WhatsApp's alleged sharing of user information with Facebook, and many users have started shifting to rival platforms like Telegram and Signal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Index of industrial production contracts 1.9%||India’s industrial production entered the negative zone after two months with a year-on-year contraction of 1.9 per cent in November because of poor showing by the manufacturing and mining sectors, official data showed on Tuesday. Manufacturing — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — recorded a contraction of 1.7 per cent in November 2020, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output too witnessed a decline, shrinking 7.3 per cent. However, power generation grew 3.5 per cent in the month under review. The country’s industrial output had grown  2.1 per cent in November 2019 and 4.2 per cent (revised) in October 2020, the government data showed. Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the Covid-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. Among use-based industries, capital goods, which is an indicator for investment demand in the economy, slipped back into contraction of 7.1 per cent in November after registering a growth in October for the first time in 22 months. Both consumer durables and consumer non-durables also contracted 0.7 per cent each in November, signalling weakening demand. IIP for the April-November period has contracted 15.5 per cent, according to the data. It had registered a flat growth of 0.3 per cent during the same period last fiscal. Consumer durables output fell by 0.7 per cent compared with 1.4 per cent contraction in November 2019. Consumer non-durable goods production fell 0.7 per cent, compared with a growth of 1.1 per cent a year ago. “The YoY (year-on-year) decline in industrial output seen in November 2020 is expected to be fleeting, with many lead indicators such as electricity demand, exports, ports cargo traffic and GST e-way bill generation portending a solid rebound in activity in December 2020,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said. “The November data once again shows that the uptick witnessed in the month of September and October was due to a combination of festive and pent demand and the recovery is still shallow and fragile,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings & Research said. Among use-based industries, capital goods, which is an indicator for investment demand in the economy, slipped back into contraction of 7.1 per cent in November after registering growth in October for the first time in 22 months. Both consumer durables and consumer non-durables also contracted 0.7 each in November, signalling weakening demand. IIP for the April-November period has contracted 15.5 per cent, according to the data. It had registered a flat growth of 0.3 per cent during the same period last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Standard deduction hike on agenda||The government is considering a number of relief options to the salaried class in the budget, including raising the standard deduction by Rs 10,000-20,000 from the current level of Rs 50,000 and offering tax sops on the medical reimbursement provided by companies during Covid-19. The stimulus packages since the pandemic have little for the salaried despite them suffering from salary cuts, job losses and excess medical expenses while making adjustments for work from home. Several suggestions have been made to ease the burden of taxpayers and a few of these could find their way into finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget on February 1. The tax payers expected some relief, but what they got was an offer to spend their leave travel allowance (LTA) on the purchase of white goods, home appliances and other consumer products that attract a goods and services tax (GST) rate of 12 per cent and higher, which will be eligible for tax breaks. Analysts said the standard deduction limit for the salaried may be raised from the current Rs 50,000 to about Rs 60,000-70,000 per year because of the hardships faced during Covid-19. A standard deduction is given in lieu of deductions for expenses. This deduction was done away in 2004-2005 as part of a process to weed out various exemptions and make the taxation process simpler. However, the Finance Act, 2018 has introduced a standard deduction from salary income up to Rs 40,000 in lieu of the reimbursement of medical expenses and transport allowance; in 2019 it was raised to Rs 50,000 per annum. Industry chamber CII said there had been a significant rise of 70 per cent in the cost inflation index in general over the last five years, particularly medical inflation. “In light of the rising inflation, the limit for standard deduction for salaried employees should be substantially increased.” Ficci said the standard deduction should be increased to Rs 1 lakh, which will take into consideration the higher expenditure on account of work from home. Assocham said the current Rs 50,000 exemption does not provide substantial relief to the salaried individuals. “Standard deduction is not meaningful to a large number of salaried tax payers as a substantial portion of the deduction is offset by the levy of additional cess of 1 per cent which was levied vide Finance Act, 2018.” It said there is a strong case for Budget 2021 to increase the quantum of standard deduction. According to Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia and Co LLP, some companies did reimburse their employees for additional medical expenditure during Covid-19. However, the employees were required to pay tax. “The government should on exceptional basis allow deduction for such expenditure incurred by the individuals  on setting up of home office or for testing/ treatment of Covid-19,” he said. Such deduction can be in form on actual amount of reimbursement subject to some maximum cap, or it can be in form of an additional standard deduction as well,” Shailesh Kumar, partner, Nangia and Co LLP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Sensex eyes 50000 as tech sector booms||The mood in the market remained bullish on Tuesday as the Sensex closed just 483 points short of 50000. The early morning wobble sparked by the RBI’s warning of a dramatic surge in bad loans on the books of banks in its latest Financial Stability Report dissipated very quickly by mid-morning. Bank stocks were subdued in the morning but then rose sharply as the market shook off these concerns as it eagerly turned to a steady stream of terrific numbers expected from IT giants Infosys and Wipro and talk that the government may create a bad bank to house stressed debt. Observers do not rule out the possibility of the buying momentum picking up on Wednesday as retail inflation in December 2020 came within the RBI’s band. CPI inflation stood at 4.59 per cent in December, which is the lowest reading since March last year. The pleasant surprise could give the RBI the much needed room to cut interest rates further. The 30-share Sensex opened marginally lower at 49228.26 and hit a intra-day low of 49079.57 as banking counters saw some selling. However, the mood changed post noon and the gauge surged to its all-time peak of 49569.14 because of the robust buying in index heavyweights Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. The index finally finished at its new closing record of 49517.11, up 247.79 points or 0.50 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.70 points, or 0.54 per cent, to close above the 14500 mark at a new peak of 14563.45. It scaled a record level of 14590.65 during the session. “Today, after a long underperformance, the RIL stock led from the front along with few banking heavyweights. Every day some new theme comes up to keep up the momentum, but since the last couple of sessions, it is observed that individual stocks are witnessing some profit booking as well. Hence, one needs to be very selective and look for trading opportunities on the both sides of trend,’’ said Sameet Chavan, chief analyst-technical and derivatives at Angel Broking. Sector-wise, BSE telecom, realty, energy, oil and gas, utilities, auto and finance indices rose as much as 2.85 per cent, while consumer durables, healthcare, capital goods and FMCG saw losses. Broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices climbed up to 0.44 per cent. Global markets were mixed following negative cues from Wall Street and rising Covid-19 cases in many countries. In Asia, key indices in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. ``The pace of the market rally continued despite RBI’s caution over elevated NPA levels in 2021, supported by PSU Banks and Auto stocks.  Majority of the sectors traded in the green in anticipation of good quarterly result while pharma and FMCG experienced some selling. US bond yield has changed its trajectory to a rising trend, which could impact EMs in the future. But FII inflows are strong and the dollar continues to be weak’’, Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial services added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Income tax return last date stays||The Union finance ministry has rejected a demand raised by tax practitioners to extend the last date of the filing of income tax returns. However, assessees who skip the due date may have to pay a late fee, tax experts feel. Last month, the government had extended the income tax return filing deadline. For individual taxpayers who are required to get their accounts audited and companies the due date for filing returns was pushed to February 15, 2021. For all other individual taxpayers, the due date was extended to January 10, 2021. “CBDT passes order u/s 119 of Income-tax Act, 1961 in F No. 370153/39/2020-TPL dated January 11, 2021, disposing of the representations for extension of due date for filing of Audit Report u/s 44AB, in compliance with the order of hon’ble Gujarat High Court dated January 8, 2021,” the income tax department said in a tweet. This was in response to the Gujarat High Court order dated January 8, 2021 in the case of The All India Gujarat Federation of Tax Consultants versus Union of India, which had directed the finance ministry to look into the issue of extension of due dates for filing of audit reports under Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act. The finance ministry identified three reasons for not extending the dates. First, the due dates of filing return and tax audit has already been extended on three occasions. Second, citing examples of the US, the UK, Australia, South Africa, the Netherlands, Ireland, Singapore, Canada and Brazil, the government said that the extension in India has been more generous. Finally, the government also gave the return filing statistics of the current year indicating that returns filed in this financial year already exceeds the numbers expected on the last date of filing of returns. “It should also be appreciated that filing of tax returns/audit reports are essential part of the obligations of the assessee and cannot be delayed indefinitely. Many functions of the Income Tax department start only after filing of the returns by the assessee,” said a statement from the finance ministry. “Sufficient time has already been given to taxpayers to file their tax returns and a large number of taxpayers have already filed their returns of income,” the statement said. Section 234F of the Income Tax Act provides for levy of late fee in case of an assessee whose gross income is above Rs 2,50,000 and is mandatorily required to file the tax return and he has not filed his return within due date or filed a delayed return. Late fee of Rs 10,000 will apply in case total income exceeds Rs 5 lakh and Rs 1,000 in case total income is within Rs 5 lakh. Narayan Jain, chairman, Income Tax Co-ordination Committee of All India Federation of Tax Practitioners, urged the finance minister to waive the late fee in case ITR for assessment year 2020-21 is filed by  March 31, 2021 so that the undue burden is mitigated. According to an estimate by a professional body, possible short filing or delayed filing returns are likely to be 3 crore and the department may collect late fee of Rs 30,000 crore under section 234F of Income Tax Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
13-01-2021||Business||Retail inflation dips to 14-month low||Retail inflation tumbled to a 14 month low of 4.59 per cent amid a dramatic fall in vegetable prices and contraction in overall food prices. Analysts in a Reuters poll had predicted inflation of 5.28 per cent. The inflation, based on Consumer Price Index and closely monitored by the RBI for its monetary policy action, has come within the central bank’s tolerance limit of 2-6 per cent for the first time since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, economists said this might not prompt the RBI to cut its policy rates immediately. Retail inflation was the lowest since September 2019, data released by the ministry of statistics on Tuesday showed. It stood at 6.93 per cent in November. Food prices, which make up nearly half of the inflation basket, increased 3.41 per cent in December from a year earlier, against 9.43 per cent in November. Vegetable prices fell 10.41 per cent, while cereals rose just 0.98 per cent. However, protein inflation (meat and fish) remains high  at 15.21 per cent and eggs at 16.08 per cent. Other items in the food basket showing high trends include oil and fats (20.05 per cent) and pulses (15.98 per cent). Economists said the RBI would keep a close watch on core inflation — which excludes food and energy — as the economy recovered in the months ahead. “The core-CPI inflation eased modestly to 5.5 per cent in December 2020, broadly in line with our expectations, driven by miscellaneous items. With global and domestic demand expected to strengthen with the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, the core-CPI inflation may remain relatively sticky, and display a limited correction going forward,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra, said. “We continue to expect the stance of the RBI Monetary Policy Committee to be changed to neutral from accommodative only after there is greater certainty on the durability of the awaited economic revival.” Health inflation shot up to a 15-month high of 6 per cent because of Covid-19. While fuel and light inflation increased to 3.2 per cent, transport and communication inflation declined to 9.3 per cent. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research, said the higher core inflation was not driven by demand factors despite the economy recovering from the lows of the first quarter. Major contributors to higher core inflation are health and recreation and amusement, he said. “However, the good part is that it has declined marginally in November 2020. On a quarterly basis 3QFY21 core inflation peaked to a eight quarter high of 5.75 per cent.” Major contributors to higher core inflation are health, and recreation and amusement. “in view of growth concerns, the RBI is expected to continue its accommodative policy stance and maintain status quo on policy rate in the forthcoming monetary policy review while keeping a close eye on the Union budget to ascertain the government’s fiscal stance,” he said. “The statistical advantage of a markedly favourable base, that has now kicked in, will also help the headline CPI prints over the current quarter. Today’s CPI print largely reflects normalization of the inflation picture as the bulk of the inflation spike earlier during H2 2020 came in from surging food inflation, even though prices of industrial commodities and energy were largely anchored reflecting weak demand," Siddhartha Sanyal, Chief Economist and Head of Research, Bandhan Bank said. RBI has slashed its main repo rate by 115 basis points since March 2020 to cushion the shock from the coronavirus crisis, but left rates unchanged last month. “The focus is now being oriented towards supporting the recovery and preserving the solvency of businesses and households,” RBI said in a report released on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-173
13-01-2021||India||Interfaith marriage: HC rules publication of notice optional||The mandatory publication of notice of interfaith marriages under the Special Marriage Act was made optional on Wednesday by the Allahabad High Court in a move that is likely to bring relief to such couples. Passing the order, the HC said it violated the Right To Privacy. “Making such publication mandatory would invade the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy,” the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court said. It would also affect the couple's freedom to choose marriage “without interference from state and non-state actors”, Justice Vivek Chaudhary said. He said it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to display or not to display such a notice. “If the couple did not intend so, the marriage officer has to solemnise their marriage forthwith without publication of 30 days notice,” the court said. A section of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, requires an interfaith couple to give written notice of the marriage to the district marriage officer. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition alleging that an adult girl is being detained against her wishes to marry her lover who belongs to a different religion. The judgement comes against the backdrop of a recent controversial law enacted by the Uttar Pradesh government which prohibits forcible conversion for the sake of marriage. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, prohibits conversion of religion by marriage to be unlawful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Centre approves purchase of 83 Tejas jets worth Rs 48,000 crore||In a major move, the Centre on Wednesday approved the purchase of 83 indigenously-developed light combat aircraft Tejas for the Indian Air Force (IAF) at a cost of Rs 48,000 crore. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said. Singh, in a tweet, said that the deal would be a “game-changer” in the field of self-reliant defence manufacturing in India. “The CCS chaired by PM Sh. @narendramodi today approved the largest indigenous defence procurement deal worth about 48000 crores to strengthen IAF’s fleet of homegrown fighter jet ‘LCA-Tejas’,” he tweeted. The Tejas fleet is going to be the ‘backbone’ of the fighter jet team of the IAF in the coming years. Around three years back, the IAF had issued an initial tender for procurement of 83 Tejas aircraft, a four-and-half generation combat jet. “LCA-Tejas incorporates a large number of new technologies, many of which were never attempted in India. The indigenous content of LCA-Tejas is 50 percent in Mk1A variant which will be enhanced to 60 percent,” the defence minister said. The defence minister said that aircraft maker Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) has already set up second-line manufacturing facilities at its Nasik and Bengaluru divisions. “Equipped with the augmented infrastructure the HAL will steer LCA-Mk1A production for timely deliveries to the IAF,” Singh said. He said the Tejas programme would act as a catalyst for transforming the Indian aerospace manufacturing ecosystem into a vibrant, self-sustaining one. “I thank the Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for this historic decision taken by the CCS today,” the defence minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Karnataka CM expands cabinet, seven new ministers sworn in||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday expanded his 17-month old cabinet, inducting seven ministers and indicated that excise minister H Nagesh would be dropped. Governor Vajubhai Vala administered the oath of office and secrecy to the Ministers at a ceremony at the Raj Bhavan. The new Ministers are MLAs Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), S Angara (Sullia), Murugesh Nirani (Bilgi) and Arvind Limbavali (Mahadevapura), and MLCs R Shankar, M T B Nagaraj and C P Yogeshwar. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his cabinet colleagues, BJP leaders and office bearers, including General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, state unit President Nalin Kumar Kateel, senior state government officials,family members and supporters of the new Ministers,among others,were present. This is the third expansion of the cabinet since Yediyurappa assumed charge in July 2019 after the collapse of the Congress-JDS government in the wake of revolt by 17 MLAs of the coalition partners. It's a mix of the old guard and new entrants from Congress and JDS who made it into the cabinet. Keeping up the promise, Congress-JD(S) rebels-turned BJP MLCs R Shankar and M T B Nagaraj, who helped the saffron party come to power, were inducted by Yediyurappa. Both of them had served as Ministers in the coalition government. Another MLC Yogeshwar, who is said to have played a key role by managing Congress-JD(S) rebel MLAs during the political turmoil in the state in 2019, was also inducted into the Ministry. He too was a Minister in the previous BJP government. Among the BJP old guard who made it to the cabinet were Katti, Angara, Nirani and Limbavali. While Katti (eight-time MLA), Nirani and Limbavali (state BJP VicePresident) were Ministers in the previous BJP government, for Angara (six times MLA), this will be his first stint as the Minister. While announcing the induction of seven new ministers earlier in the day, Yediyurappa indicated that Excise Minister H Nagesh will be dropped from the Ministry, thereby keeping one berth vacant in the state cabinet, which can have a maximum strength of 34 members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||North Delhi Municipal Corporation imposes ban on sale, storage of chicken meat||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday announced that it has banned the sale and storage of  poultry or processed chicken meat by shops and restaurants with immediate effect, in view of the bird flu situation in the national capital. According to an official order issued by the veterinary services department of the NDMC, owners of restaurants and hotels will face action if egg-based dishes or poultry meat and other products are served to customers. “The order has been issued in public interest and should be diligently complied with,” it said. On Monday, Delhi confirmed cases of bird flu after testing of samples of crows and ducks, prompting the state government to impose a ban on sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city. The authorities have also closed the Ghazipur poultry market in this regard. “All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas under the NDMC, are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders,” the order by the North Corporation said. Several ducks at Sanjay Lake and a large number of crows across various city parks have been found dead in the last one week. Reports of over 50 bird deaths were received on a helpline of the Delhi government’s animal husbandry unit and 18 samples from different parts of the city were sent for avian flu testing on Tuesday, officials had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Delhi schools to open from January 18 for classes 10, 12||The Delhi government on Wednesday allowed all schools in the national capital to reopen for Classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams, according to officials of the Directorate of Education. Students will attend schools only with the consent of parents and physical attendance is not compulsory, while schools will follow all Covid-19 guidelines, they said. "In order to conduct activities pertaining to pre-board preparations and practical work, the head of government, aided and unaided recognised schools may call students of Classes 10 and 12 only to school with effect from January 18, 2021," a senior official at the Directorate of Education (DoE) said. However, a child should be called to school only with the consent of parents and following standard operating procedures, he said. Records of children coming to school will be maintained and the same should not be used for attendance purposes as sending a child to school is completely optional for parents, the official said. Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. While several states had partially reopened schools after October, this will be the first time in 10 months that students in the national capital will return to their campuses. Students have been attending classes online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Copies of farm laws burnt to celebrate Lohri in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab on Wednesday burnt copies of the Centre's three new farm laws at several places on the festival of Lohri as a mark of protest against the legislation. The harvest festival of Lohri is celebrated in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of north India. Bonfires are an important part of the festivities. Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farm bodies held a protest at many places in the state and burnt copies of new agriculture laws. Farmers also shouted slogans against the BJP-led Centre and slammed the government for not acceding to their demands. They demanded that the new farm laws should be repealed. Farmers including women under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee held a protest at Pandherkalan village in Amritsar. "We burnt the copies of the farm laws as a mark of protest against these legislations," said committee's general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher in Amritsar. Similar protests are also being held at other places in Amritsar. "Until the Centre accepts all the demands of farmers, our agitation will continue," said Pandher. "We will not accept these farm laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community and the government should repeal these legislations," said a protester. Farmers also burnt copies of the new farm laws at many places including Hoshiarpur, Sangrur and Kapurthala in the state. Farmers, who have been camping at the Delhi borders, are demanding a repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price for crops. The Supreme Court on Tuesday had stayed the implementation of controversial new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a 4-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Covaxin shipped to eleven Indian cities, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday that it has successfully air-shipped its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to 11 cities in India in the early hours and that it has donated 16.5 lakh doses to the centre. The company also expressed its deepest gratitude to the nation, all clinical trial volunteers and its partners for making this a successful and milestone public-private partnership for the development of India's first COVID19- vaccine, a press release said. After having received the government purchase order for 55 lakh doses, Bharat Biotech shipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses, the release said. It is India's totally indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Anushka and Virat appeal to paparazzi to not click their daughter's picture||Actor-producer Anushka Sharma and her cricketer-husband Virat Kohli on Wednesday urged paparazzi to not click photos of their newborn daughter. Kohli had announced the arrival of their first child on January 11, saying that both the baby and Sharma were healthy. The couple has now written a note to the paparazzi fraternity in Mumbai, urging them to respect their daughter's privacy. Expressing their gratitude, Sharma and Kohli said they are thankful for all the love being showered on them. "As parents, we have a simple request to make to you. We want to protect the privacy of our child and we need your help and support," the couple said in the statement. They further assured paparazzi they will share the "content" at the right time. "While, we will always ensure that you get all the content you need featuring us, we would request you to kindly not take or carry any content that has our child. We know that you will understand where we are coming from and we thank you for the same," they said. Sharma and Kohli, both 32, recently celebrated their third wedding anniversary. The couple first met on the sets of a commercial and dated for four years before getting married in a private ceremony in Italy on December 11, 2017. Sharma announced her pregnancy in August last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Badaun Gangrape: Priest, other accused remanded to police custody||A temple priest and his accomplices accused of raping and killing a 50-year-old woman here have been remanded to one-day police custody by a local court. Circle officer of Bilsi, Anirudh Singh, said on Wednesday that, "The three accused persons in the Ughaiti incident have already been sent to jail. But there are some questions which need to be answered. For this, it is necessary to take the three accused on remand". A request through video conferencing was made to the court of the chief judicial magistrate for police remand on Tuesday and the request was granted. The family members of the woman had accused the temple priest and his accomplices of raping and killing the woman, an anganwadi worker. A case was registered against the accused and two of them identified as Vedram and Jaspal were arrested on January 5. Later the priest was also arrested. The incident triggered an opposition outcry and a comparison with the 2012 Nirbhaya case in Delhi after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, broken rib cage, a fractured leg and other injuries. Budaun CMO, Dr Yashpal Singh, had said that the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||India logs 15,968 fresh Covid cases, 202 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,04,95,147 with 15,968 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,01,29,111 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.51 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,51,529 with 202 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,29,111 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.51 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,14,507 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,34,89,114 samples have been tested up to January 12 with 8,36,227 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 202 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 18 from West Bengal,and 16 from Delhi. A total of 1,51,529 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,151 from Maharashtra followed by 12,236 from Tamil Nadu, 12,149 from Karnataka, 10,707 from Delhi, 9,975 from West Bengal, 8,514 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,133 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,456 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Delhi in the grasp of cold wave, mercury dips to 3.2 degree Celsius||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Wednesday as frosty winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas continued to sweep the plains and brought the minimum temperature down to 3.2 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. "Dense" fog blanketed parts of the city, lowering visibility to 50 metres and affecting traffic movement. Cold wave conditions prevailed at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city. It recorded a minimum of 3.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the regional forecasting centre head of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing down the minimum temperature in north India, Srivastava said. Similar conditions will prevail in the city over the next two days, he said. "Dense" fog lowered visibility to 50 metres at Palam and 200 metres at Safdarjung, the IMD said. According to the IMD, a "very dense" fog is when the visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of a "dense" fog, the visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. Delhi had been registering above-normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances (WDs). However, the temperature started dropping with the commencement of cold northwesterly winds after the withdrawal of the latest WD. The city's minimum had settled at 4.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, 7 degrees Celsius on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||India prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh: General M.M. Naravane||Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Tuesday said India was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “as long as it takes” to achieve the national objectives and his force was alert and ready for any eventuality, but at the same time expressed hope for an amicable solution to the border standoff through the ongoing military talks with China. The army chief also said both Pakistan and China posed a “potent threat” to national security and their collusive approach towards India could not be wished away. Addressing the annual media conference ahead of Army Day on January 15, General Naravane said: “We are prepared to hold our ground as long as it takes to achieve our national goals and objectives. I am hopeful for a positive situation, but we are ready to meet any eventuality. Our operational preparedness is of high order.” He said he was hopeful that India and China would reach an agreement through dialogue “for disengagement and de-escalation of forces from friction points based on the principle of mutual and equal security”. “We are confident of finding a solution to the issue on the basis of mutual and equal security,” the general said, while asserting that the Indian Army would maintain its current positions. Naravane said there had been no reduction of troops from either side along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Asked about the current situation along the LAC, the army chief said: “The situation is the same as was prevailing last year. There is no change in the status quo.” Naravane said Indian soldiers were maintaining a high level of alertness all along the LAC and not just in Ladakh. The army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC in the Ladakh sector where the temperature has now reached -40 degrees Celsius. The border standoff started between the two armies on May 5 last year before it snowballed into a violent face-off on June 15 in the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Sources in the defence ministry said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points along the LAC. General Naravane said the force was awaiting the final dates for the ninth rounds of military talks between India and China to resolve the standoff. “We will ensure that we reach a solution through dialogue which is acceptable and not detrimental to our interest.” He said considering the security challenges at the LAC, a need was felt about rebalancing of troops along the northern borders. “As events in Ladakh show, there is need of carrying out re-balancing of the northern border. That is what we have put in place.” Responding to a question on how long it will take for the standoff to be resolved, Naravane said: “We are prepared to hold our ground for as long as it is needed to achieve our national goals.” On Pakistan, General Naravane said it continued to embrace terrorism as a State policy. “We have zero tolerance for terror and we reserve the right to respond at the place and time of our choosing and with precision,” he said. He said there was increased cooperation between China and Pakistan in both military and non-military sectors. “Pakistan and China form a potent threat that cannot be wished away.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Supreme Court stays farm laws, forms committee||The Supreme Court on Tuesday appointed a committee on the three farm laws and stayed their implementation as it had indicated a day earlier. All four members of the committee have in the past come out in public in support of the new laws, leaving the protesting farmers feeling vindicated in their decision not to participate in the panel’s proceedings. Two of the four members of the committee, set up to broker peace between the government and the tens of thousands of farmers on dharna outside Delhi against the laws for over 40 days, are academics and two are farm leaders. Ashok Gulati, the Infosys chair professor for agriculture at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, had likened the laws to a “a 1991 moment for agriculture’’, referring to the opening up of the economy by the P.V. Narasimha Rao government under then finance minister Manmohan Singh’s watch. Parmod Kumar Joshi, former South Asia director of the Washington-based International Food Policy Research Institute, wrote in an article in Financial Express last weekend: “Scrapping the three farm laws will be disastrous for the entire agriculture sector, more so for the farmers.” Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana, has said the laws should not be repealed while stating on record that the government did not discuss the farm laws in detail with farmers before introducing them. He has called for amendments to factor in farmers’ concerns. Bhupinder Singh Mann, chairman of the All-India Kisan Coordination Committee, a platform supporting the laws, had written to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar demanding that the laws not be repealed. He too suggested amendments that would plug the loopholes in the laws and has supported the amendments proposed by the government. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which more than 40 farmer unions and collectives from across the country are protesting against the laws, has made it clear that they will accept nothing short of a repeal. After repealing the “black laws” that, they say, only serve corporate interests and will be a “death warrant” for farmers, the government should hold a dialogue with farmers and bring in new laws to reform agriculture. Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a BKU faction in Punjab, said on Tuesday all the four members are “pro-government” and have supported the farm laws. “We cannot accept a committee loaded with people who have written articles in the media in support of the laws. In any case, we have in principle refused to accept a committee to resolve the issue. We see it as an effort to divert attention from the real issue and reduce pressure on the government,” he said. On Monday night, the Morcha had announced that it would not participate in the proceedings of any such committee. “This was a precautionary measure we took in view of yesterday’s hearings where there was talk of a committee. We knew that the government was trying to thrust a committee on us,” Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said on Tuesday. The Morcha has over the past month repeatedly rejected the government’s proposal to set up a committee to resolve the differences, labelling it a strategy to stall and tire out the farmers protesting on the road in the cold. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted on Tuesday: “Can anyone expect the protesting farmers demanding repeal of Agri Laws to talk to such a committee? Why should they? Farmers are left with no other option than to boycott this committee?” Congress media in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted links to articles and statements by the four committee members in support of the laws and wrote: “For any ‘committee’ to be independent, its credibility must be beyond any doubt. How can anyone trust a ‘committee’ whose members have already spoken so loudly in favour of Modi govt’s draconian farm laws?” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “When you want a consensus you get a group with different viewpoints together. The G-4 on farm laws is a quartet of evangelists. Where is the other viewpoint? In sports, there is a name for this.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s affidavit on Khalistani infiltration claim||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that “Khalistanis have infiltrated the protests” by farmers, prompting the Chief Justice of India to seek an affidavit by Wednesday to support the claim. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, representing the Centre, told a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde that a rally should not be permitted as it would mean allowing entry of over 1 lakh people into Delhi. He offered to place inputs from the Intelligence Bureau to justify apprehensions of a possible breach of law and order during the Republic Day celebrations. Senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, appearing for a farmer union supporting the new laws, submitted that a proposed tractor rally and such other protests can be “dangerous” as, according to him, certain groups like “Sikhs for Justice” were out to create trouble. The Chief Justice then turned towards the attorney-general for his views. “We have said that Khalistanis have infiltrated the protests. As far as Karnataka, Kerala, etc, are concerned, there is huge support for these (new farm) laws…. There is no question of a huge group of 1 lakh people entering the city on Republic Day. We can’t say where all they will go,” Venugopal said. The bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Subramanian, prima facie felt that it was for the police to take necessary action to prevent any breach of law and order. But the bench asked the government to file its contention in an affidavit so that necessary orders could be passed on the plea on January 18 when the matter would be taken up. “It is within your police powers to control that and check if they are armed. We will not interfere with this. If there is an infiltration by a banned organisation and somebody is making an allegation here on record, you have to confirm it. You file an affidavit by tomorrow,” the Chief Justice said. Venugopal said he would file an affidavit with the IB records. During the arguments, the bench and senior advocate Harish Salve, who is appearing for the Haryana government and a Delhi-based petitioner, questioned the absence of senior advocates Dushyant Dave, Colin Gonzalves, H.S. Phoolka and Prashant Bhushan. The advocates, who are appearing for various farmers’ groups opposing the laws, were on Monday asked by the court to convince the protesters to return home. Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma alleged that some of the lawyers appearing for a couple of pro-law groups were being sponsored by the ruling BJP. Sharma: “I want to present some real facts. Some farmers spoke with me and said ‘we don’t want to go to any committee’. The lawyers who purportedly appear for them in the court are working at the instance of the BJP. Farmers are scared their land will be snatched.” Chief Justice: “We will protect farmers. While we are hearing this matter, we can pass an interim order that no land of farmers will be sold to anyone under the farm laws till we finally decide.” Sharma: “Got a few calls from farmers in the morning. They aren’t willing to appear in the Supreme Court. They only want withdrawal of laws. They are peacefully protesting, claiming the Prime Minister didn’t meet them. They fear land will be sold and no one will protect them. Contract farming is the jugglery of a mastermind. If a corporate house asks farmers to pay damages for crops, they will have to sell land.” Chief Justice: “We can’t direct the Prime Minister to meet them. We will pass orders that no farmers’ land will have to be sold.” P. Wilson, appearing for Thiruchi Siva, MP: “The laws were passed without discussions in the House.” Chief Justice: “Yesterday the AG submitted that the south is supporting the laws.” Wilson: “That is not correct…. Today Vijayawada is burning with protests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Farmers: no going back on the protests leading up to R-Day||The umbrella outfit of protesting farmers on Tuesday welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision to suspend the implementation of the three farm laws but pointed out that this was not the solution that the unions had been asking for, as a stay means the legislation can be reinstated at any time. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha made the comments based on media reports of the Supreme Court’s order and will take a considered decision after a meeting on Wednesday. The farmers said there would be no going back on the protests leading up to Republic Day when they plan to take out a parade on tractors in Delhi after the annual spectacle. The Morcha accused the government of misguiding the Supreme Court in general and even in the constitution of a four-member committee to broker peace, adding that the administration was also hiding facts from the court. As for the Kisan Parade, Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab, said it would be peaceful. Addressing a media conference along with some other Punjab farmer unions, Rajewal sent out a message to all cultivators planning to join the parade from different parts of the country that no violence would be tolerated. “Our parade will be peaceful like our movement has been for the past six months. We have no plans to hoist the national flag at Red Fort or conquer Delhi as is being alleged. We have always been peaceful and we will not tolerate any violence.” Ever since the Morcha announced the farmers’ tractor parade for Republic Day, when they plan to enter Delhi if the laws are not repealed by then, the union leaders have repeatedly maintained that they will not disrupt the main parade. Their parade is to be held after the main parade is over, union leaders have made it clear, pointing out that farmers have children, siblings and spouses in the military and they understand the sanctity of the day. “Our parade is about people claiming the republic,” has been their refrain. On the Supreme Court notice to Delhi police on the Narendra Modi government’s plea to stop the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, the Morcha sees it as an effort to prepare the ground for repression. Some of the union leaders see the government’s reference in court to the presence of elderly people, children and women at the protest sites as an effort to have them removed so that police action is easier. The optics of police action against such vulnerable groups can have an adverse fallout for any government, more so when the farmers’ movement has drawn considerable attention overseas. Referring to this, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan pointed out that women constitute 70 per cent of those who work on farms across the country. “Don’t they have a right to participate in a protest for their rights?” he asked. Ravinder Kaur, an office-bearer of the same organisation, told The Telegraph that the elderly, children and women were at the protest voluntarily. “No one brought them here,” she said. “The elders are here because they don’t want to see the land they have tilled for years go to corporates. The children are wondering why should they study when these farm laws are going to turn them into labourers. And the women also work in the fields, so they have a stake in this,” Kaur said, adding that the BJP thinks “this is one of their rallies where they pay people to create a crowd”. As per the 2011 census, 98 million women in India have agricultural jobs, making them a stakeholder in the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Beneficiaries cannot choose between two vaccines initially||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign starting on January 16 with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and the homegrown Bharat Biotech jab will not offer beneficiaries the option to choose between the two, the Union health ministry has signalled. But online discussions and free-wheeling exchanges in medical circles across the country, doctors say, appear to reflect expectations among many that they would receive the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called Covishield in India instead of the homegrown Covaxin. The health ministry said on Tuesday that 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin ordered by the Centre to start the campaign would be received by all states and Union Territories by January 14, but did not explain which vaccine would go where. Top health officials asserted that both vaccines are safe, both generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus, and both would be available at fractions of the prices India might have had to pay for other vaccines used in the US or Europe. “The vaccines are safe and immunogenic — this is established. There is absolutely no doubt about safety and immunogenicity,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary. “We expect states at the highest level will exercise continuous oversight and personal involvement on the entire process of rollout.” Bhushan, when asked at a media briefing whether beneficiaries would have the option to choose between the two, said: “In several countries, more than one vaccine is being used against Covid-19. In no country at this point do beneficiaries have this option.” The vaccination drive in its first stage will seek to immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. The second stage is aimed at immunising around 270 million people above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic health disorders. Bhushan said the exercise could “last maybe beyond one year”. Vinod Paul, the chair of a national expert group that is guiding the country’s vaccine administration strategy and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, said the vaccines had “proven immunogenicity” and their side-effects were “negligible”. But sections of doctors who will be among the earliest to be offered the vaccines say they’re conscious about the difference between a vaccine’s immunogenicity — the body’s immune response to a vaccine — and its efficacy — or capacity to actually protect people from the infection. India’s drug regulatory authority approved Covishield on the basis of safety, immunogenicity and efficacy studies in other countries and Covaxin on the basis of safety and immunogenicity studies. Covaxin is still under evaluation for its efficacy and the earliest data is expected after March. Some doctors on Tuesday expressed surprise the government has already ordered Covaxin. “Many of us expect to receive Covishield — if we have no choice and Covaxin is sent, I think there’ll be resentment here,” said a senior doctor at a corporate hospital who requested not to be named. “Our concerns should not be misinterpreted — we have faith in Covaxin too,” the doctor said. “Covaxin is likely absolutely safe, but why hurry to introduce it without efficacy data? They could have waited for a few weeks for efficacy data to arrive. There are likely to be non-scientific reasons for this.” Sumit Ray, a senior critical care specialist at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi, said there had been “intense back-and-forth” online discussions in critical care circles about the pace of vaccine rollout and efficacy of the two vaccines. “We, of course, need vaccines, but the urgency is baffling,” he said. “Many doctors appear concerned about approvals given without adequate data.” A medical expert in Bengal said he had fielded similar questions about efficacy and choice of vaccines during Sunday evening’s webinars on Covid-19 organised by the government for medics across the state. “There has been no head-to-head comparison of efficacy of these two vaccines — we can’t say one is more or less efficacious than the other,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior pharmacologist formerly at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. He added: “This question has come up for discussion — what if some doctors express a desire for a specific vaccine? At the moment, there is just no provision to offer a choice,” Tripathi said. The Centre will pay Rs 200 per dose for 11 million doses of Covishield, manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Rs 206 per dose for 5.5 million doses of Covaxin. The prices of other vaccines used in the US and Europe range from Rs 734 to Rs 2,700, health officials said. The Covid-19 vaccines are currently available only through the government, but health officials have indicated that at some point in time, likely after the completion of the government campaign, private sales of vaccines would be allowed. The duration of the government campaign would depend on both supplies and the pace of the immunisation. The health ministry says there are 200,000 trained vaccinators, but officials did not respond to a query on how many vaccination sites would be active across the country on January 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: why courts don’t matter any more||One thought that hadn’t flitted across the minds of any farmer at the bustling protest site at the Ghazipur border was that the Supreme Court was going to pass an important order on the farm laws on Tuesday. The leaders might have kept a watch but the ordinary farmers were oblivious to the legal proceedings. The irrelevance of judicial intervention is a striking feature of the battle between the Narendra Modi government and the farming community, a sense of dismay deepened by the court’s suggestion on Monday about putting the laws on hold as they are examined by a committee. The majority of the farmers said they were not interested in what the court said, arguing that the dangers posed by the new laws were not a subject of legal interpretation. While some bluntly pointed to the judges’ inability to upturn the current government’s decisions, others avoided a discussion as a decision had already been taken on Monday against engaging with any committee. There is unanimity among the farmers that there is no question of reversing the direction of the movement under pressure from the government or judicial fiat. Tarlochan Singh, an elderly farmer from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, summed up the mood, saying: “It is not merely about a few legal infirmities in the laws. It is the philosophy of governance that will trigger a national crisis, a situation that will widen the conflict between the rich and the poor. If this direction is not changed, we may be heading for civil war in this country. We have to understand the nature of the threat first; it is not about legalese, it is about life.” As a few other farmers echoed the sentiment, Tarlochan said: “Everybody is going to be affected — the small businessmen, the agriculture workers, the consumers. We don’t need governments, courts and committees to tell us what our pain is. Aisa ehsaan kya jisme jaan khatre mein aa jaye (Why is the government doing such a favour that will endanger our lives?) None will move from here until the laws are repealed. The government can fire on us, unleash tanks or do bombarding from fighter planes. We die or defeat this government.” Asked what would happen if the leaders strike a deal with the government and decide to give up, he said: “It is not possible now. You must have a very low-grade moral fabric to strike a deal with the government on this issue. Our leaders aren’t like that.” Others endorsed Tarlochan, insisting that the movement had crossed the phase when compromises were possible. “It is a unique mass movement which has acquired a life of its own. It is controlled by the collective spirit now,” he said. Explaining why the Supreme Court or the committees it forms were irrelevant to the struggle, another farmer from Udhamsingh Nagar in Uttarakhand, Jagjit Singh, said: “We have experienced the ill-effects of the new laws. We had sold paddy last year at Rs 1,600 a quintal, which was lower than the MSP (minimum support price). This year, we sold paddy for Rs 1,200 despite input cost increasing heavily. Apart from high diesel prices, cost of labour per acre of land last year was Rs 2,500, which increased to Rs 4,200 this year.” He continued: “Earlier, rice millers came to mandis to deal with the collective bargaining power of the producers in presence of SDMs (sub-divisional magistrates). This year, after the laws came into force, we had to take our produce to the mills where they will say your stuff is not good. Keep wandering, from one mill to another. Finally, I sold paddy for Rs 1,200.” Palwinder Singh from Pilibhit had a similar experience and explained the farce of switching to other crops than the over-produced paddy. He said: “We used to sow unseasonal paddy (called Chinese dhan) after harvesting our crop of peas. The government did a campaign, asking us to shift to maize as paddy consumed lots of water. They distributed seeds and promised to buy the produce at MSP. We followed their instructions. The government purchased some and then said the quality is not good. We had to sell our stocks at Rs 800 instead of the MSP of Rs 1,850.” Palwinder added: “We know the worth of the government’s assurances. The Prime Minister says the corporate entities will pay higher rates than the MSP. We are fighting for the lowest benchmark — give us legal guarantee of MSP. Good for the corporates also. What is the problem in creating safeguards for the farmers? Don’t give us subsidies, no cash… just ensure MSP. Doesn’t the Prime Minister know how much is the dues of sugarcane farmers despite repeated assurances?” These farmers were cooking vegetables at a camp run by Gurdwara Langar Sahib of Nanded in Maharashtra. Jathedar Baba Mohan Singh, who was overhearing the conversation, gave his final verdict: “The Prime Minister and the Supreme Court judges should come here and see the truth. This is a people’s movement. Farmers ensure nobody goes hungry in India. That’s why every Indian, cutting across region and religion, is supporting us. We are here till this bekaar sarkar (useless government) withdraws these bekaar laws. Our langar has continued for 550 years and we are determined to serve the farmers here for as long as they continue the struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers dismiss SC’s stay on the laws as a solution and retreat||Shortly after the Supreme Court stayed the farm laws and formed a review committee, a singer took the stage at the Singhu border, seeking to remind the rulers of Delhi of Punjab’s history of sacrifice. “Dilli-ye, O Dilli-ye, Punjab de sadke, tu itihas sadda bhulli baithi hain (Delhi, Oh Delhi, you have forgotten Punjab’s glorious history of sacrifice). Assi desh nu bachaya assi chadke, ladke, ladke. (We have risen many times to save the country, by fighting, fighting...),” he sang, from the dais of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab. The song ended and a call went up: “Jo bole so Nihal (Blessed is the one who says)…” A chorus rent the air in response: “…Sat Sri Akal. (Truth is God).” In front of the stage, Amarjeet Singh Udhowali who had joined the chorus raising a clenched fist, said when asked about the Supreme Court ruling: “Yehi reaction hai, ji. (This is our reaction).” “Kaale kanoon ko radd karywaye bina hum wapis nahi jaayenge. (We will not return without getting the black laws repealed),” he said. “No matter how long the struggle stretches.” Another farmer, Paramjit Singh from Madhya Pradesh, said: “This is a way to get us out of here. We respect the Supreme Court but we are not going to go back till the laws are repealed and we get a legal guarantee on minimum support price.” At Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana, where tents of the protesting farmers stretch for kilometres, there was not one farmer this newspaper could find who was ready to accept the Supreme Court’s stay on the laws as a solution and retreat. The protesters spied a ploy to end their protest and feared that once they went back home, the government would implement the laws. “The time for putting the laws on hold is over now. It should have been done when we started our protest in Punjab and Haryana,” said Balwinder Singh, 70, from Patiala. While protests were on ever since the government brought the ordinances during the pandemic-induced lockdown in the summer, they gathered steam in September when the bills were rushed through Parliament. From September the farmers had protested in their own states, before setting out for Delhi in the last week of November. Asked if they don’t have faith in the apex court of the country, Kulwinder Singh smiled and said: “Supreme Court pe bharose ka sawal nahi hai. Hume sarkar par bharosa nahi hai. Hum yahan se jayenge, aur ye phir laagu kar denge (It’s not a question of faith in the Supreme Court. We don’t trust this government. Once we withdraw from here, the laws will be enforced again).” Many felt the Supreme Court’s intervention at this stage was to ensure there was no disturbance during the Republic Day celebration. The farmers have announced a parallel parade of tractors. “Tell Modiji to change,” snapped Harbhajan Singh Sekhu, 80, as he distributed disposable plates at a langar, referring to the celebrations on Republic Day, angry that the government was refusing to heed the farmers. “Jaane wale nahi hain. Nahi jaayenge, (We are not going back. We will not go),” Sekhu added. Asked about the Supreme Court-appointed committee of experts to review the laws and whether they should give it time, most farmers refused to accept it. “Jaankaar yahan baithe hain, ji (Experts are sitting here),” said a group of Jat farmers from Haryana’s Sonipat. “Why isn’t Modiji talking to us?” asked Satpal Singh, one of the group. “The Supreme Court should have appointed real experts from among us. We don’t regard them (committee members) as experts,” said Bhupinder, also a Jat farmer. From another of the many stages that have come up on the long stretch of the road at Delhi’s borders with Haryana, one farmer leader was heard saying the Supreme Court ruling is just another step and called upon everyone to prepare for the final battle to get the laws repealed. Standing in the crowd, Jagdeep, a housewife from Ludhiana, said she had come to join her husband in the battlefield. “Jeet ke hi jaayenge (We will return after winning),” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Schools of thought sprout at farm protest sites||The serpentine blockade of NH44 by farmers at Dakha Singhu on Delhi’s border with Haryana has been the cynosure of the movement against the new farm laws. However, the blockade of NH9 at Tikri Kalan — further southwest on the border — has spurred an intellectual resistance to the new laws with the first library and newspaper of the movement emerging from here. Organisers have now started a lecture series too, and they have inspired several such publications and libraries across protest sites of farmers. Himanshu Dua, an environmentalist from Ladakh, has been at home in Bahadurgarh, a northwestern suburb of Delhi in Haryana, since the pandemic started last year. On November 27, as farmers clashed with police to enter Delhi, Dua was initiated into what he calls “the revolution” by his mother, who went with him to serve tea, and later lunch, to as many beleaguered peasants as she could. Soon, delivering milk packets and medicines to protesters for free became Dua’s daily routine. After the Shahid Bhagat Singh Library was set up by activists of the CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association on December 10, Dua became their main supplier of books and his home turned into the delivery address for contributors. The library now has a collection of almost 3,500 books, and it has become an address in itself at Metro Pillar 783 under Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Metro station. Dua explained: “First they gave my address for deliveries, and then I began delivering the books to them. I later began to put on Instagram lists of books people ask for and I would send them to people who organise book-donation drives. After two other libraries came up, I would distribute the books equally between the three and give additional copies of books that one library received to the others.”Dua said there were now at least six libraries at Tikri alone, and the Bhagat Singh library had opened branches at the protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur. The books are mostly in Punjabi and Hindi, and those most in demand are writings and biographies of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Uddham Singh and Kartar Singh Sarabha, besides fiction of Munshi Premchand. Mukesh Kulriya, a student of the University of California, Los Angeles, one of the librarians, said the biggest challenge had been the rain and the inventory of books had deliberately been reduced to save them from water at the makeshift library. “People want to know what Bhagat Singh or his uncle Ajit Singh (who led the Pagri Sambhal Jatta movement in 1907) did to oppose colonial laws, including agrarian laws. We have around 70 people borrowing books everyday, which they keep for four to five days,” he told The Telegraph. After the library, Kulriya got involved with a bilingual biweekly that is published from the protest site. The Trolley Times, with reports and columns in Hindi and Punjabi in Gurmukhi script, was started on December 18 to counter what Kulriya calls “media and government propaganda against the farmers” and also to remind farmers that their stand was right and they had to remain resolute. The paper was the brainchild of film screenwriter and actor Surmeet Maavi, musician Gurdeep Dhaliwal and physiotherapist Ajay Pal Natt — a member of the CPIML-Liberation-backed Punjab Kisan Union. They now have a team of 10 across the five protest sites around the capital, where they circulate the newspaper. Kulriya said: “Most of the protesters are elderly and are not on social media. A newspaper in languages they understand is the best form of communication within the movement. Many of them do not leave their tractor trolleys to go to the stage. This paper informs them of what is going on and what protests are happening across the country. “(For the articles) we focus on those who are not very prominent at the protests — women, non-Sikhs, young people, labourers and so on. Such is the popularity now that we have allowed others to use our content without altering it, even if they don’t give us credit.” Translated versions in Marathi, Kannada and even French have been circulated in Maharashtra, Bangalore and Canada. English versions are available online, and have been circulated in print in Australia, New Zealand and Canada. At least two other papers from protest sites have started since. The Trolley Times faced an initial controversy after it published an article by Sukhpreet Singh Udhoke, considered by some as a Khalistani ideologue, in its inaugural edition, to dispel the notion that it was solely a communist paper. Since then, it has had people of all political persuasions contribute, also from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra where similar farmers’ protests have started. Besides the serious stuff, it offers slice-of-life articles such as testimonies of men who never entered a kitchen before but have now learnt to make perfect rotis. “We file, edit and produce the paper entirely on our mobile phones. We may not be technically sound, but we thrive on spontaneity,” Kulriya said. On January 7, the young activists began the “Trolley Talks” lecture series, with Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Atul Sood speaking on the farm laws and democracy, in Punjabi and Hindi. “Social scientists have a lot to learn from them (farmers). Their unions translated the laws in Punjabi and began the agitation in August, and they know more about the laws than we do. In the last six months, they have peeled off the layers of the policy framework of agriculture and it is a lesson in democracy that they have made the connections between changes in labour laws and agricultural laws,” he told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||Farm law implementation, MSP tweak on hold||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three farm laws, restrained the Centre from tinkering with the minimum support price and allowing the sale of farmers’ land, and constituted a four-member committee to broker peace between the government and the protesting peasants. The court-appointed committee has been asked to submit its report within two months of its formal constitution over the next 10 days. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said it does not intend to hinder the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders demanding the repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed MSP. The lawyers appearing for different farm bodies — most of these outfits are not part of the agitation whose participants are against the court’s intervention — had suggested several alternative protest sites. The apex court left the task of convincing the agitating farmers and their families to go back home to the various farmers’ organisations. “…Having heard different perspectives, we deem it fit to pass the following interim order, with the hope and expectation that both parties will take this in the right spirit and attempt to arrive at a fair, equitable and just solution to the problems,” the court said. The court stayed “until further orders” the “implementation” of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020; and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, all of which had been steamrolled through Parliament by the government. “In addition, the farmers’ land holdings shall be protected, i.e., no farmer shall be dispossessed or deprived of his title as a result of any action taken under the farm laws,” the court said. Appointing the four-member committee, the court said the panel had been “constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws and the views of the government and to make recommendations”. The committee has as members Bhupinder Singh Mann, chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist and director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana. The court posted the matter for further hearing after eight weeks, by which time it expects the panel to undertake the exercise of a negotiated solution to the vexed issue. However, the bench issued notice to the Delhi government on an application moved by the Centre to prevent the farmers from taking out a rally on January 26 to coincide with the Republic Day celebrations in the capital. The Supreme Court said the committee would be provided a place and secretarial assistance at Delhi by the Centre, which will also bear all expenses for its sittings. “The representatives of all the farmers’ bodies, whether they are holding a protest or not and whether they support or oppose the laws, shall participate in the deliberations of the committee and put forth their view points. The committee shall, upon hearing the government as well as the representatives of the farmers’ bodies and other stakeholders, submit a report before this court containing its recommendations. This shall be done within two months from the date of its first sitting. The first sitting shall be held within 10 days from today,” the court said. “While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers’ bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others,” the order added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||‘Toxic’  liquor kills 14 in Morena||Fourteen people died and 20 fell ill after drinking suspected spurious liquor in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district on Monday night. According to preliminary reports, some residents of Manpur and Pahawali villages in the district drank white-coloured liquor, a senior police officer said. Later, people in some nearby villages also fell ill after drinking suspected spurious liquor, he said. An investigation has been ordered and four government officials, including policemen, have been suspended. This was the second such incident in Madhya Pradesh in the past three months. In October last year, 14 people had died after drinking spurious liquor in Ujjain. Deputy inspector-general (DIG) Rajesh Hingankar told reporters that a case has been registered under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 34 and 91 of the Excise Act. A few persons have been rounded up, the DIG said. The post-mortem report is awaited to know if the liquor was poisonous or not, he added. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered the suspension of the Morena district excise officer for negligence. He said “drastic” action would be taken against the guilty. “The Morena incident is very unfortunate and tragic. The investigation is going on. The district excise officer has been suspended for prima facie negligence. As soon as the remaining facts of the investigation come out, whoever is found guilty will not be spared. We will take drastic action,” Chouhan said in a tweet. State home minister Narottam Mishra said a police officer had been suspended. “The incident of deaths caused by drinking poisonous liquor in Morena is very sad and painful. The in-charge of the police station concerned has been suspended.,” he tweeted. The DIG informed that two more policemen — a sub-inspector and a head constable —  had been suspended State Congress chief Kamal Nath hit out at the Chouhan regime. “The liquor mafia continues to wreak havoc after killing 16 in Ujjain, now they have killed about 10 people in Morena. Shivraj ji, how long will the liquor mafia keep killing people like this? The government should provide proper treatment to the sick and help the affected families in every way possible,” Nath asked in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||S. Jaishankar hints at ‘impaired’ trust in China||India’s foreign minister S. Jaishankar said on Tuesday that trust with China had been deeply impaired after last summer’s border clash which resulted in the first combat deaths in 45 years. Ties with the United States, on the other hand, were converging and were likely to expand under the new administration in Washington, India’s top diplomat told the Reuters Next conference. Tensions with China erupted in June, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in brutal hand-to-hand fighting, while China suffered an unspecified number of casualties in the clash on a disputed section of the border in the western Himalayas. Both sides have deployed heavily in the contested area, and the escalation poses the most serious military crisis between the nuclear-armed neighbours for decades. “After 45 years, you’ve actually had bloodshed on the border. And that’s had a huge impact on public opinion and politically.... really the impact of trust and confidence in India where China and their relationship is concerned. That has been profoundly disturbed,” Jaishankar said. The two countries fought a border war in 1962, but until last summer they had largely kept a lid on tensions along the Line of Actual Control, the de facto border, while expanding commercial ties. “Now last year, for reasons which are not clear to us, the Chinese really brought an enormous military force to one part of the border. And then at the Line of Actual Control, obviously we moved up when we saw them coming and that has sort of created, friction points along the Line of Actual Control,” Jaishankar said. Several rounds of military and diplomatic negotiations have taken place but there has been no pullback of forces from the frontline. India expects the talks to lead to an amicable solution, the Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Narvane said on Tuesday. US ties Jaishankar said relations with the United States were on the upswing and he was confident about its direction under the incoming Biden administration. “When I look at many of the challenges we face, the US is going to be much more open looking for partners and I’m confident about where we are going with the relationship.” India has built close defence ties with Washington, buying more than $20 billion of weapons over the last 15 years, as it diversifies away from traditional supplier Russia. Together with the US allies Japan and Australia, it has participated in naval exercises in the Indian Ocean which security analysts say is part of attempts to balance China’s assertive actions in the region. “Structurally the relationship with the US is very, very sound, it has very unique elements, there is political convergence, growing security and defence convergence,” Jaishankar said. On trade though, the two countries got bogged down in details and lost the “wood for the trees”, he said. Negotiators have been working toward a mini trade pact for months without making headway. Jaishankar said India would respond positively to any offer or invitation from the Biden administration to restart some kind of free-trade talks. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||Fisticuffs at Congress meet over Bihar Assembly elections||The new All India Congress Committee Bihar in-charge’s first meeting with the state unit degenerated into an ugly fight on Tuesday over last year’s Assembly elections in which the party had fared poorly. As leaders brawled at Sadaquat Ashram, the state party headquarters in Patna, in the presence of AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das, someone pushed Congress farmers’ cell leader Raj Kumar Sharma alias Raju Singh off the 4ft-high dais. A few people kicked him while some others rushed to his rescue. The Congressmen pushed, shoved and attacked each other. A few hurled chairs towards the dais and expletives filled the air. Leaders appealed to the people to stay calm, but it fell on deaf ears. Security personnel and bodyguards rushed in to protect the legislators present at the meeting. Das, who had come to enthuse new life into the party that won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested, remained a spectator. Several other senior leaders, including Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha, Congress Legislature Party leader Ajit Sharma and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra were also present at the meeting. Since Das’s arrival in Bihar on Monday, he has been flooded with complaints from Congressmen about alleged nepotism in the distribution of tickets for the elections and the “sale” of tickets. At the meeting on Tuesday it took over an hour to restore peace. Yet, a few Congress leaders could be seen roaming around the meeting venue with hockey sticks a few hours later while Das was holding a media meet. Asked about the fight, Das said: “These things are common in Bihar. I have seen many such things in my life. However, I did not run away. I stood steadfast and managed to make everybody sit down.” “Some people do not do any work (for the party), but just talk and want to take credit. This won’t do. We are not going to tolerate indiscipline. People will have to abide by the decisions of the party and its ethics. Those who don’t will be expelled,” Das added. He suggested that those who created the ruckus at the meeting were not associated with the party. “Our party organisation is definitely in a weak situation here. We will make it stronger. This is a challenge before us,” Das said. A senior Congress leader later told this newspaper: “There is pent-up frustration in the organisation over the way tickets were distributed during the Assembly elections and the poor results. There is a belief that tickets were sold by senior leaders. Moreover, there is general anger over the way the party is being managed in Bihar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||Naveen set for first post-Covid meeting||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik will attend his first public meeting, around 10 months after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, in Kalahandi on Thursday on Makar Sankranti, one of the festivals that is celebrated in western Odisha in a big way. The chief minister had been so far confined to Naveen Niwas, except for visiting the shrines of Lord Jagannath in Puri and Lord Lingaraj in Bhubaneswar and the Baramunda bus stand for a review. The ruling Biju Janata Dal has asked nearly 70 of its MLAs and ministers to reach Kalahandi a day ahead of Naveen’s public meeting. They have been asked to fan out to different parts of the district, right upto the panchayat level, to make people aware of the various welfare programmes of the government. Sources said the chief minister will practically launch the party’s campaign for the upcoming municipal elections from Kalahandi. Though poll dates are yet to be announced, the election is likely to be held sometime in the middle of the year. “Naveen’s decision to start his first public meeting after the coronavirus pandemic in Kalahandi has political significance. The BJP is emerging as a force in the district. In the last panchayat and zilla parishad elections, the BJD had failed to put up a good show in the district. Considering all these factors our leader has chosen the district for the meeting which will send out a signal to the people of Kalahandi and western Odisha which is considered to be underdeveloped,” said a senior BJD leader. Minister for energy, industries and MSME Dibya Shankar Mishra, who hails from Kalahandi district, told The Telegraph: “Real transformation is going to take place in Kalahandi. More than Rs 2,000 crore has been invested in the agriculture sector. The district will see a transformation from poverty to prosperity under the leadership of the chief minister.” He added: “Though the BJP is making an attempt to make inroads into Kalahandi, it would not be successful. In the last zilla parishad elections, we had lost miserably and won only one out of 36 seats and the BJP had won 33 seats. But later we stepped up our efforts and won four out of five Assembly seats in the district and BJP had won only one. But this time in the zilla parishad elections, we will win all the 36 seats.” However, the Kalahandi Lok Sabha seat is represented by the BJP. Significantly, before Naveen’s visit, senior IAS officer Asit Tripathy, who retired as the chief secretary on December 31, has taken charge as the chairperson of the Western Odisha Development Council. “The move indicates how Naveen babu is focusing on western Odisha,” said the BJD leader. The district was earlier known for acute poverty and allegations of famine and starvation deaths. Naveen himself posted information about his proposed visit to Kalahandi on social media. During the visit the chief minister will inaugurate the Rs 756-crore Indravati mega lift irrigation project. Once the 33km-long canal project begins functioning, irrigation facilities will be available to 26,248 hectares of land in 91 villages under three blocks of the district. Besides, Naveen will launch other projects worth Rs 1,300 crore. According to the schedule, nearly 2,000 people will congregate at the meeting venue and the programme will be telecast live. “The 2,000 people who will attend the meeting will have to get their Covid tests done,” Mishra said. The MLAs and ministers, who have been asked to camp in the panchayats, will ensure that people can watch the programme live on LED screens. Party MLAs and leaders have been asked to adhere strictly to Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||West Bengal||HC allows holding of Gangasagar Mela, stresses on need for e-bathing||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday emphasised on the need for ‘e-snan’ (e-bathing) at the Gangasagar Mela, as it allowed the festival to be held amid the coronavirus pandemic. The HC said it was important that people go for e-bathing in order to avoid crowding for the holy dip at the confluence of the Ganga and the Bay of Bengal, in view of the pandemic. A division bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the Bengal government to provide ‘e-snan’ kits -- a small container with the holy water of Gangasagar -- to pilgrims at the fair site in Sagar Island for free. It asked the government to provide the kits for a nominal fee to people who order for it from other places. The state administration already announced that such an arrangement has been made. The government also informed the court that the number of pilgrims who have arrived this year is much less than that in other years. It told the division bench that all health protocols are being maintained in the fair which attracts lakhs of pilgrims every year. In a report submitted to the High Court, the state’s Director of Health Services (DHS) said that the risk of Covid-19 transmission through bathing in flowing water like a river or saline water in a sea is extremely low. “However, as a measure of abundant precaution, pilgrims are allowed to go for a dip in a staggered manner maintaining safe distance between one another,” the report by the DHS said. The Calcutta High Court on January 8 had directed the Bengal government to file a report on Wednesday regarding the arrangements made for organising the Gangasagar Mela, based on which it would decide whether or not to allow the annual fair this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari now divested from East Midnapore district president's post||Nearly a month after West Bengal's political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP, his father and TMC Lok Sabha MP Sisir Adhikari was on Wednesday removed as East Midnapore district president, party sources said. Senior TMC minister Soumen Mahapatra, a known detractor of the Adhikari family, replaced Sisir Adhikari, who was made chairman of the core committee of the party's district unit, a less important post. The decision came a day after Sisir Adhikari was removed from the post of chairman of Digha-Shankarpur Development Authority (DSDA). TMC MLA Akhil Giri, also a detractor of the Adhikari family, replaced Sishir Adhikari as the chief of DSDA, which is responsible for the upkeep and development of the beach town in East Midnapore. Sisir — along with his sons Dibyendu and Soumendu — is perceived to have snubbed the Trinamul Congress as they did not attend major rallies organised by the party in East Midnapore in November and December in the midst of rumours about Suvendu switching over to the BJP. Although Sisir was in Calcutta, his son and Trinamul MP Dibyendu kept himself away from the worker’s meeting of the party held in Tamluk on Tuesday in preparation of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s January 18 mega rally in Nandigram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||If it’s icon-worship, it must be polls||Zealous attempts were visible from both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP to observe the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on Tuesday and the rival parties accused each other of political opportunism in seeking refuge in the legacy of one of Bengal’s foremost icons. The day began with tweets from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, lauding the 19th century monk instrumental in popularising Vedantic and Yogic philosophies in the Occident. As the day progressed, it became increasingly clear that Trinamul’s focus was on Vivekananda’s inclusive, global humanism, while the BJP was more attentive towards his role in the Hindu revivalism at the peak of the British Raj. While Trinamul’s campaign was led largely by youth wing chief Abhishek Banerjee, 33, the BJP fielded its latest acquisition from Mamata’s stable, Suvendu Adhikari, 50, both of who visited Vivevkananda’s residence in north Calcutta. Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek derided the saffron camp over its attempts to appropriate Vivekananda, among other Bengal icons this poll season, while asserting that this soil would never endorse its politics of “hatred” and “division”. The BJP, said the Diamond Harbour MP, had no right to celebrate the icon’s birthday, weaving in the bohiragawto (outsider) angle. “Bengal, the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda, has no place for politics of hatred imported from Gujarat,” said Abhishek, who led a Gol Park-Hazra rally in honour of the most renowned disciple of Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. Some of the participants were carrying national flags. “They claim to be followers of Lord Ram, but they are not. They are followers of (Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin) Nathuram (Godse)… followers of politics of division…. I would like to inform the BJP that Swamiji never, not once, spoke in favour of hatred or communalism, which form the ideological bedrock of your politics,” added Mamata’s nephew. Abhishek went on to remind the saffron camp that all the major Bengal icons it had been trying to appropriate, in order to shed its “outsider” tag, such as Vivekananda, Rabindranath Tagore, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose were firmly opposed to the idea of pitting one religion against another, especially in politics. Abhishek also lambasted Modi for not correcting US President Donald Trump who mispronounced the name of Swami Vivekananda during the “Namaste Trump” tour last year. “Tell us, what happened on February 24, 2020? He (Modi) brought Donald Trump to India…. He (Trump) couldn’t even pronounce Swamiji’s name correctly — called him “Vivekamundan” — right next to a man who is the self-proclaimed largest dharok (bearer) and bahok (carrier) of Hindus… who sat there, clapping,” said Abhishek. “What can be more shameful for Bengalis? Did you find even one BJP leader protest?” “If the Prime Minister was truly a follower of Swamiji, he would have snatched the mic from Trump and told him to first pronounce his name correctly…. Can any of them deny it? Not even a year ago. He (Modi) just sat there, next to him (Trump), clapping away.” Earlier in the day, Adhikari went to Vivekananda’s residence with the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel and Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. The BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh participated in a Shyambazar-Simla rally along with Trinamul turncoats Mukul Roy and Saumitra Khan. Ostensibly, participants in their rally were seen brandishing saffron flags with “Om”. Asked if Bengal icons, including Vivekananda, were being politicised by the two camps in the run-up to the polls, Ghosh said: “Everything is politicised in Bengal. If somebody like Swamiji is now an issue in politics here, it is a good thing.” Even on Tuesday, Trinamul claimed insult to Vivekananda over an allegedly tone deaf campaign teaser from the BJP. In a video uploaded on BJP Bengal’s Twitter handle Modi was described as “Ghorer Chele Naren”, which loosely translates to “Naren, the son of our home”. “It seems that BJP has forgotten that the people of Bengal consider only one Naren (who is popularly known as Swami Vivekananda) to be the ‘son of Bengal’,” said Trinamul in a statement. In her tweet, Mamata said: “Remembering the great leader Swami Vivekananda on his birth anniversary. I bow down to Swamiji's teachings. His message of peace & universal brotherhood is of utmost relevance today & inspires all of us to strive hard in safeguarding these ideals in our beloved nation.” Modi’s post on the microblogging site read: “This Vivekananda Jayanti, there’s a creative effort on the NaMo App that lets you share his thoughts and a personalised message. Let us spread Swami Vivekananda’s dynamic thoughts and ideals far and wide!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Webcast monitoring for Covid jab centres||The state government on Tuesday evening asked district health officials across the state to arrange webcasting at the Covid-19 vaccination centres in districts so that the vaccination process, which is set to start in Bengal from January 16, could be centrally monitored. The webcasting decision was conveyed to chief medical officers (health) of all districts during a videoconference by state health secretary N.S. Nigam after the first consignment of 6.89 lakh Covishield vaccines arrived in Calcutta from Pune on Tuesday. The state government told district officials that vaccine vials would reach districts in three days. “Primarily, health officials in districts have been asked to arrange webcasting at vaccination centres where infrastructure is available. After a meeting tomorrow (Wednesday), a detailed action plan will be given. Webcasting will help monitor the vaccination process because the staff will handle Covid vaccines for the first time. If a centre faces a problem during vaccination, webcasting will help us intervene,” said a senior health official. “It will be better if all vaccination centres are covered by webcasting at least for the first two or three days,” he added. Sources said chief minister Mamata Banerjee might take part in the vaccination process via webcasting. A senior government official said around 5.8 lakh health workers and doctors in private and government healthcare establishments would be vaccinated in the first phase. “The state is ready with 44,000 vaccinators to carry out the process at Bengal’s 4,000 vaccination centres. We have done a dry run of the vaccination process successfully in all districts,” said a senior government official. Sources said Bengal has 741 cold chains that can store around six crore vaccines at a time. Officials said vaccines would be distributed across districts in the first phase according to need. “Each district has sent a list of health workers for vaccination in the first phase. Distribution will be made accordingly. We are expecting the second lot of vaccines to reach us by month-end,” said a health official. The state government has asked all districts, including north Bengal, to send their representatives with adequate police security to receive their quota of vaccines. Health officials in districts this paper spoke to said they would not use all existing vaccination centres and cold chain points in the first phase of vaccination as only health officials and staff would get the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Phone thieves’ make hay at BJP rally ||Mobile phones of BJP MP S.S. Ahluwalia’s son and at least 47 others allegedly got stolen during the saffron party’s roadshow on Tuesday evening. “In all, 48 mobile phones of our party workers, including that of Ramanjit Ahluwalia, the son of the BJP’s Burdwan-Durgapur MP, were stolen during the rally, so were wallets of some party workers,” said Amitabha Banerjee, a BJP leader in Durgapur. The BJP held an induction fair (Yogdaan Mela) at the town’s Benachity, followed by the 4km rally from Prantika to Bhiringi. Ahluwalia and his son Ramanjit apart, Union minister Babul Supriyo, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari and MPs Sunil Mondal and Arjun Singh took part in the rally of over 5,000 people. BJP leaders claimed the police knew about pickpockets at the rally but did nothing. Protesting against “police negligence” outside Durgapur A Zone police outpost, Banerjee said: “How can the police be so negligent about surveillance during a rally attended by a Union minister and three MPs? It is clear that a large group of pickpockets was present.” The police have disclaimed any prior knowledge. Trinamul leaders mocked the BJP. “It was a BJP rally, only their party workers were there. Who else but those in the rally would steal phones? We will tell people to be alert of BJP workers,” said Trinamul’s Uttam Mukherjee. Supriyo had a similar experience during BJP leader Arun Jaitley’s funeral at Delhi’s Nigambodh Ghat in August 2019. Supriyo had then tweeted about his phone getting stolen at the funeral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Sisir Adhikari removed from Digha board||State urban development department on Tuesday removed Trinamul Congress MP Sisir Adhikari as the chairman of the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority in East Midnapore. The 79-year-old Contai MP is the father of Suvendu Adhikari who had left Trinamul and joined the BJP in December last year. “I have done no action in this regard so I have no reaction,” Sisir, who was reportedly in Calcutta for a cataract operation, told The Telegraph over the phone. Ramnagar MLA and Sisir’s deputy in the development authority, Akhil Giri, was elevated to the post of the chairperson. Tarun Jana has been appointed the vice-chairman0. Sisir — along with his sons Dibyendu and Soumendu — is perceived to have snubbed the Trinamul Congress as they did not attend major rallies organised by the party in East Midnapore in November and December in the midst of rumours about Suvendu switching over to the BJP. “The state government has taken the right decision. Sisir babu had not been executing his duties properly, that too in the run up to a crucial election,” said Trinamul leader Sheikh Sufian on the removal. “He seemed to have become a reluctant leader ever since his son Suvendu left our party. His role has been disappointing for us,” Sufian added. MLA Akhil Giri said he “was not aware” of the reasons behind Adhikari’s removal. “All I know is a lot of work is pending and I will execute it to my best capability. We have not had a meeting in a long time,” said Giri. Although Sisir was in Calcutta, his son and Trinamul MP Dibyendu kept himself away from the worker’s meeting of the party held in Tamluk on Tuesday in preparation of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s January 18 mega rally in Nandigram. Two administrators in Tamluk and Egra were replaced on Tuesday for their perceived closeness to the Adhikaris. Rabindranath Sen in Tamluk was replaced by Dipendranarayan Ray and Sankar Bera in Egra by Swapan Nayak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajbanshi Muslims set terms to support TMC||Senior leaders of the Nasya Sheikh Unnayan Parishad, an apex body of Rajbanshi Muslims, have asserted that they would support Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamul in the Bengal elections only if the state forms a separate development board for the community. At a public meeting in Paharpur on Jalpaiguri outskirts, Parishad’s central committee secretary Aminal Haque said: “In north Bengal, around 42 lakh people belong to the Nasya Sheikh community. We want to make it clear that if the state forms a development board for us ahead of the polls, we will support Mamata Banerjee. If the chief minister does not meet our demand, we will not support her.” The assertion comes within a couple of days after state Trinamul leader Omprakash Mishra sought their support. Farid Akhtar Ghazi, the Jalpaiguri district secretary of the Parishad, said the state government should also take initiative to recognise Rajbanshi Muslims as sons of the soil. “This is because BJP leaders have hinted that the Citizenship Amendment Act would be implemented in Bengal. We are also apprehensive that the NRC (National Register of Citizens) may also be taken up here. Many people in our community are worried about probable consequences. We want the state to provide us a protective cover by recognising us as sons of the soil so that none of us faces any problem over our nationality,” Ghazi said. They also sought 30 per cent reservation for the community at the new Narayani battalion of the state police to be headquartered in Cooch Behar. The demand for a development board, an observer said, is an attempt to mount pressure on Trinamul ahead of the crucial state polls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, many Rajbanshi votes had gone to the BJP. The Parishad, leaders said, will continue to press their demands. “We will have a public meeting in Cooch Behar on January 21. Meetings have been planned in both Dinajpurs (North and South) too where we will elaborate on our demands,” said a member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Recoveries continue to outpace infections||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 78th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami. The number of current patients are 7,392, which is an improvement by over 80 per cent. The count is almost back to where it was 158 days ago, on July 7 last year. The state logged 879 recoveries, 751 new infections and 18 deaths on Tuesday. Bengal now has barely 3.4 per cent of the active cases in India, half of the seven per cent it had about a month ago. The recovery rate has risen for 82 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.91 per cent. The current national rate is 96.48 per cent. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.5 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 on November 20. Bengal’s total count of sample examinations, including 33,024 logged on Tuesday, went past 74.97 lakh, at 83,309 tests per million people. The state’s total 5.62 lakh cases include nearly 5.45 lakh recoveries and 9,975 deaths. “It is time to deduce that we were able to see off the winter spell of festivals without damage to our position in the pandemic. Tuesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 3,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Since the end of Durga Puja on October 26, the state reported nearly 2.35 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.08 lakh new infections detected during the same period. The 18 deaths reported on Tuesday included 10 from the city. The state attributed 8,359 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to 1.44 per cent at the national level. “This is the sole area where our targets remain unmet. But we have been able to lower the daily death count drastically, from over 50-60 to less than 20-30, for some time now. That will start showing in the mortality rate,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP embarks on hill drive||Hundreds, including some prominent names of Darjeeling politics, joined the BJP on Tuesday amid speculations that the saffron party, so far piggybacking on regional parties to win elections, has decided to expand its own organisation in the hills. The event at Champasari in Siliguri — the first of its kind for the BJP — marked a significant change as until recently, the BJP did not even have full-fledged district committees for Darjeeling (hills) and Kalimpong. “It’s clear that the BJP wants its own presence in the hills. And the joinings today (Tuesday) suggest that they want to expand using the known Gorkha faces,” said an observer. Both the Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Morcha suffered losses as the BJP got leaders from the two camps in its first major induction programme. The list of leaders who swung to the BJP included L.M. Lama, former organisational secretary of the Morcha and Sawan Rai, central committee leader of the Morcha (both from the Tamang camp), B.P. Bajgain, former spokesman Morcha, Shankar Adhikari, former Morcha president (Terai), Kumar Chamling, secretary, (Kalimpong subdivision committee) of the Morcha, all from Bimal Gurung’s camp, and Swaraj Thapa, former political advisor to Gurung,  as well as retired government officials, writers and lawyers. “The induction has clearly given a fillip to BJP’s plan to expand its party on its own capacity,” said a hill observer. The BJP won the 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha election with Bimal Gurung’s support. In 2019, they won both Lok Sabha and Darjeeling Assembly bypoll seat with support from Gurung’s Morcha and other hill parties like Gorkha National Liberation Front, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists, Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League and Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha among others. While Gurung severed ties with the BJP, other hill parties are part of the NDA fold. Darjeeling MP from the BJP Raju Bista also criticised Gurung at the event. “Earlier, I thought daju (Bimal Gurung) would take care of the place and I would focus on Delhi,” said Bista. “He (Gurung) showed me the right direction but he took the wrong route.” He dismissed Gurung’s taking credit for his (Bista’s) win. “No single party or person was responsible for my win. People ensured my victory,” said Bista. On Gurung demanding Bista’s resignation, the latter said: “I will not resign.” He added it was because of hill politicians that Gorkha issues were unresolved till date. Bista said he was committed to resolve “identity” issues of Gorkhas and added that the BJP would fulfil the promises of granting tribal status to 11 hill communities and finding a permanent political solutionto the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Deadlock ends, jeep safari starts||The popular jeep safari at Chilapata forest in Alipurduar district resumed on Tuesday afternoon after a gap of seven days, much to the elation of tourists and stakeholders associated with the sector. The safari was closed since last week as some villagers had locked the forest range office to protest the alleged anomalies in the recruitment of contract workers by the state forest department. “It is the same range office from where permits are issued for the (jeep) safari. As it was closed, the safari, which is the main attraction for tourists visiting Chilapata, had also stopped,” said a resort owner of the area. The villagers who locked the range office — some other forest range offices in the Dooars have also been locked up by aggrieved residents on the same issue — had also resorted to an indefinite demonstration. They alleged that instead of engaging local youths as contract workers, the department was engaging outsiders. These protests had kept forest employees away from the office. As the impasse continued and people running accommodations and cabs in the area continued faced losses, a delegation of them held a meeting with protesting villagers. In all, around 1,500 people in the area are associated with the tourism sector, directly and indirectly. “We told villagers that keeping the range office closed is harming everyone. Half of the revenue collected by the forest department (from the safari) is provided to the forest protection committees and eventually spent on development of nearby villages. Also, we told them that many residents from villages depended on the tourism sector and their earnings were hit,” said Ganesh Sha, secretary, Chilapata Lodge Owners’ Association. The meeting was positive because on Tuesday morning, the villagers went to the range office and unlocked it. After opening the office, villagers said they realised that by locking the office they have realised the problems faced by those associated with tourism. “Many local youths are waiters, cab drivers and guides. Many shops depend on tourists. That is why we decided to reopen the office,” said Ravi Rava, a resident of Andu, an adjoining village. “As far as our demand is concerned, the divisional forest officer (of Jaldapara wildlife division) has communicated with us and will meet us on January 15 on the issue,” Rava added. As the news spread, foresters posted at the range joined the office. They also issued permits for the safari conducted in the afternoon hours. “It is a huge relief for us. Tourists are flocking to north Bengal, both in the hills and in the Dooars. These past few days, many groups have left early or cancelled their bookings after knowing they cannot avail the safari. We believe that now the situation will start improving from Wednesday,” said a cab owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Promise of talks defers taxi strike||In a last-minute decision, associations of taxi owners and drivers of Bagdogra and Siliguri on Tuesday deferred their decision of indefinite strike, a relief to tourists and tourism stakeholders. On Monday, associations in Bagdogra had announced that from Tuesday, they would start an indefinite strike over a series of demands, including fare hike. Since 2008, fares had not been revised by the state government. A number of other associations in Siliguri supported the decision and decided on a day’s strike. In all, around 3,000 cabs, including luxury taxis, were to stay off roads on Tuesday. As officials of Darjeeling district administration learnt about the decision, they quickly decided to hold talks with the associations. Accordingly, Sonam Tshering Lepcha, the regional transport officer (RTO) of Darjeeling, was sent to Bagdogra where he held a meeting with representatives of the associations on Monday night. The meeting ended almost at midnight and associations decided to defer the strike as Lepcha gave a written assurance that the administration would hold a meeting with them on January 14. “The RTO’s written assurance and request to defer the strike till the January 14 meeting is over made us reconsider. We hope the talks will yield positive results,” Siraj Bhowmik, president of Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association. He hinted that if no decision was made on the revision of fares and other issues at the meeting, they might announce the indefinite strike again. Though the strike was deferred, there were fewer cabs at the airport as many cab owners came to know about the decision late on Tuesday. Many luxury taxis were off roads. “As the decision was made late on Monday night, many members had no information about it. Thus, they did not ply their vehicles. We hope the situation is normal on Wednesday,” said Bhowmik. A hotel owner of the city said as tourist flow was steady these days, they all hoped for a positive decision is made at the January 14 meeting so that there are no taxi strikes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-236
13-01-2021||West Bengal||Five ‘Rohingya infiltrators’ held||Acting on a tip-off, the Government Railway Police (GRP) of New Jalpaiguri police station arrested five suspected Rohingya infiltrators on Tuesday. The five were identified as Abdul Malik, Sophia Begum, Inayat Rehman, Mohammad Hasan and Samsira Begum. According to police sources, they fled from Kutupalong camp in Cox’s Bazar district of Bangladesh and infiltrated India. From Agartala, they booked tickets under fake names and boarded a train on January 10 to reach Delhi. In another incident, a team of Balurghat police in South Dinajpur arrested 12 persons, suspected to be members of a robbery gang, including five Bangladeshis from Naogaon district, on Sunday night. Debarshi Dutta, the district police chief, said on Tuesday that the accused were arrested from Law College More of Balurghat town. Last week, the Bangladeshis had infiltrated India and with seven others planned a robbery in Balurghat. All the 12 were produced at a local court on Monday. The court sent three to three-day police custody and others to judicial custody. The police, Dutta said, seized sharp weapons, Bangladeshi currency and a vehicle from them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
13-01-2021||West Bengal||EC scan on voter list on Jan 13||Deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain will hold meetings with senior Bengal government officials, district magistrates and superintendents of police on Wednesday with the focus of the discussions expected to be on the steps taken for the error-free revision of electoral roll. “The deputy election commissioner will be holding the meetings just two days before the electoral roll is published after revision. Earlier, the Election Commission had issued a series of guidelines for preparing an error-free electoral roll and it seems he will check whether the guidelines were followed,” said a senior government official. According to officials aware of the development, Jain is likely to check with the district authorities whether they took all required steps while carrying out the revision of the electoral roll, which started from December 18. The electoral roll is scheduled to be published on January 15. According to sources, the EC had laid stress on taking extra care while deleting names from the voter lists after Opposition parties, mainly the CPM and the Congress, expressed apprehensions saying names of eligible voters could be deleted by the ruling party suspecting they would not vote in its favour. Anybody can apply to delete a voter’s name from the list citing that he/she does not live in the given address for more than six months. The district authorities can delete the voter’s name from the list if the complaint is found true, said the sources. “It is important that the district authorities conduct a thorough inquiry and visit the address of the voter before deleting the name from the list. The voter should also be given enough chance to present his or her case before the authorities,” said a source. The EC had made it clear a few weeks ago that the district authorities should send block development officers or joint BDOs to the address of the voter to inquire before initiating the process of deleting his or her name from the list. “The deputy election commissioner is also expected to take stock of the law and order in the districts. It seems Jain’s visit is the prelude to the arrival of the full bench of the EC later in the month,” said a source. According to the sources, the EC had also asked for the deletion of the names of all those against whom non-bailable warrants had been pending for more than six months by carrying out required steps such as asking them to the hearing. “He (Jain) might also check how many such names were deleted. Also, he had earlier directed authorities to execute 50,000 non-bailable warrants. This time, he might ask the officers about the progress on this particular issue,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-237
13-01-2021||North East||Sarma clears air on Nadda claim on ST status||A day after BJP president J.P. Nadda’s categorical assertion at a public rally in Silchar that the Narendra Modi government has granted Scheduled Tribe status to six communities in Assam left the aspiring groups seething, senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said the state government will soon submit its report to the Centre on the issue. The six communities demanding ST status for over two decades are Koch-Rajbongshi, Chutia, Moran, Tai Ahom, Matak and tea tribes. Nadda’s statement on Monday led the six groups to raise the pitch for expediting the process for granting them ST status while they criticised the “misleading” claim by a senior leader like Nadda, leading to discussion on social media. Senior advocate Nilay Dutta virtually summed up the mood of the groups in a tweet: “Surprised. This was not known to me. When was the Act or Ordinance passed? @CMOfficeAssam @sarbanandsonwal @himantabiswa. Is it a fact? Or a big faux-pas by @JPNadda. He was reading from written notes. Who gave him the briefing?” Sarma on Tuesday tried to clear the air over Nadda’s assertion after representatives of the six groups made their displeasure public as they were unaware of any such development. These groups are politically influential, comprising about 1 crore of the state’s 3.2 crore population. “Our national president has only reiterated our commitment to accord ST status to the six communities without affecting the interest of the existing groups. We will soon send our report to the Centre so that it can be taken up in Parliament to expedite the process. ST status is the right of these groups and the BJP supports their demand,” Sarma told reporters here, adding the issue should not be politicised. The BJP had promised ST status to the six groups before the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. During the peak of the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act movement in Assam, the Centre ordered the formation of a group of ministers after it introduced The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) in Rajya Sabha on January 9 last year proposing ST status to the six communities. Dispur formed the group of ministers headed by Sarma in January 2020 to suggest measures to ensure ST status to the new groups without affecting the interests of the existing groups. The group had said that they will submit its report in October last year but it is still a work in progress from all possible indications. All Tai Ahom Yuba Parishad chief spokesperson Gunakanta Gogoi, All Koch Rajbongshi Students’ Union general secretary Gakul Barman and All Moran Students Union chief Naba Moran told The Telegraph that they were unaware of any such development but both the state and central governments should now expedite the process as they have waited for too long. Condemning Nadda’s claim, Moran said the “misleading” statement was made for “political gains” which should be avoided at all costs. Barman said nothing has happened so far but the government should now “display its sincerity” by introducing the bill for the ST status in Parliament session starting January 19. Gogoi, on the other hand, said the ST issue has become a political football, kicked from the Centre to the state and vice-versa. “But if the BJP-led government doesn’t take a concrete decision by January 26, we will give a fitting reply in the Assembly polls later this year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
13-01-2021||North East||Gauhati HC stays order on Debabrata Saikia||Gauhati High Court on Tuesday stayed the operation of a January 1 Assam Legislative Assembly Secretariat notification derecognising state Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia as the leader of the Opposition in the House. The stay was based on the ground that the Congress was the largest recognised party in the House having the greatest numerical strength in the Opposition. The Congress has 20 MLAs in the 126-member House. Additionally, there was no material to indicate that Saikia was not the CLP leader as on day. The court also issued notices returnable within two weeks to the secretary and principal secretary of the Assam Legislative Assembly, along with the chief secretary, Assam. Saikia, a two-time MLA from Nazira constituency, on Tuesday evening shared details of the case through a press release on Tuesday. Appearing for Saikia in Writ Petition (C) No. 182/2021, advocate Satyen  Sarma, a former additional advocate general of Assam, submitted that an MLA holding the position of Leader of the Opposition needs to fulfil two requirements under Rule 2(1)(p) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Assam Legislative Assembly and Section 2 of The Salary and Allowances of the Leader of the Opposition in the Assam Legislative Assembly Act, 1978. First, one has to be the leader of the largest recognised party, i.e. the party having the greatest numerical strength in the Opposition. Secondly, the MLA concerned has to be recognised as the leader of the largest recognised Opposition party by the Speaker. As such, Satyen Sarma contended that since Saikia fulfilled both of these requirements and since the notification under challenge did not withdraw his recognition for non-fulfilment of these requirements, he is still legally entitled to remain the Leader of the Opposition. Sarma was assisted by advocates Jayanta Deka, Tarun Krishna Bhuyan, Sanjeeb Kumar Deka and Angaj Gautam. Justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua in his order noted that the Congress is indeed the largest recognised party in the Opposition in the House as of today since its MLAs have the greatest numerical strength in the Opposition. Additionally, there was no material to indicate that Saikia is not the Leader of the INC Legislature Party as of today. Further, the Judge noted that the issue of the Congress MLAs not forming one-sixth of the total members of the House is unrelated to recognition of Saikia as Leader of the Opposition as per the relevant Act and Rules. “In such a scenario, the court was of the preliminary view that the notification under challenge was ‘unsustainable’ under law and the facts of the case. Therefore, in view of Sarma having made out a prima facie case in favour of  Saikia, and considering the ‘balance of convenience and irreparable injury’ which may be otherwise caused to Saikia, the honourable court was pleased to stay the operation of the Notification,” the press release said. The January 1 notification withdrawing Saikia's status had said, "The present strength of the Indian National Congress Legislature Party, Assam Legislative Assembly, is not equal to the quorum fixed to constitute a sitting of the House that is one-sixth of the total number of Members of the House as required... therefore, the Hon'ble Speaker, Assam Legislative Assembly, has been pleased to withdraw the recognition of Debabrata Saikia, MLA, as Leader of the Opposition, with effect from January 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
13-01-2021||Opinion||Low politics in the high Himalayas||For the Nepalese this must seem like the re-run of a show they’ve seen countless times before. Right from 1950 no prime minister has served a full term in office. Parliaments have inevitably been dissolved because of internal disputes in the ruling party of the day. For now the different sides are holding public shows of strength. On Friday Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli held a rally in Dhangadi near the Uttar Pradesh border and on Saturday his supporters had staged a march through Kathmandu. His rivals Communist Party of Nepal (CPN-Unified Marxist-Leninist) are also on the streets and claim to have a parliamentary majority. The immediate trigger of the current crisis was the ordinance promulgated by President Bidya Devi Bhandari on December 15 that amended Nepal’s Constitutional Council Act. This deepened the CPN’s festering fissures and the next day the party’s standing committee passed a resolution asking Oli to withdraw the ordinance. On December 19, Oli met party co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ to settle differences. That doesn’t seem to have worked.  The crisis has been building up for some time and has its genesis in the power-sharing dispute between Oli and Prachanda. Oli’s under pressure from Prachanda and other senior CPN leaders like former prime ministers Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhala Nath Khanal to quit either the post of prime minister or party chairman. The Chinese led by their Ambassador Hou Yanqi have been working intensively behind-the-scenes to keep the Communists united. They might have liked a scenario in which a trap would have been likely sprung at the forthcoming winter session of parliament with a no-confidence motion against Oli from within his own party. Some reports have suggested some 90 MPs had already brought in such a motion. Oli’s move to dissolve parliament checkmated this possibility. Inevitably, a split in the CPN looms. The anti-Oli faction has taken the battle to Nepal’s Supreme Court which hears constitutional issues only on Fridays. At the latest sitting one judge, Hari Krishna Karki was forced to recuse himself as he was appointed advocate-general by Oli and is considered close to him. In fact, the prime minister has filled the court and it’s very likely that it will back his dissolution of parliament. But Oli could be on weak ground constitutionally because there’s little room in the present constitution for a prime minister of a majority government to opt for mid-term elections. It’s reckoned that the hearings could last around eight to 10 weeks.  That’s a long period in politics and Nepal could witness much turmoil during this time. There will surely be a crisis if Oli’s rivals win their case and Parliament has to be reconvened. Oli’s position will be almost untenable. Also the position of President Bhandari will become very vulnerable as she has behaved more like a member of the Oli faction of the CPN rather than a bipartisan head of state of a democracy. There is murmuring that Oli may opt for an emergency at some stage. India has taken the line that these political manoeuvrings are an internal matter for Nepal. But there’s no doubt it is monitoring developments closely. India has not really been able to reap the dividends, either politically or economically, of giving its blessings to the Nepali Congress-CPN (Maoist) deal signed in New Delhi in November 2005 which provided the basis for the April 2006 movement, which led to King Gyanendra’s removal. This deal, which brought the Maoists into mainstream politics and subsequently to power, happened primarily because the late Girija Prasad Koirala (GPK) convinced India, that the king, by his coup of February 1, 2005, had violated his commitment to constitutional monarchy and multi-party democracy. Bilateral relations, though, never really stabilised under the full-fledged multi-party democracy. GPK’s passing in 2010 combined with problems in the Nepali Congress and the lack of credible leaders. Besides that, there was the splintering of the Nepal Sadbhawna Party and the Left’s connections with China becoming more obvious as they gained political strength. Nepal-China relations was gradually rising and have risen to 8,848.86m (the new height of Everest as determined by china and Nepal). Meanwhile, India-Nepal relations have been on a roller-coaster ride. There was the extreme high witnessed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Kathmandu in August 2014.  Then it crashed to the depths during the stoppage of supplies at the border from September 2015. Those who know Nepal well will recall that the one ‘blunder’ India did, which should never have been repeated at any cost, was the blockade of 1989. The Nepalese have never forgotten that and it remains deeply ingrained in their psyche. China’s overt attempts to capitalise on the Left’s rise to power has led to deepening ties between the CPN and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) much to India’s dismay. A direct result of this CCP influence was the unification of the CPN (Maoist) and the CPN (United Marxist-Leninist) in May 2018 overseen by Guo Yezhou, the vice-minister of the CCP’s International Department. Guo was sent to Kathmandu on December 27 to try and preserve left unity after Oli’s move. China is loathe to let the Left government fall. India, on the other hand, cannot trust any of the Left leaders. They are now ideologically susceptible to Chinese Marxist thought even if their “cadres” wouldn’t be able to spot the difference between Xi Jinping and Mao-Tse-Tung. This is India’s moment of mea culpa of 2005-06 and if not overtly, a course correction is now imperative. It might be smart for India to revisit its earlier doctrine of constitutional monarchy and multi-party democracy and support the restoration the 1990 Constitution. Nepal, as well as the entire Himalayan frontier, is on the cusp of far-reaching change and, India needs to think up innovative ways to check Chinese influence. Keep in mind that the Bhutan king, the 17th Karmapa Lama and the next Dalai Lama will all be youngsters who will have religious ties with Swayambhu and Boudha Nath shrines in Kathmandu. India could recover lost ground in Nepal by looking for a new alternative rather than another unreliable substitute to Oli. Think back to the examples of King Zahir Shah of Afghanistan and Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia. Inevitably, there will be questions about who in royal family India can turn to. While King Gyanendra has been circumspect in his life as a private citizen, the same unfortunately cannot be said for his son, Crown Prince Paras. He has already suffered three heart attacks and his personal life has been such that the Nepalis may not accept him as King. As early as in 2007, when relations between GPK and the Maoists had already started unravelling, in surprising repeated statements, GPK appealed to King Gyanendra and Paras to abdicate in favour of Paras’s son Prince Hridayendra. This, though, was rejected by the Maoists and the monarchy was abolished in May 2008. Could this appeal have been a belated recognition from the veteran leader that he had erred? Prince Hridayendra is now 18. He is descended from the Indian princely family of Sikar, which belongs to the Shekhawat clan. Reports indicate that since the promulgation of the 2015 Federal Constitution, Nepal has seen sporadic demonstrations demanding the monarchy restoration. India shouldn’t block such a development should Nepalis, themselves, want the monarchy to be restored. The religious card should be used like other arrows in the quiver to counter Xi Jinping’s aggressive moves and communist ideology in Nepal. The Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party (RPP) should take the lead for the restoration. This will also remind Nepali communist leaders that it was India who helped them in their quest for democracy. Keep in mind that when the king was around many politically aggrieved leaders would run to him for help. The Chinese may also be reading the tea leaves after Guo’s visit. After all, Chinese realpolitik in Nepal was so fine-tuned at one stage that all official pronouncements would be addressed as “His Majesty” and “His Majesty’s Government”. While Nepal’s kings of the past have been accused of promoting anti-India sentiment and King Gyanendra did not heed India’s advice to continue to “govern” with Sher Bahadur Deuba as his front China never had the kind of sway it has had over Nepal since 2006. India should be very wary of China’s machinations and carefully plan for the future without getting bogged down by any historical baggage. Karan Singh was deputed by the Government of India to cajole King Gyanendra to leave. Maybe it’s time he visited Kathmandu again? S. Ramesh is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
13-01-2021||Opinion||Quiet coup: US Capitol Hill siege||Even as determined Democrats prepare the ground for the impeachment of Donald Trump, the outgoing president of the United States of America, for his alleged role in fanning the grievances of his constituency that, ultimately, led to an unprecedented siege of Capitol Hill by Mr Trump’s supporters, questions are being asked in the global corridors of power and in the academia whether what America escaped that fateful day could, indeed, be called a coup. Those inclined towards a more conservative understanding of an armed insurrection would dismiss this conjecture. After all, political history around the world shows that a coup is usually characterized by an armed, illegal attempt on the part of vested interests to wrest power with the support of segments, if not the whole, of the military. The experiences of coup in nations around the world — Afghanistan, Iran, Egypt, France, England, Germany, Russia, Cuba, Pakistan, Bangladesh, to name only a few — have been more or less consistent with these enduring traits of a forceful ouster of a regime or a leader. But political phenomena can change with time; their understanding must, therefore, keep up with the transitions in their character. At a time when democracy finds itself on the back foot around the world — the Democracy Index estimated in 2020 that over a third of the global population live under autocratic regimes — it would be instructive to note that the implosion of freer polities and freedoms often takes place in a barely recognized, piecemeal manner. Charismatic leaders are getting elected to power in seemingly unfettered elections and then subverting the democratic edifice and its institutions with popular support. India still prides itself as being a relatively young democracy that has, so far, not come under the shadow of a coup. But this is not to suggest that Indian democracy has had a trouble-free existence. Neither is the Emergency the only instance of the trampling of the letter and the spirit of democracy. There is evidence to suggest that the last few years have brought key institutions — the vanguard of democracy — under unimaginable stress. Two features of this erosion are quite discernible. First, there is an ideological mobilization that is used by the powers that be to chip away at the foundations of constitutionalism. Second, and equally worrying, is an effete political Opposition that is complicit in the undermining of the democratic ethic. India, arguably, is no longer a stranger to these worrying signs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Opinion||In order: right to life over religion||At a time when the Constitution appears to many to be under stress, a clarification of the reasoned order behind its directive principles is always welcome. The occasion may be limited in scope, as in the case of the petition in the Madras High Court regarding rituals and festivals in the Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli district. The petitioner said that the rituals were not taking place according to sacred texts but on the whims of the Hindu religious and charitable endowments department. He was seeking the high court’s direction to the department to conduct the rituals regularly. In response, the Madras High Court reportedly said that the right to religion was not higher than the right to life. During the pandemic, the court would not interfere if the government restricted rituals in order to protect public health. The Madras High Court alluded to the Calcutta High Court’s earlier order to regulate crowds during Durga Puja for the same reason. It may be recalled here that the Supreme Court had ordered restrictions for Ratha Yatra in Odisha too. By giving primacy to the right to life over the right to religion, the Madras High Court laid bare a certain order assumed by the Constitution. The impact of this is not limited to one temple or one petition alone, but has far wider reverberations at a time when religion is being considered by some as a means to disenfranchise select groups of people. Cow vigilantism is one example of this. The nuanced nature of the Madras High Court’s ruling may also be noted; it indicates the fine line between State and religion that institutions must tread in order to preserve India’s unique brand of secularism. The petitioner had claimed that only religious leaders who knew the shastras could determine how rituals could be shortened, not department officials. Presumably with due acknowledgment of the right to religion, the high court has asked the government to consult religious leaders and, if possible, the petitioner and see if rituals can be conducted without the presence of the public and with hygiene and Covid-19 protocols given priority. The court’s ruling offers a model of harmonious exchange that could well be followed in more spheres than the religious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Opinion||Love jihad: chasing a phantom in Assam||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam is planning to bring a law that will make it mandatory for the bride and the groom to disclose information about their religion and income in official documents a month before their wedding. This comes after several other BJP-ruled states have enacted or expressed their intent to implement laws to stop ‘love jihad’ — a pejorative term used by Hindutva groups to berate interfaith marriage. Himanta Biswa Sarma, the most visible face of the Assam government, claimed that the law is “not against love jihad”. But he added to the confusion by saying that the law ‘would be somewhat similar’ to the ones in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. “It would be inclusive of all religions and would empower our sisters by bringing transparency... One will have to disclose not only religion but earning source. Complete family details, education etc. Many a time even in same religion marriage we have found that the girl later finds that the husband is in an illegal business,” said Sarma. “The proposed law will require the man and the woman to disclose their source of income, profession, permanent address and religion in a government-prescribed form a month before the wedding. Failing to do so would lead to legal action against the couple.” Neither Sarma nor any of his party leaders in the state has provided any data on interfaith marriages in Assam, let alone evidence that such a trend is on the rise. So the question is whether the BJP is contemplating such a legislation to polarize Assam in the run-up to the assembly elections scheduled next year. Or was it trying to score brownie points by emulating BJP governments in UP and MP? Gender activists and women leaders in Assam, such as the Congress spokesperson, Bobbeeta Sharma, insist that the ‘love jihad’ phenomenon was unfounded and that it may be a tactic to create communal polarization after the BJP failed to push through the Citizenship (Amendment) Act because of stiff resistance from regional groups that don’t want religion to decide citizenship. They treat migration as an ethnic issue rather than a religious one. Assamese women’s groups insist that trafficking is a far bigger problem than love jihad. “This is something the government should worry about, the urgent need to prevent illegal trafficking of our girls elsewhere in India by luring them with fake job offers,” said Sharma. My own investigations into the trafficking of Assamese women (“Assam’s missing women and the sex trade”) led to interesting revelations. According to statistics officially provided by Assam police, 3,184 women and 3,840 girl children had gone missing in Assam between 1996 and 2007. The figure works out to about two women going missing every day. According to the Bureau of Police Research and Development, trafficking may have reduced with a dip in ethnic conflicts but it remains a serious problem, especially in flood-prone areas that witness substantial annual displacement. Armed conflicts and internal displacement in Assam have contributed to the problem. Nearly half a million people were displaced and lodged in makeshift camps in Western Assam in the 1990s due to large-scale violence involving Bodo tribesmen, Bengali Hindus and Muslims and adivasis brought to Assam from central India by the British to work in tea plantations. Similar displacements took place elsewhere in Assam as well as in Manipur and Tripura because of ethnic conflict. Assam police have been rescuing local girls from brothels in Delhi and Mumbai. In recent times, women have also been rescued from wealthy landlords in Punjab and Haryana. Gender activists say that in these cases, the ‘marriage’ was a ruse and the women were not treated as wives at all. The Bureau of Police Research and Development say that an organized racket of ‘recruiters’ lure women with fake job offers outside the state. Poverty and helplessness forced the women to accept these deals. Gender groups have raised demands for a chain of rehabilitation homes for trafficked girls who have been rescued. They have also asked the police to focus on the menace of missing girls. Instead of chasing the phantom of ‘love jihad’, the Assam government must take concrete measures to stop trafficking and rehabilitate victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Opinion||The patriots||We are witnessing a bizarre situation. One comes across instances where consumers want growing of food crops for supplying to the public distribution system, while producers, lured by the apparent gains of shifting to cash crops, are reluctant to do so. The government has to mediate between these conflicting interests. But in India at present, the farmers have no desire to shift from food crops, even as consumers want food crops to be supplied through the public distribution system. There is no conflict of interest among them that the government has to mediate between. And, yet, it is imposing a shift on farmers from food to cash crops that would destroy the public distribution system. Such a shift is precisely what the agricultural legislations aim to bring about. Government economists defending the laws have been emphasizing the benefits of such a shift. The government here is not mediating in a conflict of interests among the people; it has, apparently, its own interest, which it is imposing on the people, on farmers and consumers alike, against which the farmers are agitating in the bitter cold of Delhi. It is a bizarre case of government versus the people at large, not people versus people. Likewise, the farmers are unanimous in rejecting contract farming; and, yet, the government is pushing contract farming through these bills, ostensibly in the farmers’ interest. Again, it is a case not of the government responding to the demand from any section of the people; it has apparently its own interest which it is imposing on the people. But what could be its own interest? While it is obvious that its own interest coincides with the interest of corporates and international agribusiness, the government’s answer would be that it is upholding the ‘national interest’. Corporate interest is thus identified with ‘national interest’. This has been the hallmark of the Narendra Modi regime, and it is symptomatic of the Corporate-Hindutva alliance of which Modi is the architect and which keeps him in power. The bizarreness of the situation is this: even right-wing governments justify their pro-corporate policies by claiming to defend the interest of some section of the people. Margaret Thatcher’s attack on trade unions was defended by her as a means of controlling inflation that trade unions allegedly caused and that hurt large masses of the people. But in India we are seeing the unilateral and gratuitous imposition of a set of measures that no segment of the people has ever demanded, measures that portend the dismantling of the public distribution system, which is opposed by people at large, and against which vast numbers are vehemently protesting; all this just to promote corporate interest. This is unprecedented in a democracy. The government will claim that since it won the 2019 parliamentary elections, it has the mandate to bring in the ‘reforms’ it wants. But this is erroneous for several reasons. First, it is wrong in principle: winning an election does not give the government the mandate to do whatever it likes. Second, this is especially so because the 2019 elections were not fought on the issue of ‘agricultural reforms’. In fact, these reforms never figured in the ruling party’s electioneering, which focused on the Pulwama attack and the Balakot air-strikes. Third, there has been a commoditization of politics where even having a majority in the legislature has lost much significance. Fighting elections itself has become extraordinarily expensive. Causing defections from the opponents before elections has become common and is also expensive. And no matter who wins the election, defections are engineered from other parties for a price to get the required majority to form the government. For all these reasons, the party with the largest amount of money has a clear edge over the others; and since the corporates are the main source of such money, forging an alliance with them becomes essential for coming to power for which they have to be offered a quid pro quo. Hindutva forces, with their communal-polarizing agenda and corporate financial backing, can exercise hegemony in such a world of commoditized politics. The quid pro quo offered to them includes, inter alia, control over peasant agriculture. While corporates as a whole gain from such ascendancy, one segment among them, an upstart segment, usually gains more than the other, more established, segments. Daniel Guérin (Fascism and Big Business) had shown that in Germany in the 1930s, a segment of monopoly capital, engaged in producing armaments and producer goods, had become special beneficiaries of the corporate alliance with the Nazis compared to the older segment engaged in textiles and consumer goods. In Japan, new houses, the shinko zaibatsu, benefited more than older houses like Mitsui from the fascistic regime that came to power in 1931, with which the corporates had close relations. While contemporary India is different from 1930s Germany or Japan, a similar privileging of a segment of new corporate houses can be detected here too. This is attracting the special ire of the farmers. Modi prepared the ground for identifying corporate interest, especially the interest of this nouveau segment, with the national interest by calling the corporates “wealth creators”. He meant the ‘nation’s’ wealth. By this description alone, he raised amassing private wealth into a national service, and those who amassed such wealth into privileged members of the ‘nation’ whose interest deserved the highest priority. It followed that all segments of the population must be made to accede to the demands of these upstart corporates; it is in the interest of the population itself, as wealth-amassing by these corporates supposedly benefits all. The Modi government has thus inverted the concept of the ‘nation’, from an entity identified with the people to one identified with the corporates, especially the nouveau corporates. The agriculture bills give expression to this inversion. This, however, constitutes a betrayal of our anti-colonial struggle. The concept of the ‘nation’ that had developed in Europe in the wake of the Westphalian Peace Treaties in the seventeenth century had been imperialist, non-inclusive (it had located an “internal enemy”), and, supposedly, deserving of apotheosis by the people who were only supposed to make sacrifices for it. By contrast, anti-colonial nationalism in countries like India was a very different sui generis, phenomenon. It saw the nation as being inclusive, of which secularism was an integral part; and it saw the raison d’être of the nation in improving the lives of the people. The concept of the nation implicit in the Modi government’s understanding is the very opposite of this and is closer to the aggrandizing concept of Europe whose logical culmination was fascism. The peasants gathered around Delhi are opposing the Modi government’s world-view in every respect. They are upholding secularism, as is evident from the fact that Hindu, Sikh and Muslim peasants are standing shoulder to shoulder. They are, in their opposition to corporate encroachment on agriculture, denying the identification of the ‘nation’ with a bunch of corporate houses. By standing up for the public distribution system, they are seeing the raison d’être of the nation as consisting in serving the people. The peasant movement is reclaiming the concept of the nation from the Modi government that had hijacked it. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren invited to inaugurate Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela||In a bid to add relevance to the two-decade-old Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela, which has undergone a massive upside-down, members of Dubiya Kharn Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela Committee, headed by Manika Congress MLA Ramchander Singh Chero met chief minister Hemant Soren at his Ranchi residence on Tuesday and invited him to inaugurate the fair, which is annually on February 11 and 12. The Adivasi Maha Kumbh is hosted every year at Dubiya Kharn, on a government empty land, which is about 10 kilometres off Daltonganj at the bifurcation of the NH 75 highway. The Chero leaders during the meeting apprised the chief minister of the hardships faced by the tribal forest dwellers. They categorically highlighted that the tribals were facing trouble in van patta. Singh said, “Van patta has become an elusive concept now for the Adivasi.” He added, “We invited the chief minister with a simple belief – his presence at the event would galvanize the tribals, who sadly feel overlooked due to the apathy of the administration.” On being asked about Soren’s response he said, “Chief Minister didn’t decline nor did he confirm. But being a tribal CM, he should try to present at this event to witness where the tribal have slipped down to and how their income-generating avenues are getting narrowed with every passing day.” Over the years the Dubiya Kharn Adivasi Maha Kumbh Mela has lost its Adivasi tone and identity. The stalls which once helped the Adivasis earn money have now been replaced with junk food and liquor stalls. Cultural shows have been done away with and songs, dance, and merry-making have made an entry. According to sources, gambling has also got itself associated with this fair. The MLA said, “We are trying to preserve and conserve our identity but crass commercialism and modernity are invading us.” According to him, the tribals of the area are dreading displacement once the Madal dam becomes operational.  Singh said that the tribals dread displacement the most but it has become their destiny. He claimed that over half a dozen villages would get submerged and about ninety-eight per cent of the tribal population need to move on to other places if the Mandal dam becomes functional. He said, “We will be raising this issue before our CM if he chooses to inaugurate the mela.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Foresters on high alert as Dalma elephants head home||Five separate herds of elephants are on their way to the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary and could return home anytime, thus alerting foresters, who have taken a host of measures to ensure their safety along with that of the locals. The elephants have been returning home earlier for some time now. A herd of 35 elephants had moved into the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, in December last year. The Dalma range office is keeping touch with Ghatsila counterparts about the position and movement of the jumbos, including calves. “We need to be on maximum alert for the imminent arrival of elephants from Bengal. Most of the jumbos have left the Bengal jungles. We have reports of the five herds anchored near Dhalbhumgarh but more should be on their way to Dalma,” a forester said on condition of anonymity. The herds, which migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal last year, are presently scattered at a forest near Dhalbhumgarh in East Singhbhum. Besides coming home early, the elephants had also migrated to Bengal about a month earlier, in July. “The jumbos generally catch the corridor to Dalma after harvesting season ends in Bengal,” the forester said. Trackers have been asked to closely monitor the elephants’ movements and remain alerted, and inform the range office when the herd nears the sanctuary. The villagers have already been handed over firecrackers and ‘mashals’ (torches) to keep elephants at bay. They have also been told not to unnecessarily venture out of their home in the night. Elephants often barge into farms to damage standing crops which results in man-animal conflict. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the herd, which arrived home last month, is presently in Suklara inside the sprawling 192 square kilometre sanctuary. “Rest of the elephants should be home anytime,” he added. A Dalma forest guard said the herds are stationed in Dhalbhumgarh forest to quench thirst. “The elephants are expected to stay there for some more days. Though jumbos are moving animals but usually  stay at a particular place -- where food and water is not an issue -- for some time. The movement  depends on their mood,” he said. “But we are on alert,” the forester added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two dead bodies found in Dhanbad in one day||Dhanbad on Wednesday reported the recovery of two dead bodies in separate incidents. The corpse of Nandlal Chauhan, a 45-year-old security guard of a private organisation SIS, was found on Wednesday morning, in a pool of blood, from a bushy area of the Bypass Road of Bhuli, about six kilometers from the district headquarters. A team of Bhuli Police, led by officer-in-charge Sandip Baghwar reached at the site to find the dead body, after they were informed by the locals and the family members of the deceased. The body, bearing injury marks on the head and neck, was sent for post mortem to the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Police also recovered the bicycle of the deceased about 10 meters away from the site. Talking to the media, Baghwar said that the police was suspecting a case of murder due to personal enmity. “We are trying to find out the reasons for the death but prima facie it seems to be a case of personal enmity. We are further questioning the family members of the deceased and also waiting for the post mortem report to find out the causes of the death. It seems that he was also attacked with some boulders by the culprits,” he said. Devanti Devi, Chauhan’s wife, informed police about the verbal duel which took place on Tuesday morning between him and the neighbourhood milkman over Rs 500 on account of milk supply. Family members of Chauhan claimed that he had left for work on Tuesday morning on his bicycle at around 9 am but did not return until late night. An unidentified elderly person was found dead, lying at the Tetulmari Coal Mines of Beldaria locality of Tetulmari Police station on Wednesday morning, about 15 km away from the district headquarters. Officer-in-charge of Tetulmari Police Station Manish Kumar said, “We are trying to identify the person with the help of local residents. The body will be sent for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College after that.” “As the body bears no injury marks we can’t predict anything about the reasons of the death and only post mortem report can clarify it,” Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||The winter chill is back, night readings plummet across state ||Strong north westerly winds made a comeback on Wednesday with most parts of the state experiencing plummeting temperatures, likely to continue for the next three days. The minimum reading in the state capital, five to six notches above normal for the past few days, dropped to 9.2°C, one degree below normal. Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi recorded 9.4°C. In Jamshedpur, the minimum reading fell to 15.8°C from Tuesday’s 17°C. Several places across the state including Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas witnessed early morning fog which resulted in poor visibility. The night readings plummeted to 9.6°C from 14°C at Bokaro in the last 24 hours. Wednesday’s minimum reading in Bokaro was two notches below normal. Palamau headquarters Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2°C, a three degree fall in the past 24 hours. Similarly, minimum readings in other districts, including Hazaribagh, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Dumka, Simdega, Gumla, Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum, witnessed a downward trend. Wednesday afternoon’s forecast, issued by Ranchi Meteorological Centre, predicted another three to four degree fall in minimum readings due to the free flow of the north wind. "The north-westerly wind is dominating over Jharkhand and this is resulting in a sharp drop in minimum temperatures," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. On Wednesday, most districts of Jharkhand sported a clear sky with low humidity conducive to lower minimum temperatures. The meteorological department has predicted same weather across the state for the next three days, with mist and fog in the morning and the evening. The drop in the minimum readings prompted residents across cities to take extra cover. "The chill is back. We can feel the cold north wind blowing. I had to use a jacket and woollen cap while going for a morning walk," said Avinash Kumar, a resident of Kadma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress demands rollback of farm laws||State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon has welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision to halt the implementation of the three farm laws but called for a repeal of all the contentious legislations. Oraon, who is state Congress chief, told reporters on the sidelines of a get-together organised for the media at Rock Garden at Kanke Road, said, “It’s a victory of farmers. But the fight is still not over. We stand with farmers and their demands. Farmers want complete repeal of the laws, which are against their interests and the Union government now must take it back.” Last week, the Congress, which is a part of the ruling JMM-led alliance in Jharkhand, had spoken of holding another round of agitations across the state against the laws on January 15. Oraon said that even after the SC’s decision, they would continue to go ahead with their agitational programme to force the Centre to reconsider its decision. “All preparations have been done for the January 15 stir, which will be even bigger than the earlier agitations,” he said. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey dubbed the apex court’s verdict as a slap on the face of the Union government. “Despite over seven rounds of negotiations with farmers, nothing has come out so far because the government is not ready to shed its ego. “The laws were passed illegally without proper consultation with states. The apex court’s directive is a kind of a slap on the face of the Union government. It is high time, the government learns to listen to its people,” Dubey said. JMM has also spoken out against the new farm laws with chief minister Hemant Soren criticising the Union government as “anti-farmer” and “pro-capitalists”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||MGM readies webcast facility for vaccine rollout||Work is on to set up a two-way communication facility at MGM Medical College for a possible interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday when the nationwide Covid vaccination drive will be launched, vaccines for which reached the steel city on Wednesday afternoon. In all, 8,700 vials of Covishield vaccine were delivered here in a refrigerated van from Ranchi. The first lot of the vaccines was stored at the district cold storage at Sakchi at 4 pm. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon R.N. Jha said that each vial of Covishield will cater to 10 doses. Hence, in all 87,000 people would be administered the vaccine beginning Saturday, January 16. "The vaccines that arrived from Ranchi have been kept in the district cold storage at Sakchi.  In the first place, doctors, nurses and health workers will start getting vaccinated. Others above the age of 50 will get the vaccine when the next lot is made available," he said. Jha said district health officials would keep a watch on the cold storage so as to ensure that the necessary temperature was maintained till the last vial of the vaccine is used. As for the communication facility, Jha said it was being installed to facilitate a  conversation with the Prime Minister should he choose to speak to a beneficiary or a health worker on the day of the rollout.  "As per a directive from the state health department, the two-way communication facility was to be set up in each district. Hence, we got it installed at MGM Medical College in Dimna with the help of the National Informatics Centre. It should be up by Thursday evening," said the civil surgeon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||IIT(ISM) Gymkhana office-bearers' tenure extended||The students’ association of the IIT(ISM), Student’s Gymkhana, has decided to extend the tenure of its executive body, due to the closure of the campus and a resultant non-election of the organisation. A communication in this regard has been made through mail by Bobby Antony, the Associate Dean (Student Activities) of the institute. The Gymkhana’s executive council comprises six members, presided over by Preetam Jaiswal. The Paraka Sai Ratna Teja of Integrated M Tech Applied Geology as its Chairperson; Dau Dayal Sharma of M Sc Tech Applied Geology as finance convenor; Sikandar Kumar, PhD (Mining Engineering) as General Secretary (SNT); Sonal Sinha of Integrated M Tech, Mathematics and Computing as General Secretary (MNC); and Avinash Gautam, B Tech Petroleum Engineering as General Secretary (GNS). In a message to the students, Jaiswal, a B Tech Petroleum Engineering student, has said, “Since my job is already secured, I have no pressure of a career at present. I will dedicate my next term like the previous term for the development of the institute as well as welfare of fellow students by taking up their issues with the institute administration as well as other platforms.” Jaiswal has secured a job at PayTm through campus selection. “My first priority will be to reopen the campus with all safety measures in place so that all classroom academic activities can come on track,” he said. The students’ association chief also thanked the former president of the Student Gymkhana and other seniors. He promised to work as per their mentorship and complete some of the unfinished work of his last tenure. He also asked  students to feel free to contact him for resolution of any of their issues. The executive committee of the Gymkhana has worked well with the students in solving their problems and organising students’ activities and cultural programmes. The old student organisation of IIT-ISM, ISM Students Society, had been replaced with Students Gymkhana in 2019, the senators and members of which are appointed through elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Girl gangraped in forest while returning home on scooter||Police launched a manhunt on Wednesday for two youths who allegedly gang raped a 21-year-old tribal girl in a forest 5km from here in adjoining Seraikela Kharsawan district late on Tuesday evening. The victim, a resident of Pather Salem village in Kandra, was returning home on a scooter at 8pm when the two accosted her and then dragged her inside Pandrabera forest. There, the two youths took turns to rape her, said police sources. According to her family members, the duo fled, leaving her battered and bruised in the forest. By the time the girl managed to return home it was past midnight. The family reported the incident to Kandra police soon after. Seraikela sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said the girl was returning home from a Pragya Kendra when she was apprehended. "As per her statement, the youths were following her on a bike and intercepted her overtaking her scooter. Subsequently the two forced her to sit on their bike, and took her in the forest,” he said. Ranjan said the bike used by the youths had no registration number. Police, he added, believe the two are local residents who know the area well. "We are taking statements from local residents. We are also talking to those with a dubious background in Pindrabera," the SDPO said. Police sources said there are no CCTV cameras on the road from Kandra to the Salem Pather village, a 2km stretch. But they said police were looking at CCTV footage at Kandra town as they believe the two youths must have followed her from there. This is the second incident of rape in the Seraikela sub-divisional area in the past six months. In June last year, a teenager was gang-raped at Majhitola in Adityapur. The girl was returning home from a relative's house in the afternoon when she was picked up by criminals and raped at an abandoned school. She managed to flee her tormentors but jumped in the Kharkai river out of fear and drowned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri traders get street lights, but worry about damaged roads||Traders in Sindri, including the shopkeepers of the Saharpura market of the fertiliser town, are happy over the installation of street lights by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the market complex. The traders were, till now, compelled to do business in the dark after sunset due to the lack of light. However, they are still concerned about the dangerous conditions of the roads, particularly the main road from Mayur Gate to Rodha Bandh in Sindri. The stretch from Mayur Gate to Sindri Police Station has developed a number of potholes, leading to chances of accidents there. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sindri Chamber of Commerce secretary Deepak Kumar Dipu said, “We had a meeting with the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar on January 8 during his visit to Sindri, during which we raised the issue of darkness in the market. We are happy at the quick response as the installation work of streetlights began in the market from Tuesday itself.” “We are happy that the entire Saharpura market, which used to plunge into darkness, will now glow with the floodlights,” he said. The streetlights that were installed by the Chamber of Commerce years ago had become non-functional, he said. Dipu, who is also the president of the citizens’ organisation Sindri Bachao Morcha, said they expect that Sindri will glow with the streetlights as the commissioner had assured of their installation in the entire town. He said that previously, the streetlights were put up in haphazard areas and at non-strategic points. Regarding the conditions of the roads, the general secretary said, “The dangerous state of the main road has compelled several people to take a detour from Rodhaband to Sindri station, to avoid it.” “I have tweeted to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and Chief Minister Hemant Soren over the issue earlier. I plan to raise it again with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation,” Dipu said. “The poor quality of the materials used to construct the road had led to its damage in the initial period itself. It got further damaged as heavy vehicles carrying materials of about 40 to 60 tonnes passed continuously through the internal roads of Sindri,” he complained. The official said that they had raised a host of other problems with the Commissioner, including waterlogging in the Saharpura Bazar area, the lack of enough toilets and the higher rent of shops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||National Energy Conservation Award for Tata Motors||Photo caption: Members of Sindri Chamber of Commerce at Sindri, Dhanbad on Wednesday. Manob Chowdhary  Head: Sindri traders get street lights installed, express concerns over damaged roads Alt head: Sindri traders concerned over damaged roads  Strap: Officials raise host of issues, including waterlogging in the area, with DMC commissioner  Dhanbad Praduman Choubey  Traders in Sindri, including the shopkeepers of the Saharpura market of the fertiliser town, are happy over the installation of street lights by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the market complex. The traders were, till now, compelled to do business in the dark after sunset due to the lack of light. However, they are still concerned about the dangerous conditions of the roads, particularly the main road from Mayur Gate to Rodha Bandh in Sindri. The stretch from Mayur Gate to Sindri Police Station has developed a number of potholes, leading to chances of accidents there. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sindri Chamber of Commerce secretary Deepak Kumar Dipu said, “We had a meeting with the Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar on January 8 during his visit to Sindri, during which we raised the issue of darkness in the market. We are happy at the quick response as the installation work of streetlights began in the market from Tuesday itself.” “We are happy that the entire Saharpura market, which used to plunge into darkness, will now glow with the floodlights,” he said. The streetlights that were installed by the Chamber of Commerce years ago had become non-functional, he said. Dipu, who is also the president of the citizens’ organisation Sindri Bachao Morcha, said they expect that Sindri will glow with the streetlights as the commissioner had assured of their installation in the entire town. He said that previously, the streetlights were put up in haphazard areas and at non-strategic points. Regarding the conditions of the roads, the general secretary said, “The dangerous state of the main road has compelled several people to take a detour from Rodhaband to Sindri station, to avoid it.” “I have tweeted to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and Chief Minister Hemant Soren over the issue earlier. I plan to raise it again with the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation,” Dipu said. “The poor quality of the materials used to construct the road had led to its damage in the initial period itself. It got further damaged as heavy vehicles carrying materials of about 40 to 60 tonnes passed continuously through the internal roads of Sindri,” he complained. The official said that they had raised a host of other problems with the Commissioner, including waterlogging in the Saharpura Bazar area, the lack of enough toilets and the higher rent of shops.  The Jamshedpur plant of Tata Motors has bagged the prestigious National Energy Conservation Award (NECA) 2020, instituted by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), securing the first prize in the Automotive (Manufacturing) Sector category. Additionally, second prize and a Merit Award was bagged by the automobile major's Lucknow and Pantnagar plants respectively. The award ceremony was held virtually on Wednesday in the presence of Raj Kumar Singh, Union  minister of state (power, new and renewable energy) and minister of state (skill development and entrepreneurship). Ajoy Lall, Tata Motors vice-president – Operations (Commercial Vehicle Business Unit) said, “We are extremely delighted to have received this award from the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. We have consciously engrained sustainability in every aspect of our business by stretching ourselves to adopt more meaningful ways to reduce our impact on the planet, while still delivering exciting products and sustainable solutions to our customers. We have always been conscious of the need to conserve energy in our manufacturing plants - which leads to – increased energy efficiency and reduced carbon emissions, which are further supported by utilization of higher levels renewable energy. These awards reflects the ongoing efforts of all Tata Motors employees to make our facilities greener and more energy efficient.” Head of Jamshedpur plant Vishal Badshah said, “At Tata Motors Jamshedpur, we have seamlessly integrated energy conservation and sustainability into our work culture that has enabled our employees to achieve greater levels of energy efficiency. We have achieved significant improvement in our energy performance by maintaining focus on adoption of eco-friendly technologies, improvement in operational efficiency, benchmarking and daily work management. Projects such as rooftop solar PV, installation of energy efficient devices and low cost automation has enabled us to improve our specific electrical and thermal energy performances significantly over the past three years, leading to reduction in our specific carbon footprint too. ” Recently, Tata Motors also received national awards for excellence in energy management at the CII’s Energy Efficiency Conference and Exposition in August  last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1 lakh Covishield shots ready and waiting in Jharkhand||As many as 1,62,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine reached Jharkhand on Wednesday in 16,200 vials to kick-start the first phase of the vaccination programme against the coronavirus in the state on January 16, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per details shared by the NHM, each vial contains 5 ml of vaccine and can provide shots of 0.5 ml to as many as 10 individuals. The vaccine will be distributed to the various vaccination centres across the 24 districts by Thursday, January 14, health officials said. State health minister Banna Gupta requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide the vaccine free of cost to all Jharkhand residents. “The BJP had promised free vaccination to residents of Bihar before the elections there. I would request the Prime Minister to provide free vaccination to all residents of our state as Jharkhand is a poor, backward and tribal dominated state,” Gupta said. The minister said that the vaccine was free for all the frontline workers in Jharkhand, but there was a need to make it free for all the 3.29 crore residents of the state. The state, he said, was expecting to get the second lot of vaccine doses within the next 15 to 20 days in a bid to ensure that the second shot of the vaccine is provided to residents in the stipulated gap of 28 days. Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, the largest vaccination centre in the state capital, received at least 1,897 vials of Covishield. Hospital authorities said that necessary arrangements had been made to ensure uninterrupted power supply in order to keep the vaccine in the desired temperature of 2 to 8 degree Celsius. Power generators have been installed in the hospital to maintain optimum temperature for the vaccine in case of a power failure. Kareena Hembrom, a nurse at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, said she was proud of being a frontline worker throughout the Covid-19-induced crisis period and was happy to get the vaccine shots in the first phase. “All of us have battled the virus together and the vaccine comes as a huge relief,” she said. For storage of the vaccine, Jharkhand already has 275 cold chain points and has proposed an additional 30 to enhance the storage capacity in the state, officials from NHM said. As per health department sources Jharkhand has five walk-in coolers and four more are being procured. The state also has three walk-in freezers and two more will be procured soon. Besides, there are 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers available. On Day One of the vaccination, Covishield shots will be administered to health workers at 129 centres across the 24 districts in Jharkhand, health officials said. The vaccine, health officials said, will generate protective levels of antibodies in the body in two weeks after the second dose. NHM further stated that people would have to continue taking precautionary measures against the virus even after getting the vaccine shots. The health department had earlier stated that a photo identity proof will be a must for any person to get Covid-19 vaccine shots. Voter ID cards, school certificates, MGNREGA job cards, PAN cards and passports are some of the documents that can be used to register for the vaccination. Also, the person getting vaccinated has to produce his photo identity proof at the vaccination centre, failing which he will not be administered the vaccine shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Some State Games events may be held in Jamshedpur in March||Jharkhand Olympic Association (JOA) has agreed to allot a few events of the State Games to Jamshedpur, which would end almost a year-long dry spell of sports competitions in the steel city. M.K. Pathak, general secretary of the association, said, “We have decided to allot some of the events to Jamshedpur. The steel city has the required infrastructure to efficiently host the events.” But, most of the events would be held in Ranchi, he added. The JOA general secretary said they would seek permission from the state government before going ahead with the State Games, tentatively scheduled between March 17 to 21.“We need to stick to Covid-related protocols. The permission of the state government would also be needed. We would also need the infrastructure and accommodation from the state government to conduct the Games in a hassle-free manner. We want to organise the Games in partnership with the state government,” Pathak said. Though he did not mention the disciplines to be allotted to Jamshedpur, sources within the JOA revealed that archery and boxing were on the list. “State archery and boxing associations are headquartered in Jamshedpur and both these events can easily be conducted there. Some more events might also be added to the list for Jamshedpur,” one of the sources said. The maiden State Games were held in Ranchi in 2019 with an objective to build a sports atmosphere and provide a platform to athletes from different districts to showcase their talent. It could not be held the following year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We give a platform to state associations of various disciplines to field their athletes in the form of the State Games. We have our limitations and it is the responsibility of state outfits to try and provide facilities to their athletes and players, despite financial issues. The state government and corporate firms can chip in with support. But that’s easier said than done,” a JOA official, who did not wish to be named, said. Athletics, badminton, basketball, archery, boxing, volleyball, gymnastics, football, cycling, wrestling, chess and table tennis are among the events that are part of the Games. The Jharkhand Olympic Association, the apex sports body of Jharkhand, has plans to make State Games an annual event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 127 fresh Covid cases, no casualties in a day||At least nine of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, while at least 10 districts reported less than five fresh cases in 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported 52, 18 and 23 cases respectively, jointly accounting for more than 73 per cent of the 127 fresh Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As many as 153 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection in Jharkhand on Tuesday, bringing the number of active cases down at 1356. As per the NHM bulletin, the number of patients dropped down to 665 in Ranchi as at least 65 patients recovered from the infection here, outnumbering fresh cases in the past 24 hours. However, the number of active cases increased in East Singhbhum and Dhanbad, which reported 16 and 21 Covid recoveries respectively.  As per government data, at least 159 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum, while 82 were infected in Dhanbad. As many as four Jharkhand districts – Giridih, Godda, Jamtara and Pakur – had less than 10 active cases of Covid-19 infection by the end of Tuesday, government data stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum were the only two districts with more than 100 active cases. Jharkhand did not report any Covid casualties on Tuesday, the NHM stated in its bulletin. So far, the virus has claimed 1048 lives in Jharkhand. At least 355 victims were from East Singhbhum and 223 from Ranchi. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 11492 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Of the 49.75 lakh people tested for Covid-19 so far in Jharkhand, 117088 were found infected. Almost 98 per cent of the Covid patients have recovered in Jharkhand, states government data. As per the NHM bulletin, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.13 per cent against the national average of 0.14 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in Jharkhand was 536.57 days against the national average of 484.46 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-174
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal letter on assault by CRPF in June  ||Tribal residents of a remote village in rebel-hit Khuntpani block of West Singhbhum district have accused the police of trying to shield CRPF responsible for assaulting them on June 15 last year. The letter dated January 10, 2021 by the victims of the alleged assault by CRPF jawans in the Chiriabera village under in Khuntpani block and under Goilkera police station in West Singhbhum is in reaction to the November 27, 2020 response filed by the state government in the Jharkhand High Court which makes the following main claims — the testimony of the victim in the FIR did not mention role of CRPF in the violence and that police went to the victims village during the investigation and recorded statements of many victims under Section 161 and none of them mentioned that CRPF unleased the violence. Significantly, the villagers claim that CRPF personnel brutally beat up about 20 villagers out of which 11 were severely beaten and three sustained grievous injuries. Even though the victims clearly told the police at the hospital that they were beaten by the CRPF personnel, the FIR filed by the police obscures many facts of the incident and makes no mention of the role of the CRPF in the violence. The victims filed a writ petition in the Jharkhand High Court on September 10, 2020. In the writ, the victims clearly explained the violence unleashed by the CRPF and about the incorrect testimony recorded in the FIR. The victims have demanded that a correct FIR be filed, all responsible CRPF personnel be acted against and compensation be paid to the victims. In response to the court’s directive the state government had filed a response on November 27, 2020. “After knowing about the state’s response we decided to write to the Goilkera police in-charge, West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda, the public prosecutor and the sub-judicial magistrate. In the letter, the victims have again given details of the CRPF violence. They have said that the police had never visited their village or met the victims, after the incident. The police have not recorded the testimony of any victim. They have also reiterated that the police did not record the testimony correctly in the FIR. The victims have appealed that testimonies of victims be recorded under Section 164 in front of the judicial magistrate immediately. The letter further informs that. CRPF personnel had brutally beaten the victims with sticks, batons, rifle butts and boots. They were also beaten when they were unable to respond in Hindi. One of the victims, Guna Gope, suffered a fracture in his leg due to the beating. Ram Surin’s house was completely ransacked by the personnel. His family’s documents such as khatiyan (land document), malguzari raseed (land tax receipt) and Aadhaar of family members were burnt and money stolen from the house. The police also tried to influence the victims in the hospital not to press charges against the CRPF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||NSUI protest on National Youth Day in Ranchi||A group of students polished shoes in Ranchi on Tuesday when the country was observing the National Youth Day, celebrated on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda every year. Over 50 students owing allegiance to the Congress affiliated National Students Union of India (NSUI) assembled near the Jharkhand University of Technology in the Namkum area of Ranchi and some of them invited passers-by for getting their shoes polished. Their protest drew attention as it was organised on the National Youth Day that is known for celebrating the energy of the youth on the birth anniversary of Swamiji who saw hope for the future of every child and believed they, with their “muscles of iron” and “nerves of steel”, could bring about social change. “This was our unique way of lodging protest against the Union government’s lackadaisical attitude towards growing unemployment among the youths,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president of NSUI state unit, adding the unemployment rate was growing with every passing day. “The youths study hard to bag degrees but have to roam around aimlessly as they don’t get employment,” he said. “Before the general election of 2014, Modiji had announced two crore jobs for the youth and Rs 15 lakh to accounts of every citizens,” said Aarushi Vandana, NUSI national coordinator who was also present during the protest, adding both turned out to be jumla (platitude/gimmick). Such protests were also being organised elsewhere in the country, she further said, demanding the government must address the unemployment issue without further delay. The protesting youths also carried placards with such slogans as Jumla nehi, jawab do/yuva ko rojgar do (provide employment to youth, not just platitude or gimmick) and Modi tere raj me, joota aa gaya haath me (we got shoes in our hands during your regime, Modi) written on those.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||Goa, Jharkhand showcase culture and cuisine on National Youth Day||Jharkhand’s humble dhuska, litti chokha, murga sarso, ghoogni, along with the elaborate Goan cuisine made it to menu the National Youth Day Programme, organised by the Institute of Hotel Management (IHM), Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition, in Goa on Tuesday. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, invited as the chief guest to mark the 158th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, witnessed the unique cuisine and culture of Goa and Jharkhand under the Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat initiative. He even paid a floral tribute to a portrait of Swamiji. The event was also attended by minister of protocol, Goa, Mauvin Godinho, director-general of the Union Ministry of Tourism Meenakshi Sharma, economic advisor of the ministry of tourism Gyan Bhushan and chairman of the Institute of Hotel Management Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition J. Ashok Kumar. The programme aimed to bring Jharkhand and Goa together despite their diversity, aiming to enhance the bond between the two. Thereby, they put the contrasting Goan and Jharkhand culture to complement each other. Right from presenting the Se Cathedral de Santa Catarina and Bundu’s Sun temple; football and field hockey; Palolem beach and Parasnath Hills; Grand parade of Goa carnival and Baha dance during Baha festival; Christmas’s midnight mass and the early morning arghya during Chhath; bebinca cake and malpua, the organizers displayed it all as part of the cultural exchange initiative of the Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat programme. Speaking at the event, Naidu has praised the initiative (Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat) for showcasing the cultural connection between Goa and Jharkhand. He said these innovative measures would enhance the bonding and strengthen the unity and integrity of our country. “We are trying our best to rebuild the tourism and hospitality industry. We shall contribute to showcasing India’s rich heritage and culture in a better way. As part of the Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat programme, students from Goa have learnt a lot about Jharkhand and vice versa,” said Donna D’Souza, principal of Institute of Hotel Management, Catering Technology & Applied Nutrition, Goa. Apart from the cuisine, there was a vibrant display of Goan and Jharkhand’s art. The exhibition also showcased artefacts like Chhau masks from Jharkhand. Several online events on photography and essay were conducted on this day, because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
13-01-2021||Jharkhand||200 hawkers evicted from Sakchi Market||Over 200 hawkers encroaching the footpaths of the congested Sakchi Market area were evicted during an hour-long crackdown on Tuesday morning. Acting on the directives of Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO) Nitish Kumar Singh, a team of Quick Response Team (QRT) and Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) officials launched a crackdown on the hawkers who had resumed business in the area by defying the administrative order of making Sakchi market encroachment free. The crackdown began around 11 am and continued till noon. “We were informed that the hawkers were putting up shops on the footpaths. Today, being Tuesday, they turned up in large numbers to do business. Hence, we launched a fresh drive and evicted them. QRT will be deployed at the market to prevent the return of the vendors,” said Ravi Bharti, a JNAC official. Significantly, the district administration has earmarked Aambagan ground in Sakchi for the footpath hawkers to operate but they are refusing to shift to the new venue. The move to relocate the hawkers came as a move by the district administration to clear traffic bottlenecks at Sakchi. With the shopkeepers regularly complaining against the encroaching vendors, and also to implement Covid-19 safety protocol, the police had recently evicted over 100 makeshift kiosks from Sakchi market. After the eviction, the aggrieved footpath hawkers came to Sakchi police station and demanded an alternative place to run their business. At the same time, they also complained against the permanent shopkeepers, who have been allotted shops by Tata Steel for having encroached upon a considerable area by illegally extending their shops beyond the permissible limit. They alleged that this had made the passage narrow. “We are aware of the problems being faced by the hawkers, who eke out a living by selling their wares. But, we cannot compromise on safety. Moreover, people also find it inconvenient to move around freely in the market area with the passages getting choked by them setting up their shops on the footpath,” pointed out a cop who took part in today’s crackdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-175
