14-01-2021||Calcutta||Click Your Township 2019||Shukraditya Bose, BJ Block I want to thank The Telegraph Salt Lake and the judges for deeming my photograph to be worthy of a winner’s title. It was a great honour to find my photograph picked for recognition from amongst many others. It ushered in a sense of great joy in such trying times. I would like to thank my parents who supported me and everyone who believed in me and motivated me to keep getting better. My parents gifted me the Nikon D5100 in 2014 which enabled me to start off on this captivating journey and overtime as my interest grew, I explored new avenues and learnt a lot from friends, reading up guides and observing the work of many great photographers. I still use the same D5100 with an 18-140 which serves my purpose. I plan on getting a better body in the future to allow me to click even better images. I use Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop for post-production and subtle retouching. Peter McKinnon, an eminent Canadian YouTuber, photographer and filmmaker, has been an inspiration and a role model and it is from him that I’ve learnt how to hone my skills. He has received many awards and honours, including his photograph appearing on Canadian currency. It is my dream to match up to the lofty standards that he has established and this prize is going to be a great push in that direction. Abhijit Dutta, DA Block I thank The Telegraph Salt Lake for declaring me a winner for the year-long photography contest for 2019. Let me say a few words about the photograph that has been awarded. It was a shot of the partial solar eclipse visible from Salt Lake. It was not very easy to shoot on that day as the sky was partially cloudy. I had to wait for a long time to shoot the eclipse. Honestly, in spite of the cloudy sky, I shot quite a number of photographs using tele lens and captured the sun in a much bigger dimension. Then I thought of sending a photograph to The Telegraph Salt Lake and used a different lens so I could get the picture of our neighbourhood along with the sun. This photograph was specially taken for The Telegraph Salt Lake. The inclusion of camera in the mobile phone has increased the affinity towards photography for the common people. Of course, there is a limitation, though the quality of the cameras is improving. Now a days, there are options of even multiple cameras for different photographic moments. However, mobile phone cameras are mostly used like using a DSLR camera in the auto mode, which, I believe, is just a waste of money. It is not difficult to learn the techniques of good photography. The key is to keep on shooting. Saachi Saha, HB Block I am a software engineer and currently a homemaker with a five-year-old lovely daughter Alisha. I am overwhelmed and extremely thankful to The Telegraph Salt Lake for adjudging me a winner of the Click Your Township contest. Photography is my passion and in between my schedule, I nurture this hobby of mine. On a leisurely rainy afternoon from my balcony, I spotted a pair of drenched crows huddling together and perched atop a dish antenna below a sunshade trying to shelter themselves from the downpour. I immediately captured this moment with my OnePlus6. I was surprised beyond belief when I received a call from The Telegraph Salt Lake congratulating me on my snapshot being adjudged a winner for the year. Since the award ceremony for this year is withheld due to the pandemic, I requested to personally visit The Telegraph office to receive my certificate as a fond memory to cherish forever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta gets nearly one lakh vaccine doses, the highest in Bengal||Calcutta has been allocated the highest number of Covid vaccines in West Bengal, at 93,500, for the first phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to begin on January 16, a senior health official said on Thursday. North 24 Parganas district has been allocated the second-highest number of COVID vaccines at 47,000, followed by Murshidabad at 37,500, he said. "All necessary preparations are on the track for the vaccine rollout. The district-wise allocation has been made as per data uploaded on CoWIN portal as on January 12, 9.45 am for the first dose of COVID vaccination of health workers and personnel of armed forces," the Health Department said in a communication to the CMOHs in all the districts. West Bengal has been allocated 6,44,500 vaccines for the first phase of the drive. The state government has allowed the use of private hospitals as COVID vaccination centres after a meeting with authorities of such medical establishments. West Bengal has so far registered 5,62,795 coronavirus cases, including 9,993 fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Soumitra Chatterjee’s painting exhibition to be held at Kolkata Centre for Creativity||Some of Soumitra Chatterjee’s paintings that will feature at an exhibition, along with posters designed by him, at the Kolkata Centre for Creativity in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will formally inaugurate the exhibition on Thursday evening, while it will be open to the public from the next day. The exhibition, to continue till January 31, will also commemorate Chatterjee’s birthday on January 19. “The exhibition is curated by Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya and will have a display of Chatterjee’s art and paintings. It will also present various aspects of his life and work. The evenings will also be celebrated with drama, poetry reading, music, and documentaries. An attempt to keep the evergreen Soumitra Chatterjee alive in our memories,” said a spokesperson for the Kolkata Centre for Creativity. The actor died on November 15 after prolonged illness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Bagbazar fire swallows shanties, threatens Udbodhan house||More than 100 shanties next to the Udbodhan building in Bagbazar were gutted in a fire that triggered serial explosions, probably from domestic LPG cylinders, on Wednesday evening. The fire started around 6.45pm and by 11pm, the blaze was under control but firemen were still working to douse the embers. Hundreds of people who had lost their homes were on Central Avenue. No casualty had been reported, police said. Evening traffic in north and central Calcutta was thrown out of gear as affected residents from the shanties descended on streets. The north-bound flank of Central Avenue and Udbodhan Lane was closed to traffic to facilitate fire-fighting. The fire damaged several windows and doors of the first and second floors of the Udbodhan building in Udbodhan Lane, behind the shanties, senior monks of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission said. Several books of the Math and Mission, including the Udbodhan magazine, the Bengali mouthpiece of the order, are published from the Udbodhan house. “Several files in the accounts section have been damaged. Thankfully, we could save the computers that store valuable data. Even the godown that stores books was spared,” said Swami Nityamuktananda of Mayer Bari in Bagbazar. “We are yet to assess the extent of the damage since there is no power connection.” Around 30 fire tenders were deployed to control the blaze that broke out in an area that has tenements made of plastic sheets and bamboo poles, a fire official said. There were several structures that had at least three floors built out of flammable materials like plastic and bamboo. Residents of the area said they had heard at least five explosions. The shanties had several LPG cylinders and kerosene stoves, a fire official said. “The entire area was a tinderbox. Not only cylinders, flammable liquids like kerosene were kept there. We also found drums of paint and motor oil,” said a fire official. State fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said: “There were explosions that smashed windows of several neighbouring buildings in the area. The fire was fed by flammable materials and a steady wind from the Hooghly river fanned it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Alipore bridge truck bar likely||The bridge that connects DL Khan Road with Alipore across the Tolly’s Nullah could soon be closed to heavy goods vehicles. With the imposition of restrictions on trucks and lorries on the bridge, called Dhana Dhanya Setu, Dahi Ghat bridge in the Port area will become the lone bridge for the movement of heavy goods vehicles from the southern fringes to Vidyasagar Setu, through the heart of Calcutta. Every day, thousands of goods vehicles enter the city from Diamond Harbour and Maheshtala, on the southern fringes of the city, and head for Vidyasagar Setu. Six bridges over Tolly’s Nullah have been the major arterial lines that connect the city to the southern fringes for smooth passage of goods vehicles. Three of these have been closed to heavy vehicles because of repairs since 2019. The Chetla bridge, on which heavy vehicles are permitted, opens onto Chetla Central Road, which is too narrow for heavy goods vehicles, police said. “At present, only Dhana Dhanya and Dahi Ghat bridges are open to heavy vehicles.” The city-bound flank of the 90-year-old Zeerut bridge, near the Alipore zoo, had been declared unfit for heavy vehicles in May 2019. The old steel bridge in Kidderpore and the Kalighat bridge have been closed to heavy vehicles since August 2019. “When the Kidderpore steel bridge was closed to heavy vehicles, all trucks from Maheshtala, Bishnupur, Diamond Harbour and other sides were diverted through Dahi Ghat bridge to reach Vidyasagar Setu. Earlier, the Zeerut bridge, which used to share some of the load, had been closed to heavy vehicles,” said an officer of the traffic department. When heavy vehicles were restricted on the Zeerut bridge in May 2019, the vehicles were being diverted through Dhana Dhanya bridge. “Now, if Dhana Dhanya bridge is also closed to heavy vehicles, the entire load will be on the Dahi Ghat bridge. It will be very risky and will affect the city traffic if any heavy vehicle breaks down on the bridge,” the officer said. The top brass at the city police headquarters are likely to hold a meeting with the agencies in charge of maintenance of the bridges that have been under repair for years now, Lalbazar sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Metro e-pass out from Monday||Metro passengers will not need an e-pass to enter a station, starting Monday. “From January 18, no e-passes will be required for travel in Metro,” the carrier said in a statement. “The number of trains from Monday to Friday will go up to 240 from 228. The number of trains on Saturday and Sunday will remain unchanged at 228 and 102,” said an official. The timings of the first and last trains will remain unchanged at 7am and 9.30pm. Tokens will not be issued for now and a smart card is a must for entering the platform, the official added. The e-pass system was introduced for access control at the gates when Metro services resumed on September 14 after being suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A section of doctors and public health experts had been worried about crowd control mechanisms in the city’s transport lifeline, which carried over six lakh passengers every day before the fleet was grounded on arch 23 last year. There were multiple meetings between officials of the state government and Metro Railway in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services. Metro officials told the state government that they were ready to run trains provided the state worked out the modalities of crowd control. The state government finally engaged a private agency to develop a technology-based system for crowd control. The e-pass system has been effective in controlling the number of passengers, though some people have accused it of being “discriminatory”. For the past several days, the count has been well over 1.5 lakh every day. When the services resumed, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 8am and 8pm. There were 72 trains every day to start with. The day’s operations were divided into 12 one-hour slots. A colour-coded e-pass was mandatory to enter the station during that slot. Metro Railway had gradually been narrowing the e-pass window and increasing its daily fleet. Till now, male passengers aged 16 to 59 needed an e-pass to enter a Metro station from 9am to 11am and 5pm to 7pm from Monday to Saturday. “We have been monitoring the daily ridership and the Covid-19 situation. We think the passenger count will be manageable even without the e-pass system,” said Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson. Metro officials said since tokens will not be issued, the number of passengers is unlikely to go up above two lakh immediately even after doing away with the e-pass system because schools and colleges are shut. “The number of smart card holders would be around three lakh. But people are not travelling if they don’t have to,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Schools doubt online assessments||Schools have conducted online exams this academic year but several heads said they were not sure if it was a “right assessment” of how much the students had learned. One school has done away with ranks, prizes and scholarship for senior classes this academic year and two others are considering doing so. At least two other schools are pushing back their final term exams so they can conduct them on the campus if allowed by the government. Teachers can only appeal to the students for “honesty and integrity” but they have found instances suggesting some of them had copied from books or elders helped them write the answers, a principal said. Also, the marks are being scaled up because it is no longer a 80-marks paper in many institutions. “The online exam is an exercise to prepare a report card and not a right assessment of how much a child has learnt,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. The Cambridge School has decided to award only grades, not marks, to students of senior classes. In a notice to guardians of the students of Classes IX to XII, the school said: “...as the integrity of online examinations cannot be guaranteed in full, grades rather than marks will be awarded to students on the basis of examinations and class performance. For the same reason, ranks, prizes and scholarships will not be awarded this year.” Loreto House held a meeting recently and decided not to give out academic and at-tendance certificates at the end of the year. Mahadevi Birla World Academy is "deliberating" doing away with ranks, prizes and scholarships. Proctoring exams online is posing a challenge to teachers though detailed instructions have been sent to students and guardians about the conduct of the exams. A teacher at an ISC school in the city said it was difficult for them to proctor the exams online. “There are more than 40 students and to monitor all of them online at once is not possible. We can only check if they leave their desk,” the teacher said. Another teacher said that it was difficult for them to know if a student had opened another browser on the screen or is sending chat messages. “Not just while writing a paper, students can cheat even when uploading it,” a teacher said. In an online exam teachers cannot be sure if a student has copied answers from books or taken help from others, Ireland said. “In online education, one thing still lacking is a system to have proper online examination. We have found that sufficient proctoring solutions are not available,” said Sarojesh Mukerjee, the director of The Cambridge School. St James’ School and Calcutta Girls’ High School both are hoping they can conduct final-term exams on campus. “We have time till March and if we get any indication to call the students to school, we could have the exams on campus for classes VIII to XII. But parents’ consent has to be taken,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. Also, across many schools the exams have been of shorter duration and of fewer marks, which is not a realistic assessment. “The exams are of fewer marks and they are scaled up. The duration is also less. That is not a realistic assessment of a child,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. The school has given them time-bound short-answer questions where they have to finish off within a certain time which does not give them scope to refer to books or seek help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals can set up jab sites||The state health department on Wednesday requested several private hospitals to create vaccination sites on their campuses. The interested hospitals will have to send emails to the state health department by Thursday, following which government teams will conduct inspections to find out whether the campuses have the required infrastructure to run Covid-19 vaccination sites, officials said. The hospitals have been told that the government will only provide vaccine doses and syringes and they have to deploy the necessary human resources such as vaccinators and support staff. “A private hospital that will be selected to set up a vaccination site has to administer the doses to its healthcare workers as well as to healthcare workers of other private hospitals or nursing homes in their vicinity. I think most private hospitals will be keen to create vaccination sites on their campuses,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and CEO of the AMRI group of hospitals. Officials of AMRI, Peerless Hospital, Woodlands Hospital and Belle Vue Clinic said on Wednesday they were keen to run vaccination sites on their premises. The Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines, issued by the Centre, state that each vaccination team will have five members. Each vaccination site will have three rooms. The recipient’s identity will be checked at the gate. On entering the first room, the recipient’s details will be matched with the ones on the Co-Win, a digital platform created by the Centre for Covid-19 vaccination across the country. The jabs will be administered in the second room, while in the third, the recipients have to wait for 30 minutes post-vaccination under the watch of the support staff. “The private hospitals have to provide the full human resources required to run a vaccination site,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. Barua said Covid vaccination at private hospitals would not start on Saturday as selection of sites will take some time. “It may begin next week,” said Barua. Officials of private hospitals who attended Wednesday’s meeting with the health department said the vaccination sites on their premises would not be folded up after all health-care workers were vaccinated. The process will continue even when vaccination of the “general population” begins. However, the hospitals have been allowed to opt out at a later stage, Barua said. According to the Centre’s guidelines, health-care workers will be vaccinated first, followed by frontline workers. Next in line are people above 50, to be followed by those below 50 suffering from comorbidities. The remaining population will only be vaccinated after these groups get their jabs. The health department on Thursday asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to start vaccination from some of its clinics on Saturday. The clinics that have been chosen for Covid-19 vaccination are in wards 11 (Hatibagan), 31 (near Ultadanga), 46 (Free School Street), 82 (Chetla) and 111 (near Garia). Sources said talks were on to open vaccination sites at more ward health clinics. “It has been decided that healthcare workers of the CMC will be vaccinated in these clinics. A list of over 5,000 health-care workers of the CMC has been prepared for Covid-19 vaccination. They include doctors, nurses, lab technicians and ambulance drivers,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine response teams in all districts||Specialist doctors will be stationed at the headquarters of every district, including Calcutta, to respond to complaints of adverse effects of the Covid-19 vaccine and also address issues related to anxiety recipients might suffer from, health department officials said. The doctors will decide whether an adverse effect reported by a recipient has its roots in anxiety or has a causal relationship with the vaccine, and respond accordingly. “Depending on the nature of complications, a specialist will be asked to attend to a vaccine recipient,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. "The idea is to reduce the time of intervention of experts from respective fields, particularly in districts where vaccination will be held in rural hospitals and block primary health centres in remote areas.” Each block will also have a Rapid Response Team, which will include doctors. The team will rush to a vaccination site with an ambulance if any serious adverse effect is reported. At each vaccination centre, two officials armed with life-saving drugs and syringes will monitor the health of the recipients for at least half an hour, post-vaccination. “We are not fearing any major complications. But a well-defined system is being kept ready in case of any emergency,” said an official. Doctors’ demand An association of doctors of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Wednesday demanded that they be given the vaccine shots at hospitals, where a number of specialist doctors will be present, instead of civic clinics. Covid-19 jabs will be administered in at least five ward health clinics in the city from Saturday. Sources said health-care workers of the CMC will be getting their doses from the ward clinics. “We do not know much about the vaccine or the kind of adverse events it may cause. So, it is better to get the shots at hospitals, which are better equipped to manage adverse effects than ward clinics,” said Manas Som, the president of the CMC Doctors’ Association. “The doses can be administered from ward clinics a week after the launch, by when we will have some knowledge about adverse effects, if any. We thank the government for choosing health-care workers as the first recipients. We only want to ensure that no health-care worker faces any challenge in receiving treatment if any adverse events occur.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||City protest at Visva-Bharati suspension and suppression||The Visva-Bharati authorities are keen to silence dissent and the suspension of economics teacher Sudipta Bhattacharyya bears testimony to that, said a group of teachers who assembled in front of the university’s publishing department office in Calcutta. The perception on the Santiniketan campus is that Bhattacharyya has been penalised for the role he played in revealing how vice-chancel-lor Bidyut Chakrabarty had insulted Nobel laureate Amartya Sen. The teachers, from various colleges and universities, alleged that the Visva-Bharati administration was trying to destroy the atmosphere of free thinking on the campus. They assembled under the banner “Right to Save Education Forum”. Subhanil Chowdhury, a teacher of economics at the Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata, said the suspension of Bhattacharya — the president of Visva-Bharati Faculty Association — was not an isolated incident but part of a larger ploy to launch a sustained attack on institutes of higher learning so critical thinking can be nipped in the bud. “I remember about a year back we, teachers, had organised a protest march on College Street against an assault on JNU teacher Sucharita Sengupta by members of the (RSS student wing) ABVP. They assaulted JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh as well. No one has been arrested till date. But here at Visva-Bharati, a teacher was suspended because he dared to raise some uncomfortable questions. The message is loud and clear — critical thinking will be nipped in the bud through sheer intimidation,” said Chowdhury. Another teacher explained the necessity to curb critical thinking. “If you are not allowed to think critically, you will never try to find out whether the farm bills are good or bad. You will just give your consent to whatever a person or a dispensation in the country says. To do that, it is crucial the centres of critical thinking are silenced,” the teacher said. A letter issued by Visva-Bharati said Bhattacharyya, who did his MPhil and PhD from JNU, was suspended because the university’s executive council had found him guilty of “misconduct by mass circulating a complaint and derogatory/defamatory/baseless remarks against a fellow employee and providing the copies of the same to high dignitaries by email”. Teachers at the gathering in Beckbagan said Bhattacharyya became a target after lodging a complaint with the Prime Minister, who is Visva-Bharati’s chancellor, and President Ram Nath Kovind, who is the university’s visitor, about the appointment of the principal of one of the schools. “Not only Sudipto Bhattacharyya, several teachers and employees have been suspended during the tenure of this VC.  The Visva-Bharati administration has created an atmosphere where no one will dare to speak against the insult meted out to Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, allegations of lack of transparency in appointments,” said Keshab Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the West Bengal College and University Teachers’ Association. According to many on the campus, the authorities decided to go after Bhattacharya after the teachers’ association brought to the fore how VC Chakraborty had made some allegedly baseless claims about a purported telephone conversation with Amartya Sen, which the Nobel laureate later described as a “completely imagined conversation’’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||Rallies support farm law protest||The city saw two demonstrations against the new central farm laws on Wednesday. Copies of the laws were burnt and one speaker after another iterated that the repeal of the laws, not a temporary stay on their implementation, was the solution. At a demonstration near the intersection of Chakraberia Road and Sarat Bose Road, the participants performed a skit that culminated in burning of the copies of the three farm laws. Large sheets of papers, representing copies of the three controversial farm laws, passed the hands of three women, all blindfolded. “The three women represent legislature, executive and judiciary,” said Nausheen Baba Khan, one of the organisers of the demonstration. “So far we knew justice is blind. But the way the farm bills were turned into laws shows that Parliament and the government have also become blind to people’s concerns,” said Khan. The bill finally went to a fourth woman whose eyes were not blindfolded. She represented citizenry. “Our eyes are open. So, we reject this bill,” said Khan and the papers were set on fire. The organisers of the demonstration have been conducting a relay hunger strike at the site for 11 days now. On Sunday, they had organised a torchlight rally in solidarity with farmers. At Moulali, the site of another demonstration, the speakers said the Supreme Court-constituted committee to broker peace between the protesting farmers and the government would not yield any dividends. The only solution is total repeal of the laws, they said. Multiple speakers pointed out that all four members of the committee have backed the farm laws in the recent past. “The Centre wants to stop the tractor rally on Republic Day at any cost,” said a participant. One of the many posters at the demonstration had a Bengali poem which read: “Marchho jader ichhemoto, jalkaman e, paayer tolaye. Orai tomaye baanchiye rakhe, aadhpeta khaye, phasal phalaye. Tobuo ora deshodrohi, pitiye marai bodh hoye sreyo. Rajar rajye ebar, khide pele, dharma kheyo (People you are beating at will, with water canons and boots, they are the ones who keep you alive. They don’t get a full meal but still grow crops. Still, they are anti-nationals. Perhaps, they should be beaten to death. In this kingdom, eat religion the next time you are hungry).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Calcutta||CU cuts short BTech summer break ||The 2021 summer vacation for first-year BTech students at Calcutta University will be reduced to compensate for the lost time in the session that was supposed to start in August but began digitally on Wednesday. Jadavpur University has decided to reduce the summer vacation to a week following the start of BTech classes on January 11. CU, however, is yet to decide on the revised duration of the vacation, an official of the university said. “The break could be reduced to seven days. Or else, we will not be able to complete the syllabus and start second-year classes in August,” the official said. Students are being provided an email link to participate in a class from the respective subject teachers. “Students may send their academic query to btech2020coordination@gmail.com,” says a notice. The first semester examinations for all undergraduate courses, including BTech, will be held between March 8 and March 26. “Classes for the second semester will have to be started immediately after the exams. Then the exams of the second semester will be held. So, the vacation has to be curtailed,” said another official. At CU, the summer vacation, called “semester break”, is usually for one-and-a-half months, from the third week of May and till the first week of July, when the second-year classes start. The mandatory induction programme at the university was held between December 18 and 24. The AICTE, from 2019, has made it mandatory for all engineering institutions to conduct an induction session before classes start to reinforce the fundamental concepts and strengthen language skills required for technical education. But what prevented the university from starting the classes on December 26? “Since 89 of the 237 BTech seats remained vacant after the three-phased centralised counselling by the state JEE board, CU had to conduct independent counselling to fill the vacancies. Now that the process is over, classes started on January 13,” said an official. CU registrar Debasish Das, who looks after the technology campus, could not be contacted. He did not respond to text messages either. JU, too, had to hold decentralised counselling for a staggering number of seats that had remained vacant after the counselling by the JEE board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-174
14-01-2021||Business||Ready to answer all queries of govt, says WhatsApp ||Under fire over its recent privacy policy update, WhatsApp on Thursday said it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and is aware that the company will have to "compete" for users' trust with rivals such as Signal. In an interview to PTI, WhatsApp Head Will Cathcart said the Facebook-owned company remains committed to privacy and security of users across India and will continue to explain to users that their messages are end-to-end encrypted. Rival messaging platforms such as Signal and Telegram had seen a phenomenal rise in downloads soon after WhatsApp sought user consent to its updated privacy policy that seeks to share some data with Facebook. "We know we have to compete for users' trust when it comes to privacy and that's very good for the world. People should have choices in how they communicate and feel confident that no one else can see their chats," Cathcart said. Asked if WhatsApp had seen an exodus of users to rival apps like Signal and Telegram, Cathcart answered in negative. "No. We're grateful that people continue to use and trust WhatsApp to communicate...We think competition on privacy is good because it will help make apps even more private and secure in the future," he added. The comments come in the backdrop of a raging debate over WhatsApp's controversial update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. Asked if the government has sought clarification on the matter, Cathcart said: "We remain available to answer any questions and to explain our continued commitment to the privacy and security of users across India." According to sources, the government is examining and evaluating the recent privacy policy update announced by WhatsApp and discussions are on within the IT Ministry over the implications of the recent move by the messaging platform. In past years, WhatsApp has drawn flak from the government over misuse of the platform for the spread of misinformation. Since then, the Facebook-owned company has taken a number of steps to curb the spread of hate messages. Cathcart also noted that WhatsApp will also continue to explain to people and its partners how the platform protects the privacy and security of people's personal messages. He asserted that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can read users' messages or hear their calls with others on the messaging platform. He also clarified that the changes will not impact WhatsApp Payments as that has a separate privacy policy governing it. WhatsApp had informed users about the changes in its terms of service and public policy, through an in-app notification last week. Users have till February 8 to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. This led to a user backlash and triggered memes on the internet over WhatsApp's alleged sharing of user information with Facebook. Many users have also started shifting to rival platforms, and apps like Telegram and Signal have seen millions of downloads globally in the immediate aftermath of the event. Cathcart argued that some apps claim to have end-to-end encryption for group chats, and do no such thing. He emphasised that WhatsApp's policy update does not affect the privacy of messages with friends or family in any way. We're not keeping logs of who everyone in India is texting or calling. We do not share your contacts with Facebook or the other apps Facebook offers...You can download your account information right from WhatsApp to see for yourself the limited data we collect, he added. Instead, this update includes changes related to messaging a business on WhatsApp, which is optional, and provides further transparency about how data is collected and used, he said. "This has become all the more important over the last year with people needing to conduct commerce remotely," Cathcart said adding that WhatsApp works with Facebook to support millions of micro-businesses around India. Cathcart further stated that the company is building new ways in the near term for people to shop on WhatsApp for businesses to manage and respond to messages. When launched, this will be available to all, but it will be people's choice whether or not to choose to do so, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
14-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end at fresh record highs||Resuming its record-setting streak, equity benchmark Sensex advanced 92 points on Thursday, led by gains in index majors TCS, Reliance Industries and L&T amid a positive trend in global markets. Recovering from a shaky start, the 30-share BSE index ended 91.84 points or 0.19 per cent higher at its new lifetime closing high of 49,584.16. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 30.75 points or 0.21 per cent to finish at a record 14,595.60. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, L&T, ITC, HUL, Reliance Industries and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Axis Bank, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and Infosys were among the laggards. Domestic equities witnessed a brisk recovery from the day's low mainly led by a rebound in FMCG and pharma stocks, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT index has been most surprising as profit-booking was visible in many IT stocks despite strong Q3 numbers and upbeat guidance shared by the management. "We believe the underlying strength of the market remains intact and any correction in the market is likely to be bought out. A sustained recovery in key economic data for Dec'20, better-than-expected 3Q FY21 corporate earnings so far and upbeat managements' commentaries continue to augur well for the market," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the positive territory, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.12 per cent lower at USD 55.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
14-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday led by heavy selling in index-heavyweights Infosys, HCL Tech and Asian Paints. The 30-share BSE index was trading 154.21 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 49,338.11. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 47.45 points or 0.33 per cent to 14,517.40 in opening deals. According to traders, profit-booking at higher levels is keeping benchmark indices volatile. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ITC, L&T, Bajaj Auto and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 24.79 points or 0.05 per cent lower at 49,492.32, while Nifty inched up 1.40 points or 0.01 per cent to its fresh closing record of 14,564.85. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,879.06 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. On the earnings front, Infosys on Wednesday posted a 16.6 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 5,197 crore for the December 2020 quarter, and increased its revenue growth guidance for FY21 to 4.5-5 per cent on the back of large project wins and strong deal pipeline. "We believe underlying strength of the market remains intact and any correction in the market will be bought out. Sustained recovery in key economic data for Dec'20, better-than-expected 3QFY21 corporate earnings so far and upbeat management commentaries continue to augur well for the market," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US stocks mostly finished marginally higher as investors remained focused on higher fiscal stimulus from US president-elect Joe Biden's administration. "However, development around the possible impeachment of president Donald Trump is unlikely to have any meaningful impact on markets. Further, remarks by Fed's Brainard about continuity of broad-based bond buying program for quite sometimes offered comfort to equities," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive territory, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.32 per cent lower at USD 55.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
14-01-2021||Business||Wipro net profit jumps 21%||Wipro on Wednesday joined its peers in reporting a healthy set of numbers for the third quarter of the fiscal ended December 31, 2020. The Bangalore-based firm reported a 21 per cent growth in net profit at Rs 2,968 crore against Rs 2,455.9 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Increased  technology spending by clients during the pandemic has benefited companies such as Wipro. The momentum is only expected to accelerate with enterprises demanding more services such as cloud and going digital to connect better with customers. During the quarter, Wipro saw its revenues from operations rise 1.28 per cent to Rs 15,670 crore from Rs 15,470.5 crore in the year-ago period. On a sequential basis, revenues grew almost 4 per cent. The revenues were ahead of analysts’ estimates of a little over Rs 15, 300 crore. Revenues from IT services rose 3.9 per cent over the preceding three months to a 36-quarter high of $2,071 million from $1,992.4 million. Wipro expects revenues from the IT segment to rise to $2,102-2,143 million in the March quarter, which translates to a sequential growth of 1.5- 3.5 per cent. Another positive element was the better show on the margin front. Margins in its IT services business expanded 234 basis points over the preceding quarter to 21.7 per cent. At its board meeting on Wednesday, the directors of the company declared an interim dividend of Re 1 per share. This was higher than estimates made by analysts at ICICI securities who expected it to come at 19.5 per cent. ``Wipro has delivered asecond consecutivequarter of strong performance on order booking, revenue and margins. Five of oursectors grew over 4% sequentially. We closed our largest ever deal win in Continental Europe. The demand environment is steadily improving, especially for digital transformation, digital operations, and cloud services’’, Thierry Delaporte, CEO and Managing Director, Wipro said while commenting on the performance of Wipro during the quarter. In terms of performance by verticals, key segments like banking, financial services & insurance saw revenues in constant currency terms rising by 1.2 per cent on a sequential basis. Other client segments like energy & natural resources, health business unit, and manufacturing also witnessed better growth ranging from 4-5.2 per cent. In terms of geographies, Europe led the performance charts as it showed a sequential rise of 8.6 per cent and it was followed by the Americas at 2.3 per cent. Shares of Wipro today settled with gains of 0.23 per cent at Rs 458.75 in the BSE before the results announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Indian Railway Finance Corporation sets price band at Rs 25-26||Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC), a public sector undertaking under the railways ministry, on Wednesday fixed the price band at Rs 25-26 per equity share for its Rs 4,600-crore initial public offering (IPO). The offer will comprise up to 178.2 crore shares of face value of Rs 10 each. The IPO includes a fresh issue of up to 118.8 crore shares (fresh issue) and an offer for sale of up to 59.4 crore equity shares by the President of India, acting through the ministry of railways. Thus, the government is expected to mobilise Rs 1,544 crore at the upper price band. The government has set a target of raising Rs 2.1 lakh crore through divestment in the current financial year. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||RBI lens on online loans||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday formed a working group to study all aspects of digital lending activities to help it implement an appropriate regulatory framework. The move comes amid rising incidents of harassments related to online lending which lead to some persons committing suicide after they were unable to repay the online money lender. The total number of suicides triggered by harassment by instant app-based lenders rose to six in Telangana. Last month, the regulator had cautioned people not to fall prey to the unauthorised digital lending platforms and mobile apps. The lenders charged excessive rates of interest along with additional hidden charges and adopted unacceptable and high-handed recovery methods, reports said. They also misused agreements to access data on the mobile phones of the borrowers. “Against this backdrop, a working group is being set up to study all aspects of digital lending activities in the regulated financial sector as well as by unregulated players so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place,” the RBI said in a statement. The working group will be chaired by RBI executive director Jayant Kumar Dash. The other internal members are Ajay Kumar Choudhary (CGM-in-charge, department of supervision, RBI), P Vasudevan (CGM, department of payment and settlement systems) and Manoranjan Mishra (CGM, department of regulation). The external members are Vikram Mehta (co-founder, Monexo Fintech) and Rahul Sasi (cyber security expert and founder of CloudSEK). The working group will submit its report within three months. ``While penetration of digital methods in the financial sector is a welcome development, the benefits and certain downside risks are often interwoven in such endeavours," the RBI noted. As per the Terms of Reference (ToR) for the WG, it has been asked evaluate digital lending activities and assess the penetration and standards of outsourced digital lending activities in RBI regulated entities, and identify risks posed by unregulated digital lending to financial stability, regulated entities and consumers. The panel has also been asked to suggest regulatory changes, if any, to promote orderly growth of digital lending. The panel would also be recommending a robust fair practices code for digital lending players and suggesting measures for enhanced consumer protection. ``This is an excellent starting point, and forms a very promising premise for the times to come. Considering the importance of digital lending towards the financial inclusion in the Indian economy on one hand, and the regulations and best practices required to ensure a transparent & favourable ecosystem for all stakeholders on the other, a move like this from RBI is much appreciated’’, Madhusudan Ekambaram, Co-Founder & CEO, KreditBee and Co-Founder, FACE (Fintech Association for Consumer Empowerment) said while commenting on the move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Infosys profit up 16%, raises guidance||Infosys on Wednesday beat Street estimates, raised revenue guidance for the current fiscal and expressed confidence of a double digit growth in 2021-22. Buoyed by large deal wins and clients opting for digital transformation in a pandemic-stricken world, the country’s second largest IT services firm has posted a 16.6 per cent growth in net profit at Rs 5,197 crore for the December quarter of 2020 compared with Rs 4,457 crore in the corresponding previous period. Analysts had expected the company to post net profits of around Rs 5,000 crore. Revenues also came ahead of forecasts as it gained 12.2 per cent over the year ago period to Rs 25,927 crore from Rs 23,092 crore. In dollar terms, the topline showed a rise of 6.2 per cent at $3.5 billion. Brokerages such as Emkay had expected the dollar revenues to come in at $3.4 billion. In constant currency terms, the revenues showed a rise of 6.6 per cent. An optimistic Infosys raised the revenue and margin forecast for this fiscal. It now expects revenue to grow 4.5-5 per cent in constant currency terms compared with its previous estimate of 2-3 per cent growth. The operating margin guidance was raised to 24-24.5 per cent against the earlier 23-24 per cent. At a virtual press conference after the results were announced, Infosys CEO and MD Salil Parekh said the company was confident about achieving a double digit growth in the next fiscal. He pointed out that the strong performance during the third quarter, which is seasonally a weak period for the sector, came as its extreme focus on offerings like digital and cloud yielded good dividends. He added that a key highlight of the quarter was a record $7.13 billion that came in from large deal signings. This included the massive deal with Daimler for a technology-driven IT infrastructure transformation. During the quarter, Infosys had also entered into a strategic partnership with Rolls-Royce to source engineering and R&D services for the latter’s civil aerospace business. Parekh pointed out that enterprises are now spending on activities like cloud and that Infosys is well prepared to tap this trend even as pricing remains stable. During the third quarter, digital offerings accounted for little over 50 per cent of Infosys revenues, up from 40.6 per cent in the year ago period. In terms of verticals, financial services which accounts for 33 per cent of Infosys’ topline reported a 12 per cent rise in constant currency revenues  over the same period of last year. Hi-tech led the growth charts as it reported an increase of 17.4 per cent while life sciences saw 11 per cent growth. Ahead of the numbers, Infosys hit a fresh 52-week high of Rs 1392.70, but ended off these peaks at 1387.70-a gain of 1.16 per cent over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Government to divest 10% in SAIL||The Centre has decided to offload up to a 10 per cent share of public sector steel maker Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) through the  offer-for-sale route, raising at least Rs 2,643 crore. The OFS, which will hit the market on Thursday, will have a floor price of Rs 64 a share. The offer price comes at a 14 per cent discount to the closing rate on Wednesday. The government holds a 75 per cent stake in the PSU. The offer is being broken down into two parts. Non retail shareholders will be able to subscribe to the issue on Thursday, while retail shareholders will be able to participate only on Friday. The Centre appears to be taking the benefit of the rally in the market, especially in the steel stocks. On the back of a record price of the alloy in the market and gross margin, the scrips have rallied. Over the last three months, the SAIL stock has more than doubled. From a low of Rs 32.8 on October 15, it touched a high of Rs 80.35 on January 5. It closed at Rs 74.70, down Rs 1.20, or 1.75 per cent, on Wednesday. SAIL, along with Tata Steel, are likely to be the biggest beneficiaries of the steel boom as they are the only two companies who do not have to buy iron ore at the market price, having their own captive mines. Moreover, they also have coking coal mines, which partly meet their requirement. During the third quarter, the company posted growth both in terms of production and sales over the preceding quarter and the same period last quarter. Total sales stood at 4.32 million tonnes compared with 4.21 million tonnes in the second quarter and 4.09 million tonnes a year ago. The record margin also helped the company to strengthen the balance sheet of the company. SAIL has significantly reduced the net debt from a peak of Rs 52,290 crore  on April 30, 2020 to Rs 44,308 crore on December 31, 2020, down Rs 7,982 crore. The company, under the new chairperson Soma Mondal, says the efforts to deleverage further would continue. The company may be aided by a further uptick in prices. While benchmark hot-rolled coil prices rallied by Rs 13,800 per tonne during October-December to reach an unprecedented level of Rs 51,000 per tonne, there may still be 6-8 per cent upside left. The bigger players have made it clear that more rounds of hikes are on the cards given that domestic prices are still 6-8 per cent cheaper than the landed price of imports. “We expect steel prices to remain high in the January-March 2021 quarter with a sequential price hike of Rs 7,000-8,500 per tonne,” a study by rating agency Crisil noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Union cabinet clears mine reforms||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved reforms in mining that will double mineral production in the next 4-5 years. The amendments do away with the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and  allowing transfer of mining leases. A comprehensive licence for exploration and production, clarity in illegal mining, national mineral index and joint auctions of bauxite and coal mines for the aluminium sector are some of the other proposals that have been approved by the cabinet. These reforms will be implemented through an amendment to the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 for which a bill will be placed in Parliament, sources said. With the approval of the proposal for reforms, legacy issues related to the mines will be resolved, making a large number of mines available for auctions. It will help strengthen the auction-only regime and boost transparency in the system. “It will require an amendment in section 10A (2)(b) and 10A (2)(c) of the MMDR Act,” a source said. The reforms include removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and introduction of an index-based mechanism by developing a National Mineral Index (NMI) for various statutory payments, among others. In order to boost exploration, there will be a review of the functioning of the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET). NMET will be made an autonomous body. Private entities will also be engaged in exploration works now. Simplification of exploration regime will also be done to facilitate seamless transition from exploration to production. Approval has also been given for amendments to be made in the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) guidelines. The amendments are aimed at spending DMF funds on people living in directly affected areas. "These funds are intended to be utilised better with more visible outcomes," the source said. Local Member of Parliament (MP) will be a member of the DMF Governing Council. "Captive mines will be allowed to sell up to 50 per cent of the minerals excavated during the current year. Based on the experience in the coal sector, it has been proposed to provide 50 per cent rebate in the quoted revenue share for the quantity of mineral produced and dispatched earlier than scheduled date of production," the source said. Based on wide consultation with various stakeholders comprising states, ministries, industry associations, public consultation and NITI Aayog, it was felt that only major structural reforms can help India become ''Aatmanirbhar'' in the mineral sector, sources said. The major objective of the reforms is to generate huge employment opportunities, reduce imports and increase production by bringing large mineral blocks into auction. The government had last month said the country's mining sector will see "hectic activity" in the new year. "The year 2021 will see hectic activity on the mining side because the reforms which have been in waiting for some time, they (reforms) are likely to be approved in the month of January which will involve some changes in the MMDR Act and some changes in the rules, all meant to liberate the sector," Mines Secretary Anil Kumar Jain had said. "It is going to bring into play a large number of mining blocks so the production in most of the minerals resources will see quantum jump because of these mines which will become available for interested parties in the calendar year 2021," he had added Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme, the Centre had in May last year announced enhancing private investments in the mineral sector and bringing in other reforms. The mines ministry had proposed legislative amendments to the MMDR Act, 1957 for undertaking structural reforms with the objective of accelerating growth and employment generation. They are also aimed at resolving legacy issues to move towards an auction-only regime for allocation of mineral resources, removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines, developing a transparent National Mineral Index and clarifying the definition of illegal mining, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Essar Group hydrogen fuel plan in UK||Essar Group in partnership with clean energy specialist Progressive Energy will invest £750 million to build the UK’s biggest low carbon hydrogen production hub at Stanlow refinery in Ellesmere Port, Cheshire. The investment in the two plants will be part of the HyNet scheme, a project to supply low carbon hydrogen to industrial sites and homes in north-west England. “The joint venture will manufacture hydrogen at the refinery for use across the HyNet region,” the firms said in a statement. The plants would be built next to Essar’s Stanlow refinery in north-west England. Natural and fuel gas from the refinery will be converted into low carbon hydrogen, with carbon dioxide captured and stored in depleted undersea gas fields 60 km offshore in Liverpool Bay. The refinery will be converted to burn hydrogen instead of natural gas. “It (the project) will provide Essar Oil UK with low carbon hydrogen to decarbonise its own energy demand in addition to creating a hydrogen economy across North West England and North East Wales,” the statement said. The first plant should open in 2025 while the second is expected in 2027. The hydrogen production hub will deliver clean energy to the industry in the HyNet “low carbon cluster”, as well as to fuel buses, trains, heavy goods vehicles and to heat homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Amazon Prime for mobiles at Rs 89||Amazon on Wednesday announced its first mobile-only Prime Video plan at a starting price of Rs 89 per month as it looks to woo entertainment-hungry smartphone users in the country. The single-user plan will initially be available for Bharti Airtel’s prepaid users, the company said. After a 30-day free trial, the Rs 89 for 28-day plan will come with 6 gigabytes of data. The introduction of the mobile-only plans in India is a global first for the company that competes against players such as Netflix, Disney+Hotstar and Zee5. “India is one of our fastest growing markets globally with very high engagement rates. We want to double-down on our efforts and reach out to an even larger audience. Powered by affordable data, smartphones have become the preferred screen for entertainment in India,” Amazon Prime Video India director and country general manager Gaurav Gandhi said. He, however, declined to comment on the number of subscribers of Amazon Prime Video in India. Amazon Prime Video rival Netflix introduced a similar mobile-only subscription plan in India for Rs 199 last year. As part of the Prime Video Mobile Edition launch in India, all Airtel customers on bundled prepaid packs can avail a 30-day free trial by signing up to Amazon from the Airtel Thanks app using their mobile number. After the 30 day-free trial, Airtel customers can access Prime Video Mobile Edition through prepaid recharges starting at Rs 89 for 28-day access to the service along with 6GB data. The recharges will be available on the Airtel Thanks app. Bringing in mobile-only plans helps content streaming platforms tap larger audiences, especially in smaller towns and those consuming content on the go. Prime Video Mobile Edition is a single-user mobile-only plan, providing SD (standard definition) quality streaming to customers which is created especially for a mobile-first country such as India, Gandhi said. Customers who want features such as multi-user access, streaming across devices, including smart TVs and HD/UHD content along with access to Prime benefits such as Prime Music and free fast delivery on Amazon.in can recharge with a 30-day Amazon Prime membership at Rs 131 or recharge with a Rs 349 pack of 28-day validity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Delhi HC seeks Future Retail reply on Amazon’s plea||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Ltd (FRL) on Amazon’s plea challenging the prima facie observations by a single judge that the US e-commerce giant’s attempt to control the Indian entity was violative of Fema and FDI rules. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to FRL, Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL), Reliance Retail and the Biyanis seeking their stand on the plea by Amazon against the observations made by the single judge in a December 21, 2020 interim order. Amazon has sought setting aside of the observations as they have a bearing on its case in arbitration proceedings that were initiated before the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The US firm, represented by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, has contended that the observations are inconsistent with the findings in the SIAC emergency arbitral order of October 25, 2020 against FRL’s asset sale with Reliance Retail. “The respondent 1 (FRL) has been relying on these prima facie observations to misconstrue the true import of the impugned order in an effort to mislead regulators to grant approval to the potential transaction, which has constrained the appellant to file the present appeal to quash the prime facie observations as set out in detail in the appeal,” Amazon has said. It has also contended in its appeal that the observations in the December 21, 2020 order “effectively resulted in allowing FRL to collaterally bypass the EA order”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||Sops likely for electric cars||Electric vehicle makers can expect a bouquet of sops in the budget to realise the government’s ambition to have 30 per cent of such cars on the roads in another 10 years. The government plans to incentivise their manufacture along with import duty reliefs that include bringing semi-finished form of batteries at concessional rates. The car industry also expects finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to put more money into the hands of consumers which would result in higher sales. With the leading electric car maker Tesla registering its Indian subsidiary with the Registrar of Companies (RoC) in Bangalore, the prospects of Elon Musk bringing the first Tesla Model-3 to India 14 years after its first launch in the US appears to become a reality. This is likely to intensify competition as car makers such as Mahindra and Mahindra, Tata Motors and Maruti as well as startups such as  Pravaig Dynamics and Tork Motors are set to roll out their models. Finance ministry officials said there could be a marginal duty hike to incentivise domestic manufacturing. In the last budget, the government had increased the basic customs duty on electric vehicles by 5 per cent to 15 per cent. As the localisation is low in the EV segment compared with internal combustion engines, analysts said “the government could announce some direct financial support under the proposed  production-linked incentives scheme or by increasing duties on the imported EV (electric vehicle) components”. Sources said the government can follow a two-pronged strategy:raise the import duty on parts that can be manufactured locally; and in turn offer zero customs duty on the parts that will be used for the local parts. The government may also allow the import of EV parts at concessional duty for after-market service obligations and allow the import of battery charger at a concessional duty by expanding the condition of import to “for use in manufacture or providing charging facility of a hybrid/electric vehicle”. The government has announced the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for 10 sectors, including automobiles, to boost in-house manufacturing. The scheme has allocated nearly Rs 57,000 crore to the auto industry and another Rs 18,100 crore to boost the production of advanced chemistry cell batteries (lithium-ion batteries). However, the eligibility details are still to be finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-171
14-01-2021||Business||CESC plans to rejig business||CESC Ltd is taking another shot at consolidating its power distribution business under one umbrella — but with a twist — after aborting such a plan more than two years back. The board of the company, the flagship of the RP-SG Group, met on Wednesday to approve a plan to ‘reorient and reorganise’ the power distribution business under a wholly owned step down subsidiary, Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd, sans the Calcutta licence area. Under the present plan, three distribution franchisees in Rajasthan — Kota, Bharatpur and Bikaner — and one each in Maharashtra (Malengaon) and Uttar Pradesh (Noida) will be put under Eminent, apart from any other distribution business that may come up in the future. Noida, as part of the national capital region, is the most profitable among the businesses the company has ventured into over the years. It managed to turn around two of the Rajasthan distribution franchisees as well. Put together, Eminent will have a top-line upward of Rs 3,500 crore. In 2018, CESC had hatched a grand plan to split the company into four separate entities — power generation, power distribution, retail and new business, and had received an approval from the National Company Law Tribunal. However, the West Bengal State Electricity Regulatory Commission threw a spanner into the plan, vetoing the separation of the Calcutta distribution business, the oldest and most profitable part of the company, from CESC. After waiting for months to get an approval, CESC decided to go ahead with a three-way separation, keeping the entire power business under one roof. In the previous avatar, the distribution businesses were to be put under a company and be listed. However, there is no indication if Eminent will be listed. CESC on Wednesday announced an interim dividend of Rs 45 a share. ICICI Securities said the dividend yield works out to 6.7 per cent of the current market price. The payout is highest in CESC’s history. The December quarter consolidated  profit rose 25 per cent Rs 328 crore from Rs 263 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations rose to Rs 2,539 crore from Rs 2,344 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-172
14-01-2021||India||Sharad Pawar: Charges against Munde serious||With the demand for the resignation of Maharashtra Minister Dhananjay Munde getting louder, his party NCP on Thursday stated that the issue - Munde being accused of rape by a Mumbai woman, will be discussed internally, following which they would be deciding on his fate. NCP president Sharad Pawar mentioned that the allegation against the Social Justice Minister was serious and added the party will discuss the issue and decide on it as soon as possible. Pawar while addressing the media told that Munde (45) met him on Wednesday and explained the details in connection with the allegation. “I think the allegation against him (Munde) is serious. Naturally, we will have to discuss the issue as a party. I will discuss the same in detail with my key colleagues and take them into confidence,” Pawar said. “Further steps will be taken after knowing their views. We will do this as soon as possible,” he added. Munde on the other hand told reporters that Pawar and other leaders of the party will take a call on the issue of his resignation. Maharashtra NCP president and state minister Jayant Patil maintained that Munde will not resign just because someone has made allegations, but asserted that the issue will discussed inside the NCP and a decision will be taken based on facts. Talking to reporters, Patil stated that any conclusion should be reached only based on police probe outcome into the matter. The Water Resources Minister informed that so far there has been neither any discussion in the party over Mundes resignation nor the latter has offered to resign. Munde was being blackmailed and he had even registered a police complaint. “We should reach any conclusion based on the outcome of the police probe. We need not jump to a conclusion,” Patil said. He further added that Munde had complaint about the alleged blackmailing by the woman at the Bandra Police Station, but the cops did not take appropriate action at the same. Hence, Munde had approached the Bombay High Court, Patil said. “Now, the police should conduct an initial probe into the matter. I am sure you will take note if some woman is defaming a politician by levelling random allegations”, he added. Seconding Pawar, Patil maintained that the allegation against Munde is serious but facts need to be checked. “It is also not expected of the party to take any decision without verifying the truth if anyone levels allegation against someone,” he said. Patil added, “Shiv Sena-led government, of which the NCP is a key partner, is not interfering in the matter.” He, however, maintained that the situation will definitely be reviewed internally. “If need be, we will take appropriate positions based on facts at the level of the Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray),” Patil said. “It will not happen that he will resign just because someone has made allegations,” he added. The 37-year-old woman, an aspiring singer, had said that she had written to the Mumbai police commissioner on January 10, stating that Munde had repeatedly raped her in 2006. She also claimed that she had approached the Oshiwara police here earlier but her complaint was ignored. Munde, an NCP leader from Beed district, has denied the allegations, claiming he is being blackmailed by the woman and her sister. Speaking to reporters separately, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut termed the issue involving Munde as personal and familial. “I think we should leave it to Dhananjay Munde. It is completely his personal, familial matter. And he will find a way out of it,” Raut said. He also added that the NCPs leadership is discerning and matured to take a call on the issue. Without naming any opposition party, Raut said that it is an illusion if they think Mundes character assassination will bedevil the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “I dont think the opposition has levelled direct allegations. But I can only say that this is not a political issue, but of the family,” Raut said. Meanwhile, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded Munde’s resignation. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said, “Munde should step down immediately.” “Munde has been accused of sexual harassment and he has no right to be in the cabinet. A minister would immediately tender his resignation following such allegations but this thick-skinned government is unlikely to take any action against him, but we will press our demand,” Chandrakant Patil said. However, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis took a more cautious stand when asked with the charges against Munde and his resignation. “We need to consider both the sides before making any demand. The party (NCP) and the chief minister should look into it,” Fadnavis said. Munde has maintained that the woman’s claims were part of a conspiracy to blackmail him. He, however, acknowledged that he was in a relationship with the woman’s sister and has two children with her. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Munde said his wife, family and friends were aware of this relationship, adding the two kids have been accepted by his family. BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya has written to the Election Commission, saying Munde did not mention about his son and daughter from the relationship in his poll affidavit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||No foreign head of state as R-Day chief guest due to pandemic: MEA||No foreign dignitary or leader will be attending this year’s Republic Day celebration as the chief guest, due to the global situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic, announced the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday. It will be for the first time in over five decades that India will not be having a chief guest at the Republic Day parade. “Due to the global Covid-19 situation, it has been decided that this year there will not be a foreign head of state or head of government as the chief guest for our Republic Day event,” MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava announced at a media briefing. The decision was taken after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s last-minute decision to cancel his visit due to the spread of a mutant strain of the coronavirus in the UK. India had invited Johnson as the Republic Day chief guest and he accepted India’s invitation, calling it “a great honour”. However, earlier this month, he chose to cancel his India visit due to the pandemic that has escalated in the UK following the mutant variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses government of ‘destroying’ farmers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday took a dig at the Centre over the three new farm laws, alleging that the government was “conspiring to destroy” the ryots and assured that his party will stand with them. Talking to the media at Madurai, the former Congress chief said that the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre is trying to benefit “two or three of their friends” on the matter. “The government is not just neglecting them (farmers), the government is conspiring to destroy them. There is a difference. Neglecting is ignoring...they are not ignoring them,” he said in response to a query. “They are trying to destroy them, because they want to benefit two or three of their friends. They want to give what belongs to the farmer to two or three of their friends,” he alleged. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the new Central farm laws outside Delhi, demanding for their repeal. “They want to take the land of the farmer, produce of the farmer and they want to give it to their friends,” Gandhi alleged. “You are suppressing the farmers, helping a handful of businesses,” he said. Extending his party's support to the farmers, Gandhi said the laws will indeed be repealed. Charging Narendra Modi with “not supporting” the common man during the coronavirus pandemic, Gandhi asked “whose Prime Minister are you?” “Are you the Prime Minister of the people of India or the Prime Minister of two-three selected businessmen,” he asked. He also sought to know why Modi was “silent” on the months-long Sino-India standoff, asking “why are the Chinese people sitting inside Indian territory?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Centre, farmers say ninth round of talks still on||The government's ninth round of negotiations with protesting farmer unions will take place as scheduled on Friday and the Centre is hopeful of positive discussions, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday. "The government is ready to hold talks with farmers' leaders with an open mind," Tomar told reporters here. Clearing the confusion over the fate of the ninth round of talks, which was the only outcome in the last meeting on January 8, in the wake of the Supreme Court on January 11 appointing a four-member panel to resolve the impasse and a key member of the proposed committee subsequently recusing himself, Tomar said the talks between the government and the union representatives will take place as scheduled for 12 pm on January 15. The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that agitating farmers’ unions are ready to hold talks with the government and attend the ninth round of negotiations as per schedule. He stressed on the necessity of continuing the dialogue to resolve the deadlock and end the agitation. Tikait also said the protesting unions will attend the meeting with union ministers on Friday. Asked if unions have any hope from the Friday meeting, Tikait told PTI, “Let's see what happens tomorrow. But, our meetings will continue with the government till our protest ends as it is necessary.” “We will not oppose the meetings with the government,” Tikait said when asked if Friday’s meeting could be the last if nothing comes out of the talks. The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition. Earlier in the day, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann said he is recusing himself from the four-member committee. Farmer unions and opposition parties had called it a "pro-government" panel, insisting that its members have been in favour of the three laws in the past. Mann said he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him on the panel but would give up any position to prevent farmers' interests from being compromised. "As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country," he said in a statement. "I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab," Mann added. The apex court had on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three central laws till further orders and announced the formation of a committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and the opinion of the government. Apart from Mann, Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati were appointed on the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Army can give ‘befitting’ reply to those who want to hurt India’s pride: Rajnath||India does not support a war but its soldiers are ready to give a befitting reply if any ‘superpower’ hurts the country's pride, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday amid the eight-month-long border standoff with China in Eastern Ladakh. Addressing an event to mark the fifth Armed Forces Veterans’ Day at the Headquarters Training Command of the Indian Air Force in Bengaluru, Singh said, “We don’t want war and we are in favour of protecting everyone's security but I want to say this in clear terms that if any superpower wants to hurt our pride then our soldiers are capable of giving them a befitting reply.” The Defence minister insisted that India never wanted conflict with any nation and preferred to maintain peace and friendly ties with its neighbours. “It always wanted peace and friendly ties with its neighbours because it's in our blood and culture,” he said. Referring to the standoff with China, he said the Indian soldiers displayed exemplary courage and patience and if that can be narrated then every Indian will feel proud. Singh hailed the Indian soldiers who showed extraordinary courage in “eliminating terrorists on the Pakistan soil”. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Ghazipur poultry market to reopen after all samples test negative||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday issued directions to open the Ghazipur poultry market after all 100 samples collected from there tested negative for bird flu. "Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to Bird Flu. Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks," the chief minister tweeted. Earlier in the day, a senior official of the Delhi animal husbandry unit said there is no spread of bird flu among chickens in Delhi as all the 100 samples taken from Asia's largest poultry market in Ghazipur have tested negative. The results come a day after civic authorities imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat in view of the bird flu situation here. Earlier, samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital tested positive for avian influenza. This had led to banning of the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city and shutting the wholesale poultry market in east Delhi for 10 days as a precautionary measure by the Delhi government on Monday. The Ghazipur market located on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border is a key supplier of poultry products in the region. Chickens, geese, ducks and turkey are among the poultry birds bred by farmers for their eggs and meat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||BKU president recuses himself from SC committee on farm laws||Bharatiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann has recused himself from the four-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court to resolve the impasse between farmers and the Centre over the new agri-marketing laws, he said on Thursday. Opposition parties and protesting farmers’ unions had raised doubts on the panel, saying that its members had favoured the laws in the past. Mann said he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him on the panel but would give up any position to prevent farmers’ interests from being ‘compromised’. “As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country,” he said in a statement here. “I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab,” Mann added. On Tuesday, the apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws and ordered the formation of a committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and the opinion of the government. Apart from Mann, Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati were appointed on the panel. While welcoming the stay on the implementation of the new laws, farmer unions have said they will not appear before the group. Their leaders claimed that the members of the committee are “pro-government”. “The members of the SC-appointed committee are not dependable as they have been writing on how agri laws are pro-farmer. We will continue our agitation,” farmer leader Balbeer Singh Rajewal said at a press conference on Tuesday. Paramjit Singh, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, said: “This is a way to get us out of here. We respect the Supreme Court but we are not going to go back till the laws are repealed and we get a legal guarantee on minimum support price.” “The representatives of all the farmers’ bodies, whether they are holding a protest or not and whether they support or oppose the laws shall participate in the deliberations of the committee and put forth their viewpoints,” it had said. Many felt the Supreme Court’s intervention at this stage was to ensure there was no disturbance during the Republic Day celebration. The farmers have announced a parallel parade of tractors. “Tell Modiji to change,” snapped Harbhajan Singh Sekhu, 80, as he distributed disposable plates at a langar, referring to the celebrations on Republic Day, angry that the government was refusing to heed the farmers. “Jaane wale nahi hain. Nahi jaayenge, (We are not going back. We will not go),” Sekhu added. Asked about the Supreme Court-appointed committee of experts to review the laws and whether they should give it time, most farmers refused to accept it. The Supreme Court, however, expected them to participate. The committee was asked to submit its report to the Supreme Court within two months of its first sitting, which is to take place within 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Centre examining WhatsApp’s privacy policy amid backlash||Amid backlash over WhatsApp’s controversial changes of linking its users’ data to Facebook’s other products and services, the government is examining and evaluating this privacy policy of the messaging platform, sources said. The IT Ministry is engaged in internal discussions regarding the implications of the recent update by the Facebook-owned platform, said the sources. The issue needs to be looked at, in detail, given that concerns have been raised by a large section of users including some top business leaders, they added. WhatsApp counts India as one of its biggest markets globally, with 400 million users in the country. Sources further said that WhatsApp’s policy update would also be evaluated in the context of the current legal framework. A decision regarding summoning WhatsApp for explanation is likely to be taken soon. The development comes amid a raging debate over WhatsApp’s controversial update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant’s products. WhatsApp had informed users about these changes through an in-app notification, last week. It said that users will have to agree to the new terms and policy by February 8, in order to continue using the platform. This led to a user backlash and triggered memes on the internet over WhatsApp’s alleged sharing of user information with Facebook. Many users have also started shifting to rival platforms like Telegram and Signal, and these platforms have seen millions of downloads globally in the immediate aftermath of the event. Amid the public furore, WhatsApp, on its part, has sought to assuage users’ concerns saying its latest policy update does not affect the privacy of messages on the platform. In a blogpost earlier this week, WhatsApp emphasised that it does not share users’ contact lists or data of groups with Facebook for advertisement purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Over 8,000 health workers to get inoculated in capital, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the state government has completed every preparation required for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which starts in India on January 16. Kejriwal said over 8,000 health workers will be vaccinated on every scheduled day in the city, adding that he had taken a stock of the situation. The Delhi government has received 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient for 1.2 lakh health workers. There are a total of 2.4 lakh health workers in Delhi and more vaccine doses are expected to arrive soon, the chief minister said in an address. The Delhi government will begin the vaccination drive on Saturday starting with 81 centres, the number of which will be increased after a few days to 175 and finally 1,000, he said. The vaccine will be administered on four days of the week -- Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It will not be given on Sunday and two other days of the week -- Wednesday and Friday. “The rest of the days will be left for other vaccinations. We do not want the vaccination schedules for other illnesses to suffer due to this,” NDTV quoted Kejriwal as saying. Each day 100 people will be administered the vaccine, he said and hoped people will finally get rid of the virus after facing hardships for the past many months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Modi to launch vaccination drive on January 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the rollout of India's COVID-19 vaccination programme on January 16, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. He is likely to interact via video link with some healthcare workers from across the country who will be receiving the shots on the first day, according to sources. Modi is also likely to launch the Co-WIN (COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network) App, a digital platform created for real-time monitoring of COVID-19 vaccine delivery and distribution, they said. The health ministry said, "The massive countrywide COVID-19 vaccination drive will be rolled out by Prime Minister from January 16. This would be the world's largest immunisation exercise. Therefore, it has been decided by the Ministry of Health in consultation with the office of the President of India to reschedule the Polio vaccination day, also known as the National Immunisation Day (NID) or 'Polio Ravivar' to 31st January." This will be the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and all preparations are in place to initiate the programme on the principles of 'Jan Bhagidari', the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement. Prime Minister Modi will launch the pan-India rollout of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 at 10:30 AM via video conferencing, the PMO said. A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and UTs will be virtually connected during the launch and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the first day, the statement said. Adequate doses of both Covishield and Covaxin have already been delivered across the country to all States/UTs with the active support of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. These have been further delivered by the State/UT governments to the districts, the PMO said. The vaccination programme will use Co-WIN, an online digital platform developed by Union Health Ministry, which will facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries for COVID-19 vaccine. This digital platform will assist programme managers across all levels while conducting vaccination sessions, the PMO said. A dedicated 24x7 call centre 1075 has also been established for addressing the queries related to COVID-19 pandemic, vaccine rollout and the Co-WIN software. Officials at New Delhi's AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals, which are among the shortlisted facilities, said they are "ready for a two-way communication". The PMO statement said the vaccination programme is based on principles of priority groups to be vaccinated first. Healthcare workers, both in the government and private sectors, including Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Adequate doses of both Covishield and Covaxin have already been delivered across the country to all States/UTs with the active support of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. These have been further delivered by the State/UT governments to the districts, the PMO said. Officials at New Delhi's AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals, which are among the shortlisted facilities, said they are "ready for a two-way communication". Around three lakh healthcare workers will get vaccine shots at the sites across the country on the first day of the massive nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive, a senior official said. Each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries. According to the guidelines issued to the shortlisted vaccination centres, healthcare workers (those registered in Co-WIN to be vaccinated) on the launch shall include not only doctors, nurses but also nursing orderlies, safai karamcharis, ambulance drivers, and would be from a mixed age group, including above 50 years. The full initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin-- has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. "Therefore, there is no question of discrimination against any State in allocation of vaccination doses. This is the initial lot of supply of vaccine doses and would be continuously replenished in the weeks to come. Therefore, any apprehension being expressed on account of deficient supply is totally baseless and unfounded," the ministry said. States have been advised to organize vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day. Therefore, any undue haste on the parts of the states to organize unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised, the ministry had said on Wednesday. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilizes and moves forward. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||India records almost 17,000 Covid cases, 198 new fatalities in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,05,12,093 with 16,946 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 1,01,46,763, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll has increased to 1,51,727 with 198 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,01,46,763, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.52 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,13,603 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.03 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,42,32,305 samples have been tested up to January 14 with 7,43,191 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 198 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 26 from Kerala, 18 from West Bengal, 15 from Uttar Pradesh and 11 from Delhi. A total of 1,51,727 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,221 from Maharashtra followed by 12,242 from Tamil Nadu, 12,152 from Karnataka, 10,718 from Delhi, 9,993 from West Bengal, 8,529 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,134 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,463 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Vaccination for 3 lakh health workers on Day One of rollout||Around 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of the massive nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive which is set to begin from January 16, official sources said. Each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries and the Union Health Ministry has advised states not to organise "unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day". "States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session each day. "Therefore, any undue haste on the part of states to organise unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised," the ministry said on Wednesday. It also said that states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilises and moves forward. "Around 3 lakh frontline healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of January 16," a source said. The government on Tuesday hinted that vaccine recipients for now will not have the option to choose from the two vaccines -- Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech -- that have been approved for restricted emergency use in India. According to the Health Ministry getting vaccinated for COVID-19 will be voluntary. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said on Tuesday, "At many places in the world more than one vaccine is being administered. But, presently, in no country vaccine recipients have the option of choosing the shots." According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. The cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government, officials had said. All 1.65 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines -- 1.1 crore of Covishield and 55 lakh of Covaxin -- procured by the Centre have been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database, it said. According to official sources, most of the 1.1 crore Covishield doses from Pune-based SII have been shipped to 60 consignee points across India from where they will be sent to smaller centres. Of the 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech ordered by the Centre, the first tranche of 2.4 lakh doses has been dispatched to 12 states. Covaxin has been sent to 12 sites --- one each in Ganavaram, Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bengaluru, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai, Lucknow and Hyderabad, an official source said. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Health Ministry officials said that there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of COVID-19 vaccines and its effectiveness can be seen only after 14 days, and urged people to keep following COVID appropriate behaviour. The ministry, which has listed series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on COVID-19 vaccine, also stated that it was advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine irrespective of past history of coronavirus infection as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. On whether a person with an active COVID-19 infection be vaccinated, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said a person with active and symptomatic COVID-19 infection may increase the risk of spreading the same to others at the vaccination site and thus infected individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms are resolved. Elaborating on the possible side-effects of COVID-19 vaccine, Guleria said that as is true for other vaccines, some will have some degree of side effects in some individuals which could be in form of mild fever, pain at the site of injection, body ache, etc. States have been asked to making arrangements to deal with any COVID-19 vaccine-related side effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Severe cold wave grips Delhi as minimum temperature dips below 2 degrees Celsius||Parts of Delhi reeled under a "severe" cold wave and witnessed "dense" fog on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 2 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Visibility levels dropped to 100 metres at Palam and 201 metres at Safdarjung due to "dense" to "moderate" fog in the morning, an IMD official said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, as against 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ridge recorded a minimum of 2.4 and 3.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barreling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. On January 1, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, lowest for the month in 15 years. Delhi had been registering above-normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. However, the temperature started dropping with the commencement of cold northwesterly winds after the withdrawal of the latest WD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||SC didn’t act on CAA but entering uncharted terrain on farms: Dave||The Supreme Court is making forays into uncharted territory by staying the implementation of the new farm laws while refusing to freeze the Citizenship Amendment Act and the recent “love jihad” ordinances issued by the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, eminent jurist Dushyant Dave told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “The Supreme Court’s decisions to stay the implementation of the farm laws and constitute a four-member panel raise very serious question marks about the purpose and object underlying the decisions,” Dave said in an interview in which he spoke of his greatest respect for the court. Dave, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), described as “astonishing” the top court’s decision to hold a hearing on Tuesday although the listed business mentioned only the issuance of orders, which ensured that he and some other key lawyers could not take part in the proceedings. Dave is one of the lawyers representing various farmers’ groups in the court. Referring to Tuesday’s court decisions, Dave said: “If Parliament had passed the laws, what is a committee going to do when direct negotiations between the farmers and the government have yielded no results after eight rounds? The court was clearly making forays into uncharted territory and into a very serious political issue confronting the nation. “The court has powers to grant a stay, no doubt, even of legislation but it can do so only if the laws are ex facie (on their face) unconstitutional. The order passed does not record such a reason. The court, perhaps as observed during the hearing, is moved by the plight of the farmers. Well and good,” Dave said. “But the same court in December 2019/ January 2020 flatly declined to grant a stay on the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act, as a result of which tens of innocent lives were lost. Thousands of properties were destroyed. Even a few weeks ago, the bench (led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, who also heads the farm law bench) declined to stay the operation of the ordinance issued in Uttar Pradesh and other states on the issue of ‘love jihad’, as a result of which tens of innocent people have gone to jail under prima facie draconian and unconstitutional laws.” The so-called love jihad laws seek to criminalise inter-religious marriages if conducted ostensibly for the purpose of religious conversion. Dave recalled a newspaper article he had written in the last week of December 2019 requesting Justice Bobde to constitute an urgent bench during the vacation and stay the Citizenship Amendment Act. “Sadly, the court never took notice of it,” Dave said. He said that under the Constitution, the Supreme Court has a paramount duty to maintain strong checks against executive excesses and legislative digressions. “Recently the court wished away a substantial challenge to the highly controversial Central Vista project on the specious ground that in policy matters, the Supreme Court will not intervene. Are the farm laws or their repeal not a policy matter?” he asked. According to Dave, the apex court’s Tuesday order also raises concerns from the perspective of the independence of the committee. The bench suggested the names of the committee members: the parties were not consulted, unlike normal procedure. “How the court came across the four names is in itself a serious question. The four members are respected and experts in their respective fields but they not only supported the farm laws (in the recent past) but some of them had criticised the farmers’ agitation. Should the court constitute a committee that is so biased? Therefore, the entire exercise can serve no purpose other than give a report to the court supporting the laws as per the proclaimed views of the members,” he said. Dave contended that the court should have selected fiercely independent members if it was serious about resolving the issue. “If any high court or the government did this, the Supreme Court would have struck down the committee on asking. So why the Supreme Court did so is unfathomable.” Dave referred to a possible long-term impact. “The Supreme Court orders really seek to put the controversy in cold storage as the petitions challenging the validity and raising substantial questions will not be heard now for a long time,” he said. The senior lawyer felt that the new farm laws were unconstitutional prima facie, considering that agriculture is a state subject in list II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Parliament cannot legislate on it. “Powers under the concurrent list to legislate in respect of food cannot include the subject matter as included in the two farm laws. In pith and substance, the farm laws deal squarely and directly with agriculture, making them seriously open to challenge,” he said. Dave said some of the petitioners before the apex court, seeking eviction of the protesting farmers, were not bona fide and were part of an attempt to stop the agitation. The Supreme Court should have gone into the bona fides of the petitioners, more so when the CJI had been repeatedly saying that the right to protest was inherent in citizens and that he did not want to stifle that. Further, he argued, none of the petitioners or even the government, much less the farmers, had sought a stay on the legislation or the formation of a committee. Yet the Supreme Court chose to pass orders staying the laws and setting up the committee. Dave said that on Monday, when the hearing began, the bench had come with a clear mind to grant a stay and constitute the committee, as was evident from the observations made by the CJI. “This was a highly sensitive and political issue and, therefore, for the court to have adopted this course was unusual and surprising,” Dave said. He underlined that his requests for an adjournment to elicit the views of the farmers had been ignored. He said that at one stage even senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for a petitioner who wanted the protesting farmers evicted, felt that Dave’s request for adjournment should be accepted, considering the number of unions involved. This was also the request of attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. Yet, Dave said, the bench chose to proceed with its orders. Dave expressed surprise that the Supreme Court had conducted a hearing on Tuesday despite Monday evening’s order clearly stating that “List the matters tomorrow ie, 12-01-2021, for orders”. “Thus, the matters were not fixed for hearing and counsel like Mr Prashant Bhushan for the newly added protesting unions did not have any clue or information that matters were kept for hearing. Even the senior counsel appearing for farmers, including myself, were clearly under the impression that matters were kept only for orders,” Dave said. For orders or judgments, senior counsel rarely appear. Even an advocate-on-record may or may not be present. “Therefore, I and my colleagues did not remain present. We did not get any intimation from the registry before the start of the hearing on Tuesday or even during the hearing that matters will be or were being heard and that we should appear through video link,” Dave said. “It is, therefore, astonishing that the Supreme Court heard the matters on merit despite the above position and, sadly, even commented on our absence and, in fact, went on to note the same in the order passed thereafter. “With greatest respect to the court, the procedure followed was not normally accepted procedure and the court should have been more careful to find out why we had not joined the hearing. “I must say that had we known that the matters were to be heard, I and my colleagues would have happily joined the proceedings and assisted the court. I must say it was very surprising that in these circumstances the learned solicitor-general, Mr Salve and others joined the proceedings and made submissions on merits when clearly matters were fixed for pronouncement of orders.” Dave added: “The entire procedure followed by the court was unusual and contrary to rules, practices and conventions. It would have been appropriate even if counsel who appeared had pointed out that perhaps we did not appear because of the nature of the listing and could have requested that the matter be kept on Wednesday to enable us to appear. “In fact, the honourable court itself should have done so if it was keen at all to hear our views on the suggestions proposed — there was no tearing hurry to pass the orders on Tuesday itself. Sadly, the court did not do so, which is deeply disappointing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Narendra Modi is an 'arrogant monarch': Protesting farmers||In the eyes of farmers sitting on dharna against the new farm laws in the biting cold of Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an “arrogant monarch” — like an Aurangzeb or a Ravan. “Ghamand toh Ravan ka nahi chala, toh Modi kya cheez hai (Even Ravan got undone by arrogance; what’s Modi before him)?” says an ageing farmer, among a group of around a dozen sharing a hookah at the Singhu border. Farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders since the last week of November to press the Modi government to repeal three agriculture laws that it steamrollered through Parliament, which the protesters believe will benefit large corporate buyers and reduce them to labourers on their own land. But the government has been unmoved, even after the deaths of more than 70 protesters. “Bharosa karke vote diya tha. Iska matlab jo chahe woh kanoon laane ke liye thhode diya tha,” says another farmer in the group. “We trusted him and gave him our vote, but not to enact any law he wants.” The duty of a good ruler is to talk to people and do what is good for them and not thrust a law that would help the corporates, he added. All the farmers in this group, from the Jat community in Haryana, said they had voted for Modi in the last general election. The BJP has cited its election victories to say it has the mandate to bring the laws. The party and the Prime Minister say the laws are good for farmers. “Yeh kanoon kisan ka nahi, Adani, Ambani ka bhala karega. Humko Modi ji ka ‘achchha kanoon’ nahi chahiye. (These laws will benefit Adani and Ambani, not farmers. We don’t want Modiji’s ‘good laws’),” a third farmer in the group said. If Ravan is who the Prime Minister reminded the group from Haryana of, it is the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb that the farmers from Punjab spoke of. They recalled how the ninth Sikh guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur, had fought against Aurangzeb’s persecution. Modi had last month gone to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj, built in Delhi at the site where the mortal remains of Guru Tegh Bahadur were consigned to flames after he was beheaded on Aurangzeb’s orders. The Prime Minister was trying to strike a chord with the Sikh farmers, who are at the forefront of the protest that now includes peasants from across the country. Modi spoke of how the Sikh gurus’ sacrifice had helped protect the country’s “civilisation and culture” from “tyrants” and “tormentors” — a reference to the Mughals, especially Aurangzeb. Unimpressed, the protesting farmers are saying that in taking on the Modi government, they are following in their Gurus’ footsteps to fight for a just cause. “The tyrants wanted the Sahibzade to renounce their faith,” Modi had said, referring to the young grandsons of Guru Tegh Bahadur immured in a wall by the Mughals for refusing to convert. At Singhu border, Modi is being seen as the persecutor now out to malign the Sikh protesters as “Khalistanis” and to subjugate them. Babek Singh, president of the welfare organisation Nanak Shahi Sansar, was heard telling the crowd from a dais that after targeting Muslims and Christians, the Modi government was now going after the Sikhs. “Hum pehle nahi dabe, ab bhi nahi dabenge (We couldn’t be subjugated before, we won’t be subjugated now),” he said, triggering cheers. Asked later why he felt that the Sikhs were being victimised, Babek referred to BJP leaders’ slander of the agitators as “Khalistani” and “anti-national”. “You call us Khalistanis and anti-national.... The Sikh community has sacrificed so much for this land and you question their patriotism?” he said, voice trembling in anger. “What else is this but an effort to suppress us? This turban is a symbol of our faith in this land. We have shed our blood to protect it....” A young Sikh, Paramjit, who was waiting to donate blood outside a temporary hospital set up by unitedsikhs.org, too felt that the community was being targeted. “Sikhs can never be subjugated,” he said, recalling Indira Gandhi’s military operation inside Golden Temple and comparing Modi to her. Paramjit accused Modi of trying to divide people on the basis of religion. Pointing to the queue of would-be blood donors, he said: “But this blood will be given to Delhi’s hospitals and will help save lives irrespective of religion.” Some 20 metres from the hospital, on a highway teeming with protesters, stood a food stall put up by the Muslim Federation of Punjab, Malerkotla. A small sign at the stall read: “Aapki aankhon par parda hai godi media, ye biryani nahi zarda hai (Your eyes are blinkered, lapdog media. This is not biryani but zarda).” Tariq Manzoor, who was manning the stall, said the sign had to be put up after some media outlets claimed that biryani — a meat-and-rice delicacy and perceived by some as a symbol of Muslim cuisine — was being served at the protests. He said the stall was actually serving a vegetarian sweet rice dish called zarda. “Our organisation regularly sets up langars (free public kitchens). We respect the sanctity of a langar and never serve non-vegetarian food,” Manzoor said. He said that after tarring Muslims, the pro-government media was out to besmirch Sikhs. “The way they tarnished Shaheen Bagh (the women-led protest against the new citizenship law), they are doing it here now,” he said. But Manzoor added: “Terming Muslims ‘traitors’ is easy but it can’t be done with Sikhs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||In the dark on Union health ministry's vaccine division policy||Aircraft have ferried the two Covid-19 vaccines — Covishield from Pune and Covaxin from Hyderabad — across the country ahead of the vaccination campaign starting on Saturday, but the Union health ministry has not disclosed the criteria for which vaccine goes where. Covishield vials from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India have arrived in Calcutta, Delhi, Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram, among other cities, while Covaxin vials from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech have reached Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Lucknow and Patna, among 11 cities, the companies said. The health ministry, however, has remained silent about the criteria adopted to determine how the initial orders of 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin would be quantitatively distributed across states or within states. Sources in the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech said the companies do not have information about the criteria used to direct their vaccines to specific destinations. Multiple queries from this newspaper to senior health officials seeking clarity on the criteria have remained unanswered. Medical experts have underlined that pre-determined destinations for both vaccines would be critical because, as the health ministry itself has also stressed, both vaccines are needed in two doses, 28 days apart and the vaccines cannot be interchanged. “A recipient would need to get the exact same vaccine as the first and the second dose,” said an expert who is advising the Bengal government’s vaccination campaign. “Under these circumstances, criteria for vaccine apportionment need to be very clear.” But, the expert said, the numbers of doses of each vaccine supplied may guide apportionment policy. For instance, Bengal which has an estimated 600,000 population of healthcare workers — the earliest priority group to receive the vaccines — has received nearly 700,000 doses of Covishield and only a few thousand doses of Covaxin. “With nearly 700,000 Covishield and only a couple of thousand Covaxin, the programme is almost entirely likely to rely on Covishield,” the expert said. “If we have very small numbers of Covaxin, it would be difficult to decide which specific site they would be sent to.” Health ministry officials have asserted that both vaccines are safe and generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus, but sections of doctors have expressed concern that while Covishield was approved on the basis of efficacy data from other countries, Covaxin’s efficacy is yet to be proven. A senior official in the Indian Council of Medical Research said vaccine recipients should view both the vaccines as “equal”. Covishield has not been tested for efficacy in India, the official underlined. “Both vaccines have been shown as safe and immunogenic — thus they should be viewed as equal,” he said. The first stage of the vaccination campaign will seek to immunise 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline workers, while the second stage will vaccinate 270 million people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic health disorders. The health ministry has asked states to cap the average number of immunisations per day at each vaccination site to 100 and try to gradually increase the number of sites. Health ministry officials on Wednesday did not respond to queries about how many sites would be active on January 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers who broke the stereotype ||The powerful movement against the new farm laws that appears to have jolted the domineering Narendra Modi government has also busted stereotypes about the farmers’ image, provoking sections of the ruling party and the media to wonder how they were wearing jeans, using smartphones, speaking English and eating pizza. There are thousands of young men at all protest sites on Delhi’s borders with different states who are qualified enough to pursue professional careers elsewhere but opted for farming instead as their livelihood. Jagjit Singh of Dhumkheda village at Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand who has been picketing at the Ghazipur border for the past 15 days is a case in point, a typical example of an educated professional leaving the comforts of urban life to toil in the fields. An MBA, Jagjit had a cosy job at a reputed multinational pharmaceutical company but took the difficult decision of shifting to his village in 2017 when his ailing father was unable to look after the farms. Asked why he did not lend his farms to somebody else, Jagjit said: “There were two reasons. One, farming has been a traditional family occupation and my father did not want to abandon that. Two, I wanted to use my management skills to do something innovative in farming. I thought that by using scientific knowledge and starting other activities such as poultry farming, we could really make it big.” He added: “Prime Minister Modi promised to double farm incomes. He often talked about Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat (One India, best India). We thought he was sincere and a great India would mean equal facilities everywhere. But I gradually realised how difficult farming is and also discovered Modi’s hollow rhetoric was meant for winning elections, not for improving farmers’ lives. “Our financial condition has worsened over the past few years. Our relatives are living outside and they have already started calling us. I, too, would like my children to settle somewhere else, Canada or New Zealand.” Jagjit’s father managed to sustain the family of four daughters and a son with his five-acre plot but the fears of losing that asset has gripped them, apart from agriculture becoming much less profitable now. One of the reasons why Jagjit left his job to settle in his village was the love for his land and his father’s sense of pride in being a successful farmer. “But now I do share the concerns of my fellow farmers about the ownership of our land and the future of farming after a corporate takeover. Such drastic changes shouldn’t have been made without extensive consultations. The way the ordinances were passed amidst the lockdown did create suspicion in our minds,” he said. Jagjit, who owns a motorcycle, doesn’t have a tractor of his own. But there are other comforts — a much better house in his village than the rented accommodation that he had in Delhi, apart from fridge, television, washing machine and smartphones. While his son is very small, his daughter goes to school. Jagjit dreams of sending both the children abroad for studies. To fulfil that dream, he is willing to work harder but is deeply disappointed because he sold paddy at Rs 1,200 per quintal a few days ago, which was lesser than last year’s Rs 1,600. The minimum support price for paddy is Rs 1,860. “Is that the way to double incomes?” Jagjit angrily asked, wondering why diesel was selling at Rs 75 per litre when the crude oil price was low in the international market. His expansion plans, including the poultry farm, are on hold in this season of uncertainty. But what is worrying is the psychological crisis Jagjit, like most other farmers, is passing through at this critical juncture of his life. He reluctantly showed a WhatsApp message from a childhood friend that said: “You are going to join the Khalistanis or Kisan Morcha at Delhi border?” The movement will end sooner or later. But those who tried to weave this false narrative by describing farmers as Khalistanis, Maoists and Pakistani and Chinese agents, are unmindful of how the society is being poisoned by divisive politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||SC asks to reopen anganwadi centres in non-containment zones by January 31||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the states and Union Territories to reopen anganwadi centres in non-containment zones by January 31 to ensure uninterrupted nutrition supply to children and pregnant and lactating mothers. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directions while disposing of a PIL filed by social activist Dipika Jagatram Sahani mentioning that anganwadi centres in most states and Union Territories were closed since last March, when a lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus. She said this had badly affected the critical nutritional requirements of vulnerable people. Anganwadi centres, operating in the country since 1975 under the Integrated Child Development Services scheme, were given statutory recognition in 2013. The beneficiaries who are registered with the anganwadi centres are provided supplementary nutrition, growth monitoring and counselling services, pre-school education, immunisation and referral services. Because of the pandemic-induced closure, the anganwadi centres have not been able to provide cooked food but have been sending dry rations to the homes of beneficiaries instead. “Inadequate supply of nutritious food to the citizens, more particularly to children and women, shall affect their health. Therefore, the same shall be in violation of their fundamental right to health/right to live with dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, said. The court said all anganwadi centres outside containment zones would have to reopen before January 31. The nod of the state disaster management authority would be needed to keep anganwadi centres outside containment zones closed. All states and Union Territories will have to ensure that nutritional standards as provided in Schedule II of the National Food Security Act, 2013, are fulfilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Labourer digs well to ease wife’s burden in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna||A labourer in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna has dug a well in his house in a fortnight for his wife who used to fetch water daily from a hand-pump located half-a-km away from their home at Guna. Bharat Singh, 46, a resident of Bhanpur Bawa village, had been concerned about his wife having to travel all the way to the hand-pump to fetch water for the daily needs of the family, comprising four members. One day, after being unable to get water because of a fault in the machine, his wife returned home sad and complained to him about it. Singh later told his wife that he will dig a well for her in the house itself, but she laughed at the idea, the labourer said on Wednesday. He then took it up as a challenge and to everyone’s surprise, dug a 31-feet-deep and 6-feet-wide well in just 15 days about two months back, Singh said. The well not only provides enough water for the daily needs of his family, which includes his aged mother, but also helps in irrigating their small tract of land where the family grows crops for their requirements, he said. Singh, who lives in a hut, said though he belongs to the Other Backward Classes and BPL (below poverty line) category, he had been unable to get a ration card for his family despite several efforts. Guna collector Kumar Purshottam appreciated Singh’s gesture and his caring nature towards his wife. He has directed officials of the zilla panchayat to provide benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and various other government schemes to him for the betterment of his life, a panchayat official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Plea to reinstate adultery law for military ||The Centre on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to keep the armed forces outside the ambit of a 2018 judgment decriminalising adultery under the Indian Penal Code. The government argued that personnel of the army, navy and the air force often serve in inhospitable conditions and it had to be ensured that they “perform their duties without unnecessary concern for their families”. The Centre said discipline was the bedrock of the services and there would be “instability” within the forces if adultery was not made a criminal offence. The government said that when jawans and officers are posted in forward inhospitable areas, their families are taken care of at base camps by other officers, and the laws and rules providing for action for indulging in adulterous or promiscuous activities help in maintaining discipline. An armed forces member can be cashiered from service on grounds of unbecoming conduct for committing adultery with a colleague’s wife, the government said. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, Navin Sinha, and K.M. Joseph admitted the Centre’s plea and referred the matter to the Chief Justice of India for constituting an appropriate five-judge bench to examine the issue. In 2018, another five-judge constitution bench had struck down as unconstitutional IPC Section 497 that made adultery a criminal offence but exempted the women from punishment. The bench had said the adultery law discriminated between man and woman, besides being an intrusion into a citizen’s private life. It said the law dented the individuality of women and treated them as “chattel of husbands”. The apex court, in the September 2018 judgment, had, however, said that adultery would continue to be a ground for seeking divorce in matrimonial disputes. The court had also held that adultery was undoubtedly a moral wrong as far as the family and the spouse were concerned. The department of military affairs under the defence ministry, told the court on Wednesday through attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that the 2018 judgment could cause instability within the armed forces “…as defence personnel are expected to function in peculiar conditions, during the course of which many a time they have to stay separated from their families for long durations, when they are posted on borders or other far-flung areas or in areas having inhospitable weather and terrain”. “The support system to families is provided by the creation of ‘Field Area Family Accommodation’, where families are cared for by local formations and units while their spouses are away serving in forward locations, very often in combat situations. To ensure that all personnel perform their duties without unnecessary concern for their families, there is a system where frequent visits to families living away from their spouses by officers/JCOs, is a regular feature. “In view of the aforesaid judgment, there will always be a concern in the minds of the army personnel who are operating far away from their families under challenging conditions about the family indulging in untoward activity,” Venugopal submitted. According to the Centre, discipline is the bedrock of the work culture in the defence services and an essential ingredient for combat operations. Accordingly, the framers of the Constitution had authorised Parliament under Article 33 to restrict or abrogate certain fundamental rights in their application to the armed forces so as to ensure proper discharge of duties and maintenance of discipline. “…One has to remember that the armed forces exist in an environment wholly different and distinct from civilians. Honour is a sine qua non of the service. Courage, and devotion to duty, even at the risk of one’s life, is part of the unwritten contract governing the members of the armed forces,” the government said. The Centre argued that unlike in Section 497, the armed forces do not differentiate between a man and a woman officer if they are guilty of an offence. “…The army would equally proceed against a female subject to the Act if she enters into an adulterous/illicit relationship,” the government said. The government wanted the court to determine the following two questions: ⚫ Whether persons subject to the Army Act by virtue of Article 33 of the Constitution should continue to fall under the ambit of Section 497 of the IPC ⚫ Whether the promiscuous or adulterous acts of persons subject to the Army Act should be allowed to be governed by Army Act Sections 63 (good order and discipline) and 45 (unbecoming conduct) and the corresponding provisions of the Navy Act and the Air Force Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Delhi riots: raid on lawyer ‘illegal’ and ‘ominous’||Eminent jurists including a former Bombay High Court judge on Wednesday condemned the raid and police investigations against a Delhi lawyer whose firm has been representing several Delhi riot victims and accused. They alleged the search warrant was issued wantonly to secure illegal access to confidential lawyer-client communication on advocate Mehmood Pracha’s office computer. Pracha’s firm, Legal Axis, is handling around 150 riot cases, that is, about a sixth of the cases relating to the communal violence in February that killed 53 people. His clients include Gulfisha Fatima, who had protested against the new citizenship matrix and has been charged under the anti-terror law UAPA with inciting the riots. Police are investigating Pracha for allegedly coercing a witness to make a false statement, a claim the witness has denied. The police searched Pracha’s office on December 24 to examine his email outbox, and later charged him with obstructing their search. In a statement, retired Justice B.G. Kolse-Patil and Supreme Court lawyers Prashant Bhushan and Chander Uday Singh said that none of the conditions stipulated in Section 93 of the criminal procedure code for issuing search warrants had been met. “Why was it necessary to search his computers and information contained in it in order to get access to an email which is stated to have been sent to various authorities including the commissioner of police,” the statement said. “Obviously, therefore, the object of the search was to get hold of all the information in his computer systems which not only contained his personal and private information but in particular contained communications between him and his clients.” Attorney-client communication is protected under the Indian Evidence Act and the Bar Council of India Rules. “This illegal search is particularly ominous and sinister in light of the fact that Mr Pracha has been instrumental in exposing the Delhi police in its mala fide investigation in the Delhi riots and seeking accountability of its officers,” the statement said. Pracha has moved court against the raid, and the court has asked the police for video footage of the raid. Several Bar associations have spoken out against the raid. No member of the police has so far been charged with rioting despite several complaints and purported video evidence of police personnel torturing injured men and forcing them to sing the national anthem. One of the victims, 23-year-old Faizan, later died of his wounds. Justice Kolse-Patil told reporters that several lawyers planned to march from Delhi High Court to the Supreme Court on January 22 and submit letters to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde demanding action against errant police personnel and a magistrate who allegedly harassed Pracha. Justice Kolse-Patil was one of the organisers of the Elgaar Parishad event of 2017. Several academics and human rights activists are in jail custody in connection with the event, charged with conspiring with Maoists to incite caste clashes. The police did not respond to Wednesday’s statement. After the raid on Pracha, a police statement had said: “After a lot of patient persuasion, he allowed the investigating officers to inspect his email outbox where a part of the evidence being sought was located and necessary investigative formalities related to it were carried out. “Thereafter, he was requested to cooperate in locating the computer in which the incriminating documents, allegedly drafted by him/ on his instructions maybe found. However, he flatly refused to cooperate and said ‘you do it yourself’.... “Sh. Mehmood Pracha and his associates prevented the police team from executing the mandate of the hon’ble court, obstructed in the investigation and in the discharge of their lawful public duties.” The police have seized one of Pracha’s computers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Cabinet expansion triggers resentment in Karnataka BJP ||A much-awaited cabinet expansion has triggered widespread resentment in the Karnataka BJP over the omission of some of the defectors who helped the party return to power nearly two years ago. While several defectors have been accommodated in earlier cabinet expansions, Congress turncoats N. Munirathna and Mahesh Kumathalli, and A.H. Vishwanath, who switched to the BJP from the JDS, were left empty-handed following Wednesday’s swearing-in. Veteran BJP lawmakers Umesh Katti, A. Angara, Aravind Limbavalli, Murugesh Nirani and C.P. Yogeshwar were among those sworn in as ministers. R. Shankar, an Independent who joined forces with the BJP on the promise of a cabinet berth, and M.T.B. Nagaraj, who had defected from the Congress, were also accommodated. “They say Munirathna and I face court cases and hence cannot be taken into the cabinet. But Yogeshwar is facing cheating cases. He is a fraud who has cheated many people by promising housing sites,” Vishwanath, who is a member of the Legislative Council, said. “Yogeshwar did not have to sacrifice anything. He used to carry our bags when we moved around and you make him a minister,” Vishwanath told reporters. “Is this about any blackmail plot? Has he got anything on you?” Vishwanath asked the chief minister, referring to B.S. Yediyurappa and Yogeshwar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Govt misled SC on farm laws: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government had misled the Supreme Court by saying that intense and elaborate consultative processes had been conducted before enacting the three farm laws, condemning the “distortion of facts” as “fraudulent” behaviour. Wondering how the formation of a committee and a working group 20 years and 10 years ago, respectively, could be the basis for promulgating an ordinance, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “It is clear that there are serious attempts at prevarication, distortion, misrepresentation and misleading of the nation, the Supreme Court and all relevant stakeholders, apart from indulging in blatantly contumacious conduct. Not even perfunctory, much less any meaningful pre-legislative consultation was attempted, much less done by the Modi government.” Singhvi added: “In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on December 11, the government said — ‘this is being filed for the purpose of dispelling the erroneous notion that the protesters have peddled that the central government and Parliament never had any consultative process or examination of issues by any committee before passing of the laws in question’. The details given in the affidavit — events spanning 20 years — cannot be called pre-legislative consultation.” The Congress leader went on: “The only details given are references to the setting up of the so-called Guru Committee in December 2000, the Model APMC Act in 2003, the report of an empowered committee of some state ministers in 2013 and a working group on agricultural production in 2010. There is also a reference to the Draft Model Act of 2017, circulated to all states for adoption, titled ‘The State Agricultural and Livestock Marketing (Facility and Development) Act, 2017.” The Modi government came to power in 2014 and there were no drafts of the laws enacted through ordinances available for pre-legislative consultation in June 2020. The government claimed in the affidavit that the three farm laws had not been hurriedly passed but was a result of two decades of deliberations. Singhvi lamented that the government didn’t even spare the Supreme Court while constantly “fooling” the people of India. He recalled that the government did not claim to have conducted pre-legislative consultations in reply to RTI queries. He said: “On December 11, 2020, activist Anjali Bharadwaj sent these queries to the government under the RTI — ‘1. As per the decision taken in the meeting of the committee of secretaries held on January 10, 2014, regarding the pre-legislative consultation policy, every department/ministry is required to proactively place in the domain all proposed legislation for a minimum period of 30 days. Kindly provide information on procedure adopted to proactively disclose the drafts of the farm laws. The response on December 22 was — this CPIO (central public information officer) does not hold any record in this matter.’” According to Singhvi, Bharadwaj filed another RTI query on December 15, seeking information on the “dates of all consultations held to discuss the proposed laws prior to the promulgation of the ordinances in June 2020, copy of minutes of all meetings/consultations held to discuss the proposed laws, list of persons who attended each of the meetings/consultations held to discuss the proposed laws, list of experts and farmer groups with whom consultations were held on the proposed laws, names of states with whom consultations were held on the proposed laws and copy of comments/communications sent by the states”. The Congress leader said the answer again was “this CPIO does not hold any record in this matter”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Cabinet nod to Rs 48,000-crore deal for 83 LCA (light combat aircraft)||The cabinet committee on security headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday cleared a Rs 48,000-crore deal for 83 LCA (light combat aircraft) from defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd for the Indian Air Force in the biggest-ever deal in the indigenous military aviation sector. Announcing the decision on Twitter, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the LCA-Tejas was going to be the backbone of the IAF fighter fleet in years to come. “This deal will be a game changer for self-reliance in the Indian defence manufacturing,” he added. “LCA-Tejas incorporates a large number of new technologies many of which were never attempted in India,” the minister said. “The HAL has already set  up second line manufacturing facilities at its Nasik and Bengaluru Divisions. Equipped with the augmented infrastructure the HAL will steer LCA-Mk1A production for timely deliveries to the IAF.” Sources in the defence ministry said the Indian Air Force was expected to sign a contract with HAL next month during India’s air show Aero India in Bangalore. “The deliveries of these 83 fighter aircraft will begin three-four years after the actual contract is inked next month,” a ministry official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Sexual abuse case on leader in Uttar Pradesh||A BJP leader in Uttar Pradesh has been booked for sexually exploiting two minor girls and making objectionable videos. Ram Bihari, the vice-president of the city unit of the BJP in Jalaun district of the Bundelkhand region, had allegedly called the two girls, aged 16 years, to his home for domestic work. The girls alleged that they fell unconscious after drinking cold drinks Ram Bihari had offered them and were later sexually assaulted. The leader has been accused of filming the act. Imran Khan, the officer in charge of Konch police station, said: “Two minor girls have alleged that Ram Bihari sexually exploited and assaulted them. We have filed a case under Section 377 of the IPC and started a probe.” The section deals with “carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal”. It carries a maximum punishment of life imprisonment and a minimum punishment of 10 years in jail. Ram Bihari is yet to be arrested. Police sources said they had found 320 videos of sexual assault of several women and girls in Ram Bihari’s laptop and mobile phone. “These videos may have been made by Ram Bihari. He has exploited many minor girls and women. The videos show that two women had gone to him to get their ration cards made but he sexually exploited them. He used to mix some intoxicant in cold drinks and offer women,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. “We will also press charges under Section 67 of the IT Act after analysing and preserving the electronic evidence,” the officer added. The section deals with “publishing materials that are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest, tending to deprave or corrupt a person”. Ram Bihari, a retired Lekhpal, a revenue department official, who joined the BJP five years ago, denied the allegations against him. “I have been falsely implicated for political reasons,” he told reporters in Jalaun on Wednesday. Ramendra Singh, the district BJP president, said: “Ram Bihari had offered to resign from his post last week due to some other reason but the process was delayed because we are yet to find a replacement. If the allegations against him are proved, he will be expelled from the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Plane with 233 on board hits ice mound at Srinagar||A Delhi-bound IndiGo flight with 233 passengers on board apparently skidded off the frozen runway at Srinagar and hit a mound of ice on Wednesday, reigniting allegations that the Jammu and Kashmir administration has been sluggish in clearing snow from roads and vital installations amid the Valley’s harshest winter in over two decades. Although all the passengers and crew members are safe and the flight was held back after the 12.30pm accident while taxiing, panic gripped the passengers. The mercury had plunged to -7.8 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on Tuesday night, freezing its water bodies and turning roads into treacherous, slipper terrain. IndiGo said the Srinagar-Delhi flight was held back at the airport after “it came in close contact with the snow accumulated adjacent to the taxiway”. “Aircraft is held at Srinagar for further inspections,” the airline said in a statement. But pictures of the aircraft showed that its engine had hit a mound of accumulated snow. Airport staff were seen clearing the snow from underneath the aircraft. A man from Srinagar who was apparently on board the aircraft wrote on Facebook that passengers were “much terrified” after it hit the snow. He said all the passengers were safe. Srinagar airport was recently in the news after heavy snowfall lashed the Valley on January 3 and it took officials four days to clear the runways and make Kashmir’s only civilian airport operational for flights. Fresh snowfall again on Saturday disrupted flights. Many Netizens have complained that the airport authorities had not been fully clearing the snow, allegedly imperilling the lives of travellers. The airport authorities did not respond to calls from this newspaper. Complaints have been galore against Lt Governor Manoj Sinha’s administration after Kashmir witnessed heavy snowfall on January 3. The administration appeared to be slow in clearing snow from main roads, hospitals and other vital installations, not to talk of countless lanes and bylanes. At many places, patients struggled to reach hospitals and ambulances found it difficult to make their way to homes, compelling families to pick up shovels themselves to clear the snow. A delivery boy was seen riding a horse through snow-choked inner lanes of Srinagar’s old city this week to carry parcels. The problems have been accentuated this week with the Valley in the grip of intense cold. The reading of -7.8 degrees Celsius is the lowest in 26 years. Officials at the Srinagar meteorological department said the temperature on Tuesday night had matched that in January 2012, which was itself the lowest since 1995. The Dal Lake and other water bodies have frozen and at some places children could be seen playing on the thick sheet of ice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||In Kashmir’s stillness, hopes wither and houseboats sink||Habib Wangnoo scanned the silvery lake from the deck of his vacant houseboat hotel, remembering when he helped Mick Jagger out of a narrow, flat-bottomed canoe during the rock star’s 1981 visit to Kashmir. Jagger spent most of the next two weeks on the boat’s upper deck, Wangnoo recalled with a smile. The lead singer of the Rolling Stones strummed his black guitar and jammed with Kashmiri folk musicians as they watched the moonlight dance across the Himalayas. Today, Nagin Lake is desolate and quiet as a tomb, devoid even of the rowing touts who normally trawl the water. There are no tourists, no money and little hope. “In Kashmir, tourist industry money goes into every pocket from arrival to departure, everybody lives on it,” Wangnoo said. “And now, there is nothing.” Kashmir, the craggily beautiful region in the shadow of the Himalayas, has fallen into a state of suspended animation. Schools are closed. Lockdowns have been imposed, lifted and then reimposed. Once a hub for both western and Indian tourists, Kashmir has been reeling for more than a year. First, India brought in security forces to clamp down on the region. Then the coronavirus struck. The streets are full of soldiers. Military bunkers, removed years ago, are back, and at many places cleave the road. On highways, soldiers stop passenger vehicles and drag commuters out to check their identity cards. The scene — on display during a visit by The New York Times organised and tightly controlled by the Indian government — was reminiscent of the 1990s, when an armed insurgency erupted and the Indian government deployed hundreds of thousands of troops to crush it. Conflict in Kashmir has festered for decades. And an armed uprising has long sought self-rule. Tens of thousands of rebels, civilians and security forces have died since 1990. India and Pakistan have gone to war twice over the territory, which is split between them but claimed by both in its entirety. Now, as India flexes its power over the region, to even call Kashmir a disputed region is a crime — sedition, according to Indian officials. Wangnoo’s family had kept afloat during the darkest days of conflict. Through it all, visiting dignitaries, young adventure-seekers and Bollywood stars came to sunbathe on the top deck, amid the gardens of floating lotus and majestic chinar trees on the lake’s edge. This time, the seventh-generation business — wholly dependent on tourism, like so many others in Kashmir — is at risk of going under. Other houseboat owners have it even worse. The houseboats date to the British colonial era, a clever workaround to restrictions on foreign land ownership. But the elaborately carved cedar vessels are in ill repair and many are sinking. Hard-pressed owners are unable to pay for fresh caulk. Onshore, people shuffle in long woollen pherans, the traditional garments that cover them from their shoulders to their shins, sipping steaming cups of saffron and almond tea and passing small pots of burning coal to keep warm. Many say that the political paralysis is the worst it has ever been in Kashmir’s 30 years of conflict, and that people have been choked into submission. The Narendra Modi government stripped the region of its autonomy and statehood in August 2019, and promised the move — which cancelled Kashmiris’ inheritance rights to land and jobs — would unleash a flood of new investment and opportunity for the beleaguered region. Half a million soldiers came, imposing the strictest clampdown Kashmiris have ever seen. The money hasn’t arrived. People say they are more scared than they have ever been. Political leaders from the wealthiest, most respected families in Kashmir — former elected officials who had worked to reconcile Kashmiris’ call for independence with India’s desire for unity — were arrested and held for months. “You can do this to pro-India leaders, you can do it to anyone,” Mohamed Mir said from behind the counter of his father’s empty pashmina shop in downtown Srinagar. Kashmiris who try to vent their anger online against the Indian government are being slapped with terrorism charges. Many have been detained. Paramilitary forces appear suddenly. They arrived at the Khanqah of Shah-Hamdan, a Sufi shrine drenched in coloured glass and papier-mâché dedicated to Mir Sayed Ali Hamadni, the Persian saint and traveller who brought Islam to the Valley. In the evening, soldiers stood guard at the 6th-century Hindu temple on Gopadri Hill, Srinagar’s highest point, the Sankaracharya Temple, as muezzin calls to prayer from local mosques echoed across the still valley. Kashmir’s economy is on the brink of collapse. In the past, even when gun battles between security forces and militants became pervasive, international tourists continued to throng Kashmir’s ski slopes, houseboats and artisan pashmina and papier-mâché shops. Since Indian forces moved in, however, hardly any visitors have come. The absence of tourists hasn’t made a difference to Ghulam Hussain Mir, whose papier-mâché jewellery boxes, bowls and vases are largely sold to overseas customers online. But the Indian government’s communications blockade has hurt him. Internet, TV and phone service were shut off for months. When they were finally restored, the government permitted only the slowest mobile internet speeds to prevent video from reaching smartphones. Mir missed out on months of orders, and now demand for his wares in parts of the world still overcome with the coronavirus is muted. A 700-year-old mosque a short walking distance from Mir’s home and workshop remained open through civil strife and fires. But after the Indian government took control of Kashmir, it was closed for months. Its muezzin was locked out and prevented from giving the daily calls to prayer. “Fear is different and worse than at any time in the last 40 years,” Mir says, sitting cross-legged on a thickly carpeted floor in his workshop. A large hive of people support tourism on Dal Lake, which the Lonely Planet guide calls “Srinagar’s jewel”. Some of Srinagar’s poorest residents live deep in the centre of the lake, in an area partially filled in and paved, and connected by a network of uneven wooden walkways. Neighbourhoods are nicknamed after war-torn places like Kandahar and Gaza Strip. Normally, people find work driving water taxis, repairing boats, or selling tourists produce from their floating gardens. Now, except for the occasional odd job, there is no work. “Life is under embargo because tourism is the most important industry in the city,” said Ghulam Mohammad, 56. Devoid of activity, “it’s like a jungle now,” Mohammad said, looking out over the quiet lake. Except for a handful of Indian tourists, Wangnoo hasn’t had any guests for more than a year. Within six months, he estimates, he could lose the business and with it the dream of passing it down to the eighth generation, his sons Ibrahim and Akram, in their 20s. “We have worked hard over these generations, we have built up the reputation. At the end of the day, it’s all gone,” Wangnoo said. “Nobody has been a friend to Kashmir except God.” With no business to occupy him, one recent afternoon Wangnoo flipped idly through the hotel’s treasured guest book, landing on an exhortation to Sultan, his father, from Jagger: “May you always stay lite and brite.” Wangnoo clutched the collar of his dark brown pheran as dusk settled over Nagin Lake. “There’s no brightness,” he said. “It’s looking like dark days ahead.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Rapes, IndiGo murder pile pressure on Nitish ||The Opposition in Bihar has called for chief minister Nitish Kumar’s resignation for his alleged failure to control law and order after three heinous crimes, including two gang rapes and murders, came to light on Wednesday. A 17-year-old deaf and mute girl, who had gone to graze her goats in Bihar’s Madhubani district, was allegedly held hostage and gang-raped by a few youths on Tuesday afternoon. The miscreants also tried to gouge out her eyes so that she would not be able to identify them. After she did not return to her village under Harlakhi police station area for hours, anxious family members and villagers started a search and found her lying unconscious, without clothes, in a grassy field. The girl was admitted to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital late on Tuesday night. Doctors attending her said both her eyes have been severely damaged, but it was yet to be ascertained whether she had lost her eyesight completely. “We have registered an FIR and arrested three persons involved in the gang rape. They are the victim’s neighbours. Their clothes as well as those worn by the girl have also been recovered. The girl’s condition is improving,” Madhubani superintendent of police Satya Prakash told The Telegraph. In another incident, four persons allegedly gang-raped and burnt a minor girl in her house in a village under Sahebganj police station of Saraiyya subdivision in Muzaffarpur district. The accused took her body with them after she died. The victim was alone at her home as her family members had gone out. The incident took place on January 3, but the police did not register an FIR till January 12 in an alleged attempt to hide the crime despite the appeal and application of the victim’s father, who works in Punjab, but returned home on January 5 after learning about it. A few villagers, allegedly with vested interests, were also against the FIR. The incident came to light on Wednesday. The girl used to stay with her elder sister and grandparents in the village, and was being harassed by a few local youths for around a month. Her mother had passed away a few years ago. “We have started investigation in the case and detained three persons for interrogation. We are trying to recover the victim’s body,” Saraiyya sub-divisional police officer Rajesh Kumar Sharma told this newspaper. He also denied the allegation that the police were not giving importance to the case. In another incident, an IndiGo airlines station manager at Patna airport, Rupesh Kumar Singh, was shot dead in the basement of his apartment on Tuesday evening. The unidentified miscreants were lying in wait for him and allegedly fired 15 bullets at Rupesh, of which six hit the target. The police are still trying to ascertain the motive behind the killing. They have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to crack the case. The three crimes have shocked the people and also provided yet another opportunity to the Opposition to corner the government. It demanded the resignation of chief minister Nitish over his failure to control crime. “Nitish Kumar is tired and cannot carry forth Bihar. He and his double-engine government do not rest till hundreds of murders, rapes, and extortions take place. Crime has reached its extreme in the state. The chief minister just continues to review law and order at meetings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should come here and enquire about the poor law and order situation,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said. Tejashwi said the BJP was trying to wash its hands off the situation despite being in the government by blaming ally Janata Dal United (JDU). RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav said: “The king of jungle raj, Nitish Kumar, should resign from the chief minister’s post immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation bans food distribution||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday banned distribution of free food and clothes to the homeless people living on the roadside under its jurisdiction and urged all those who wanted to engage in charity to do so using the BMC platform. The step seems to have been taken to checkmate Bhubaneswar’s BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi’s Annapurna scheme under which food is being distributed to the poor for just Re 1. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said: “No one is allowed to distribute free food and clothes to the poor and the homeless on the roadside. We request individuals and organisations to distribute free articles and food to the destitute at the shelter houses managed by the corporation. They can seek the BMC’s permission to do this.” The corporation also cautioned that those who violate the law will have to face legal consequences. The corporation, however, asserted that it wanted the city to be free of beggars. “If food and clothes are distributed on the roadside, the destitute will hesitate to go to shelter homes. It will thwart our purpose of making the city free of beggars,” said a senior BMC official. Sarangi launched her Annapurna scheme on January 7 and has been providing free food to the poor at a subsidised rate of Re 1. Ahead of the urban elections, the move is being seen as a clever strategy to influence the poor who are going to play a major role in the polls. It also poses a serious threat to the Odisha government’s Aahar scheme, under which meals are provided to the poor at Rs 5. Sarangi has maintained that she will go ahead with her Annapurna scheme. “Annapurna Yojana is not a free scheme. We will continue with the scheme,” she said. Under the Annapurna scheme, cooked food is provided at Re 1 to the poor and the hungry at railway stations, bus stands, temples and market places. The expenditure is borne by various organisations. This is not the first time that Sarangi, a former BMC commissioner herself, has clashed with the urban body. Last October, the BMC had locked her office here citing violation of Covid-19 guidelines. After Sarangi challenged the order and produced proof of Covid guidelines being violated in the ruling BJD’s office and started doing her office work on the roadside, the corporation had unlocked her office immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
14-01-2021||India||Bid to unravel Olive Ridley turtle mysteries||The movement of Olive Ridley turtles, which traverse thousands of sea miles to reach the Odisha coast, remains a mystery. “How do they reach Odisha waters?” and “Where do they go back after laying eggs on the state’s beaches?” — are questions to which both scientists and environmentalists have been seeking answers for quite some time. The Odisha forest department had sought to unravel these mysteries by tagging these endangered turtles. The exercise of tagging to track their movement in the sea was also undertaken in 1994-96. Back then, state government officials had tagged nearly 8,000 Olive Ridley turtles. Now the exercise is being undertaken again in collaboration with the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), with the department deciding to tag 30,000 turtles this time. The process began in the Berhampur forest division on Tuesday. Berhampur divisional forest officer Amlan Nayak told The Telegraph: “Earlier, the Wildlife Institute of India and the Zoological Survey of India had been entrusted with the task of tagging turtles. But we began the exercise in collaboration with the ZSI on Tuesday. We have tagged six turtles so far, of which two are males and four females.” The tags are uniquely numbered and have details such as the name of the organisation, emails, etc. Nayak said: “We often wonder where do the turtles go after laying eggs at the mouth of the Rushikulya river and whether the same turtles return to the same beach every year or do they move to other suitable nests for laying eggs. Hopefully, the tagging of turtles will help us get some answers. Once they reach any coast in any part of the world and if any officials find them, they will get back to us and inform about their movement.” State wildlife conservation officer Samyak Samantra told this newspaper: “During the 1996 tracking of Olive Ridleys we had come to know that these turtles are different from those living on the Costa Rica coast in the Pacific Ocean. Now this time, we are focusing on whether there is any change of migration pattern in the Olive Ridleys or whether their food habits have changed over the years. Twenty-five years is a long time. This will help in finding the extent of travel and location of the turtles after congregation, nesting for further research on their behaviour. There is a dynamic ecosystem inside the sea. How have they adjusted to life? Hopefully, we will be successful in our efforts.” Every year during winter, the Olive Ridley turtles come to lay eggs at different places along the Odisha coast. The nesting exercise takes place on a vast stretch from Gahirmatha in Kendrapara, the Debi rivermouth in Puri to the Rushikulya rivermouth in Ganjam district, covering a distance of nearly 300km out of the 470km-long coastline of the state. Nearly 2crore Olive Ridley turtles visit the Odisha coast every year. In order to ensure the smooth movement of the Olive Ridley turtles in the sea and on the beaches, the state government every year imposes a ban on sea fishing in accordance with Sections 2, 4 and 7 of the Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act (OMFRA), 1982, and provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The movement of fishing vessels disturbs the mating and breeding of the turtles. A large number of turtles are killed by the trawlers and gill nets,” said a senior official. The ban on fishing begins in November 1 and lasts till May 31 in the areas of turtle nesting zone, particularly at the Gahirmatha marine sanctuary and the Debi and Rushikulya rivermouths. No one is allowed to go fishing upto 20km of the coastline in these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Prayer before polls||Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum district chief of the Trinamul Congress, organised a mega yajna at Kankalitala, a popular Kali temple, in Bolpur on Wednesday. Sources said the Trinamul Congress had spent over Rs 10 lakh to organise the yajna where around 1.5 quintals of logs were used. The yajna was followed by a lunch for around 4,000 people. Party insiders said the yajna was organised to pray for a “grand victory for Trinamul” in the coming Assembly polls. The event was also used as a platform to connect with Hindu priests and groups of kirtan (religious song) singers. Mondal had earlier organised a conference of priests and distributed drums and percussion instruments to 4,000 kirtan groups in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Tokay gecko on way to Bangladesh seized||A tokay gecko weighing 350gm was seized late on Tuesday from two persons allegedly attempting to smuggle the coveted reptile into Bangladesh through Murshidabad’s Sagardighi. The reptile, estimated to fetch nearly Rs 1 crore in the black market, was set to be smuggled from Bangladesh to China, where it is in high demand as an ingredient of traditional medicines. Bishnu Sarkar, 25, and Chandan Adhikari, 28, both Samerganj residents, were arrested by plainclothes officers on a border road on Tuesday and were produced in the Jangipur chief judicial magistrate’s court on Wednesday. “The reptile was being transported in a cage wrapped in cloth,” said a source. “The arrested have admitted that they brought it from Jharkhand and would have sold it to smugglers in Bangladesh for Rs 1 crore,” said additional superintendent of police (Jangipur), Sandip Karra. Sarkar and Adhikari have been remanded in five days’ police custody by the court. In 2018, a larger gecko had been seized from smugglers in Farakka while they were trying to smuggle the reptile to Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav is fine, says Asok after meeting||Senior CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya called on former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly at his Behala residence in Calcutta on Wednesday to enquire about his health. Bhattacharya, who spent around 45 minutes with the BCCI president, said Ganguly was absolutely fine and that in due course, the former Indian cricketer would go for another angioplasty to get a couple of more stents implanted. “On Wednesday, I reached Calcutta to attend a meeting of the Assembly standing committee on industry. After the meeting, I called him (Ganguly) up and asked about his health. I also asked him if I could come over to his place. He agreed and then I went to his home and met him,” Bhattacharya said over the phone. Bhattacharya said both of them had only spoken about Ganguly’s health. “He has told me that he is doing fine and following the diet and other guidelines advised by doctors. He also told me that he would go for an implant of a couple of more stents but is yet to finalise the dates,” the CPM leader said. Bhattacharya posted on Facebook a dualfie of him and Ganguly that was clicked in front of the latter’s residence. “Sourav walked me up to the car,” the Siliguri mayor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Acid attack cuffs on husband in North 24-Parganas||A 30-year-old woman suffered serious burn injuries after her husband allegedly threw acid on her apparently after a conjugal rift here on Wednesday. Police said the accused Dilip Majumdar, a daily wage earner, attacked the woman while she was cycling to her workplace in the Ashoknagar area. The victim has been admitted to the intensive care unit at Habra state general hospital. Hospital sources said the woman had suffered serious burns on her hands, back and abdomen. “She was trying to end the relationship as she was unable to bear frequent humiliation at her in-laws’ place. She recently joined a job to help her father and live an independent life. But her husband did not like this,” said a relative of the victim. The police have arrested Dilip following a complaint lodged by the victim’s father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Free eye check-up camps a relief amid pandemic||The Bengal government’s “Chokher Alo” scheme, a programme that aims to eradicate vision impairment in the state, has come as a big help for people who depend on free eye check-up and operation camps that have been halted for the past 10 months because of the outbreak of Covid-19 and the lockdown that was clamped in March last year. The scheme, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has also come handy for the state government that is eager to reach out to lakhs of people who need to undergo cataract operation or other eye check-ups in the months preceding the Assembly polls. The government has already reached out to over two crore people through its Duare Sarkar camps. The camps will treat people across Bengal for three months and the process has been set rolling on January 5. The camps have been planned on the Duare Sarkar model and will be held at all gram panchayats and municipalities. A health department official said at the camps doctors would screen patients for ophthalmological problems. If required, they would be provided spectacles and medicines free of cost. “Those who will require cataract or any other eye operation would be taken care of at government hospitals,” the official added. “Every year the government reaches out at least 15 lakh people ailing from eye-related problems. Due to Covid-19 outbreak it was not possible for NGOs to organise eye camps. So, the ‘Chokher Alo’ scheme will reach out to people suffering from eye illness in the camp mode,” he said. “The chief minister is so happy with the project that she has asked us to organise a mega camp at the end of January to provide free treatment to around 50,000 people across the state,” the official added. Health department sources said the government had conducted around 2.5 lakh cataract operations and checked over 15 lakh people free-of-cost between April 2019 and November 2020. Apart from this, there were many NGOs who independently provided free treatment through eye camps. Since the “Chokher Alo” scheme has been launched, around 90,000 people have been screened at the camps in the past seven days and 20,000 free spectacles distributed. Since January 5, at least 1,600 patients have undergone cataract operations under the scheme. “We suspect that there would be at least 20 lakh people who have been deprived of treating eye illness because of the pandemic,” said a senior official. The government officials said the drive was important as most people in the age group of 45-75 suffer from eye diseases. So, the government plans to reach out to these people with free treatment, spectacles and operation in the run up to the Assembly polls. “As per record, there are around 2.5 crore people in the state who are in age group 45-75 years. Apart from this age group, screening of children and others is being done at the camps,” said a health official in East Burdwan. “We have received fixed power spectacles to correct vision inaccuracies. But those who will need customised lens will be provided spectacles within 10 days of treatment,” said a health official. NGOs that organise free eye check-up camps and operations also admitted that they could not hold their programmes because of the pandemic. “Mass gatherings were prohibited since March last year. Every year we try to organise at least 100 free check-up and cataract operation camps. Due to Covid we could hold only 10 camps last year and most of those were organised in the first two months of 2020. Chokher Alo is a welcome move from the state government as it will help clear the huge backlog,” said Bhaskar Dev Mukherjee, an ophthalmologist and secretary general of Savior Holistic International Trust, an NGO that organises free eye camps across Bengal. Trinamul leaders said people in rural areas had problems consulting ophthalmologists after the outbreak of Covid-19. During the lockdown most people belonging to low-income groups spent their small savings to survive and had no money to consult doctors or buy spectacles, a Trinamul leader said and added that the eye scheme had come as a big help for them. “The project will help elderly people who have been coming to us with eye problems. Coming before the polls, the scheme, along with Duare Sarkar camps, will also help us politically,” said Sujoy Das, a Trinamul leader from Birbhum’s Muraroi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri dry port to start services||The Inland Container Depot (ICD) or the dry port developed by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) — the first of its kind facility for domestic and international cargo movement in the region — is all set to be functional soon. Set up on a 29-acre-plot that has been taken on lease from the railways by the SJDA, the facility would be run by Pristine Hindustan Infraprojects Private Limited, a company that has been jointly floated by the Pristine Logistics and Hindustan Dockyard. “The necessary infrastructure is ready at the ICD and we are waiting for a final approval of the Customs which we believe, would be ready in another seven days. We have already conducted a trial run of domestic cargo via rail last month and look forward to develop the facility as a hub for movement of cargo within and beyond the country,” said Amit Kumar, the founder-director of Pristine Logistics. So far, maximum cargo movement in north Bengal was done via road. Also, cargo moving to northeast or to the neighbouring countries of Nepal and Bhutan and vice-versa, would mostly move via road through north Bengal and Siliguri. “But now that we have the facility here, cargo can be directly exported or imported from here via rail, which is a greener way of cargo movement. This would reduce the congestion in Calcutta and Haldia ports. Initially, we will develop the connectivity with these two ports,” added Kumar. He also mentioned that cargos coming to Nepal and Bhutan from any third country can be brought here via rail and can then be transported to the respective countries. The company, sources said, has primarily planned to handle around 600-odd containers in a month. “Usually, 45 containers are carried in a train, which means movement of around 10 to 12 trains in a month. We have laid a two-kilometre long track that connects the ICD with the main track near New Jalpaiguri station. Containers can be loaded and unloaded at the premises itself and can be carried to other places,” said a representative of the company. Along with two handling railway lines, there is a designated area to handle containers meant for export and import, a Customs warehouse, space for empty containers and a fleet of trailers and ancillary equipment. The facility can also contribute in export of teas, particularly because the Tea Park – another project by the SJDA – is next to the ICD. A number of tea packaging units are coming up at the site, the company representatives said. “In a container, around fourteen-and-half tons of tea can be transported. We believe that if commodities are moved via rail, it would reduce the transportation costs by at least 10 to 15 per cent,” they said. With the ICD getting operational – it was a longstanding demand of the region, members of the business fraternity said it would go in a long way to boost trade in north Bengal and would also encourage fresh investments. “The ICD would facilitate movement of cargo to any parts of the country and would be of help for the MSME sector, for the pharma sector of the neighbouring state of Sikkim, for the tea industry and also for the horticulture and agriculture sector of the region. Presence of such a logistic facility would surely encourage fresh industrial investments in north Bengal in the coming days,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, vice-chairman of the NB zonal council of Confederation of Indian Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Woman killed, 2 hurt in West Midnapore elephant rampage||One person was killed and two grievously injured when an elephant in West Midnapore’s Chandrakona and Anandapur went on a rampage of local paddy fields, and then the village, on Wednesday morning. Eyewitnesses said the deceased, Gita Ghosh, 45, had been working on a field in Anandapur’s Kharaberia around 8am when she was “ambushed” by the male elephant and tossed onto the ground “killing her on the spot”. “A group of villagers chased the tusker, but that enraged him even more. He stormed into the town area causing a panic and injured two persons seriously in addition to smashing several motorcycles,” said villager Abani Gyne. “Initially, the villagers were successful in chasing him away, but at one point the tusker made a turnaround and chased us,” Gyne added. Sources said Gajanan Das, 49, from Chandrakona’s Tukunia village was grievously injured after being “hurled by the trunk” like the deceased victim earlier in the day. Sources said the tusker was estimated to have roamed the two areas of West Midnapore for over 10 hours on Wednesday before being herded back into the forest. Gyne claimed that the forest department, who were contacted immediately, “enraged” the tusker with their tactics, causing him to storm the village. The forest department had tried to scare away the elephant by beating drums but the strategy had backfired, villagers said. Asked, forest department officials said the claim was “baseless” and that all protocol for an attack on humans had been followed. “The tusker reacted angrily and violently but we followed all the rules for containing an attacking elephant. The tusker has been returned to its wild habitat as of Wednesday evening. The death was definitely a tragedy,” said additional divisional forest officer (Midnapore) Bijoy Chakraborty. “The tusker is residential, and for some reason roamed 7km out of its habitat this morning. He also trampled several hundred acres of paddy first,” he added. Sources said the family of the deceased will receive Rs 3 lakh in compensation and that the two injured persons were being treated at hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||CPM worker shot dead near home in North Dinajpur||A CPM worker was shot dead by two unidentified youths near his home near Dalkhola in North Dinajpur on Tuesday night. The CPM has alleged that political opponents were behind the murder of Guruchand Roy, 55, at Hasan village in Suryapur panchayat. Sources said Roy had been cooking food when two youths had arrived near his house and started calling him. “As informed by a relative, Roy came out. The youths walked up to him and fired at him from a close range. A bullet hit the head and Roy collapsed on the ground. Before others could raise an alert, the attackers fled,” said a police officer. The police took the body to the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. Amrit Mondal, a relative of Roy, said the deceased used to resolve local disputes and hence, he had been popular. “We suspect the killers were disgruntled with him over some issues. The police should find out the truth,” Mondal said. Apuraba Pal, the CPM district secretary, demanded that the police round up the assailants immediately. He said the Trinamul Congress and the BJP were unhappy with Roy’s activities. The police said they were investigating the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||KD Singh held for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday arrested former Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha member and industrialist Kanwar Deep Singh in connection with an alleged money-laundering case. The central agency did not issue any official statement on the former MP’s arrest. Sources said Singh was placed under arrest after he failed to explain certain transactions pertaining to the money-laundering case. “He was taken into custody on Tuesday night under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after he refused to cooperate in the ongoing investigation,” a source said. The former chairman of the Alchemist Group was produced in a court on Wednesday and has been remanded in ED’s custody till January 16. In September 2019, the ED had carried out searches on premises linked to Singh in Delhi and Chandigarh in connection with the probe into two PMLA cases. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee had issued a statement as far back as March 2017 saying Singh had not been part of her party for some time and there was no contact with him — but he was to complete his term as its Rajya Sabha member, till April 2020. However, on Wednesday, the BJP appeared unwilling to miss out on the opportunity to politically corner her over the arrest. “Who is K.D. Singh? His principal identity is that he is a former MP of Trinamul. So there ought to be questioning of seniors in Trinamul to find the truth,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, a state unit vice-president of the BJP. Singh, according to sources in Trinamul, was suspected to have played a role in planning and financing the Narada “sting” operation against the party to destabilise it just before the Assembly polls of 2016. Trinamul distanced itself from Singh and cited Mamata’s statement from four years ago. “Singh has not been associated with us, in any capacity whatsoever, for a really long time…. If he has committed crimes, the law should take its own course,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. He said the demands for questioning Trinamul leaders was not only baseless but also politically motivated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Two unions cloud BJP prospects in tea belt ||Existence of two trade unions in the tea garden belt of north Bengal, one floated by a BJP MP and the other belonging to the party’s ideological parent, RSS, might harm the party’s poll prospects in the region, feel Sangh parivar leaders. The battling unions are Bharatiya Tea Workers’ Union (BTWU) floated by Alipurduar MP John Barla and the Bangiya Cha Mazdoor Sangh (BCMS) backed by the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the labour arm of the RSS. “Both the unions are competing to expand their reach among tea garden workers and the tussle is not good news for us as we are heading towards the Assembly polls,” said a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. According to him, the objective of consolidating the support of tea garden workers cannot be met with two unions. The conflicting position of the two unions came out in the open earlier this week when the BCMS held a public meeting at Malbazar in Jalpaiguri. The BCMS said its leaders and workers would launch a comprehensive campaign on tea estates and highlight issues like non-fixing of minimum wages. The BCMS said the BTWU was not a force to be reckoned with. “BMS is the largest union of the country and people are aware of its activities. We are not concerned about any other union,” said Biswajit Guha, the state general secretary of the BCMS. Barla made it clear his outfit would continue to exist irrespective of any other trade union aligned to the BJP. “We are with the BJP but that does not mean that the BTWU and BCMS can’t work independently in the tea belt. We have been working for the tea workers for years and there is no point in suddenly calling off our activities,” said the Alipurduar MP who is also the chairman of the BTWU, referring to demands from a section to disband the trade union headed by him. A tea industry veteran has said Trinamul has at least four trade unions in the brew belt because of differences among leaders and it had gone against Bengal’s ruling party. Sources in the tea industry said as the BJP started gaining grounds in north Bengal, Barla floated BTWU to get tea workers on board. “A section of tea workers, who had started supporting BJP, but were clueless on whom to support joined Barla’s union... It is unlikely that he will disband his outfit,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||EC asks officials to act against past poll trouble-mongers||Deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain on Wednesday asked district magistrates and police superintendents to identify people who had allegedly created trouble during the 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and initiate action against them. “The Election Commission is very serious about holding Assembly polls peacefully. The deputy election commissioner has asked us to identify all trouble-mongers, including those who created troubles during the 2016 and 2019 polls, and initiate action against them,” said a district magistrate, who attended the meeting held at a Calcutta hotel. Sources also said Jain had asked the DMs and SPs to prepare a list of officers — who are considered to be inefficient or against whom complaints of bias had been lodged in the past — so that they could be transferred as soon as the election process started. “This gives an impression that the EC would leave no stone unturned to ensure a free and fair election. A total of 72 officers were transferred by the EC during the 2019 general election and it seems the list could become longer this time,” said another official. According to officials present at the meeting, Jain also laid emphasis on executing non-bailable warrants pending since December 1. “During his previous visit about a month ago, Jain had laid stress on executing NBWs to send a message to the trouble-mongers. This time also he raised the issue and asked the district officials to execute the NBWs with utmost importance,” said a source. Jain asked the officials to start election preparedness in full swing and assess requirement of gloves, masks and sanitiser during the entire poll process as these needed to be supplied to the officials in election duty in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have been asked to start procurement of Covid-19 essentials. Moreover, he asked us to prepare a detailed report of the total number of auxiliary booths that have to be set up for maintaining Covid-19 protocols,” said a district magistrate. This year, the EC has pointed out that each booth can have a maximum of 1,050 voters in the backdrop of the pandemic. Earlier, the number of maximum voters in a booth was 1,200. “This is why the number of booths in the state would go up from 78,000. This means the EC has to arrange more EVMs and manpower to conduct the polls. This is the reason why we have been asked to send a detailed list of auxiliary booths,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||794 more recover, 18 die of Covid in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 794 Covid-19 recoveries, 723 infections and 18 deaths as the total of active cases dropped for the 79th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year. The total number of active patients now are 7,303, having improved by over five times, from 37,190 on October 26. The recovery rate has risen for 83 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.93 per cent. The current national rate is 96.5. “Our total of active cases will be below 6,000 and the recovery rate ought to be above 98 by the end of this month. Our pandemic management has been exemplary,” said a minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.48 per cent now, having improved steadily over 54 days, from 8.27. Bengal’s total count of sample examination is now nearly 75.28 lakh, including 30,107 tests logged on Wednesday. The tests per million people are 83,644. The 18 deaths reported on Wednesday included five from the city. Since the end of Puja, the state reported nearly 2.35 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.08 lakh infections detected during the same period. “Wednesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 4…. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. We can deduce, with a fair bit of certainty now, that even the revelry of the Christmas-New Year period did not worsen the outbreak,” said the minister. Bengal’s Covid-19 total of 5.62 lakh cases include nearly 5.45 lakh recoveries and 9,993 deaths. The state attributed 8,384 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to 1.44 per cent at the national level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||West Bengal||Sisir loses Trinamul post ||Trinamul’s Contai MP Sisir Adhikari was on Wednesday replaced as East Midnapore’s district party president with Pingla MLA and minister Soumen Mahapatra, the move coming a day after he had been divested of the post of the chairperson of the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority. Sisir’s son Suvendu Adhikari had joined the BJP in January last year. “The party has done what it thinks best, but perhaps they could have asked me about my version first. The chief minister has not reached out to me even once amid all this,” said Sisir, who was recovering from a cataract operation. Sources said the decision was taken by the party’s top brass and meant to send a message to the Adhikari clan. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday filed a petition before Calcutta High Court, pleading that the state government be ordered to provide more security personnel for him during his meetings and road shows across the state. According to high court sources, the petition would be taken up in a couple of days. In his petition, Suvendu claimed that he had been receiving threats to his life regularly from unknown people. The Trinamul turncoat apprehended that he might be attacked by the “goons of a particular political party”. “Though I have been receiving protection from the central government, but for holding meetings and rallies inside West Bengal more state police protection is needed,” Suvendu’s petition reads. Contacted, a state government lawyer said: “We are yet to get a copy of the petition. The state will inform the court whatever it has to.” Suvendu has recently been shown black flags by Trinamul Congress workers while on his way to rallies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-235
14-01-2021||Opinion||Stress rises: RBI red flag on bad loans||The Reserve Bank of India has raised a red flag for the banking industry with an early warning that the stack of bad loans could rise to alarming levels once it starts to roll back the post-pandemic regulatory reliefs that were granted to the sector. In its latest Financial Stability Report, the central bank says that the gross non-performing assets ratio — bad loans as a percentage of total advances — is projected to almost double to 14.8 per cent by September 2021 in a severe stress scenario from 7.5 per cent at the end of September last year. That is bad news for the banking sector, which has operated under the camouflage of a loan moratorium for the six-month period between March 1 and August 31 last year, followed by a standstill period during which banks have been prevented from recognizing fresh bad loans because of a Supreme Court directive. The fear is that once banks start classifying fresh loan impairment, the situation could spin out of control straining their balance sheets and necessitating fresh infusion of capital in the form of equity or perpetual debt to restore capital adequacy buffers. The report says that stress test results indicate that nine banks may fail to meet the minimum capital level by September under a severe stress scenario and four in a baseline scenario. The RBI is juggling several worries at this point: the pressure to adopt measures to boost growth, contain inflation, handle the expansion in government borrowings, and deal with the over Rs 8 trillion surplus liquidity in the system that has put pressure on short-term yields. Borrowing costs have plummeted to a 16-year low, thereby impacting the profitability of banks. This calls for a subtle balancing act as the monetary policy shifts from a focus on liquidity to growth-reviving measures designed to boost consumption and investment. The central bank needs to mull over ways to boost credit growth, which tumbled to 6.1 per cent as of December 18 last year from 7.1 per cent a year ago. There is one other worry that the central bank has articulated: the growing disconnect between certain segments of the financial markets and the real economy. The stock market has been on steroids lately; if the economy is slow to recover, the stretched valuations could blow up into a crisis with dramatic spillover risks for the entire financial system. India struggled to come out of a crisis in the shadow banking sector in 2019; the last thing it needs is a convulsion in the formal banking sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Opinion||Not enough: SC stay on farm laws||The farmer unions have welcomed the Supreme Court’s pronouncement of an interim stay on the implementation of the three legislations that they have been protesting against for a while now. They may draw further relief from the highest court’s assurance that the minimum support price mechanism would remain untouched — for the time being — and that landholdings, too, shall be protected. Yet, it would be presumptuous to argue that this intervention by the court has been able to assuage the existing anxieties. There is some concern with the tricky legal territory that the court is alleged to be treading upon: it is not often that the apex court decides to stay laws without an adequate examination of their constitutionality. But this blurring of the boundary between parliamentary legislation and judicial review would not concern the farmers: their bigger worry lies with the composition of the four-member committee of experts that the Supreme Court has put in place to negotiate between the parties. Each member of the committee — neither experience nor expertise is being questioned here — has been known to be in favour of the three legislations that the farmers are protesting against. This skewed representation would not make it possible for the farmers to engage with the arbiters with ‘confidence’ and in ‘good faith’ as has been the hope of the Supreme Court. The farmers’ rejection of the panel points to the continuation — not resolution — of the crisis. It has been reported that the suggestion of making the committee more representative in nature was rejected by the court, which said that the farmers — none of protesting unions voluntarily pleaded in the case — would have to approach the panel for the sake of a resolution. Such a stance on the part of the court is unfortunate. It is likely to deepen the mistrust that the farmers already harbour. The trust deficit has a context. Sections within the Narendra Modi government have spared no effort to malign the aggrieved farmers: the attorney-general is on record saying that the Centre would verify claims of the protest being supported by secessionist forces. The shocking paternal tone adopted by the institutions — ignorant, innocent farmers being waylaid by extraneous forces — has been a constant and cynical refrain to rob the farmers of agency. Interventions — mischievous or honourable — are unlikely to weaken the resolve of the people who feed the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Opinion||Arunachal Pradesh: geography as security||One of the least satisfactorily answered questions in the India-China boundary dispute is how did Arunachal Pradesh become a contested region. China’s claim that the state is South Tibet is probably maximalist posturing. Except for the Tawang-Bomdilla corridor in Arunachal’s western districts, the “Tibetan Buddhist Church”, as Alastair Lamb called it in The McMahon Line: A Study in the Relations Between, India, China and Tibet, 1904 to 1914, had virtually no influence in the rest of the state unlike, say, in Sikkim, Ladakh and Bhutan. Tawang, the birthplace of the sixth Dalai Lama, was indeed under Tibetan control. It was only during the Simla Conference of 1913-14 that Henry McMahon and Charles Bell bargained for its inclusion in India. The reason was that Tawang was too close to the Assam plains. Tibet, in turn, was promised British support in case of Chinese aggression. As anticipated widely, China invaded Tibet in October 1950. The Tibetans took the matter to the UN, but none of its allies, including Britain, the United States of America or India, were willing to sponsor its motion. Ultimately, it was El Salvador, which did the favour. When this desertion became apparent, Tibet actually asked for the return of Tawang. It should also be noted that even though Tawang was politically made to fall on the Indian side of the McMahon Line, it was still allowed to be under the cultural and religious control of Lhasa. However, after China communicated to India its decision to take over Tibet, India in early 1950 decided to end Lhasa’s suzerain influence on Tawang. There is also the legacy of the British frontier administration, which complicated the matter. The most significant is the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation 1873, which created an Inner Line along the base of the hills surrounding the plains of Assam. This line divided British revenue from non-revenue land. While the former were to be administered, the latter were to be claimed, but not administered. Lord Curzon’s Romanes Lecture 1907, titled “Frontiers”, gives more insights into how notions like ‘suzerainty’, ‘protectorate states’, ‘excluded’, ‘partially-excluded’ areas came out from this approach to frontier management. These were territories where the British involved themselves in indirect administration in a calibrated way. The Tibet case stood out. They did not want to take control of it but they did not want other powers extending their ‘sphere of influence’ there. This legacy of boundary ambiguity is now being capitalized by China. But there is a more primal politics shaped by subliminal anxieties. As in Kashmir, the anxiety here is water, once again. Just as all major tributaries of the Indus, including the five that irrigate the fertile plains of Punjab, either originate or flow through Kashmir, all the major tributaries of the Brahmaputra also flow out of Arunachal. Controlling Arunachal can be an important handle in controlling Northeast as well as Bangladesh. The same civilizational threat the Indus valley would feel at losing control of the waters that feed it would also be true of the fertile plains the Brahmaputra irrigates. This is true even of friendly countries: the protest by Bangladesh at India’s proposed Tipaimukh Dam over the Barak is the litmus test to demonstrate this archetypal anxiety in the relationship between any river valley and the hills that surround it. This dynamic can also be seen in the objections from Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh to the demand for a Greater Nagaland. This geography of security needs better understanding in formulating any conflict resolution strategies. Halford Mackinder’s influential Geographical Pivot of History (1904), taken forward by Robert Kaplan in Revenge of Geography, spells this out. Rimland and heartland nations have very different perceptions of security. Island nations are bound by natural boundaries; heartland nations are invariably bound by artificial ones. It is important for heartland nations to have a sense of control over territories immediately beyond their national boundaries. Russia’s extreme response to Nato befriending Ukraine was explained thus. The vast plains that separate Russia from western European powers have always been a source of Russia’s security through history. The futile invasions of Napoleon and Hitler demonstrated this. The British Empire had a curious mix of both psychologies. The friction between Lord Morley in London at the India secretariat and Lord Curzon as viceroy in Calcutta says this loudly. The heartland outlook to security was evident in Curzon’s Tibet anxiety, which led him to invade the monastery State in 1904 when he became convinced it was leaning towards Russia. In London, Morley and his likes dismissed this concern and eventually ended up undoing whatever Curzon achieved. Morley’s letter to Curzon’s successor Lord Minto in October 1906 is revealing: These “frontier men”, forget “the complex intrigues, rival interests and, if you like, diabolical machinations which make up international politics for a vast sprawling Empire like ours...” Ironically, Minto while in London in Morley’s office spoke the same language, but once in India, he, too, began seeing as Curzon did, and expressed his dissatisfaction at the way the Lhasa Convention 1904 was allowed to be usurped by the Peking Convention 1906. It is arguable that if Curzon had his way, the British would have left Tibet, like Bhutan or Sikkim, before 1975.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Opinion||Digest the irony||With no end to the pandemic in sight, people have now begun to worry about the different kinds of economic and social effects of Covid-19 more than about the disease itself. An impending food crisis is one major consequence that is causing concern across the globe. The World Food Programme of the United Nations has warned that there could be famines of biblical proportions in some parts of the world. India, too, will be affected since South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are two regions that house the world’s largest number of undernourished and malnourished people. It is ironic that there is no aggregate shortage of food in the world. The distribution and access to food, however, cause severe distress. In a terribly unequal world, increasing levels of wastage have been accompanied by food scarcity and hunger. Hunger is something more than starvation. It is characterized by multiple features among which the shortage in the quantity of food is one dimension. A shortage implies a deficit in the minimum calories intake required by an average person. There are other dimensions as well. Health experts emphasize the need for a balanced diet in which there are optimum amounts of protein, fat and carbohydrates along with minerals and vitamins. An absence of this balance causes malnutrition that can have adverse long-term consequences similar to undernutrition when there is a shortage in total availability. Experts also point to the importance of the human body to be able to absorb a food for proper nutrition of the body. Importance is placed on the micronutrients that the human body requires to absorb the food it ingests. Any of these inadequacies can cause long-term damage in terms of brain development, chronic diseases, stunting and wasting through poor bodily development like height and weight. These impacts persist throughout a person’s lifetime. Hunger has remained familiar to the world despite the increased production of food, better agrarian technology, improvements in trade and communications, and a reduction in the number of people living in absolute poverty. There are growing concerns about the shortage of food induced by climate change given its effects on the productivity of land. Crop failures due to erratic weather like floods and droughts are another concern. There is wastage too. Rich countries of the world waste enormous amounts of food through large inventories in supermarkets and as a result of excessive purchase by consumers. The surplus food ends up in garbage dumps. In poor countries like India, there is also food wastage because the nation does not have enough storage facilities that can preserve perishable food like fruits and vegetables. According to the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, the global extent of food wastage annually is of the order of 1.3 billion tonnes, which is approximately 33 per cent of the total food produced for human consumption. This quantum is valued at USD 2.6 trillion, and is deemed sufficient to feed about 815 million hungry people. In India, the wastage, according to government sources, is estimated to be around 16-20 per cent of all produce, especially fruits and vegetables and oilseeds. Set against these kinds of wastage, there are parts of the world where many children go to sleep hungry because they get unbalanced or inadequate diets. This has been the crux of the story behind global hunger. Then the pandemic arrived. Firstly, it seriously disrupted supply chains that reduced the flow of food from the farm and the dairy to the marketplace. Secondly, affluent people who could afford food started to buy in panic; this exacerbated shortages. Thirdly, all of a sudden, a large number of people found their jobs gone, or incomes slashed. This meant that their ability to access food was jeopardized. They had to cut back on quantity as well as quality. Finally, with supply-induced shortages, food prices have begun to rise across the globe. Food inflation is at abnormally high rates from China to the United States of America, from India to Brazil. Those who still have some income left started eating less; those with no income at all had to depend on private charity or on the government to provide food. As the pandemic gets prolonged, the ability of charities and governments to provide support will get weaker. International aid, already lower than last year, will begin to taper off rapidly. There might be a spike in hunger and starvation. According to some experts, the number of deaths from poverty and hunger could begin to surpass the deaths from Covid-19. According to the World Bank, more than 100 million people have already slipped into extreme poverty since March 2020. The WFP estimates that half-a-billion people might slide back into poverty by the time the pandemic ends. International trade normally moves enough maize, wheat, rice and soybeans to feed 2.8 billion people every year. That supply chain is also broken. There is a shortage of migrant workers in certain geographies. The United Kingdom expects to throw out a third of its harvest because of the lack of workers during the harvesting season. The US, in spite of Donald Trump’s paranoia about immigration, has actually eased visa restrictions for temporary help during the harvesting season. Other countries have imposed export restrictions on food grains in an effort to ensure sufficient domestic availability. Out of the 20 worst-hit countries, 17 are in sub-Saharan Africa where the cost of a basic meal has increased to 186 per cent of an average worker’s daily wage. According to Oxfam, 55 million people in 7 countries are facing famine-like conditions. In India, there are now 38,000 relief camps where 16 million are fed on a daily basis. It is estimated that 196 million people in India suffer from food insecurity. In the US, for the first time since the Great Depression, there are food banks where many people are going for the first time in their lives. 2020 had been a remarkably bad year in many ways. The pandemic, the economic collapse, backtracking on climate-change policies, freak weather patterns, forest fires and pests like the locust swarm — all of these do not bode well for the near future. This year may turn out to be a slow-motion replay of 2020. There is no aggregate shortage yet. It is all about reaching food to the right people at the right time and at the right price. However, policymakers across the world appear callous, turning more authoritarian and less democratic. They do not care too much about the weakest. Weakness is something to be abhorred and denounced. Yet hunger affects the weakest most severely. On the other side of food insecurity, one can see an added dose of food wastage by people who can afford food. There are new types of processed food being tried out. Additional food is stockpiled by online orders, new recipes are tried and exchanged, and many people in this economic class complain about putting on weight from eating too much during the pandemic-induced restrictions on physical movements. That is the story of roughly the top 10 per cent. The majority of the remaining 90 per cent remain on the edge of hunger. A few grow fat and rich even as millions of lives are wasted. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two-lane rail overbridge to ease Gomoh traffic pain||East Central Railway has completed construction of a 2km-long railway overbridge, which according to officials on Thursday, is the longest in Dhanbad. The overbridge, which connects the Gomoh market and the railway station, will be inaugurated virtually by railway minister Piyush Goyal on January 18. After its inauguration, Dhanbad will get major relief from daily traffic congestion. SS Ahmad, project manager of MG Contractors Pvt Ltd, said: “The two-lane overbridge also has pavements on both sides. Each lane is 10.5-metre wide.” “We have installed over 200 solar lights on the bridge. It will now be easier for patients to reach hospital quickly,” said Ahmad. Gomoh resident RTI activist Sanky Gupta, who had earlier raised the issue of delay in construction work and even tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting its significance, said: “Nowhere in the country, three railway crossings are situated within a 100-metre radius. It affects the movement of vehicles.” “Besides patients, school students were among the major sufferers of heavy traffic congestion at railway crossings. They will now get a big relief,” said Gupta. “Doctors from outside the town have always refused to visit because of the traffic jam. From now on, they will not face this problem,” said Gupta. The bridge will also help the residents to reach the national highway swiftly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Rituals, holy dip and more: state celebrates Makar Sankranti||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Bird flu: Eateries, restaurants record dip in sale of chicken items||After the coronavirus pandemic, hotels and restaurants of Bokaro are seeing a steep fall in demand for chicken dishes, the ongoing bird flu scare dealing another blow to the hospitality industry that had only recently been allowed to resume services amid strict Covid safety protocols. Local residents, who had just about begun visiting eateries, have stopped now.  And those who are going to the restaurants, are showing a keen preference for vegetarian items even though no instance of bird flu has been detected in the district, according to the state animal husbandry department. The poultry industry has incurred huge losses due to the sharp decline in demand. Fear looms large as several dead birds have been recovered during the last four or five days, but bird flu is yet to be confirmed. Roadside food vendors who only serve non-vegetarian dishes have been badly hit. Kaka, a vendor at Sector-3, who was doing roaring business, has witnessed a 50 per cent drop in sales. He said, “I only sell chicken biryani. Customers from outside the district come to my roadside stall. But because of bird flu scare, my business got badly affected.” Vikram Shanan, the owner of the prominent Zaika Resort and restaurant chain of Bokaro, said: “Due to bird flu, the demand for poultry products has dropped to 50 per cent. People have switched over to vegetarian menus. There is also a drop in demand for mutton products.” Amit Johar, the owner of West Inn Hotel, also noted that customers now preferred vegetarian dishes. “Since the last two days, the sale of poultry products has dropped by 20-25 per cent. Residents are scared of ordering chicken dishes,”  he said, adding that restaurants known for serving non-vegetarian food, had added more vegetarian dishes in their menu. Those directly associated with the poultry trade are also worried. Dhanesh Kumar, a trader, said, “The bird flu scare has badly affected our business. I have now started selling other products like vegetables and fruits for survival.” District animal husbandry officer Manoj Mani said, “We are alert. Till now, no such case has been detected in the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa airport to resume daytime flights from Saturday ||Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi will resume regular flight services from Saturday after keeping day flights suspended for two months due to maintenance of the airstrip, airport authorities said on Thursday. However, the largest airport in Jharkhand is yet to achieve the volume of pre-lockdown air traffic, which reduced drastically in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, officials added. Flights remained suspended from 10.30am to 5.30pm here from November 16 to keep the runway free for carpeting. The suspension of flights during this time led to rescheduling of several flights and left travellers with no option but to either take early morning flights or flights post-sunset, officials said. “Despite the suspension of flights during the daytime, we managed to ply 17 flights daily during the past two months,” said Deputy General Manager (Air Traffic Management) at Birsa Munda Airport, Wilfred Kerketta. Kerketta said the number of flights flying to and from Ranchi will be increased to 20 every day from January 16. “We had at least 30 flights before the lockdown was enforced. The number had increased gradually, but we are still 10 flights short of our pre-lockdown traffic,” Kerketta added. Ranchi started new direct flights to Chennai last month and the response has been positive, airport authorities said. “We are in talks with the state government to increase the number of flights from Ranchi as travel restrictions have been eased now,” Kerketta said. Passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has tripled since June, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated in December 2020. However, the passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be in pre-Covid times, local airport officials said. The AAI stated that passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped to 57,749 in June when travel restrictions were relaxed after a strict lockdown since March. The passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November 2020 when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated. The airport has expansion plans in the pipeline. It is likely to extend its runway, increase the length of basic strip and construct an isolation bay on extra land that will be allotted to the AAI once the Cabinet gives its nod to the plans. At present, Birsa Munda Airport has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, will be increased to 140 meters once the expansion plan is approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Archery coach inducted as east zone talent scout||Steel city’s veteran archery coach Harendra Singh has been nominated as a member of Talent Identification Zonal Committee for East Zone (archery) for the Khelo India identification programme, an initiative of the ministry of youth affairs and sports. An international coach, Singh is in the archery circuit for over a decade now and has played an active role in the development of the game. His role as a member of Talent Identification Zonal Committee will include identification of grassroots talent by using the appropriate method in non-competitive events, to ensure the database is updated and create a ranking of athletes and any other responsibilities related to the game. The states covered under East Zone include Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. Expressing happiness, Singh said he was looking forward to the job and would try to do his best. “It’s a responsibility and I am looking forward to the new role. I would work hard and try to identify talents and help them come to the fore,” Singh said. An experienced mentor, Singh has been the coach of Indian archery team in international competitions and has also trained the state outfit, is a hard worker who can be at various competitions held across the state. “I don’t think there is any dearth of talent in the East Zone. Adequate guidance and training infrastructure would go a long way in unearthing talents across the zone,” Singh, who guides budding archers at a city-based school, added. He said the new role would require travelling to the designated state which comes under East Zone. Good wishes have poured in from across the state since the news broke. Jharkhand Archery Association secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahato, East Singh District Archery Association president Dinesh Kumar, archery coaches B Sriniwas  Rao, SAIL archery cradle chief coach Rajendra Guinya and Tata Archery Academy head coach and Dronacharya awardee Dharmendra Tiwary have congratulated Singh for his nomination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Extremist with Rs 15 lakh reward on head surrenders before Chatra Police||A dreaded extremist of the state and second in rank of Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee(TSPC), Mukesh Ganjhu surrendered himself in front of the Chatra Police on Thursday morning, sources said. Ganghu was carrying a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head at the time of his surrender and was being sought after by central agencies like the National Investigation Agency for a terror funding case. Wanted in several states including Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Chattisgarh, the extremist leader was behind the killing of a Chatra scribe, among many other crimes. He was accused in dozens of cases including murder, rape, extortion, abduction and gunbattle with police, an officer said on condition of annonimity. The incident comes four days after superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha had released the list containing the names on whom the state government had announced reward, with Ganghu being featured on it. Jha had warned all the extremists in the list to surrender or get ready for police action. Sources said his surrender was seen as an outcome of increased police pressure. The police officer said that Ganjhu’s surrender is being seen as a big achievement for the police, while it is a major blow to the Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee. Ganjhu was responsible for looking after all affairs of the outfit, and was the second man after its supremo Brajesh Ganjhu. Both of them had together constituted the outfit in 2004. ASP (operations) Nigam Prasad and sub-divisional officer Avinash Kumar are leading the interrogation of the leader at the Mayurhand Police Station at the moment to get vital information about the group, its members and regarding the arms they possess. While officers, including Jha, refused to speak on the issue, the police are likely to announce Ganjhu’s surrender officially on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Number of active Covid cases drop in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad||The count of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped on Wednesday in three of the worst affected districts in Jharkhand – Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad. However, the number of patients remained the same in Jharkhand as the state reported as many recoveries as fresh cases on the day, government data revealed. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 152 people were found infected in the state on Wednesday and the same number of patients recovered. Ranchi reported 77 cases against 82 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 15 cases against 18 recoveries. As many as nine people were found infected in Dhanbad, while 18 patients recovered there. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, at least seven of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. More than 3000 people were tested for the viral infection in these seven districts, NHM data stated. Barring Ranchi, Hazaribag and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 21 districts either reported a single-digit-spike or did not report any fresh case on the day. As per government data, at least 660 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, while 156 were infected in East Singhbhum. The remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. No casualties were reported on the day in Jharkhand, keeping the Covid toll at 1048, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Of the 1048 Covid deaths in Jharkhand so far, East Singhbhum has reported 355 casualties and Ranchi has reported 223 deaths. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 11,771 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has collected swab samples of over 50 lakh people and tested 49.89 lakh of them. As many as 117240 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and 114836 of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.12 per cent against the national average of 0.14 per cent. The doubling rate in the state was 560.23 days against the national average of 507.45 days. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 97.94 per cent, which is better than the national average of 96.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress leader Furkan Ansari airs grouse||Former MP and veteran Congress leader Furkan Ansari has expressed his displeasure over the functioning of party’s Jharkhand in-charge R.P.N. Singh to national general secretary K.C. Venugopal. A visibly irritated Furkan, who returned to Ranchi on Wednesday after meeting Venugopal in Delhi on Tuesday evening, said that he had no option but to express his displeasure. “I had written a letter to Sonia Gandhi ji and Rahul ji in December apprising them about the party situation at the ground level. Though we are in the ruling alliance in Jharhand, it does not mean that situation is good at the ground level. However, no action has been taken, not to my knowledge. Hence I decided to go and personally meet Venugopal ji and apprised him of the situation,” said Ansari. The septuagenarian leader, who represented Godda in the 14th Lok Sabha and is a five-term MLA from Jamtara (1980 to 2004), and is one of the executive vice-president of the party, told in no uncertain terms that the Congress base is gradually weakening in Jharkhand. His son Irfan Ansari is the current MLA from Jamtara. “What can one say about the health of a party which has not held its state executive election for the last four years. The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress is being run on the whims and fancies of R.P.N. Singh (a former MP from Uttar Pradesh). It is either that Singh, who has done most of his politics in Uttar Pradesh is not aware of the ground situation in the party or does not want the party to perform well in future,” said Ansari. The senior leader also alleged that the current state unit president Rameshwar Oraon, who also holds the finance portfolio in the Jharkhand government, does not have much of a say in the party’s functioning. “Everything is being dictated by Singh. It is not good for democratic functioning of a party. The party leaders at the district level are feeling disheartened. I have done my duty as a party loyalist and it is for the party high command to take a decision,” added Ansari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
14-01-2021||Jharkhand||PLFI poster in Lohardaga town triggers panic||Rebel outfit - People's Liberation Front of India (PLFI) pasted a poster at the heart of Lohardaga town on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, warning police informers and businessmen of dire consequences if they pass on information about the outlawed group to the cops or refuse to oblige the demands of PLFI insurgents, the police said, on Wednesday. Locals found the poster put up at the densely-populated Gudri Bazar locality of the town, about 70 kilometeres west of Ranchi, on Wednesday morning. Subsequently, they informed the police. The district police acted promptly and took down the poster within minutes. However, no one had been arrested, in connection with the case, by the time this report was filed. The poster had slogans praising PLFI and against capitalist forces. It also urged the poor labour class to unite against the oppressive forces. It also threatened industrialists to face the PLFI’s wrath if they continued to exploit the poor class. Through the poster, PLFI also asked police not to conduct fake encounters and refrain from targeting innocent villagers. PLFI has been posted in the densely populated area of the city by the regional Naxalite organization. Hence the area has been put under surveillance. CCTV cameras worth lakhs have been installed in the area. Investigating officer, Mantu Kumar said that the police were scanning the CCTV footage of the area to identify the perpetrators. “The area falls under CCTV surveillance and the perpetrators will be identified and nabbed soon,” he said. According to figures with the Ministry of Home Affairs, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand including Lohardaga are Left-wing extremism (LWE)-affected. Apart from the main CPI (Maoist), there are at least 17 splinter outfits active in the tribal hinterland. PLFI, one of these splinter outfits, was formed by Dinesh Gope, a former army man, in 2003. According to the police, most of the splinter outfits are involved in extorting money from businessmen, trafficking children, and killing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-173
