15-01-2021||Calcutta||Bochhorer Best: where history and youth team up||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took the "unique opportunity to welcome a 228-year-old legend to the 218-year-old Raj Bhavan" on Friday while presenting the first “Bochhorer Best” award, instituted by ABP Digital to identify and crown the Person of the Year. The “legend in question was Ditipriya Roy, the young actress who has been essaying the role of Rani Rashmoni for over 3 years and more than 1,170 episodes on Zee Bangla's Karunamoyee Rani Rashmoni. "I started shooting for the serial before my class 10 board exams, and they said we would be done in three months. By the time I gave my class 12 board exams, I was growing old on the set and had grandchildren running around," smiled Ditipriya, clearly overwhelmed by the grand occasion. To make it even more grand for the teenager, Tollywood stars Prosenjit and Paoli Dam joined Ditipriya on stage for a quick session of "gyaan and gaan" (sage advice from Prosenjit and a song with Paoli). Prosenjit advised the young actress to not burn herself out on television and to hold back for a career in films. Paoli, on the other hand, joined Ditipriya in humming a couple of lines from the song Kalankini Radha. This was followed by Tolly star Dev engaging in a fun session on films and "anything but politics" with the Governor. The exchange between the Trinamul MP and one of the fiercest critics of the Trinamul government in West Bengal was marked by easy humour and refreshing candour. The first such award ceremony in Bengal, attended by leading lights from culture and industry, was the brainchild of ABP Digital led by Editor Emeritus Aveek Sarkar, who thanked the Governor for "opening the doors of Raj Bhavan" for this unique event. Dhankhar, in turn, felt that such occasions celebrating and championing cultural achievements was just what Bengal needed. The evening -- with Esha Dutta as emcee -- clearly belonged to a 19-year-old playing everything from a child bride to a feisty widow who left a deep imprint on Bengal and our collective consciousness some 200 years ago. "I am truly blessed to be receiving this award at such a historic venue, in the presence of such stalwarts of society. People's appreciation had made all the hard work worthwhile for the past three years, but this award makes me feel that I must do a lot more," said Ditipriya Roy, much better known as Rani Rashmoni in several households in Bengal where she is a constant presence every evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Gifts for your furry friend||Has Covid has forced you to hold more house parties than go clubbing this winter? Well, the upside is that your pets can join you now. As you wine and dine, so can they. You can dress up your dog, accessorise your cat, serve them food, beverages, pupcakes.... The Telegraph Salt Lake visits pet stores in the neighbourhood to see what’s on offer this year. Party wear How about an elegant lace cocktail dress for your Persian kitty? Or a macho leather jacket for your German Shephard? “Cats, particularly, love grooming and dressing up. My own Persian cat, Cotton (picture below), loves wearing clothes and I’ve gifted her a classy red and black outfit from our new winter collection,” says Tarun Gupta of Animel Planet. They have hoodies, frocks as well as zipped-up leather jackets. “We have Santa clothes too but customers say the can’t be used after Christmas so we are keeping a wider range of clothes,” he says. Price: Rs 250 to 1,500 Available at: Animel Planet in BD Block Salt Lake, Swapno Bhor, New Town and City Centre 2 Necktie and bow tie Trendy neon shades or camouflage colours — complement your pet’s personality with a necktie or bow-tie at the next party. Both varieties come with elastic straps and are available in a range of colours and prints. Price: Rs 90 for ties, Rs 162 for bow ties. Available at: Pet Pleasure, DL Block Pet perfume The finishing touch on your pet’s party look would be fragrance. “At present we have two fragrances – Capt Zack Scent’sationlly Yours cologne spray and Fondapet by Mankind, which is a deodorant,” says Nabanita Majumdar of Animal Pride in BE Block. The latter is to be sprayed about 10 inches away from the body, in a sweeping motion down from the head. The cologne is alcohol and paraben-free. Price: Capt Zack Scent’sationlly Yours is Rs 450 for 100ml; Fondapet by Mankind is Rs 250. Available at: Animal Pride, BE Block Sunglasses If you’re planning to bask in the sun at a picnic, don’t forget shades for your pet. Pet goggles — available in bright shades like yellow and blue – come with adjustable elastic bands such that they fit all breeds. Price: Rs 315 Available at: Pet Pleasure, DL Block Pet pizza Are you ordering pizza for the party? Then skip the chicken-rice for your dog tonight and order him one too. Rena Pizza has cute slices that even look like they have pepperoni on them. But it’s pet-safe, made of wheat flour, ground chicken meat and cheddar cheese. Price: Rs 495 Available at: Animel Planet Pet champagne, wine and beer Don’t worry, it’s not alcoholic. These are pet-safe beverages packaged to look like bottles of booze. Bottom Sniffer beer is malt water that can be served as a drink or with food but a maximum of a bottle a day is advised. Woof n Brew Champaws is marketed as champagne for cats and dogs. This too is a concoction of grape-free herbs and then there’s Pawsecco Wine. Suitable for cats and dogs, this is a herbal infusion of elderflower, linden blossom, ginseng and carrot. Price: Rs 450 for the beer, Rs 595 for champagne and Rs 415 for the wine. Available at: Pink Paws, AC Block Dog chocolate If your dog would like some chocolate with his wine, there’s an option too. Schoko Drops are made of vegetable by-products, saccharose, cereals and minerals and you may allow him three to 10 pieces a day, depending on his size. If you want to go even more exclusive, try Trixie Milchie White Dog Chocolate. This too is made of similar ingredients and your pet may have two to five pieces a day, depending on his size. Price: Rs 175 for 75g for chocolate, Rs 150 for 100g for white chocolate. Available at: Pink Paws Pet cake If winter is your excuse to gorge on cakes, allow your pet the pleasure too. Deb’s Pet Care bakes cakes but uses honey instead of sugar, rice flour instead of regular flour, egg white instead of whole egg…. “It’s sweet but healthy,” promises Ronyth Deb, who runs the store. “Since most dogs are lactose intolerant, we use water instead of milk to make their muffins too. The goodies can be stored for up to seven days.” Price: Rs 600 for half pound Available at: Deb’s Pet Care, Chinar Park Winter cookies This being the season of vegetables, how about some fresh-baked cookies made of spinach or ginger? “I’m making them shaped like the ginger bread man, houses or even Christmas trees,” says Oishani Dey, a Beleghata resident who started the venture Licky Paws during the lockdown and is home delivering the treats. “I’m using pet-friendly icing made of yoghurt and using natural colours. The green is from spinach, red from beetroot, yellow for turmeric and orange from carrots.” Price: Rs 325 for pack of 250g Available at: Licky Paws, Beleghata Popsicles Dog owners have always allowed their furry friends small quantities of vanilla ice cream but here’s a dessert tailor-made for both canines and felines. Pawsecco Freeze Pops are made of elderflower, linden, ginseng and you are to store the popsicles in the freezer and and serve it to pets as a cold dessert. Price: Rs 595 Available at: Pink Paws||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Mamata inaugurates exhibition featuring paintings by Soumitra||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday opened an exhibition featuring paintings, film posters and costumes done by Soumitra Chatterjee. Also on display are his manuscripts and letters. The exhibition is being held at Emami Art, a gallery in the Kolkata Centre for Creativity in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. The exhibition is being jointly organised by The Soumitra Chatterjee Foundation, Emami Art and Mukhomukhi (a theatre group with a close association with Chatterjee) to celebrate the late actor’s 86th birth anniversary, which falls on January 19. The exhibition, curated by Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, will continue till January 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Preparations in run-up to vaccine rollout||The state government on Thursday almost completed distribution of Covid-19 vaccine doses to the sites in Calcutta and other parts of Bengal that have cold storage points and was ready with the list of people to be vaccinated on Saturday. According to the initial plan, the doses will be administered four days a week, said a health department official. “On other two days of the week, other immunisation programmes will be held. Sunday is a holiday. The Covid vaccine plan has been prepared in a way that other immunisation programmes are not affected. This is being followed in other parts of the country, too,” said the official. The government has also decided to train staff at a few more hospitals where it plans to open vaccination sites. Metro spoke to senior officials of the health department and various hospitals on the preparations in the run-up to the vaccine roll-out on Saturday. The recipients All vaccination venues have to administer the doses to their healthcare workers as well as to those associated with the hospitals and nursing homes in the vicinity that do not have a Covid-19 vaccination facility. “We are trying to get a large cross-section of healthcare workers, from various institutions as well as private practitioners, vaccinated on the first day. A venue will have to administer the vaccine to some of its own healthcare workers and some who are not attached to the hospital,” said an official. The list will also include ambulance drivers. An official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said they had planned to vaccinate some waste collectors every day from the first day. “Our list will include our doctors, nurses, lab technicians and waste collectors,” said an official of the civic body. Vaccine venues Across all government-run medical colleges in Calcutta, three rooms have been earmarked for Covid-19 vaccination. Medicine, gynaecology and orthopedics are some of the wards where rooms have been reserved for vaccination. The medical colleges have also prepared a blueprint for turning the general lecture theatres into vaccination sites when more people will need to be administered the shots. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, officials have prepared two places — the annexe building and the diabetic clinic opposite the main building — as possible sites. An official said either of these places would be selected. Health department officials are supposed to visit the hospital on Friday to finalise the site. The department had requested private hospitals at a meeting on Wednesday to create vaccination sites on their campuses. On Thursday, it gave permission to three private hospitals to start vaccination from Saturday — the RN Tagore Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals and AMRI Dhakuria. “We have been selected among the first sites to vaccinate frontline workers,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore institute is the flagship unit. He said two sites had been readied adjacent to the emergency ward so that if any recipient developed any adverse effect, she or he could be shifted there. Apart from the vaccinators, five people and a doctor will be deployed at each site. Till Thursday evening, 18 venues in Calcutta had been finalised where Covid-19 vaccination will start on Saturday. Distribution of doses Vaccine doses were transported to the cold storage points of five medical colleges in Calcutta. Health department officials said they had distributed about 93,500 doses in Calcutta. The bulk of the doses was sent to the vaccine storage depot of the CMC on Ballygunge Circular Road. Sources in the health department said NRS hospital received 3,350 doses, Calcutta National Medical College 1,620 doses, SSKM Hospital and RG Kar hospital 4,250 doses each, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan 850 doses and Calcutta Medical College 3,990 doses. Last minute training Health department officials said they would train the vaccinating staff on Friday on the volume of the vaccine to be administered to each. A fact sheet provided by the manufacturer of Covishield, Serum Institute of India, mentions that the “Covishield vaccination consists of two separate doses of 0.5 ml each”. The vaccination team will be taught how to use the Co-Win application, a digital platform created by the Centre for the Covid vaccination across India. The vaccination team will also be asked to preserve some vials so that the batch number is known in case of any adverse events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||How to allay fears over Covid vaccines||Is it safe to take a Covid-19 vaccine shot? Normally, it takes several years of clinical trials before a vaccine is given approval. But Covid-19 vaccines are being approved with trials conducted for less than a year. Shall I take it? Is it effective? These are some of the questions faced by scientists and others involved in Covid vaccine trials in the UK. The same confusion and anxiety are there among many healthcare workers in Calcutta and other parts of Bengal, where the vaccination is set to start on Saturday. Calcutta girl Divya Chadha Manek, clinical trials lead for the UK vaccines taskforce in the London region, told Metro they found doubts, anxiety and reluctance among people while conducting the trials since March 2020. Communication, she said, is the key to allay misconceptions. Addressing problems In the UK, according to Divya, the most common doubts expressed by people during vaccine trials and roll-out was whether one should take the jab considering the short span of the clinical trials. “Usually it takes 10 years for clinical trials to be completed in various phases. But for Covid vaccines, including Covishield (developed) by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, the trials were conducted and approval was given by the regulatory authorities in the UK in less than a year,” said Divya, who has been involved in trials of flu vaccines, including those for influenza, for 14 years in the UK. The trials are conducted by the National Institute for Health Research. “The answer to why it was given such a quick approval was coordination and funding by government, industry and regulatory agencies engaged at all levels.” The Centre has sent around seven lakh doses of Covishield to Bengal. “The anxiety factor in the UK about the vaccine was very high. People even asked whether the government is microchipping them through the vaccination drive,” said Divya. “Many people are also concerned about the side-effects, both immediate and long term.” “All the phases of the trial were conducted (in the UK) and the health regulatory authorities gave the approval after examining all data,” Divya said. Still, there is a close monitoring system in the UK for possible reactions, she said. “The usual side-effects for Covishield as seen during the trials are fever, headache and pain, and bruises around the part of the body where the vaccine is administered. But these are common for many other vaccines,” said Divya. As for another Covid vaccine, which has provoked allergic reactions among some recipients, the authorities have said those having anti-allergic drugs should not take it, she said. The UK authorities, Divya said, have taken communication drives at several levels to allay the misconceptions and anxiety. “We are involving community groups to explain to people that it is safe. Also, there are media campaigns. Celebrities are taking vaccines and saying how safe it is. The government in the UK is actively involved in the communication process. The Queen herself took the vaccine and said it is safe,” she said. “The government is also using social media to spread the message.” Bengal situation In Calcutta and other parts of Bengal, several doctors and healthcare workers have expressed reluctance to take the Covishield jab on Saturday, officials said. “Some doctors came to me and said let others take the dose first. We’ll follow suit after seeing their reactions,” said an official of a government medical college in Calcutta. “To allay fears we are choosing senior, well-known doctors who are willing to take the jab in the initial days.” The global advisory board set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and chaired by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, discussed the problem on Thursday, sources said. “We’ll set up a strategy for communication soon,” said a member of the board. “Over a period of time, we’ll be able to communicate more on the vaccine. Also, both the state and the Centre are doing media campaigns about the safety of the vaccine.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta|| Meet Rajib Roy's four legged child||Ria, Rima, Rishab, Royal, Rishan. Rajib Roy has five children out of which one — Royal — has four legs. The playful Labrador came into the family three years ago when the other kids had started pleading for a dog. “They were even ready to forgo their birthday and Puja gifts in lieu of a puppy,” says Rajib. “My parents and wife Indira were dead against the idea but the kids divided the responsibilities of looking after the pup and gave it to them in writing.” Shortly after the puppy came, of course, came the kids’ exams and now it’s their dad who does all the cleaning and feeding but he’s not complaining. A year after Royal came, Rishan was born. “We were apprehensive about how he would react and kept him away from the baby for about a month,” says Rajib. The day Royal was let loose he ran to the baby. “He didn’t look, didn’t sniff; simply planted a kiss on his cheek!” says the surprised father. And now Rishan sits on his tricycle holding a rope that Royal pulls around the terrace with his teeth, quite like Santa and his reindeer. The Lab is protective of his siblings and will not Rajib scold them at any cost. “Once Rishan, who’s still a toddler, was approaching a bucket with an immersion rod heating it up. Royal pounced and stopped him. He averted a terrible accident.” Since Royal loves playing in water, they’ve got an inflatable swimming pool stitched for him. “It’s 20ft long, 3ft deep and the whole family can jump in to play with him,” Rajib smiles. “We’ve made a bathtub for him too.” Besides the fun and games, Royal has a high emotional quotient. “He knows exactly when I’m down and will come console me. And when I’m happy he’ll play. In November, I was hospitalised with Covid and he was so upset. No amount of speaking to him over the phone could cheer him up,” recalls Rajib. Royal is a religious dog. He rises with Rajib 96 minutes before sunrise at brahmamuhurta everyday, and patiently sits outside the prayer room, listening to him chant. Another curious habit is for Royal to sit touching his family members. “So if all of us are in the living room together he’ll come sit in the middle and touch some of us with paws and yet another with face,” smiles Rajib. It’s a large family but Royal has a large heart with space for everyone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||RKM lost rare manuscripts to Bagbazar blaze||A number of rare manuscripts and religious texts that would be used to cross-check information before it was printed in the Udbodhan magazine have been damaged by Wednesday’s fire in Bagbazar, monks of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission said. These books were kept on the first and the second floor of the Udbodhan building, in Bagbazar’s Udbodhan Lane, from where the order’s mouthpiece Ubodhan is published. “We are yet to assess the number of manuscripts that have been damaged by the fire,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Math and Mission. “It was a devastating fire and our hearts go out to those who have been severely affected.” Senior monks at the Udbodhan building said the damaged manuscripts and books played a key role in bringing out the magazine, the first copy of which was released on January 14, 1899, a year after the Udbodhan office was set up. The printing press was set up in a house in Ramchandra Maitra Lane in north Calcutta. “Some of these books were rare copies of old manuscripts on the Vedas and are no more in circulation,” said Swami Nityamuktananda of Udbodhan. “We would fall back on them to cross-check any information before an article would get printed in the magazine. The room of the magazine’s editor has been damaged, too.” More than 100 shanties next to the Udbodhan building were gutted in a fire that triggered serial explosions, probably from LPG cylinders, on Wednesday evening. The leaping flames, which reached the Udbodhan building’s second floor, damaged several windows and wooden furniture, apart from the rare manuscripts and books. “Mayer Bari or Mother’s House in Bagbazar, which is under Ramakrishna Math, has remained unscathed. Some items at the Udbodhan building, under Ramakrishna Mission, have been damaged,” Swami Suvirananda said. “That includes about 40 wooden windows fitted with glasses, seven air conditioning units, 25 chairs and tables, electrical cables and a generator.” Udbodhan, the only Bengali periodical of the Ramakrishna Math and Mission, was started by Swami Vivekananda. Over the years, it grew into a publishing house and has been one of the leading publishers of literature on Sri Ramakrishna and his disciples. Udbodhan the magazine has close to one lakh subscribers. Senior monks said distribution of copies would not be hit because of the fire. With electric lines yet to be restored, monks at the Udbodhan building rummaged through the debris on the first and second floors throughout Thursday trying to figure out the extent of damage. While making an assessment, senior monks at Belur Math, the headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, realised that there was an immediate need to throw a security ring around Mother’s House and the Udbodhan building following the fire. Accordingly, the Math authorities approached senior officials of the state government and subsequently, a 20-member police team under an assistant commissioner was deployed around the two premises. “We are extremely grateful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and to the state government for extending cooperation of all sorts to us within a short time,” Swami Suvirananda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Bagbazar fire: Homes to be rebuilt, assures CM||More than 150 families who used to live in shanties next to the Udbodhan building in Bagbazar lost their homes in Wednesday night’s fire. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the fire-ravaged area on Thursday afternoon and promised to rehabilitate the residents. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, she said, will start building dwelling units once the area is cleared of debris. “Today we will clean the place, after this we will construct houses for all the people. Each family will get their house rebuilt here,” Mamata said. She also told the dwellers, who had gathered since morning to salvage their possessions from the burnt remains of their houses, that they could stay at Women’s College nearby till the dwelling units are built. “We will give 5kg of rice, lentils, vegetables as well as milk to each family,” Mamata said, before instructing Sashi Panja, the local MLA and state minister for women, child development and social welfare, to distribute blankets and woolens among the affected people. Throughout Thursday, families tried to salvage whatever they could from their gutted homes. Many looked distraught after failing to find crucial documents such as ration cards, voter identity cards and Aadhaar cards. Many youngsters were seen rummaging through debris in search of headphones, speakers and other electronic devices. Sapna Dolui, a 23-year-old homemaker, stared at what seemed like a burnt piece of cloth at the spot where stood her home even a day before, for several minutes before tears welled up in her eyes. Dolui, who was accompanied by husband Mongol, a daily labourer, said the burnt piece of cloth used to be her handbag where she had kept three Rs 500 notes — her wage for working at a fast food stall — as well as their voter ID cards. “I had planned to buy groceries, vegetables and other essentials with the money. We lost all the money as well as our home. The voter cards are gone, too, and I don’t know if we can apply for new ones in time,” said Dolui. As evening set in, a group of young businessmen and professionals visited the slum and distributed blankets and dry food items. “The people here have lost all their possessions and we wanted to make sure they at least had a blanket each,” said Jignesh Thakkar, one of the men who distributed the blankets. Thakkar, who lives near Shyambazar, said he and his friends had appealed to people on social media to donate blankets and food and they were “amazed” at the overwhelming response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||JU sounds state govt on Centre-hit scholars||The Union education ministry’s decision to hold back the money the Centre had earlier promised Jadavpur University under a scholarship scheme has left 200-odd research scholars in the lurch. The PhD scholars had quit a fellowship provided by the state government to opt for the Centre’s scholarship, which was offering four times more money than the state scheme. They were getting Rs 8,000 a month under the non-NET fellowship to those pursuing PhD or MPhil provided by the state higher education department. But when JU was selected by the Centre for the scheme in December 2018, many of them opted for the scholarship under the Rashtriya Uchchatara Siksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) 2.0, which offered a monthly scholarship of Rs 30,000 for a period of two years till March 31, 2021. Since the second instalment of the Rs 100-crore grant payable from April 1, 2020, has been put on hold and repeated pleas from the university in between have failed to evoke any response, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has written to the state government to consider bringing the scholars within the ambit of the non-NET fellowship. A university official said when a PhD scholar quit one scholarship in favour of another, he or she could not revert to the old scholarship at will. It requires a special consideration from the funding agency. At JU, after the first instalment of Rs 41.67 crore of the promised sum of Rs 100 crore had come in January 2019, the authorities gave the scholars the option of opting for RUSA scholarship. “There were a section of scholars who had two years of their research left. So they opted for the scholarship,” said an official. In March, the Centre extended the scheme till March 31, 2021 and promised to sanction the remaining amount, said another official. The Centre was to sanction the second instalment of about Rs 35 crore, but the release has been kept on hold and this put the scholars in a lurch. “The non-release of the second installment of the grant has caused unimaginable distress to young scholars – working as RUSA 2.0 Fellows - who have had to bear the double burden of having to find alternative sources of income in the unprecedented situation of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Das had told The Telegraph on January 10 . On January 11, the university had said in a circular: “This is for the attention of the scholars who had been supported with RUSA scholarship may apply to the government of West Bengal for the remaining period of their course.” The interested candidates have been asked to contact the university’s scholarship section with the PhD registration document at the earliest. “I have appealed to the state government to consider bringing them within the ambit of non-NET fellowship, a scheme they were entitled to but left as they were offered scholarship under a scheme funded by the Centre. Now, the Centre is not releasing its due share under the scheme. Restoration of non-NET scholarship could help them to some extent,” Das said on Thursday. An official said that since the department had agreed to look into the appeal, the scholars have been asked to contact. “We don't know whether they will consider the VC’s appeal,” he said. Although under the scheme, the Centre is to release 60 per cent of the amount and the state government the rest, but the state’s grant has to follow the Centre’s. A state government official said JU was told at a meeting between the education ministry and VCs on July 7, 2020, that the second installment was not being released because 70 per cent of the teaching posts were vacant. “The condition was not mentioned in the RUSA 2.0 guidelines. It was not mentioned when the grant was sanctioned. How can a grant be stopped halfway?” Das had told The Telegraph on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||A Covid-proof award ceremony||The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir 2019 Salt Lake FE Block Residents Association Yet again our block souvenir was adjudged the winner in The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir contest. We are happy, proud and honoured. We have received this award earlier too and every time it inspires us to bring out an even better souvenir next time. We are grateful to The Telegraph Salt Lake for inspiring literature at the local level. Over the last few years, the number of entries to the souvenir has been on the rise. Not just the elderly, even youngsters are coming forward to submit write-ups and drawings. Our neighbours who are residing abroad send their submissions with equal enthusiasm. Inspired by our president Gautam Roy and secretary Kallol Dutta, we gave out mementoes to our young contributors. This year, we also brought out our e-souvenir on a mobile app and the making of the e-souvenir was captured in an audio-visual form. We are sure that getting the overall super souvenir award and the individual prizes for several contributors will boost our enthusiasm. The Telegraph Salt Lake has cultivated a new culture through their souvenir contest. — Krishnendu Mukhopadhyay, Convenor and editor, Salt Lake FE Block Souvenir Sub Committee Best Editorial Winner: Gora Roy, Secretary, Salt Lake CF Block Residents’ Association It is a great privilege to have our editorial, based on the theme of pollution and showcased in our Durga Puja 2019 souvenir, be acknowledged as the best. I accept this award on behalf of the souvenir sub-committee members and every resident of our block with gratitude. Winning this award would not have been possible without the support of the entire governing body of our residents’ association. Due to the pandemic, we were forced to curtail the budget of Puja 2020 and decided not to publish the souvenir for the year 2020. But we look forward to winning more such awards for our block in the days to come. Special mention Iswar Mukherjee, Purba Samabay Abasan (Cluster XIII, Purbachal) Many thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake. A mention of my editorial article in this widely circulated weekly has made our efforts in organising the puja more meaningful. This time, however, traditions like community lunch and cultural programme remained a pipe dream during the festive days. We held the puja differently in a Covid-afflicted world. There were small initiatives to share the joys and sorrows and counter the pandemic like distribution of clothes among the Durgas in distress. I hope you will continue to inspire our efforts in future. We are always loyal readers of The Telegraph Salt Lake. We wish this weekly newspaper further improvement and spread. Special Mention Satyaban Roy, New Town AA1B Sarbojonin Durgotsab I do not have words to acknowledge the tribute received in the form of Special Mention for excelling in the Editorial category. Even in the unforeseen virus-stricken situation, The Telegraph Salt Lake has done its best to continue its endeavour to inspire the cultivation of art and literature among residents through Puja souvenirs. My wholehearted gratitude to the editorial team on behalf of New Town AA1B Sarbojonin Durgotsab platform. With profound regret, we announce that we could not publish the Puja souvenir for 2020. Early Bird BE (West) It is indeed a great honour to receive this award on behalf of our Puja committee for 2019. I thank the entire editorial team, along with Alok De and Susobhan Roy, whose consistent effort has made receiving this award almost into a habit every year. Due to early preparations, the quality of articles and advertisements is never compromised while delivering the souvenir early to your office. Thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake once again. — Shampa Aich, President, Sarbojonin Dugotsav Committee, BE (West) Best travelogue Winner Susmita Bhaduri, Sanjeeva Town Bungalow Estate I had written an account of the daring North Pole adventure by me and my husband in the last puja souvenir. I had no expectation that the article would get recognition this time as well. I am floored by this delightful surprise. My gratitude to The Telegraph Salt Lake that you found my tell-tale travelogue worthy of a prize. After getting the award for the third time, I am beginning to get a feel of being an author! Special Mention Sekhar Basu, JC Block Visiting Magic Castle in Hollywood, for me, was a wonderful experience. The castle is over half a  century old, and the atmosphere there is reminiscent of classic night club days. It’s a clubhouse for magicians and magic enthusiasts. Only members and their guests are allowed entrance. My son Shamik, a resident of Los Angles, and I spent half a night there as guests. There are many small stages for magic shows. At their numerous bars, both bar-tenders and customers are magicians. They play tricks with cards while sipping on a drink. The shows go on all night. My write-up in the JC Block puja committee’s souvenir was all about this experience. Thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake for selecting it for a Special Mention. Best cover Winner, DL Block Residents’ Association The October 2 edition of The Telegraph Salt Lake landed with “Best of Puja Writings” on the cover page. We were thrilled to learn that the DL Block souvenir had been selected as the winner in the Best Cover category. Our hearts were filled with pride. More so, as the cover illustration was done by me. Sreya Ghosh, the souvenir sub-committee convenor, had inspired me to draw the cover. I wanted to draw the entire family of Ma Durga. Sreya agreed and suggested that I draw the mounts of the gods bigger than the gods themselves. These days, animals show more humanity than humans, she pointed out. The idea appealed to me. This year, DL Block is not bringing out the souvenir because of the pandemic. We are really sad. Let us remain hopeful for a positive future. May 2021 be much brighter. —Indrani Bhattacharya, Member, DL Block souvenir sub committee Special Mention Salt Lake BE (East) Puja Committee A special thanks to The Telegraph Salt Lake for their commendable work in scouting for new talent in the field of arts and literature every year since the inception of the Super Souvenir contest. The way you have organised the prize distribution ceremony this year in Covid-19 pandemic situation is also noteworthy. Our Puja souvenir for 2020 has also been published. Amid this pandemic, for the first time in our puja history, our lady members had organised the puja. There was no theme or community lunch. Instead, there was a traditional idol and simple spacious mandap, decorated with alpona within low budget. But that did not rob us of the enjoyment. All puja rituals were held properly under strict Covid-19 protocol, which was appreciated by all the residents of our block. — Narottam Dutta, convenor Special Mention BL Block Durgotsab Committee The award for the cover page design of BL Block Durga puja Souvenir 2019 has enthused all of us associated with the printing and design of the souvenir cover. It encouraged us to do even better next year. While receiving the award at home, we were reminded of the ceremony arranged by The Telegraph Salt Lake in the previous years to hand over such prizes. We missed the occasion this year for the pandemic. Even though they had to expectedly avoid the social gathering, The Telegraph Salt Lake continues to motivate Puja organisers in this difficult year for their hard work on souvenirs. Unfortunately, we cannot participate in the contest this year, as the puja committee has decided not to publish the souvenir. We scaled down other aspects of our puja as well. There was no community lunch, breaking a tradition of 30-odd years. The cultural programme, which is another highlight, was organised virtually. Even pushpanjali was arranged through Facebook Live to facilitate elderly people to participate. We hope that normalcy will return over time and The Telegraph Salt Lake will arrange such events again in future. — S.K. Mallik, member, BL Block souvenir sub committee Best memoir Winner: Tandra Goswami, FE Block A piece on my childhood reminiscences got published in our FE Block puja souvenir 2019, titled Amar Chhotobelar Saatkahon. One fine day, I learnt that my article had been selected a winner in the judgement of The Telegraph Salt Lake team. And that our block souvenir had been adjudged the best. Joy, happiness and gratitude — all emotions fuse together. This encouragement will inspire me to write better articles. Thank you, The Telegraph Salt Lake, for this priceless award. Special mention Rita Das, BE Block A puja souvenir is the only platform where amateur writers like us can showcase our talent. From the very beginning of the year, we start thinking what to write for the year’s Puja souvenir and after submitting the write-up, we wait for the result, like in our student days. An award obviously gives us pleasure and at the same time we get a chance to measure our writing skill against that of others. The Telegraph Salt Lake has been giving us this chance for the last 15 years. This time, the whole world is tired of Covid-19 and all of a sudden everything stopped. But The Telegraph Salt Lake has continued its Super Souvenir journey. The prize-giving ceremony could not be held but the certificates have been sent to every winner. The initiative must be appreciated. Best fiction Winner: Biva Roy Chowdhury, FE Block My heartiest respect and good wishes to The Telegraph Salt Lake, especially those who chose my article. I have been selected for prizes on five earlier occasions on this platform. This small-time writer has been publishing her articles here and there since college life; some won prizes too. Once even the great author Sibram Chakraborty had congratulated me. But the award from The Telegraph Salt Lake — six times in all — is a priceless achievement in my life. This comes like a flash of lightning in a sky lit up by a setting sun. My gratitude for being supportive of literature despite the rotting, odorous, directionless circumstance all around today and the all-encompassing wave of the coronavirus. A lot of good wishes to FE Block too. May our block prosper and find inspired pathways to progress. Special Mention Kumkum Chattopadhyay, East Enclave, New Town It is a great honour to get The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir award when we are confined at home due to the situation created by Covid-19. This obviously proves the sincerity of the organisers. Yet, it is true that we are missing the flavour and pleasure of an award ceremony. This award definitely inspires me, so I want to convey my gratitude to The Telegraph Salt Lake. I hope that we will be able to enjoy the next award distribution like in the previous years. On this occasion, I also want to congratulate the other prize winners. Best poetry Winner: Sarbani Banerjee, East Enclave, New Town It is a great privilege and pleasure to be an awardee of the prestigious The Telegraph Salt Lake Super Souvenir contest. If not for this warm and welcoming platform, I would have remained a closet poet. While my poems catch on the colours of my imagination, The Telegraph Salt Lake lends them the wings to fly. With all the kind appreciation I have received so far, my poems soar higher and happier in the sky of my thoughts. The Telegraph Salt Lake has partnered the toddler walk of my journey as a poet, and there has been no stopping after that. Thanks for discovering a hitherto unknown facet in me! Special Mention Asim Das, East Enclave, New Town I am delighted to have received the certificate in the poetry category. I had started writing in my school days. That passion remained despite taking up science. My short stories, essays and poems have been published in magazines. Now they have found readers across the world thanks to the reach of social media. I get to attend various poetry conventions. I have been enriched by getting access to eminent poets and litterateurs. I have two books of poems to my credit. There is no joy like the joy of creation. I want to spend my remaining days in the cradle of this joy. I am thrilled to have received this encouragement. I will keep writing as long as I can. Special Mention Purba Kar, CD Block, New Town Getting a prize is always a delight, more so if it is for one’s passion. I write since my childhood but not till my middle ages did I see my work get published. Last year, a collection of my stories came out in the Book Fair and then my poem was printed in our block souvenir. But when my name was printed in The Telegraph Salt Lake it seemed I had managed to reach out to a wider audience. It filled my heart with delight and self-confidence. I got congratulatory messages from neighbours in my block and from across New Town. I cannot express how much inspiration this recognition gives me. Best essay Winner: Saptarshi Chowdhury, CD Block, New Town I have been studying the history of Calcutta for two years out of an emotion for the city. The subject attracts me and has paved the way to a book titled Ka e Kolkata, Sohorer Oli Golir Golpo. Mess Bari and Baithakkhana Bazaar are two institutions of colonial Calcutta that found centrestage in my essay in our puja souvenir. Thank you, The Telegraph Salt Lake. This recognition will inspire me to write more on our city’s history in the coming years. Special mention Sonali Roy, BE Block Increasing enthusiasm for cooking is noticeable all around as is the entry of foreign dishes in Bengali kitchens. But I cannot ignore the mid-day meals and the cooking on the pavements. The two opposing pictures worry me. My article in our 2019 Puja souvenir, titled Swad O Sadhyo, was on this. Let the middle class live out its cooking fantasies but let the underprivileged have access to two square meals. I consider cooking an art and am cooking since youth. I am happy that the judges appreciated my viewpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Teenager missing, family gets ransom calls||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped on her way to a tuition class in Narkeldanga on Wednesday. The family has registered a police complaint alleging that they had received a ransom call of Rs 25 lakh, police said. The teenager, who is a school student, did not return from her tuition class on Wednesday, prompting her parents to raise the alarm. The family contacted her friends and later learned that she had never reached the tuition class. A few hours after the girl’s disappearance, the family said they received a phone call asking them to pay Rs 25 lakh to secure her release. The family reported the matter to the local Narkeldanga police station. Based on the family’s complaint, the police have started an abduction for ransom case. Sources said the family had received multiple ransom calls. The police have talked to the student’s friends and were considering the possibility of tracking her down through the electronic gadgets she was carrying. The teenager’s father runs a business in the Rajabazar area. “We are not in a position to comment on the progress of the investigation at this moment,” said a senior officer of the eastern suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-172
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Tenant ‘assaults’ owners||An elderly woman and her daughter were assaulted on Thursday evening allegedly by their tenant, who apparently wanted back the rent he had paid in advance, police said. Niladri Ghosh, 36, a resident of Astha Apartment in Baghajatin Colony, off Swami Vivekananda Road, has alleged that his mother and sister were attacked by Raju Mandal, who runs a salon in a property belonging to the Ghoshes. According to the complaint, Mandal and two others had forcefully entered their home around 5.30pm and allegedly assaulted his mother with a chopper before outraging the modesty of his sister when she tried to resist the attack. The men fled when the women screamed for help. The police said the tenant had paid Rs 70,000 to the family as advance rent and was demanding the money over the past few days. “The family has alleged that the accused has taken away two gold chains, three finger rings and cash Rs 20,000. Based on the complaint, we have started an investigation. The tenant had been visiting this house for the past three-four days demanding the money. But today he and his accomplices tried to use force to extract the money,” said an officer of Jadavpur police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Schools want teachers back on campus||Several schools have started calling teachers back to the campus or are planning to do so to prepare them for a routine once students are allowed to come back. Heads of schools said if teachers took online classes from classrooms, it would mean better “connectivity” and would also help them test the school infrastructure that was lying idle for a long time. Teachers will be more accountable when they take classes from school and they will not have to juggle household chores while teaching, at least two principals said. On Thursday, the ICSE council sent a circular to the heads of all schools preparing candidates for the 2021 ICSE and ISC exams, asking them to utilise the period before the exams by helping the students complete their project work and submit it for evaluation. The schools have also been advised to conduct the practical classes in the laboratories for the candidates in a staggered manner, Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations, said in the circular. “Keeping in view of the fact that schools are being permitted to re-open gradually by their State/UT Governments, I write to inform you that while allowing children to attend the school, the Heads of the schools are advised to follow the Standard Operating Procedures(SOPs) and norms of social distancing as per the directions given by the Central Government and the respective State/UT Governments,” said Arathoon. At both La Martiniere for Girls and La Martiniere for Boys, the teachers have been asked to take online classes from the respective campuses from Friday. While The Heritage School has asked teachers of Classes VI to XII to come to school from Monday on rotation, teachers of South City International School will have to visit the campus according to the institution’s timings. At Birla High School, coordinators have been visiting the campus since January and teachers as and when required. There has been no regular activity across schools for nearly 10 months. “Our preparation should be good before students start coming in...,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. “The school will have high speed internet connectivity and will also provide the necessary support in case there is any hardware issue,” said Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of La Martiniere schools. John Bagul, the principal of South City International School, said unlike at home “teachers can use the interactive smart boards in the school while taking classes.” Heads of schools feel that taking classes from school will help get back the routine, which has been upset in the last so many months. “We plan to do so in a phased manner,” said Father Rodney Borneo, the principal of Loyola High School. Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School, said “biggest challenge” would be to get back teachers and subsequently, students back on campus. “People have settled in a work-from-home culture,” said Saigal. For example, across several schools, classes start an hour later than usual. With no commuting, teachers get some time, which is not the case when it comes to on campus classes. With the new academic session to begin soon, schools will have to set the academic calendar, select the booklist and prepare for term exams. “We have been taking viva for senior classes and conducting it from the school makes it more professional...,” said Alok Tibrewal, the pro vice-chairman, Delhi Public School Ruby Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Fishing cat rescued from  25ft-deep well ||A fishing cat was rescued by a group of animal lovers from a dry well in a village in North 24-Parganas on Tuesday evening. The cat fell into the 25ft-deep newly-dug well in Bagda, around 100km from Calcutta. The sub-divisional police officer alerted an NGO about the animal, following which a team of four members reached the spot. Along with a couple of foresters, the rescue operation started around 4pm. A ladder and a noose were the only “equipment” at the disposal of the team. A cage was brought later. The cat was brought up after an hour. Not before one of the team members, Kaushik Chakraborty, suffered a bite. “There were hundreds of people surrounding the well. The cat was very scared,” said Chakraborty, 21, a member of Bongaon Green Wave, an NGO that has been active in Bongaon and adjacent areas in organising nature camps with children and including villagers in conservation efforts. The cat was taken away by the forest department and will be released soon, said a local forest official. There have been several instances in the recent past of fishing cats, Bengal’s state animal, being killed in different parts of the state. The Telegraph had on November 27 reported that at least eight fishing cats had allegedly been killed across the state since May 2020. The last was allegedly beaten to death by some residents of a village in Howrah’s Shyampur block on November 26. Fishing cat, baghrol in Bengali, is included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The nocturnal animal thrives in wetlands and feeds mostly on fish. Shrinking wetlands has dwindled their numbers and forced them to stray into human settlements and prey on fish in ponds and livestock. A Facebook post by Bongaon Green Waves on the rescue operation has generated significant online traction. “The best part is now the people don't beat or kill these creatures, after our enormous awareness camps the local people of Bonagon and surroundings are aware…. If they find any kind of wild animals… they immediately inform us or the police or forest department,” says the post. “In the wake of decreasing wetland habitat and increasing negative interactions between humans and fishing cats, this incidence gives much hope. More eyes and ears are looking out for the state animal now who are responding on time to reduce threats,” said Tiasa Adhya, the founder of the Fishing Cat Project, a campaign for research on and conservation of the animal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Kids amid a pandemic||Has your otherwise well-behaved five-year-old become excessively naughty since the lockdown? Or has your 10-year-old suddenly gone quiet and withdrawn? Instead of games and cartoons, is he talking of Covid deaths or is he binge eating out of stress? “Children are usually resilient but the pandemic has been difficult for them to understand. They lack the maturity to accept the drastic changes around us,” said Mila Sengupta, early childhood development trainer and consultant, at a webinar last week. “But every situation — positive or negative — can be turned into a teachable moment if parents learn how.” The event was organised by a Salt Lake-based NGO, Change Initiatives, that works for children’s education among other issues. “We decided to hold this webinar after receiving several requests from parents. They badly needed help on managing kids during the pandemic,” said Jhumpa Ghosh, director of the NGO. The other speaker at the event felt webinars and workshops were good platforms for parents in such situations. “Not only do they learn different ways to approach their problems but they draw assurance from the fact that they aren’t the only ones suffering,” said Subarna Chattopadhyay, a special educator who works with children of a cancer hospital. Here’s what The Telegraph Salt Lake learnt from the webinar — Tantrums or silent treatment “Some of the younger kids have become hyperactive, extremely naughty and started misbehaving during the pandemic,” said Chattopadhyay, a resident of GC Block. “This has been out of boredom, frustration or because they know it will make parents give them attention.” Sengupta described kids throwing tantrums, kicking and screaming, demanding to know why they can’t go out and why no one is allowed to come over. “But there are also kids who have withdrawn into a shell. Some are even talking of stress and sorrow. The lack of social interaction and the absence of friends are manifesting such behaviour in children,” said the lady who is based out of Texas but is stuck in Calcutta due to the pandemic. Lack of routine Since work-from-home parents are in no hurry to go to office they are waking up late and this has sent the entire family’s body clock for a toss. Kids’ screen time has risen exponentially due to online classes and the lack of alternative entertainment options. Sometimes kid are playing games well past their ideal bed time. “Often parents approve or even encourage children to study late into the night but this is unhealthy. They would be better off studying during the day,” said Chattopadhyay. “Children need six to eight hours of sleep a day and lack of sleep can impact the brain as certain hormones are secreted while sleeping. It also helps digestion.” Exposure to domestic tiffs “Living with someone 24 hours a day can get on anyone’s nerves and many couples have been arguing or worse during the lockdown,” said Sengupta. “While at other times, kids would be out playing or in school when parents fought, they now have to witness the violence,” said Sengupta. What parents can do ⦿ Acknowledge your child’s feelings- Do this even if his behaviour is unacceptable. Say something like: ‘I can see you’re upset but you cannot act like this. Do you want to tell me why you are doing this?’ “Then when he starts speaking, be a good listener. Often we start answering and giving advice even before they are done talking. Children want to be heard,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Share your own feelings with them - Parents usually shield kids from their own worries but this is not the right attitude. “Tell the child that you too are confused about the pandemic. That you too want to go out and are fed up of being stuck at home. But that you have no choice since Covid is still a worry,” explained Sengupta. “Your honesty will assure them that it is all right to feel stressed and to talk about it. The child will realise that his own feelings are normal.” ⦿ Make him part of the solution - Kids like to offer their opinion so involve him in setting new pandemic-time rules at home. “Till the previous generation, a father could end a conversation by telling his son: ‘Because I said so!’ but today kids will ask why. Tell him that like school, there are house rules that all have to respect but that he can help set those rules. This will help him become independent and be a problem solver,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Respond positively to needs - Don’t turn to your child only when he’s crying. This applies to babies too. Infants try to communicate by different means but if they see you responding only if they cry, that’s what they’ll do. “As for older kids, offer specific praise. So instead of saying ‘good job!’ say: ‘I saw you help your brother and hug him when he fell down. I’m proud of you!’” said Sengupta. This is the time to create strong bonds with your kids. ⦿ Reduce screen time - Thanks to online class, they are already spending hours staring at the phone so limit their entertainment time on gadgets. “Smaller the screen, the worse it is for the eyes. It’s better that you watch a film with your child on TV and then switch off,” said Chattopadhyay. “Then you can discuss the parts that he didn’t understand.” The phone should, under no circumstance, be left with the child overnight. “You never know what they access with it on their own. If it needs charging, let it charge overnight in your room. And don’t let the child browse the phone before sleeping as it will get him excited and disturb his sleep pattern,” Chattopadhyay said. Set parental control on the TV, check  privacy settings on the phone, cover the computer web cam when not in use and switch to ‘SafeSearch’ on Google to block inappropriate content. ⦿ Team up- If parents aren’t on the same page, kids take advantage of them. “If the mother is more lenient they’ll approach her instead of the dad for something they want,” said Chattopadhyay. “Often parents start blaming each other in front of the child even when they for counselling.” A mom and dad may disagree, but you can do so agreeably, without creating a scene that impacts. ⦿ Set exercise time- set this for the entire family. If you don’t have space use the balcony or terrace but try to get the child to jump, run, kick, throw etc. Music can work wonders to calms kids and you can play vocal, classical, instrumental or even the sound of the rain or a forest before bed time. ⦿ Manage your own stress- While we’re discussing children, it’s important to realise that adults are more likely to yell and be impatient under stress. “Mothers, particularly, sacrifice their own needs before their family’s so pick the phone and speak to your relatives, friends or neighbours when you feel stressed out,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Be a role model - children are like sponges, watching and learning from you all the time. So you can’t tell him not to play on his phone if you spend every free minute on Facebook. Lockdown obesity “Obesity itself has become a pandemic today with over 14 million chidlren in India suffering from it. After China, India has the highest number of obese children and the figure is on the rise,” said Sengupta. The lockdown has worsened the phenomenon. “Kids who would go for swimming or martial arts classes have had to stop them and our social media feed had got flooded with pictures of the fancy dishes everyone was cooking. Unfortunately, most of those dishes were rich and unhealthy,” reasoned Chattopadhyay. “Yes the ingredients may have been better than at roadside shops but a fried dish is still fried.” She also cited how kids had resorted to binge eating out of stress or boredom. “And, of course, no one binges on healthy food.” Road to obesity Sengupta explained the typical route to obesity. “A child is born healthy but gets addicted to video games, fast food and long hours of studying and this leads to “mild obesity” in him,” she began. The condition makes it strenuous for him to perform activities like climbing stairs and so he bypasses them. This in turn pushes the child towards “moderate obesity”. At this stage exercise is uncomfortable and he neither finds energy nor has the will to engage in any physical activities after school. He ends up with “severe obesity” and grows into an obese adult. This increases his risk of heart problems, diabetes, hypertension and a host of other lifestyle diseases. “In fact with excess weight gain they develop adipose cells which make it more difficult to lose weight in future and maintain it.” What causes obesity- ⦿ High fat and sugar in diet - even worse than sugar is refined sugar, which is the white coloured sugar we usually consume. “It is better to have brown sugar, which is available online and in supermarkets these days,” said Sengupta, asking people to start reading the nutritional facts behind food packets. “A can of cola, for instance, has nine teaspoons of sugar!” Sengupta also clarified the meaning the junk food, which is loved by kids but frowned upon by doctors. “Junk food is that which has sugar, fat but no other nutrition. It is food packed with empty calories. Processed food, too, is best avoided as it has high sodium as preservative and chemicals to preserve colour,” she said. ⦿ Lack of exercise, sedentary nature of recreation - Besides access to too much TV and phones, these gadgets also give access to advertisements showing junk food. “If a child sees an ad for chips 15 times a day he will eventually want to try it. In schools too, the recess time gets shorter in higher classes so kids have less time to play,” said Sengupta. ⦿ Socio-economic background - obesity is three times more likely to occur in urban areas than rural, said Sengupta. “As a family’s standard of living improves, its lifestyle tends to get unhealthy.” ⦿Genetic factors - a child has a higher tendency to get obese if the mother got diabetes during pregnancy. What you can do- Don’t stock junk food at home - Chocolate, chips and the like should not be purchased in bulk along with other groceries. If there aren’t any at home, kids cannot eat it. “Growing kids will get hungry and you cannot ask them not to eat so keep healthy snacks at hand like fruits and nuts,” said Chattopadhyay. Also, don’t deprive them of junk food totally. “They will crave it even more if their friends have it and they are not allowed any. Let them have chocolate once a week, ice cream once in 10 days, for instance.” Physical activity - Kids need 90 to 120 hours of physical activity a week. “This can be a combination of indoor and outdoor activities, structured as well as free play time…,” said Sengupta, adding how even infants need activity. So babies crawl, roll, move around freely and explore his environment under adult-supervision. Let him bang a pot with a spoon, let him rest on his tummy and look around. Don’t body shame them - if your child is obese don’t turn it into a body image issue. “Girls, especially, suffer from this and could be driven to eating disorders like anorexia. So don’t equate losing weight with looking good. Rather, tell them that the objective is to be healthy. Their weight should not affect their self-esteem and confidence in any way,” said Sengupta. Balanced diet - “There are homes where one kind of food is cooked for adults and another for kids, comprising fries, meats and only the select few items they like eating,” said Sengupta disapprovingly. “Parents claim the kids refuse to eat other dishes.” No one is born with habits but it is the parents’ onus to instil good eating habits in them, she said. “If you let him eat only junk food he will continue with this his whole life and suffer from poor nutrition.” Besides what you eat, monitor how much you eat. “Don’t lunge into 10 pieces of chicken or five pastries just because you feel like it,” she said. Breast feed babies for six months - This is a must as it is directly linked with obesity. “And once the child starts eating solids, do not mix together all dishes and feed him,” said Sengupta. “Rather, feed each dish individually so the child develops a taste for it.” Ensure co-operation from the family - Often parents try to enforce healthy eating habits in the child but a grandparent interferes, said Chattopadhyay. “‘O toh chele manush, or kichu hobe na,” says the grandma and stuffs the child with all the sweets he wants,” she said. So it’s important for family members to communicate. “Explain to everyone at home that the diet is for the child’s well-being,” said Chattopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Calcutta||Govt creche for kids of needy working folk||A daycare centre is coming up in AD Block, New Town. It promises to be one of a kind not because of the facilities being offered but because of who it is being offered to. The working parents, whose needs are being targeted, belong to the lower-income group. “There are a lot of people coming to New Town to work who have no proper place to leave their children in. They might be security or housekeeping staff. Or the husband might be a rickshaw-puller and the wife a domestic help. Their situation is the same as that of couples who are say, IT professionals. They leave their child in a creche and take him or her back when they return home,” pointed out Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Corporation (NKDA), which is building the facility. While there are many baby care options in office or at private facilities for well-to-do professionals, he pointed out that there were no creches for working parents from the economically backward segments. NKDA, he said, was starting the facility on an experimental level. “It will not be very large. We intend to build the structure and give it to a self-help group to run,” he added. Pegged at a project cost of Rs 76 lakh, work on the three-storeyed building started in February 2020. It was supposed to be completed by December but got delayed by the lockdown. “We will surely get it operational this year. The building is almost ready,” Sen said. No decision has been taken yet as to where the day care facility will be free for the parents who keep their children here. “The SHG women will have to be paid. Whether we do it or we charge the parents a moderate amount  has not been worked out as yet. But the operation and maintenance cost has to be recovered for the project to sustain,” he signed off. Service in Salt Lake The New Town authorities would do well to take a leaf out of the experiences of AIWC Salt Lake Constituent Branch which has been running a creche for the needy for over 30 years now. Although currently closed due to the pandemic, the AD Block unit in Salt Lake cared for about 30 children at a time in the one-to-five year age group. “One of the objectives of our organisation is to empower women but in slums even grandparents go to work. How do mothers become financially independent if they have to stay home and look after their children?” secretary Bubu Basu told The Telegraph Salt Lake. The kids at the creche would eat, play, study and draw. “From the nearby slums, kids would come together in rickshaws or in app cabs that one of their parents drove. We have even had a domestic help coming from near Bongaon who would drop her child and go to work in Salt Lake homes,” says Basu. But AIWC members would always conduct a need analysis before admitting the kids. “Many women, especially those who live in garages of Salt Lake, do not work anywhere and would send their kids over only at meal time to avail of the nutritious food we served or to avail of the clothes and other freebies we gave out round the year. We would filter out such children in favour of those in real need.” They would get an undertaking signed by the parents before admitting the kids. “Otherwise we have seen the mothers accusing us if their child ever got hurt in a scuffle with another student,” says Basu. Welcome move Anjana Biswas, from Nibedita Palli in Gouranganagar, works in three apartments in Action Area 1, about 15 minutes away on cycle. She leaves at 6.30am and her husband deposits their five-year-old with the tutor on way to his salon at 8am. “After the tuition, she walks home alone and is left with our 12-year-old all day. It would be a big help if such a facility comes up. We don’t mind paying a small fee if the child is kept safe,” she said. Additional reporting by Brinda Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-173
15-01-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 549 points to end at 49,034.67||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 549 points on Friday, dragged by losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a largely negative trend in global markets. Profit-booking at higher levels kept benchmark indices volatile, traders said. The 30-share BSE index ended 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent lower at 49,034.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,433.70. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, ONGC, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and HDFC. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, ITC, Bajaj Auto and Bajaj Finance were the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed sharp pullback with increased volatility. "However, we are not surprised with the day's fall as this was broadly expected as benchmark indices had been marking fresh highs for last couple of days, which made valuations quite stretched," he said. He also noted that any meaningful correction is likely to be bought out in the subsequent period as underlying strength of the market remains intact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the negative territory in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.77 per cent lower at USD 55.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
15-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Friday tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and TCS amid weak cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 246.16 points or 0.50 per cent lower at 49,338. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 67.65 points or 0.46 per cent to 14,527.95 in opening deals. Profit-booking at higher levels is keeping benchmark indices volatile, traders said. UltraTech Cement was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Infosys, Asian Paints, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's, HCL Tech and TCS. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, NTPC, Titan, Nestle India and ONGC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended at its new lifetime high of 49,584.16, up 91.84 points or 0.19 per cent, and Nifty rose 30.75 points or 0.21 per cent to finish at a record 14,595.60. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,076.62 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be encouraging at the moment. "While the underlying strength of the market remains intact, it appears to be a bit tiring from the last couple of days and may see some amount of pullback in the coming days. "However, the announcement of higher fiscal stimulus in the US and soft stance of global central bankers about their monetary policies along with a weak dollar will continue to attract FPIs to Indian equities," he said. US markets ended with modest correction in the final hour of trade ahead of the announcement of the coronavirus relief plan by President-elect Joe Biden. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were in the red, while Hong Kong was trading in the positive zone. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.32 per cent lower at USD 56.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
15-01-2021||Business||Passenger vehicle wholesales increase 13.59 per cent||Passenger vehicle wholesales increased 13.59 per cent to 252,998 units in December, auto industry body SIAM said on Thursday. SIAM director-general Rajesh Menon said the rise in sales come over a very low base of December 2019. Passenger vehicle sales in December 2019 stood at 222,728 units. Two-wheeler sales also rose 7.42 per cent to 11,27,917 units compared with 10,50,038 in December 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
15-01-2021||Business||Tata Motors unveils the new Tata Safari||Tata Motors on Thursday unveiled the new Tata Safari, which is based on the Gravitas — an SUV showcased at an auto expo last year. The company has revived the name Tata Safari for its flagship sports utility vehicle, which is now ready for production. The seven-seater SUV sports minor changes over the Gravitas in the grille and the headlights. The new Safari builds on its legacy and combines it with Tata Motors’ Impact 2.0 design and the the capability of OMEGARC, an architecture derived from the D8 platform of the Land Rover. This adaptive architecture allows for further enhancements in future, including all-wheel drive and an electric version. Tata Motors will open the bookings of the Safari soon. On Thursday, it rolled out the first new Safari from its Pune plant. Guenter Butschek, CEO & MD of Tata Motors, said, “The Safari is our flagship offering to connect the aspirations of the discerning and evolved Indian customer. It had introduced India to the SUV lifestyle and in its new avatar, will carry forward this rich idea to build further its legacy. We look forward to making the Safari rule the Indian roads once again.” Tata Motors has also launched the Tata Safari Imaginator suite, which uses augmented reality to give customers a tour of the Safari. The new Tata Safari will borrow the 170hp, 2.0-litre Kryotec turbo-diesel engine from the Harrier. It also shares Harrier’s alloy wheels but the Safari is about 63mm longer and 80mm taller than the Harrier. It is expected to be priced higher than the Harrier, which retails at Rs 13.84-20.30 lakh (ex-showroom). The new Tata Safari will face competition from other seven-seater models such as the MG Hector Plus, the current generation Mahindra XUV 500 and Hyundai’s new seven seater SUV based on the Creta. Mahindra XUV is due for a new version later this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Govt sale of 5 per cent shareholding in SAIL subscribed 3.6 times on opening||The government’s sale of its 5 per cent shareholding in SAIL was subscribed 3.6 times on its opening day on Thursday. Enthused by the response, the government decided to exercise the greenshoe option of another 20.65 crore shares, or 5 per cent of the total equity. Over 74.74 crore shares were sought by non-retail investors at the close of trading hours, stock exchange data showed. The shares sought were 362 per cent of the overall issue size and nearly 413 per cent of the shares reserved for non-retail investors who were supposed to make bids on the opening day of the offer. Of the bids, 37.46 crore put in 100 per cent margin money. Tech stocks down Shares of IT majors got a beating on the bourses on Thursday despite strong third-quarter numbers and upbeat guidance shared by the managements of Infosys and Wipro on Thursday. Shares of Infosys closed at Rs 1,370.60, a decline of 1.23 per cent, on the BSE. The Wipro stock tumbled 6 per cent to Rs 431 during the day. Later, it settled at Rs 454.45, lower by 0.94 per cent, on the BSE. Shares of HCL Tech fell 2.63 per cent to Rs 1,027.75 on the bourses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp open to answering govt questions on privacy policy||Under fire over its recent privacy policy update, WhatsApp on Thursday said it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and is aware that the company will have to “compete” for users’ trust with rivals such as Signal. WhatsApp head Will Cathcart told PTI the Facebook-owned company remains committed to privacy and security of users across India and will continue to explain to users that their messages are end-to-end encrypted. Rival platforms such as Signal and Telegram had seen a phenomenal rise in downloads soon after WhatsApp sought user consent to its updated privacy policy that seeks to share some data with Facebook. “We know we have to compete for users’ trust when it comes to privacy and that's very good for the world. People should have choices in how they communicate and feel confident that no one else can see their chats,” Cathcart said. Asked if WhatsApp had seen an exodus of users to rival apps such as Signal and Telegram, Cathcart answered in the negative. “No. We’re grateful that people continue to use and trust WhatsApp to communicate... We think competition on privacy is good because it will help make apps even more private and secure in the future,” he added. The comments come in the backdrop of a raging debate over WhatsApp’s controversial update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant’s products. Asked if the government has sought clarification on the matter, Cathcart said: “We remain available to answer any questions and to explain our continued commitment to the privacy of users across India.” According to sources, the government is examining and evaluating the recent privacy policy update announced by WhatsApp and discussions are on within the IT ministry over the implications of the recent move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Inflation based on wholesale price index slowed to 1.22 per cent in December||Inflation based on the wholesale price index slowed to 1.22 per cent in December on lower food prices, especially kitchen staples such as onion and potato. WPI was 1.55 per cent in November 2020 and 2.76 per cent in December 2019. The rate of inflation based on WPI Food Index decreased from 4.27 per cent in November 2020 to 0.92 per cent in December 2020, government data showed on Thursday.  However, manufacturing inflation rose to a two year high of 4.24 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Currency in circulation rises 22.7 per cent as of January 2021||Currency in circulation (CiC) rose 22.7 per cent as of January this year as people continued to hold on to cash amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The 22.7 per cent increase is one of the sharpest after the peaks that were seen post-demonetisation. It is double the growth that was seen in January 2020 — and also exceeds the 19.5 per cent increase that was witnessed in January 2019. The RBI data also showed M3, or the broad money supply growth, was 12.5 per cent or Rs 20.34 lakh crore. Data released by the Reserve Bank of India has shown that on a year-on-year basis, CiC grew Rs 4,95,473 crore from January last year. In the previous year, this growth was 11.8 per cent or Rs 2,40,091 crore. It now stands at Rs 26,74,707 crore, up from Rs 23,49,748 crore as of March 31, 2020. So far in this financial year, currency in circulation has gone up by Rs 3,24,958 crore or 13.8 per cent. The trend is not surprising and this has largely been the norm since the beginning of this financial year as the Covid-19 pandemic led to households keeping cash as a precautionary measure. However, this is expected to moderate as economic activity picks up momentum with the rollout of the vaccine. According to the RBI’s annual report for 2019-20, many countries, especially in the emerging world, have seen cash in circulation rising during the pandemic. The cross-country monetary statistics (IMF, 2020) indicated that the increase in currency in circulation was particularly sharp in Brazil, Chile, India, Russia and Turkey, and also in advanced economies such as the US, Spain, Italy, Germany and France, where the use of cash is less. The RBI further pointed out that the rise in currency in circulation in these countries occurred simultaneously with liquidity injecting measures undertaken by their central banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22 expected to provide road map to tackling rising bad loans||Union Budget 2021-22 is expected to provide a road map to the banking sector to help it tackle rising bad loans, characterised in banking parlance as non-performing assets (NPAs). The measures being considered by the finance ministry include setting up of bad banks, strengthening Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARC), recapitalising public sector banks and reducing government  stakes in some of the banks. As the pandemic wrecked havoc on the economy leading to job losses, borrowers delayed repayments or failed to repay altogether. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman would have to come up with solutions to deal with the issues affecting the banking sector. Officials in North Block are looking at different options to address the issue. “There have been several suggestions relating to the banking sector…. don’t think it would be a one-stop solution, but would be a mix of many things or combination of two or three of them. Each has its own advantages and shortfalls,” sources said. Several economists have argued the government  would simply transfer the bad loan problem to another entity, leaving banks to continue making poor loan decisions in the future, sometimes under pressure from the political leadership. Industry association CII has suggested that the government create multiple bad banks by allowing alternate investment funds (AIFs) to buy bad loans. The finance ministry has been toying with the idea of a bad bank since it was first tossed up by the then chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian in the Economic Survey 2017. The ministry is also looking at the suggestion of bringing down government stake in public sector banks to below 50 per cent through the market route over the next 12 months, except for three to four large lenders such as the State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda and Union Bank. Rajan views Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan says the government should take advantage of the peaks in the Indian equity markets right now and sell stakes in public sector units while prioritising spending to get the economy back on track. The upcoming budget for the fiscal beginning April 1 should look to provide “relief to the poorer households and small and medium enterprises”, he said. It could then move on to getting the economy back on track.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||Business||Unilever says employees will never go back to a five-day working week ||Unilever has said its employees will never go back to a five-day working week even after the Covid-19 pandemic abates. “We anticipate never going back to five days a week in the office; that seems very old-fashioned now,” Unilever chief executive Alan Jope has said at the Reuters Next conference. The Euro 22 billion London-headquartered consumer goods multinational — maker of Dove soap, Lipton tea and Ben & Jerry’s ice cream — is looking to embrace a hybrid work model that several global technology giants have been advocating as the new normal. Jope said he did not expect office workers in Western Europe and North America to return to work at least till April. He added that Unilever would use a “hybrid model” of working between homes and offices after that and indicated that “permanent changes” were expected for many of its 150,000 global employees. The Unilever chief said the multinational is already testing a four-day work week this year in New Zealand and will assess the results before deciding whether to extend the practice globally. It could not be immediately ascertained whether Unilever’s subsidiary in India would also permanently switch to the hybrid work environment. At present, a very large part of the local workforce has been working out of home. Vaccine stand The Unilever boss said the multinational would strongly encourage its employees to get vaccinated against the coronavirus as soon as possible but “in a very principled way”. “I don’t want any of my employees to be jumping the queue on frontline medical workers or vulnerable people,” he said. “We will not be mandating vaccines for anyone. We don’t believe that is right,” he said. Jope also floated the idea of buying vaccine shots to share with people in poorer countries. “There are one or two countries in the developing world, where the public purse is not so strong and they have approached us on a ‘buy two, keep one’ basis,” the Unilever chief executive said. “So imagine in a country where we purchase 200,000 vaccine doses, we donate 100,000 to public efforts and we use the rest for our employees and their families,” Jope said. Emerging markets contribute about 60 per cent to Unilever’s revenue. Several companies have broached the Modi government with a request to be allowed to use their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for the vaccination programme.  The Centre has refused to allow the CSR money for vaccinating employees but remains open to using it for others though no firm decision has been taken as yet. On Wednesday, the ministry of corporate affairs permitted the use of CSR funds for public outreach programmes related to Covid-19 vaccination but stopped short of using the money to fund the vaccination drive. Since the pandemic struck in March, a significant chunk of India Inc's employees has been working from home. But with the rollout of the vaccine, the big question hanging in the air is whether companies will ever return to the pre-Covid work environment. The work from home (WFH) model has been working well with many companies suggesting that it has had no adverse impact on productivity with the added benefit of big cost savings. So far, only firms in India’s IT services sector have confirmed that they will follow this hybrid model even in a post-vaccine world. For instance, in the case of Infosys 97 per cent of its 2,49,312 employees in the globe are now working from home. The percentage of its employees in India who are working from home is 98.3 per cent. At its conference call after the third quarter results on Wednesday, Infosys CEO Salil Parekh indicated that work from home in some form is here to stay. Last month, the company had said it will prefer a flexible "hybrid" work model going ahead in view of uncertainty around the pandemic situation and allow employees work from home or office depending on the condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-170
15-01-2021||India||Defence Minister unveils India’s first indigenously developed driverless Metro car||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday unveiled the country’s first indigenously designed and developed driverless Metro car at the BEML manufacturing facility Bengaluru on Friday. The minister, who visited the facility, said he was proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at Bengaluru-headquartered BEML. “They are the real warriors of Atmanirbhar Bharat, taking India ahead,” he said. According to BEML, state-of-the-art driverless metro cars, being manufactured at the company’s Bangalore Complex, are made up of stainless steel body with a capacity of carrying 2280 passengers in six-cars Metro train-set. BEML bagged a total order of 576 cars for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA)’s MRS1 project and the supply is scheduled progressively up to January 2024. BEML recently opened its Depot office at Charkop Metro Depot, MMRDA, Mumbai for commissioning, testing and round-the-clock services for driverless Metro cars. Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar IAS, Secretary (Defence Production) and BEML Limited Chairman and Managing Director, Deepak Kumar Hota, were among those present on the occasion. Hota said, “BEMLs foray into metro manufacturing has been a defining moment in the urban transportation scenario in India.” Singh virtually launched the Aerospace Assembly Hangar, situated within BEMLs Bangalore Complex, and unveiled first indigenously manufactured Tatra Cabin by BEML. At the BEMLs Bangalore Complex, Singh inspected the Rail Hangars, the array of BEML equipment on display (from its Defence & Aerospace, Mining & Construction and Rail & Metro Divisions) and the newly launched Industrial Design Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Beginning of the end of Covid: Harsh Vardhan on vaccination drive||A day before a massive countrywide vaccination drive against coronavirus is set to commence, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the step is "probably the beginning of the end" of COVID-19. Speaking at the 146th India Meteorological Department (IMD) foundation day, he, however, cautioned that even if the vaccination drive is on, there should not be lowering of guard and people must follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. "Tomorrow is an important day...it is the last phase of the battle against coronavirus. I say, this is probably the beginning of the end of COVID now which is going to start tomorrow," Vardhan, who is also Science and Technology and Earth Sciences Minister, said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch India's COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 via video conferencing. This will be the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and all preparations are in place to initiate the programme. A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and Union territories will be virtually connected during the launch and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the first day. The vaccination programme is based on principles of priority groups to be vaccinated first. Healthcare workers, both in the government and private sectors, including Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Farm talks: deadlocked again, next meeting on January 19||Urging farmer unions to form an informal group among themselves to prepare concrete proposals to be discussed in the next meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said detailed discussions took place at the ninth round of talks on Friday but could not reach a decisive stage. "Talks took place over three farm laws in a cordial atmosphere and detailed discussions took place on some issues, but couldn't reach a decisive stage," he said. "We suggested they can form an informal group of people who can understand the laws better and prepare some concrete proposals, detailing what are farmers' expectations and what clauses are problematic for them, which the government can consider with an open mind," the minister said. He further said the government is hopeful of discussions reaching some decisive stage at the tenth round of talks on January 19. On the direct talks between the government and farmers continuing despite the Supreme Court appointing a panel, Tomar said everyone is fully committed to the apex court and the government will also present its side before the committee panel when invited. "Unions want to continue the dialogue with the government and we have no problem with that. The SC-appointed panel will also work for the welfare of farmers," he said. Incidentally, the tenth round of talks has been scheduled for a day when a Supreme Court-appointed committee to resolve the impasse is also likely to hold its first meeting. A day before that, the apex court is likely to hear a petition against a tractor rally call given by the protesting farmers for the Republic Day on January 26. "Discussions happen at various platforms and a solution can emerge from anywhere... Our effort is to find a solution at the earliest through dialogue so that the farmers' protest ends. Farmers are sitting in cold weather amid the threat of Covid-19 and the government is concerned about that also and is therefore engaging with farmers with an open mind," Tomar said. The minister said the government will also present its side before the SC-appointed panel whenever it is asked to do so. Protesting farmer unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three contentious farm laws at their ninth round of talks with three central ministers but while the government asked them to be more flexible in their approach and expressed willingness for necessary amendments, as the two sides decided to meet again on January 19. Farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan told reporters after the meeting that the unions urged the government to repeal the three laws, but the Centre was unwilling to do so. "We decided to meet again on January 19 at 12 pm," he said. Ugrahan said the union leaders also raised the issue of NIA raids on transporters in Punjab who are supporting farmers' protests and were providing logistic support for the agitation. At the meeting that lasted for nearly five hours, including a lunch break, farmers unions said they are committed to continuing holding direct talks to resolve the over-one-month-long deadlock over three agri laws, even as a committee has been formed by the Supreme Court to resolve the deadlock. In his opening remarks, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged farmer leaders to be flexible in their approach as has been done by the government. Besides Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash were part of the government side talking with representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "Both the government and farmer unions have reaffirmed their commitment to continue with the direct dialogue process," All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee member Kavita Kuruganti, who is part of the meeting, said. "In his opening remarks, Tomar ji said you keep saying that the government is adamant and making it an issue of ego, even though we have accepted several demands. Don't you think you should be flexible and not stick to one single demand of repealing the laws," said Baljit Singh Bali of Punjab Kisan Morcha. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said there was a good discussion on all three laws. "There is a possibility of some resolution. We are positive," he added. Another leader Rakesh Tikait said: "Government has told us that the solution should be found through dialogue and not a court. Everyone is of the same views. There is a possibility of some solution." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. On January 8, the eighth round of meeting had remained inconclusive as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for the reforms. However, farmer leaders had said that they were ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' would happen only after 'law waapsi'. In the sixth round held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, on Thursday recused himself from the committee. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. Tomar said the meeting with farmers unions was cordial and all three laws were discussed, while there was a detailed discussion on the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. "During the discussion, farmers expressed their views and our minister (Goyal) also shared the details and tried to address their concerns. But the discussion did not reach to a conclusion. After that, the government and union mutually decided to meet again on January 19 at 12 noon," he said. The minister said he hopes that unions will take forward the talks based on today's discussion. "We have also suggested they form an informal group of those who can talk properly about the laws, about expectations from the government and also about provisions of the laws that they feel are against farmers. If they discuss all these and come out with a draft of concrete proposals then the government is ready to discuss that with an open mind," he said. Tomar said the government has understood farmers' apprehensions in the course of several rounds of discussion so far and had expressed its willingness to address those apprehensions and a written proposal was also sent to unions. "But they didn't accept the proposal and therefore the discussions are happening... I hope that we will move forward towards finding a solution," he said. On protests held by Congress party across the country and allegations levelled by Rahul Gandhi against the government with regard to the farm laws, Tomar said, "The entire Congress party also laughs at and makes fun of Rahul Gandhi's statements and action." "I want to tell him through the media that they had promised to undertake these reforms in their 2019 election manifesto. If he doesn't remember, he can read his manifesto again. If it is there in the manifesto, then Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi should come before the press and make it clear if they were lying then or are lying now," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Rahul levels charges at PM, says he does not respect farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not respect farmers and wants to tire out those protesting against the Centre's new agri laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday. He also said that the talks that are being held with the protesting farmer leaders are part of the government's delaying tactics. Farmers will not relent till the laws are repealed, said Rahul Gandhi at Jantar Mantar, where he along with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joined party MPs in their demonstration against the legislations. The former Congress president's remarks come on a day when the government is meeting protesting farmer unions for the ninth time to break the over-a-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws. "The talks are being held only to delay. PM Modi thinks he has the power and will tire the farmers out, but he is mistaken. Narendra Modi does not have basic respect for farmers. He does not even care if over 100 farmers die. He thinks he has the power and the protesting farmers will tire out after some days, but they will not relent," Rahul Gandhi told reporters. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the laws. Rahul Gandhi said this agitation has just started and the government will have to take back the laws. "The farm laws will have to be repealed. They (the government) do not know the strength of farmers, they will not relent. PM Modi does not understand this. Had he understood this, the government would have taken back the laws today itself," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Construction work of new Parliament building begins||The construction work of the new Parliament building started on Friday, over a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project under the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. The new Parliament building will have a triangular shape and is expected to be completed by the 75th anniversary of India's independence in 2022. The government plans to hold the monsoon session of Parliament in 2022 in the new building. "The construction work of the Parliament building has started," an official said. PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10 last year. Earlier this week, a 14-member heritage panel gave its approval to the new Parliament building while also giving the go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project. The Supreme Court had asked the Centre to seek prior approval from the panel and other relevant authorities before starting the construction of the new building. The construction work could not start earlier as the government had assured the Supreme Court that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decided the pending pleas on the issue. The new building is being constructed by Tata Projects Ltd. The project is estimated to cost Rs 971 crore. Tata Projects Ltd. said despite the 35-day delay in the commencement of the construction work, it is confident that it will be able to deliver the project on or before time. "Our plans of action are already in place to accelerate the schedule by augmenting resources like skilled manpower and formwork etc," said Sandeep Navlakhe, vice president and business unit head of Tata Projects Ltd. "Our reinforcement required to be placed in the raft and walls are already made ready. Other off-site activities like procurement of stone for external cladding, MEP LLEs, carpets, etc. happened during these 35 days. We are more than confident that we will be able to deliver this building to the nation on or before time," he said. The new structure will come up in front of the existing Parliament that was built nearly 94 years ago at a cost of Rs 83 lakh at that time and would eventually be turned into a museum. The new Parliament building will house larger Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha halls with capacities of 888 seats and 384 seats to accommodate an expanded Parliament after the freeze on its expansion lifts in 2026. The Lok Sabha Hall will also have an additional capacity, up to 1,272 seats, to host joint sessions. According to the plan, provisions will be made in furniture for smart displays and biometrics for ease of voting with an intuitive and graphical interface, digital language interpretation and recording infrastructure to produce real-time metadata, programmable microphones that put the control of managing the house with the Speaker. Besides the new Parliament building, the redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3-km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new Prime Minister's Residence and Prime Minister's Office, and a new Vice-President Enclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Tomar asks farm leaders to be flexible in their approach as ninth round of talks continue||Three central ministers and farmers unions on Friday committed to continuing holding direct talks to resolve the over-one-month-long deadlock over three agri laws, with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urging farmer leaders to be flexible in their approach as has been done by the government. The ninth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday afternoon and discussions were held on all the three laws before the lunch break. Besides Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "Both the government and farmer unions have reaffirmed their commitment to continue with the direct dialogue process," All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee member Kavita Kuruganti, who is part of the meeting, said. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. "In his opening remarks, Tomar ji said you keep saying that the government is adamant and making it an issue of ego, even though we have accepted several demands. Don't you think you should be flexible and not stick to one single demand of repealing the laws," said Baljit Singh Bali of Punjab Kisan Morcha. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said there was good discussion on all three laws. "There is possibility of some resolution. We are positive," he added. Another leader Rakesh Tikait said: "Government has told us that solution should be found through dialogue and not court. Everyone is of the same views. There is possibility of some solution." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had on Thursday recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On January 8, the eighth round of meeting remained inconclusive as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for the reforms. However, farmer leaders had said that they were ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' would happen only after 'law waapsi'. In the sixth round held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Rahul seeks support for campaign in favour of farmers, against fuel prices||Asking people to join the farmers' "satyagraha" against the Modi government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday spoke out in support of the ongoing protests and against rising fuel prices in the country. The Congress is observing the day as Kisan Adhikar Divas and will take out protest marches in all state capitals. Participating in the "SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar" campaign of his party, Gandhi said on Twitter, "The country's farmers are holding a satyagraha against the arrogant Modi Government to win their rights." "The entire country today is raising its voice against the atrocities being committed on farmers and the rise in price a of petrol and diesel. You should also join this campaign and be a part of this satyagraha," he added in his Twitter post in Hindi. The party has backed the farmers' agitation and demanded a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The "SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar" campaign was launched on a day the government and farmers are set to hold their ninth round of talks in a bid to end the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||More than 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 191 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,05,27,683 with 15,590 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while recoveries have surged to 1,01,62,738, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The country's death toll increased to 1,51,918 with 191 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,62,738 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.53 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,13,027 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.02 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,49,62,401 samples have been tested up to January 14 with 7,30,096 samples being tested on Thursday. The 191 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 17 from West Bengal, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 each from Chhattisgarh and Punjab, eight from Madhya Pradesh, six from Haryana, and four each from Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,51,918 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,291 from Maharashtra followed by 12,246 from Tamil Nadu, 12,155 from Karnataka, 10,722 from Delhi, 10,010 from West Bengal, 8,543 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,138 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,473 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website and added that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Cloudy weather push Delhi's temperature above 6 degrees Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 6.7 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, on Friday due to partly cloudy weather, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. However, "moderate" fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung and 300 metres at Palam in the morning, an IMD official said. "Dense" fog is predicted in parts of the city on Saturday. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. On Friday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. It was 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down in Delhi on Thursday. The wind direction then changed to northeasterly. This, along with partly cloudy weather, resulted in an increase in the minimum temperature, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. On January 1, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, lowest for the month in 15 years. The city's air quality remained "severe" on Friday as well. The air quality index had entered the "severe" zone on Thursday due to the prevailing extremely unfavourable conditions for dispersion of pollutants, government agencies said. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 460 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 429 on Thursday. It was 354 on Wednesday, 293 on Tuesday and 243 on Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Srivastava said the wind speed has slowed down and the moisture in the air has made the pollutants heavier. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said slow winds and ventilation conditions are extremely unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. This will lead to further deterioration in air quality, the agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||IMF: Farm laws a 'significant step forward', but needs social safety net||The IMF believes the farm bills passed by the Indian government have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms, but a social safety net is needed to protect those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to the new system, a spokesperson of the global lender said here. Gerry Rice, Director of Communications at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), said the new measures will reduce the role of the middlemen and enhance efficiency. "We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India," Rice said at a news conference in Washington on Thursday. "The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," he said. "However, it is crucial that the social safety net adequately protects those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to this new system," the spokesperson said responding to a question on the ongoing protests by farmers against the laws in India. This can be done by ensuring that the job market accommodates those that are impacted by the reforms, he said. And of course, the growth benefits of these reforms will depend, critically, on the effectiveness and the timing of their implementation, so need to pay attention to those issues as well with the reform," Rice said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Farmer's protest: Hot-potato committee lands in hot water||Bhupinder Singh Mann, a farm leader who had been picked by the Supreme Court to be part of a four-member committee to broker peace between the protesting farmers and the government, has apparently decided to recuse himself from the process. An unsigned statement in the name of Mann, former Rajya Sabha member and chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), an older collective of farmer unions than the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) that is spearheading the agitation, was tweeted by his faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Thursday afternoon. Mann remained incommunicado through the day. Mann has reportedly been sacked from the BKU faction. While expressing solidarity with farmers and Punjab, the letter attributed to Mann does not make it clear whether this means he is changing his position on the three farm laws. Under the aegis of the AIKCC, he along with some other farmer groups had urged the government to stay the course but accept some amendments to the three laws. In the statement, the 81-year-old farmer union leader purportedly thanks the Supreme Court for nominating him to the committee. “... In view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and the farmers of the country. I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab,” the statement says. The choice of Mann along with the other three nominees to the committee announced on Tuesday had given rise to questions about its neutrality as all four members had been vocal advocates of the three new laws. Mann’s decision has now triggered calls for the others, particularly agricultural economist Ashok Gulati, to follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine fissures among scientists||Fissures have emerged in medical and scientific circles with many supporting the rollout of two vaccines but others questioning the use of one without efficacy data, two days before the start of India’s Covid-19 inoculation campaign. A group of 49 scientists and doctors on Thursday released a statement that cited the safety and capacity of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called Covishield, and the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech, named Covaxin, |to generate immune |responses. Two signatories told The Telegraph that the statement’s objective was to |affirm the signatories’ |support for the government’s plan to launch |the vaccination campaign with both jabs. “We’re in an extraordinary situation — a pandemic. The safety and immunogenicity have already been proven for both vaccines; both should be used,” said Narinder Mehra, a medical immunologist and former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Health officials defending the government plan have cautioned that waiting for efficacy data amid a pandemic would be tantamount to disregarding the loss of lives. “You have to put faces on the numbers of the dead,” said Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research. But 13 others, including six fellows of the Indian Academy of Sciences, have in an independent statement suggested that the government should have waited for efficacy data |before introducing |Covaxin into the |vaccination campaign. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch via videoconference at 10.30am on Saturday the nationwide campaign that will roll out with 3,006 vaccination sites across the country, each tasked with providing |vaccines to an average 100 people a day. A senior expert guiding the national vaccination strategy told this newspaper that Covishield and Covaxin should be and were being viewed as “equal” and would be treated thus as they get administered across the country. But health officials |have declined to explain |the criteria adopted to |determine which vaccine goes where amid the |constraint that the two-dose vaccines cannot |be interchanged. A public health expert advising a state government said on the condition of anonymity that the state had not received instructions on how to distribute the two vaccines. Amid the uncertainty, the Indian Medical Association has urged its 350,000 members to accept whatever vaccine they are offered. “Both vaccines have been evaluated by a subject expert panel — safety and immunogenicity are assured,” Johnrose Austin Jayalal, the IMA’s national president, told this newspaper. The statement by the 13 scientists has underscored the need for transparency before starting a vaccination programme. While acknowledging the safety and promising immunogenicity data for Covaxin, they said: “It is imperative that relevant data from the larger phase-3 (efficacy) trial become available before administering the vaccine to large numbers of people.” Among the signatories are Partha Majumder, president of the Indian Academy of Sciences; academy fellows Dipankar Chatterjee and V. Nagaraja from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; Jyotsna Dhawan from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad; and Vidyanand Nanjundiah and H.A. Ranganath from the Centre for Human Genetics, Bangalore. Health officials have said the vaccine recipients would not have the option of choosing between the two vaccines, but some doctors have told this newspaper they are hoping to receive Covishield, which has demonstrated efficacy in studies outside India. Some doctors have questioned the timetable for the simultaneous release. The Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield, has said it has already stockpiled 50 million doses. The government needs 60 million doses to vaccinate the estimated 30 million healthcare and frontline workers. “We need a 28-day gap between the first and second doses — the government could have vaccinated all 30 million with Covishield and waited for at least interim efficacy data to emerge for Covaxin by mid-March,” said a senior doctor in a Delhi hospital. “The decision is baffling.” Majumder and his co-signatories said providing a vaccine without adequate efficacy data could lead to “a false sense of security” among the recipients. “We are not being pessimistic; our concern is only the necessity of following essential safeguards in a transparent manner before releasing a vaccine for public use.” The following is the statement issued by the scientists in their personal capacities: We are scientists working in various institutions in India and are writing in our personal capacities. From press reports we have learnt that the administration of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines is starting in India. We express our concern about the inadequacy of publicly-available information on which the approvals to initiate the vaccine campaign have been issued by the national regulatory authorities. A greater degree of transparency prior to the start of the vaccination programme is essential. This is especially true for Covaxin, for which Phase-3 safety and efficacy data are not yet available. We appreciate the efforts that Bharat Biotech and ICMR have put in to develop a vaccine formulation which is said to have promising results in Phase 1/2 human trials on a small number of people. It is imperative that relevant data from the larger Phase-3 trial become available before administering the vaccine to large numbers of people. Providing a vaccine without adequate efficacy data can lead to a false sense of security among vaccine recipients. In addition, articulation of a clear and consistent policy of making publicly available relevant data, and the approval pathway adopted by the Government of India, is required for other vaccines in development to ensure rapid access to safe and efficacious vaccines both for our citizens and for the rest of the world. We are not being pessimistic; our concern is only with the necessity of following essential safeguards in a transparent manner before releasing a vaccine for public use. Yours sincerely, Partha P. Majumder, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani & Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata VidyanandNanjundiah, Centre for Human Genetics, Bengaluru H.A. Ranganath, Centre for Human Genetics, Bengaluru Jyotsna Dhawan, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad Dipankar Chatterji, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru Deepak Kumar Saini, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru Upendra Nongthomba, Indian institute of Science, Bengaluru Sohan Prabhakar Modak, Deccan Gymkhana, Pune Rahul Siddharthan, Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Chennai Ramray Bhat, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru Gopal Pande, 107 Kakatiya Apartments, Habsiguda, Hyderabad Analabha Basu, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Ex-judge to PM: Accept mistake and repeal farm laws||The former Supreme Court judge, Justice Markandey Katju, on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately repeal the three new farm laws through an ordinance and urged him to accept his “mistake” of hurrying the three laws through. “All human beings make mistakes. By doing this, far from losing face, you will be applauded. If you do it your popularity, far from going down, will soar,” Justice Katju wrote in a letter to Modi. He also suggested that a statutory farmers’ commission be set up to deal with farmers’ problems. Without such concessions, he contended, the protesting farmers’ plan to enter Delhi on Republic Day with their tractors and the likely police action could lead to another Jallianwala Bagh or massacres similar to Bloody Sunday in St Petersburg (January 1905) or 13 Vendémiaire in Paris (October 1795). “Bloody Sunday” refers to firing by the Tsar’s forces on unarmed demonstrators in St Petersburg on January 22, 1905. Estimates of the death toll range from around 100 to 4,000. On 13 Vendémiaire (first month in the French Republican Calendar) of Year 4 --- or October 5, 1795 --- revolutionary troops under Napoleon Bonaparte, then a general, quelled a rebellion by royalists. Some 1,400 royalists are estimated to have been killed. Justice Katju, who was a Supreme Court judge till 2011, warned that angering the farmers, now united across castes and religions, could cost Modi politically and using violence against them could trigger turmoil in the states and affect the armed forces, whose personnel come mostly from farming families. He wrote: “The farmers in huge numbers are presently camped at the border of Delhi but are determined to enter Delhi on 26th January and join the Republic Day parade with their tractors. This will obviously not be allowed by the Government, and consequently, violence in the form of police and paramilitary lathi charges and firing seems inevitable, and a Jalianwala Bagh type massacre (or like the massacre on Bloody Sunday in St Petersburg in Russia in January 1905, or as on Vendemiarie in Paris in October 1795) may ensue.” Saying that he was sure Modi would like to avoid that, Justice Katju added: “The Government should issue an Ordinance immediately repealing the 3 laws. If you do this, you will be hailed by all for doing it. If anyone asks why the laws were made at all, you can say that we made a mistake, and we realise our mistake and are correcting it. All human beings make mistakes. By doing this, far from losing face, you will be applauded. If you do it your popularity, far from going down, will soar. “Simultaneously, the Government should appoint a High Powered Farmers Commission having as its members representatives of the leading farmers’ organisations, government representatives, and agricultural experts, tasked with the duty of considering all aspects of the problems of our farmers, the principal one being that they are not getting adequate remuneration for their produce (because of which 3 to 4 lac farmers have already committed suicide). “This Farmers Commission should hold several meetings, perhaps stretching over several months, and then the consensus which emerges, to which everyone agrees, should be enacted as a comprehensive law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||A message in farmers’ consent to government talks ||The protesting farmers will attend their ninth meeting with government interlocutors on Friday after refusing to engage with a Supreme Court-appointed committee, having drawn a clear distinction between mediation and direct conversation with the executive. There had been some doubt over the meeting taking place in the light of the Supreme Court appointing a committee to resolve the stalemate over the three farm laws. But the farm union leaders said they would go to Vigyan Bhavan at the appointed time as the last meeting on January 8 had ended with the understanding that they would meet again on January 15. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar too told reporters in the evening that the meeting was on. Some doubt had persisted till Thursday afternoon about whether the meeting would take place. Since no separate invitations are usually sent out for meetings already agreed, none was forthcoming. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah told a news conference: “Normally there is no special invitation after a date for the next meeting is fixed at the last interaction. We will just turn up as always. Let’s see.” Mollah explained why the farmers were meeting the government while turning their backs on the Supreme Court-appointed committee. “We had always said that we do not want any mediation. We want to talk directly to the government,” he said. Mollah added that the committee offered no hope, anyway, because “the government knows that its script is in play”. Nor are the farmers expecting a change of heart on the government’s part on repealing the new farm laws. They reckon the government would use the matter being in court as a pretext not to discuss it. In that event, the unions are likely to stress that even on their two lesser demands relating to the pollution ordinance and electricity bill, the government is yet to give them in writing what it promised them last month. The farm unions are mobilising protesters to further widen their agitation while fire-fighting against the canards being spread by the government’s supporters about the movement being infiltrated by Khalistanis. Apart from the planned “Kisan Parade” on Republic Day after the main parade, the unions are gearing for demonstrations before the various Raj Bhavans on the premise that the governors represent the Centre in the states. The idea is to create multiple pressure points across the country similar to those at Delhi’s borders. Named “Mahapadav”, the protests before the Raj Bhavans have been planned between January 20 and 22 in Bengal, January 24 and 26 in Maharashtra, January 23 and 25 in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala, and on January 23 in Odisha. As for the Kisan Parade, the union leaders have repeatedly clarified that they have no plans to disrupt the Republic Day parade. “Our parade is planned after the main Republic Day parade. We will use only the national flag and our respective union flags. The modalities will be worked out at the next meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Sunday,” a union leader said. A veteran farmer leader, Balbir Singh Rajewal, has written an open letter to all the protesting farmers underscoring the need to keep the movement peaceful if it is to succeed. He has argued that the movement’s strength lies in demonstrating that even such a huge congregation of protesters from multiple unions can agitate peacefully for such a long time. It is this that has struck a chord with people, not just in India but across the word, he said. “This resolve to keep the movement peaceful should not weaken,” Rajewal wrote, urging everyone to continue with the protest peacefully. The letter comes amid concerns that the protesters’ frustration might boil over at the government’s stalling tactics, more so with mischief makers trying to orchestrate trouble to discredit the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: BJP pins hope on diversions||The BJP hopes to cash in on the double dose of the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign and a funds collection drive to build a Ram temple in Ayodhya to shift focus from the farmers’ protest. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to launch the vaccination programme on Saturday. On Friday, the Sangh parivar will begin a funds collection drive to build a “grand” Ram temple. The farmers’ protest, which has gone from strength to strength, has dented the image of the government, which is said to be looking for avenues to divert attention from the issue. The government had hoped that the Supreme Court ruling staying the implementation of the farm laws and forming a committee to broker peace would end the impasse but that hasn’t happened. According to BJP insiders, the countrywide donation campaign to pool in funds for the Ram temple would begin once the auspicious month of Magh begins after Makar Sankranti on Thursday. On Friday, the first day of Magh, members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, tasked with building the temple in Ayodhya, will launch the funds drive by meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, the official first citizen of the country. The treasurer of the trust, Govind Dev Giri, Vishwa Hindu Parishad working president Alok Kumar and others are scheduled to meet the President at 11am. Although Kumar couldn’t be contacted, the chief spokesperson of the VHP, Vinod Bansal, said in a tweet that the meeting with the President was to seek his blessings. “Shubhkamnayein lene hetu,” the tweet in Hindi said. RSS cadres will fan out across the country during the funds raising-cum-contact programme from Friday. The target is to reach over 5 lakh villages and use it as yet another opportunity to consolidate Hindus as part of a larger ideological and political goal. As for the vaccination drive, it is being touted as the biggest such exercise in the world. Sources said Prime Minister Modi was keen to achieve the feat of vaccinating the largest number of people in the shortest time possible. BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh took to Twitter on Thursday to hype up the health programme. “Nation is set for massive vaccination on Jan 16 in its next step to tackle #Covid19. If what I hear is achieved, more than a million health workers will be administered vaccine on Day 1. Thanks to PM @narendramodi & dedicated team,” Santosh tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Farm laws will be junked: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday predicted that the Narendra Modi government would be compelled to repeal the new farm laws, stressing that suppressing farmers to help a few corporate houses would not be tolerated in the country. Speaking to the media in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai, Rahul said: “I am very proud of what the farmers are doing. I fully support the farmers and will continue to stand with them. I raised their issues at a yatra in Punjab and will continue to do it. Mark my words, take it from me, these laws… the government will be forced to take them back. Remember what I said.” The government hasn’t given any indication so far of withdrawing the laws, which have triggered one of the biggest mass movements in India’s history, with Prime Minister Modi and his party leaders accusing the Congress of misleading the farmers. While Rahul’s assessment may be based on the farmers’ unwavering resolve, this also indicates the Opposition’s readiness to extend political support to the agitation. Rahul, whose absence from India over the past fortnight gave ammunition to the BJP and his other critics to attack the Congress that is grappling with a leadership crisis for a year now, launched a scathing attack on Modi although he was visiting Tamil Nadu primarily for an apolitical engagement — to witness the traditional jallikattu bull-taming festival on the day of Pongal. Apart from the farmers’ issue, Rahul also broached the Chinese intrusions, which have almost been erased from the political discourse. Asked about the “neglect” of thousands of farmers who are sitting at Delhi’s borders for 50 days braving a punishing winter, the Congress leader said: “The government is not just neglecting them. The government is conspiring to destroy them. There is a difference — neglecting is when you ignore them. The government is not ignoring them, they are trying to destroy them (the farmers) because they want to give what belongs to the farmers to two-three of their corporate friends. They (the government) want to take their (farmers’) land and their produce. The word neglect is too weak to explain what is happening.” Rahul added: “Farmers are the backbone of this country. If anybody thinks you can suppress the farmers and the country will continue to prosper… they can look at our history. Whenever farmers are weak, India is weak. I would like to ask a counter question — you suppress farmers to help a handful of businesses. During corona, you didn’t help the common man. Whose Prime Minister are you? Are you the Prime Minister of India or of two-three selected businessmen?” The Congress MP then switched to China, saying: “There is a final question — what is China doing in our territory and why is the Prime Minister silent? Why has he nothing to say about it?” The primary purpose of Rahul’s visit to Madurai, where he attended a jallikattu event, appeared to be to launch his party’s campaign in election-bound Tamil Nadu. He sent out the message that the Congress was aligned with the Tamil sentiment and culture much better than the other national party — the BJP — which he accused of plotting to impose uniformity throughout the country. The Congress wants to correct its position on jallikattu, which it had opposed earlier and its government at the Centre had banned in 2011, after realising that the annual event is part of the Tamil identity, particularly in rural areas. Describing what he saw as a “lovely experience”, Rahul argued that the changes introduced in the format had made the game safer for both the bulls and the youths who participated in it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Dave resigns as Supreme Court Bar Association chief||Senior advocate Dushyant Dave on Thursday resigned as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association amid differences over his decision to conduct the body’s annual elections virtually on January 29. Until a new executive body is formed, the outgoing office-bearers — whose term ended on December 20 — would continue in their posts. Dave had initiated the process for virtual elections but many in the association insisted that the exercise be held physically to avoid rigging. Dave, considered a stormy petrel, is widely respected and feared by members of the Bar for his outspokenness, which often brings him into conflict with people holding contrary ideological positions. He had last year triggered a spat with some association members and the Bar Council of India (BCI) by criticising a then serving apex court judge, Justice Arun Mishra, for effusively praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a conference of international jurists. “Following recent events, I feel that I have forfeited my right to continue as your leader and so I hereby tender my resignation from the post of the president of the SCBA with immediate effect,” Dave wrote to the executive committee of the association on Thursday. He said he had “sincerely decided to hold (a) virtual election” but “now I find it may not be possible to hold them as per the schedule declared by the election committee due to reservations held by some of you”. “I understand their position and have no quarrel with it but to me any further continuation as the president in these circumstances will be morally wrong.” The election committee had decided to conduct the election to the executive committee on January 29. Nominations were to be filed by January 18. Now the election looks likely to be postponed indefinitely though there’s no official word from the 2,000-strong association. Dave had endeared himself to many in the Bar last year by contributing Rs 1 crore out of his own pocket towards a Covid relief fund for lawyers. He, however, sparked controversy by issuing a resolution on behalf of the association saying Justice Mishra’s praise of the Prime Minister was unbecoming of the judiciary. He had said that people’s confidence in the independence of the judiciary would get eroded if judges were seen to be close to people in high places. Association secretary Ashok Arora later disowned the resolution. Arora convened an emergent meeting on May 11 last year, ostensibly to remove Dave as president for pursuing a “political agenda”, but was himself removed from his post by the Dave faction. Regulatory body BCI intervened on Arora’s behalf but was told by the association that it had no jurisdiction to interfere in the matter. Arora is waging his own legal battle against his removal in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||No foreign chief guest at Republic Day parade||The external affairs ministry on Thursday said that this year’s Republic Day parade would not have any foreign head of State or government as chief guest owing to the pandemic. The announcement came nine days after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was to be the chief guest at the parade, cancelled his visit to India because of the countrywide lockdown in the UK. This is the first time since 1966 that there will be no foreign dignitary as chief guest at the parade. A contingent of 122 soldiers of the Bangladesh Armed Forces will participate in the parade on January 26 to mark 50 years of the Liberation War that saw the birth of an independent country. This is only the third time in the history of the parade that a foreign military contingent has been invited to participate. A majority of the soldiers in the tri-services contingent come from the most distinguished units of the Bangladesh Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Three BJP-ruled municipal corporations lift ban on sale of eggs and chicken in Delhi||The capital’s three municipal corporations — all ruled by the BJP — have lifted a controversial ban on the sale of eggs and chicken to prevent the spread of bird flu. The ban, imposed on Wednesday, had covered the sale and storage of “poultry, processed or packaged chicken meat”. In North and South Delhi, an additional ban on restaurants selling chicken or eggs had been imposed. In practice, municipal officials all across the city — except the sliver of centrally administered areas under the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Delhi Cantonment Board — had enforced a total ban on chicken and eggs in markets, compelling retailers to dispose of stock held in bulk. The action of the corporations flew in the face of advertisements by the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government and guidelines of the Centre that cooked food was safe. Delhi is among 10 states affected by the flu that originates from birds and can spread to humans through direct contact with alive or dead infected birds or their droppings. After several wild birds died and were found to be infected, the Delhi government banned the import of live birds from outside the capital and shut the main wholesale market for poultry products in Gazipur on January 9. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to bird flu. Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks.” However, the local bodies lifted their ban only later in the evening after a meeting with Union animal husbandry minister Giriraj Singh. Asked why they had overstepped their brief and banned eggs and chicken, South Delhi mayor Anamika told The Telegraph: “We are bound by circulars of the Delhi government. We don’t want to harass anyone. This is all (Delhi deputy chief minister) Manish Sisodia’s fault. Had he not shut the Gazipur market, we would not have issued any circular. Now that the Delhi government has withdrawn its circular, we will also withdraw the steps we have taken.” In 2017, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation had passed a BJP-sponsored proposal to ban the display of meat by restaurants. It was struck down by the municipal commissioner. Riyaaz Amlani, trustee of the National Restaurants Association of India, told this newspaper on Thursday that customer confidence in chicken and egg dishes had been shaken because of the ambiguity. “Customers need education, not bans. We look to governments for security and advice, not confusion. This is not the best environment to attract business. This is another example of businesses suffering due to lack of coordination between authorities, and their cultural issues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Ganga pollution rap on Uttar Pradesh government||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has come down heavily on the Uttar Pradesh government over the discharge of untreated sewage in rivers joining the Ganga and said there was no indication how the “crime of pollution” was to be prevented by the state. Terming the situation extremely “unsatisfactory”, a bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said remedial action needed to be taken for the contamination of Ramgarh lake as also the Ami, Rapti and Rohani rivers in and around Gorakhpur. Perusing a report filed by a committee, the green panel said there was large-scale non-compliance by the authorities concerned in the discharge of their public duties. “It is high time that periodically the chief secretary personally reviews the matter to ensure compliance of directions of the Supreme Court requiring preventing the discharge of untreated sewage and trade effluents, solid waste management and rejuvenation of the Ganga,” the tribunal said. The NGT directed the state chief secretary to oversee the execution of river rejuvenation plans for the Ami, Rapti, Rohani, Saryu and the Ghagra and fix the timelines for rejuvenation of different components with necessary budgetary support and designation of the authorities/officers responsible for it. “Such projects cannot be delayed on the pretext of funding by the National Mission for Clean Ganga in view of the fact that preventing discharge of pollutants in the Ganga or other water bodies is a criminal offence under the Water Act and even authorities are liable to be prosecuted for such offences…,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Farmers' rage takes toll on Reliance, Walmart||Dozens of Reliance Industries’ retail stores and a giant Walmart outlet face revenue losses of millions of dollars after being forced to shut for more than three months over protests against the new farm laws, sources said. Thousands of farmers from states including Punjab have camped for weeks near the capital, in a bid to force Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the laws they contend will benefit corporates, rather than cultivators. Fears of farmers’ agitation in Punjab, home to many protest leaders, have stoked companies’ fears over vandalism and the safety of employees, prompting the closure of dozens of shops, store employees and industry sources said. Since October, more than half the roughly 100 stores of top retailer Reliance Retail in Punjab and Walmart’s 50,000-square-foot wholesale outlet in Bathinda, a centre of the protests, have been shut, the sources added. “We are scared of the protesting farmers,” said a senior official of a shuttered Reliance outlet in Mohali, a prosperous city located in the farm belt. One industry source said estimated losses for Reliance from its state-wide shutdowns run into millions of dollars. Two other sources said Walmart’s estimated revenue loss from its store, one of 29 such outlets nationwide, has crossed $8 million. “The farmers camp outside the Walmart store daily, they don’t let anybody go in,” said one of the sources, adding that the store employed about 250 people. Thousands of items in the store are gathering dust and have passed their use-by date. Reliance store officials and the sources, who have direct knowledge of the situation, sought anonymity as they were not authorised to speak to media. Walmart and its Indian unit, Flipkart, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Reliance, India’s largest private company, also did not respond. Both firms can absorb the losses for now, said Ankur Bisen, head of consumer and retail at consultancy Technopak Advisors, but he added, “they have to keep their fingers crossed that shutdowns do not extend to other states.” A Punjab official said authorities were ready to provide security but could do little if companies had decided to keep their stores shut. For their part, some farmer unions have vowed to continue the protests and block stores from opening. “Our protests against corporates like Reliance will continue... there is no question of lifting our sit-ins,” said Kulwant Singh Sandhu, an official of one protesting group, the Democratic Farmers’ Union. Another farm leader, Jagtar Singh, said protests against Reliance would continue until the government repealed the laws. The Union government says the laws passed in September will boost farmers’ incomes by letting them deal directly with big companies and bypass government-regulated wholesale markets. But many of the unions disagree, saying they risk losing their bargaining power and becoming vulnerable to potential bulk buyers such as Walmart and Reliance. They fear the eventual disappearance of the guaranteed prices the government pays for their grain. Reliance, controlled by Mukesh Ambani, has said it would require suppliers to abide by these prices, known as minimum support prices, or a similar mechanism. In December, the protests also disrupted Reliance’s nearly 2,000 telecom towers and several petrol pumps in Punjab. Protests along highways linking it to New Delhi have disrupted transport and industries such as textiles. In November, Punjab estimated economic losses from the protests at $4 billion, while one industry group has pegged the overall hit to India’s economy at $9.6 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Polio drops day deferred to January 31||The national polio immunisation programme, as part of which children up to the age of five years are administered polio drops, has been rescheduled to January 31. National Immunisation Day, commonly known as pulse polio immunisation programme, was earlier scheduled for January 17 across India. “The massive countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive will be rolled out by the Prime Minister from January 16. This would be the world’s largest immunisation exercise. Therefore, it has been decided by the ministry of health in consultation with the office of the President of India to reschedule the polio vaccination day, also known as National Immunisation Day (NID) or ‘Polio Ravivar’ to 31st January,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. The President will launch the polio vaccination drive on January 30 by administering drops to some children at Rashtrapati Bhavan at 11.45am, the ministry said. “The decision is in keeping with the stated policy of the health ministry to ensure that Covid management and vaccination services as well as non-Covid essential health services proceed in tandem without adversely impacting each other,” it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Drivers booked for illegal transport of cows in Karnataka||An ordinance that prohibits cattle slaughter in Karnataka has kicked in with police in Chikmagalur booking two cases for illegal transport of cows. Drivers of two cattle transport vehicles were found badly injured by police after being allegedly assaulted by unidentified cow vigilantes on January 8 near Sringeri in Chikmagalur, 320km from Bangalore. The matter came to light only late on Wednesday. The police have booked both the drivers under the recently implemented Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020. According to the police, the transporters identified as Shaan and Abid Ali were separately taking 15 heads of cattle from Davangere to slaughterhouses in Mangalore, 270km apart, in two trucks on January 8 when they were attacked within hours of each other. If convicted, Shaan and Ali, who has been left with a fractured arm, could be jailed for up to three years for illegally transporting cattle to slaughterhouses. A separate case of assault and illegal detention has been booked against unknown persons. A police source said one of the assailants had been arrested but refused to give further details, including his political affiliation. The two men were attacked just three days after the BJP government in the state took the ordinance route to pass the new cattle slaughter law after failing to get it cleared in the Legislative Council (upper House) where it lacked sufficient numbers. Karnataka High Court had on Tuesday issued notice to the state government after one Mohammed Arif Jameel challenged the law and sought a stay on its operation. While cow slaughter was not allowed in the state even under the old law — the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964 — the new one prohibits the slaughter of even oxen and bulls. It allows the slaughter of only buffalos over 13 years and certified by a government veterinarian, a decision that has hit the meat industry in Karnataka. Illegal slaughter could fetch up to seven years in jail, as opposed to up to six months in the old law. Ali Hassan, vice-president of the Karnataka Jamiyyathul Qureshi Meat Merchants’ Association, said he was not surprised at the two incidents of cow vigilantism. “We had feared more such violent attacks after the ordinance was promulgated,” he told The Telegraph on Thursday. Miscreants allegedly from the Sangh parivar had set fire to two makeshift beef stalls in Mangalore a day after the ordinance was promulgated. “We have heard many people saying these were illegal beef stalls. But let me make it clear that they were built by the Ullal municipality,” Hassan said. The civic body has since rebuilt the stalls and allowed resumption of beef sales but no one has been arrested for arson. “The problem with all these vigilantism is that only we people suffer and those who inflict such harm on us and our livelihood go scot-free,” lamented Hassan. “There are over one lakh people engaged in the meat industry in Karnataka alone. They include those who work in slaughterhouses, meat shop owners, cleaners and the thousands who work in tanneries,” he added. Neighbouring Goa faced a severe shortage of beef on Christmas because of the Karnataka slaughter ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Two special trains from Puri ||The East Coast Railway (ECoR) on Thursday announced that it would run Puri-Jodhpur-Puri Special Train from Puri from January 20 and Puri-Ajmer-Puri Special Train from Puri from January 21. The Puri-Jodhpur-Puri Special Train (02093 and 02094) will leave every Wednesday at 1605hrs with effect from January 20 from Puri and from Jodhpur every Saturday at 1415hrs with effect from January 23, a press release said. This train will stop at Kh-u-rda Road, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Talcher Road, Angul, Rairakhol, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda Road in ECoR jurisdiction and at important stations in the route including Raigarh, Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Gondia, Nagpur, Itarshi, Habibganj, Bhopal, Ujjain, Jaipur between Puri and Jodhpur from both the directions.Puri-Ajmer-Puri Special Train (02037 and 02038) from Puri will leave  every Monday and Thursday at 2305hrs with effect from January 21 and from Ajmer  every Tuesday and Thursday at 1850hrs with effect from January 26. This train will stop at stations including Khurda Road, Bhubaneswar, Dhenkanal, Angul, Rairakhol, Sambalpur, Bargarh Road, Balangir, Titilagarh, Kantabanji, Khariar Road, Mahasamund in ECoR jurisdiction and at important stations in the route including Raipur, Durg, Gondia, Nagpur, Wardha, Bhusaval, Jalgaon, Surat, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Sabarmati, Abu Road between Puri and Ajmer from both the directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
15-01-2021||India||Rs 1-lakh fine on biker for flouting norms in Odisha||The Odisha transport department has slapped a Rs 1.13 lakh fine on a motorcycle rider in Rayagada for violations under the Motor Vehicles Act. The rider, 20-year-old Prakash Banjara, who hails from Amarpur in Madhya Pradesh, used to sell plastic drums in Rayagada town in southern Odisha and its adjoining areas on his motorcycle. Traffic inspector Yudhisthira Lenka, who slapped the fine on Prakash, told The Telegraph: “When we found the motorcycle plying without a registration number on Wednesday, we blocked his way. He was also not wearing a helmet and his bike had no valid insurance.” He said: “While he was fined Rs 5,000 for using a vehicle without registration papers and fitness certificates, Rs 500 was charged under general offence category, Rs 5,000 for driving without valid driving licence, Rs 2,000 for not having an insurance, Rs 1,000 for riding without helmet and Rs 1 lakh for sale of vehicle by the dealer without registration papers. The total amount stands Rs 1,13,500.” He added: “We have seized the motorcycle. We have asked the rider to collect the registration number from the dealer. If the rider produces all the valid documents on Friday, we will reduce the fine.” However, Lenka said the Rs 1 lakh fine will be collected from the dealer. “We will soon begin the legal process and communicate with the dealer in Madhya Pradesh from whom he had bought the vehicle. But as Prakash was riding the motorcycle when our official seized it, the e-challan was issued against the rider. Through him only, we can reach the dealer concerned. Until and unless the fine amount is settled, the vehicle will not be released,” he said. Prakash, a hawker, told this newspaper: “I pleaded with the authorities not to impose such a huge fine. They didn’t listen to me.” My elder brother Tofan purchased the motorcycle by availing of finance from a private bank in July 2020. We used to pay Rs 2,200 as instalment per month. We have contacted them and asked them to send all the documents of the vehicle.” He added: “I have made only one real mistake of not wearing a helmet. As I was carrying drums, I was going slow and feeling awkward in wearing a helmet. But it’s a new vehicle and we will get all the documents shortly.” On the other hand, Rayagada regional transport officer Dilip Kumar Dalai said: “We are bound by law. If we don’t strictly implement the law, many issues will crop up. We will certainly try to help Prakash but it will be done within the ambit of law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
15-01-2021||West Bengal||MP Satabdi Roy voices discontent against TMC on social media||Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy voiced her discontent with the TMC, following which the party reached out to her to bring the situation under control amid an ongoing exodus from the party ahead of the assembly elections in Bengal. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh held an hour-long meeting with the actor-turned-politician at her south Calcutta residence on Friday afternoon after she dropped hints of quitting the ruling party in the state. "Satabdi Roy is an old friend. I had come to meet my friend," Ghosh told reporters while leaving her residence, adding several other TMC leaders have spoken with her. "I have also come to know that BJP leader Mukul Roy had called her up and asked her to meet him during her visit to Delhi tomorrow," he said. Senior TMC leader and Dumdum MP Saugata Roy said the party will try to address her grievances and sort out the issues. Roy, in a Facebook post, had claimed that she is not being informed about party events in her constituency and this has caused "mental pain" to her. The three-time Birbhum MP had said she will inform the public at 2 pm on Saturday if she takes any "decision", causing ripples in the TMC. As per party sources, Roy is having differences with Birbhum district TMC chief Anubrata Mondal. "I have a close connection with this constituency. But recently many people have been asking me why I am missing from several party programmes. "I want to tell them that I want to attend all programmes. But I don't get to know about many programmes and if I am not even informed about events in my constituency, then how can I attend. I was mentally pained because of this," Roy's post in her fans' club page read. Roy said she has spent more time with the people of her constituency than her own family in the last 10 years and even her enemies can't discredit her on this account. "So, this year I am trying to take some decisions so that I can spend the entire time with you. I am grateful to you. You have been supporting me since 2009. Hope you will support me in the coming days too," the post read. "If I take any decision, will let you know on January 16, Saturday at 2 pm," it added. When contacted, Roy confirmed that the post was indeed made by her. "I have tried to reach out to the leadership but it has been of no use. If I am not able to work for the masses then what is the use of continuing in the post," she told reporters. Roy had twice given resignation from the Tarapith Unnayan Parishad but those were not accepted, sources close to the MP said. She is scheduled to visit Delhi on Saturday, they said. When asked whether there are chances of joining the BJP, she refused to reply. Responding to a query whether she will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Roy said, "There are always chances of meeting people you know but there is no such possibility." Reacting to the development, Mondal said, "She is still in the party. If she takes any step, then I will say whatever I have to." Roy was seen with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during a roadshow in Bolpur on December 29. After a long and successful career in the Bengali film industry, Roy joined politics in the final years of the Left Front government in the state. She was part of the TMC's cultural brigade of celebrities with mass appeal in Mamata Banerjee's attempt to unseat the Left from power in the state. Roy had first contested and won the Birbhum seat on a TMC ticket in 2009. She went on to win the seat in 2014 and 2019. Not just Roy, another senior TMC leader and state minister Rajib Banerjee, who has been maintaining distance with the party, also said in a social media post that he will reveal his next step in a Facebook live on Saturday afternoon. In the biggest single-day exodus from the TMC, political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, along with 35 party leaders including five MLAs and an MP, joined the BJP during Shah's rally in Medinipur on December 19, setting off a churning as several disgruntled leaders rallied behind him. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, when the BJP bagged 18 seats from the state, 14 legislators of the TMC, four from the Left Front and two from the Congress have joined the saffron party. None of them, however, have resigned from their posts. Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Plan to showcase Siliguri as tourist destination||The Bengal tourism department has drawn up a plan to showcase Siliguri — the gateway to Northeast — as a single destination rather than a transit point as a number of attractions have up in and around the city in the past few years. “Till now, Siliguri has been a transit point for tourists travelling to the Darjeeling hills, Dooars, and the neighbouring countries of Nepal and Bhutan. However, during the past few years, a number of new attractions were developed in and around the city. We feel tourists can enjoy spending a couple of days in the city,” said state tourism minister Gautam Deb. Ever since Mamata Banerjee became the chief minister in 2011, her government has time and again laid emphasis on tourism, a sector that provides employment to over millions in the state, including north Bengal. Since 2011, new attractions like the Bengal Safari Park have come up off NH31, on the outskirts of the city. “Bhorer Alo,” a mega tourism hub, was also developed on the banks of the Teesta at Gajoldoba (located around 25km away) in Jalpaiguri district. Added to them are attractions like the Biswa Bangla Haat at Kawakhali — a display-cum-exhibition centre of handicrafts, the Iskcon temple in northwest of the city, the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary that is around 10km away and Sevoke, which is known for its scenic beauty. There are a number of Buddhist monasteries nearby. Sevoke is around 25km from Siliguri. “Altogether, these are some places which can draw tourists. If we can promote the city as a destination with varied options for entertainment, it would also give a boost to the tourism sector that has taken a beating during the past few months,” said Deb. Usually, tourists spend a few hours or maximum a night in the city during their trip to the region. Tour operators have welcomed the department’s plan for Siliguri. “The city definitely has the potential to emerge as a one or two-night destination for tourists. It is good that the state tourism minister is mulling on the proposal. But simultaneously, the stakeholders and agencies like the local civic body and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority also have to take responsibilities for Siliguri’s development so that tourists are encouraged to plan a new itinerary and are provided with best hospitality and services,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network. Temple funds Tourism minister Gautam Deb has said a project has been taken up for the development of amenities on the premises of the Bhramri Devi Temple, an old shrine in Jalpaiguri district. He made the announcement during his visit to the temple at Bodaganj, on the fringes of the Baikunthapur forest, on Wednesday. “Our department has allotted Rs 3.67 crore for infrastructure development of the temple. There would be some renovation work and a new dining space and resting place for devotees. The new facilities would be inaugurated soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati suspends two student leaders who took part in Jan 9 protests||Visva-Bharati authorities on Thursday suspended two student leaders who took part in protests on January 9 to condemn the recent suspension of economics professor and faculty association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya. In the suspension notice issued by Visva-Bharati proctor Sankar Majumder to student leaders Somnath Sow and Phalguni Pan, the varsity accused them of “forcibly” breaking the “seal/ lock of the chamber of a particular faculty member in the Department of Economics & Politics, Visva-Bharati, on 09.01.2021”. The notice states that the decision to suspend the students had been taken by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and the suspension would continue till a detailed inquiry by the varsity, likely to take three months, is over. Sow, a leader of the SFI, and Pan are leading members of the outfit Visva-Bharati Students’ Unity that had been protesting against many moves of the VC that they termed were aimed at “saffronising the campus”. Both Sow and Pan are also first-year postgraduate students in the department of economics where Bhattacharyya,  widely perceived to be at loggerheads with the present varsity dispensation, taught. Several teachers and students of the university condemned Thursday’s suspension and said that it exposed the vengeful nature of the administration and VC. Condemning the “unjustified action that smacked of political vendetta”, a teacher considered close to the suspended students said they had been targeted for being the voices of dissent on the campus and “daring” to ask Bhattacharyya’s suspension order be revoked. Bhattacharyya had been suspended on January 7 for alleging irregularities in the appointment of the principal of one of the university’s schools. A teacher said that on Wednesday the VC had summoned teaching and non-teaching staff of the economics department and asked them to identify the students who took part in the protest against Bhattacharyya's suspension on January 9. “The duo earned the wrath of the varsity administration as they have been spearheading protests against the VC’s attempt to push the BJP’s agenda on the campus. Both Sow and Pan had been leading students on issues ranging from their opposition to the CAA seminar where the VC had invited BJP ideologue and MP Swapan Dasgupta to the recent decision to invite Union home minister Amit Shah to the campus,” he added. The two students had been put under “house arrest" in Bolpur on December 20, the day Shah visited Santiniketan. Justifying their suspension, the proctor’s letter states that the action against the student leaders have been taken because their “attempt to damage the public property of Visva-Bharati and to create disturbance on the campus” amounted to “gross indiscipline and misconduct on their part”. During their period of suspension, the two will “not be able to attend or participate in any class, lecture, conference, workshop, seminar, examination, viva-voce etc of the University”. Wasif Iqbal, the Birbhum secretary of the SFI, condemned the move. “The suspension of the two student leaders proves our claim that the VC is working to fulfil the RSS-BJP agenda to saffronise the varsity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Vaccine supply doubt makes Bengal cautious||The Bengal government on Thursday decided to administer Covid-19 vaccine to a little over half of the six lakh health workers who had been shortlisted to get the jab in the first phase as there was no clarity on whether the next consignment of vials for the state would be of the same firm as the first lot. The Centre had sent to Bengal Covishield, the vaccine manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India. “The Centre sent seven lakh vials, while we need at least 12 lakh doses to vaccinate six lakh health workers in the first phase. As a person will require two shots at a gap of 28 days and the vaccines cannot be interchanged, we will initially inoculate 3.4 lakh health workers and increase the numbers depending on the arrival of the second lot of vaccines,” said a senior health officer. The Centre shortlisted two Covid-19 vaccines — Pune-based Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — for the vaccination drive. The first phase of the vaccination drive will begin on January 16. “The second shot of the vaccine should be the same as the first one. As the Centre hasn’t intimated that Bengal will receive Covishield in the second instalment, we have decided to stretch out the process by reducing the numbers of vaccination centres to 207 from the earlier planned 353,” the official said. “We had planned to hold 353 camps across the state from Saturday but we have brought it down to 207 to slow down the process. All the 353 camps will become functional after receiving the second lot of vaccines,” the official said and added doctors and health officials in the districts had been intimated about the new plan through a video-conference on Thursday. “Earlier, we had a plan to hold camps at 13 places. However, it has been reduced to seven only,” said Pranab Roy, the chief medical officer of health in East Burdwan. Similarly, the number of camps was reduced to seven from 13 in Birbhum health district and from 10 to 5 in Rampurhat health districts. The sources said 100 persons would be vaccinated at each camp on a day and total 20,700 individuals would be given the shots in Bengal on Saturday. Officials said all the districts had been asked to ensure webcasting at every camp for senior officials to monitor the programme online from Nabanna. “We are fully prepared for the vaccination drive and we have installed webcasting facilities at all seven camps. The vaccination on Saturday will start at 9am,” said Jayanta Sukul, the deputy chief medical officer of health in Birbhum. The curiosity over when the common man will get vaccines has become a problem for health department staff across the state as they are getting hundreds of enquiries over telephone during the day. “I have received a good number of enquiries from people who first wanted to know when they will get the vaccine and then how to register themselves for the process. I told them that the vaccine roll out for the common man was yet to begin,” said a state health official said in Nadia’s Krishnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Minister’s rift with colleague spills out||State tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday hit out at his cabinet colleague Rabindranath Ghosh, heading the north Bengal development department (NBDD), for the alleged lack of infrastructure development in the region, underlining another rift in the ruling Trinamul ahead of the Assembly  elections. At an event to lay the foundation of a road in his Assembly constituency Dabgram-Fulbari on Siliguri outskirts, Deb suddenly turned the heat on Ghosh, his successor in the NBDD in the Mamata Banerjee government’s second term. “When I was the NB development minister, hundreds of roads and drains were built by the department. It is unfortunate that during the past five-six years, no repair work has been carried out to maintain these roads. People in my Assembly seat are peeved at the existing conditions of these roads. I have sent over 100 letters to NBDD but for some unknown reason, those at the department have not acted on any of the letters,” Deb said. The state tourism minister also added that the NBDD’s alleged indifference had prompted him to seek chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s intervention. “I had to write to the chief minister, mentioning the details. The chief minister’s secretariat responded and I received a phone call on Wednesday. The state approved construction of some new roads and maintenance of a number of roads in Dabgram-Fulbari. Work (on these) would be taken up on a war footing,” added Deb. It is no secret in north Bengal that Deb and Ghosh do not see eye to eye on most issues as they belong to different camps in the ruling party. Deb has also held Ghosh responsible for his shift from the NBDD that he helmed for five years. Contacted by this paper for his reaction, Ghosh swatted away the charges. “The allegations made by the state tourism minister are incorrect. Whenever we have received any proposal from him, we have acted on those. In fact, our department has even carried out some unfinished projects in Dabgram-Fulbari which were initiated when he (Deb) was the NBDD minister,” said Ghosh. Deb’s remarks and Ghosh’s reactions have led to repercussions in the political arena of the region, including Trinamul inner circles. A party insider said that in 2017, about a year after Ghosh assumed the office of NB development minister, he had raised questions over the quality of work of some of the road projects taken up during Deb’s tenure. In fact, Ghosh’s department had served notices to as many as 18 construction firms on the issue. “There was always that tittle-tattle that both these ministers have differences. However, those never surfaced in such a blatant manner so far. Eventually, this (open criticism of one minister towards another)  is a loss of face for us (the party)…particularly as elections are ahead,” said a Trinamul insider. Political observers opined that Deb’s assertions indicated his desperation to retain support of people who voted for him twice in state elections. “However, many had supported BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. That is why it seems Deb has taken up a two-fold strategy of criticising a department of his own government and simultaneously playing the development card. It will be interesting to see how his party handles the situation,” said an observer. Additional reporting by our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||State Covid deaths cross 10,000||Bengal on Thursday logged 694 Covid-19 recoveries, 680 infections and 17 deaths as the toll crossed 10,000 to touch 10,010. Since the first death from Covid-19 had been reported on March 23, the state took 297 days for the toll from the pandemic to cross 10,000. Bengal had logged 500 deaths on June 17, 1,000 on July 15, 2,000 on August 8, 3,000 on August 27, 4,000 on September 14, 5,000 on October 1, 6,000 on October 18, 7,000 on November 3, 8,000 on November 22, and 9,000 on December 12. “The latest 1,000 deaths occurred over 33 days, slower — hence, better — than the 16-20 days it had taken for the previous few thousands,” said a Bengal minister. The total of active cases dropped for the 80th consecutive day since October 26 last year, which was Vijaya Dashami. The total of active cases is now 7,272 having improved by over five times, from 37,190 on October 26. The recovery rate has risen for 84 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.93 per cent, leading the national rate by over 0.4 per cent. “The reduction of the mortality rate is the only area we still have some work to do,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure that the outbreak didn’t worsen over the New Year celebrations. “Thursday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 5…. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. We can deduce, with a fair bit of certainty now, that even the revelry of the Christmas-New Year period did not worsen the outbreak,” said the minister. The minister said reducing mortality in infected males was now a top priority. “We had managed to lower it to 1.98... then it kept rising again. Now it is 2.06. We are trying to ascertain the causes.” Another phenomenon the state was observing, he said, was the spike in deaths of patients with hypertension as a comorbidity. “Hypertension has, through the pandemic, been the biggest killer. But its share in the death count has suddenly spiked from a fourth to a third, rapidly. In both infected males and females. This also needs to be addressed immediately,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
15-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers lob cut money charge at leader||The district saffron camp suffered a loss of face as BJP workers in a number of villages under Manikchak block accused the head of a saffron party-run panchayat of demanding money from prospective beneficiaries of the 100-days work scheme. Workers, led by Pintu Goswami, a BJP leader of the block, alleged that Pampa Sarkar, the head of the BJP-run Nazirpur panchayat, was corrupt. A written complaint was filed with the district administration, they said. “The pradhan is asking for money from villagers in exchange for assurances of enrolment in the MGNREGS. We also know she embezzled funds sanctioned to the panchayat for the scheme. Such activities, we believe, have tarnished the image of our party and that is why we want both the administration and the party to take steps,” said Goswami. The allegations come at a time when BJP leaders across tiers are raising fingers at Trinamul over the culture of “cuts” in rural bodies. In public meetings, BJP representatives have accused elected representatives of Mamata Banerjee’s party functioning in rural bodies of taking cuts from people while assuring them of welfare scheme benefits. Such blatant accusation by BJP workers against an elected representative of the party has made district BJP leaders try and control the damage. “Our party will not stand by anyone if allegations are proven,” said Ajay Ganguly, district BJP spokesperson. “But the administration should look into the allegations made against rural bodies where Trinamul is in power.” District administration officials confirmed they received the complaint. “A probe has been ordered on veracity of the charges made against the Nazirpur panchayat chief,” said Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate. In Malda, residents also witnessed allegations and counter-allegations among BJP and Trinamul over Swasthya Sathi cards. In Kaliachak-II block, the BJP released a video purportedly showing the cards of the free health insurance scheme provided by the state strewn all around with papers, suspected to be application forms, in a deserted location. Authorities of a Trinamul-run panchayat did not distribute the cards to beneficiaries and instead tried to dispose of them, local BJP leaders alleged. Trinamul denied the charges. “The BJP is trying to create confusion by circulating a fake video,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested with a quintal of cannabis||Police on Wednesday night nabbed two persons with nearly a quintal of cannabis that they were allegedly smuggling to Assam from Cooch Behar. Also, in two separate raids on Thursday, the police destroyed cannabis plants on around 68 bighas of land in two locations of the district. Laltu Haldar, the additional superintendent of police of Cooch Behar, said on Wednesday, they got information that two persons were carrying cannabis harvested in the district to neighbouring Assam. “They were intercepted at Shungshugir Bazaar on town outskirts. Both were on a two-wheeler. Our team from Kotwali police station found around 94kg of the narcotic on them,” Haldar said. The arrested duo were identified as Sanjit Burman and Kamala Kanta Burman of Cooch Behar district. The seized narcotic was worth around Rs 12 lakh, police said. Teams of Kotwali and Sitalkuchi police stations destroyed illegal cannabis farms. In Sitalkuchi, the team moved into the dry bed of Mansai river to hack and set ablaze cannabis crops over 50 bighas. The police team from Kotwali went to Chandamari area and destroyed cannabis plants across 18 bighas. Those carrying out the illegal farming fled. During the past few years, cannabis farming has become a new trend in the district as it fetches a good price in the grey market. “There are reports that some farmers in some villages under Sahebganj, Mekhliganj, Kotwali and Sitalkuchi police stations are involved in this illegal practice,” said a cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||EC full bench likely to visit state||The full bench of the Election Commission is likely to visit Bengal later this month to oversee preparations for Assembly polls, giving rise to speculations that the voting could be held in March-April, instead of the usual April-May schedule. The hint at the visit was given by deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain on Thursday, according to senior Bengal government officials. He was on a two-day visit to Bengal. “He asked top government officials to ensure that all preparatory activities for holding Assembly polls are completed with utmost urgency… He made it clear that the full bench of the EC could visit later this month. Usually, election dates are declared within two weeks of the visit of the EC full bench to the state,” said a senior government official. On Thursday, Jain held meetings with state government officials, including home secretary, director general of police, health secretary and education secretary. He also convened a session with officials in the state chief electoral officer’s office. On Wednesday, he had held meetings with the district magistrates and police superintendents of all districts. Sources said Jain had asked the education secretary on Thursday how many schools had been damaged in the Cyclone Amphan and how many schools could be made available for setting up booths. “This year, there would be more booths as the maximum number of voters at a polling centre has been capped at 1,050, instead of 1,200, in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is estimated that the total number of booths in the state would go up to about 1 lakh from 78,000-odd as more than 20,000 auxiliary booths would be increased because of the new norm,” said a source. As the number of booths would increase, the EC would require more polling officials and EVMs in this year’s election. “Jain has asked us to consider the issue seriously and make arrangements accordingly,” said an official. The EC would also allow people over 80 years of age, physically-challenged, Covid patients and those who will be in quarantine to cast their votes through postal ballots. “A detailed guideline in this would soon be issued,” said a source. Jain also held meetings with the officials of income tax, excise and customs to ensure that use of black money could be prevented in this year’s elections. “He instructed the officials of central agencies to keep a watch on financial transactions from now on. He directed them to file reports on the political personalities accused of interfering in the poll process,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Deb steps in, taxi owners defer strike||Taxi owners and drivers of Bagdogra and Siliguri, planning a strike earlier this week to demand revised fares, among others, decided to defer it for a fortnight after talks with state tourism minister Gautam Deb on Thursday. “We had a long discussion with the minister who assured us he will take up our demands with the chief minister. He also told us that within 15 days we will be apprised about the initiatives,” said Siraj Bhowmik, president of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners Welfare Association. Deb told the media that he thanked taxi owners for deferring the strike to help tourism and said they raised some valid points that he would discuss with Mamata Banerjee after he went to Calcutta on Friday. Earlier this week, taxi owners and drivers in Bagdogra airport — around 1,200 taxis ply from the airport — decided to go on an indefinite strike over demands that included immediate revision of fares last hiked by the state in 2008. This decision won support from some other transport outfits, including drivers of luxury taxis. In all, it was feared that 3,000-odd cabs would go off roads in and around Siliguri. This left the tourism stakeholders worried. Darjeeling district administration intervened and based on a meeting on January 11, taxi owners deferred the strike till Deb’s meeting with them on Thursday. On January 27, a meeting of the Regional Transport Authority would be held to discuss the revision of fares, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Pro-BJP Matuas to hold rally in Calcutta||The All India Matua Mahasangha, which is politically aligned to the BJP, has decided to hold a meeting at Behala in Calcutta on Friday. Mahasangha chief and BJP’s Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur will address the meeting. “Several meetings are being held in many districts to garner support for the public rally that Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address at Thakurnagar on January 30. The first such meeting in Calcutta will be held on Friday,” said Mukutmani Adhikari, a member of the Mahasangha’s central committee. Sources said the other reason behind holding the meeting in Calcutta was to prevent Trinamul from wooing the Matuas. “We are aware that Mamata Banerjee’s reassurance that everyone is naturally an Indian citizen might work against us. That is why we don’t want any section of our community to be left out and hence, we have targeted the Matuas of Calcutta,” said a central committee member of the Mahasangha. Matuas are a community of lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, spread in several parts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia districts and some parts in north Bengal. A survey done by the Mahasangha has shown that in the 17 Assembly seats spread in and around Calcutta, there is an average SC-ST-OBC population of 5 per cent. Moreover, in Assembly seats like Kasba, Jadavpur, Behala East, Behala West and Tollygunje, several wards have a Matua population of over 30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||West Bengal||Vaccine sparks hill contest||Along with the Covid-19 vaccine, politics too is being rolled out in Darjeeling hills ahead of the polls. On Thursday, Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), and part of the Binay Tamamg faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, said he would go to Kalimpong on Saturday to be the “first person from the hills” to get vaccinated with Covishield. Raju Bisa, Darjeeling BJP MP, was also quick to issue “a note of thanks” to the Centre for its “amazing coordination”. The vaccination drive will touch every household and observers believe politicians in the hills are keen to be associated with the drive during this election season. “I will travel to Kalimpong to be the first person to be administered with Covishield from GTA region,” said Thapa. Thapa said he took this decision to build confidence among health workers and dispel vaccine related fears among people. Health workers will be the first to get Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, and manufactured at Serum Institute of India in Pune. The GTA is involving senior officials in vaccination. Surendra Gupta, principal secretary of GTA, will get vaccinated with Thapa at Kalimpong. In Darjeeling, GTA secretary David Pradhan will be the first to get the jab. GTA health department executive director Samden Dukpa will get vaccinated in Kurseong. Thapa’s decision to travel to Kalimpong is also being seen as symbolic. The first Covid-19 related death from the region had been reported from Kalimpong on March 30, 2020. “Following the death of Sunita Devi Singh, the entire region had panicked. The GTA worked on a war-footing to contain the spread of the virus and together we were successful in containing the spread to an extent,” said Thapa, adding that the vaccination drive in the hills would be dedicated to Sunita. Thapa was one of the most visible hill leaders to be on ground zero during the pandemic along with Kalimpong municipality chairman Rabi Pradhan. “Many believe that Thapa’s image improved because of his proactive involvement during the pandemic. It seems that he is determined to be involved in the vaccination phase too and not let go the advantage,” said an observer. But the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista was not to be left behind with fulsome praise for the BJP-led Centre. “Thanks to the amazing coordination of the Union health ministry, 123 vaccination facilities and 163 cold chain points have been developed in north Bengal,” said Bista, adding that 1,28,000 doses of vaccine had been allocated for north Bengal. GTA health executive Dukpa said that vaccination drive would be carried out in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong hospitals in the hills. “On the first day, the vaccine will be administered to 100 people,” said Dukpa. Each will get 0.5ml of the vaccine, to be repeated after 28 days. While Darjeeling district received 18,000 doses, Cooch Behar has received 18,500, Alipurduar 12,500, Jalpaiguri,16,500, Kalimpong 3500, Malda 22,000, North Dinajpur 17,000 and South Dinajpur 20,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-234
15-01-2021||North East||Laika-Dodhia villagers suspend protest to celebrate Bihu||Villagers of Laika-Dodhia, who have been living in makeshift camps for the past 25 days near the Tinsukia deputy commissioner’s office in Upper Assam seeking permanent and proper rehabilitation, decided to suspend their dharna for a day to celebrate Bhogali Bihu on Thursday. “We are taking a day off from the protest because of Bihu so that camp inmates could perform rituals associated with the festival. We will continue with our protest and also maintain our tradition. Our protest will resume on Friday,” Mintu Morang, chief convener of the Laika-Dodhia Rehabilitation Committee, told The Telegraph. Magh or Bhogali Bihu is a harvest festival held in mid-January, celebrating nature and abundance which sees a lot of merriment and feasting for about a week. The rituals start with burning of the meji, a traditional bonfire of bamboo, wood, hay and leaves, early morning to seek the blessings of the god in the new year. “Family members are visiting the camps while young ones sought the blessings of elders and performed other rituals. We also organised a small community feast of chira (flattened rice) and doi (curd), sweet potato and pork. We also lit the meji in the morning,” Morang said. The camp inmates were joined by the president of the newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad, Lurinjyoti Gogoi, in the evening. He has extended his support to the villagers’ demand. The AJP, which will be contesting this year’s Assembly polls, sponsored a feast for the 1,500 inmates on Thursday night to mark Bihu. The festive fervour at the camp was on display since Wednesday evening itself after the daily dharna from 10am to 5pm, with the youths and women in the camps preparing for Thursday’s festivities. The district administration has also extended its support by making available chira and doi for the villagers. Lakhimpur MP Pradan Barua donated two pigs for the feast, Morang said. However, the usual feast on Uruka on Bhogali Bihu eve was not held. Around 2,500 residents from seven villages, three under Laika in Tinsukia district and four under Dodhia in adjoining Dibrugarh district, have been protesting by living in makeshift camps since December 22 seeking permanent rehabilitation. They want to keep the protest going till they move to a new place as assured by the state government on December 31. “We are not going anywhere till our 21-year-old demand is met,” Morang said. Overall 1,480 families from seven villages were affected after the forest reserves under which they fall were converted into the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in 1999. They were settled by the state government in these villages, dominated by the Mising community, after the massive 1950 earthquake. “We cannot go back because we can't build anything permanent inside a national park. Government schemes are also not allowed,” said Prasana Narah, a camp inmate. So far, three protesters have died. Amid the festive fervour gripping the state, three leaders of the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and its student organisation — Bittu Sonowal, Dharjya Konwar and Manash Konwar — started a 48-hour dharna on Wednesday, seeking the release of their former colleague and newly appointed Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi and scrapping of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Dharjya said the protest was against the “fascist” BJP-led government which has “trampled democracy”, which is reflected with its “vindictive attitude” towards Akhil. Akhil was arrested on December 12, 2019, when the anti-CAA movement was at its peak in Assam. Those opposed to the CAA say that it is a threat to Assam’s identity and culture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
15-01-2021||Opinion||Double-edged: unpaid domestic labour||It has taken no less than the highest court of the land to reiterate the fact that the value of a woman’s work at home is no less than that of her office-going husband. The Supreme Court’s observation is welcome; the apex court, as is its wont, upheld the moral and constitutional principles of equality and fairness. The court’s wisdom, ironically, has also laid bare an unsavoury reality: that remuneration for domestic work performed by women remains unrecognized and, hence, unrewarded. The implications of this entrenched discrimination are appalling. Research shows that Indian women do the most unpaid care and domestic work out of any country globally, with the exception of Kazakhstan. According to data from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, women in India spend 577 per cent more time in a day on invisible household work than men. Alarmingly, the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated these inequalities. Data from the United Nations show that with the closure of offices and educational institutions and work-from-home and online classes becoming the new normal, the burden of unpaid household work and childcare has turned even heavier for women. There can be no argument against recognizing that women’s domestic labour deserves compensation. Yet, even in a hypothetical situation where domestic work is monetized, this kind of affirmative intervention could create a new set of challenges. Households headed by men, be it the husband or the father-in-law, are likely to view the woman as a paid employee, deepening the sense of entitlement that Indian men harbour towards women and their labour. Remuneration for household work could put men off even further from sharing domestic responsibilities since, according to their distorted perspective, women are now entitled to receive payment. Most important, this might lead to the creation of a culture where women choose or are coerced to shun employment outside the home: UN data already show that the increasing domestic burden induced by the pandemic has resulted in the loss of employment and educational opportunities for women. While the idea of compensating housework is noble, it must be accompanied by simultaneous emancipatory policies in relevant spheres. These must include the consolidation of women’s right to inherit property and reside in their marital homes safely as well as demand equal participation from their partners in parenting responsibilities. None of these issues can be viewed in isolation from the matter of recognizing the value of women’s labour at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
15-01-2021||Opinion||Steady steps: plight of the elderly||Sir — As highlighted by the world’s largest-ever survey on the elderly, there are significant challenges faced by senior citizens in the form of chronic illnesses and mental conditions, in addition to frequent ill-treatment by family members or caregivers (“Bleak age”, Jan 11). Advances in medicine have made it possible to postpone death but, in most cases, this postponement leads to prolonged sickness, dependency, pain, and suffering which can be costly both in psychological and economic terms. It is also a fact that in India, most of the elderly are deprived of special care. Not all of the neglected senior citizens can afford social security schemes, making them dependent on factors beyond their control. In many countries in the West, governments play a significant role in caring for the aged, by providing home-care services along with free medication, and having care workers visit and spend time with them. The elderly in India should also have easy access to quality medical care in government hospitals. At present, the youth population in India is high, but in another 25 years, the number of the aged will be higher. There is awareness among people about how to live a long and healthy life, but they must also invest money in healthcare from a young age. Following healthy eating habits is also necessary. People should avoid a sedentary lifestyle and try to remain active as they grow old. Kiran Agarwal, Calcutta Sir — The plight of the elderly in India, especially those who do not come from privileged backgrounds, is indeed worrying. It must be remembered by both the State and families that the elderly are not a burden; their contribution to society throughout their active years must be acknowledged. What better way is there to do so than coming up with a policy that would provide free healthcare to those who brought up the youth of the nation? Young voters should think of their future and demand measures to this end. Shilpa Choudhury,Calcutta  Spread the wings Sir — Just before the transfer of power, the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has weakened a century-old law protecting American wild bird species. This could lead to more birds dying after landing in oil pits or colliding with power lines or other such structures. The new administration must make it a priority to undo any decree endangering wildlife. Jhumpa Sarkar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||Class act: education funding||Learning may be priceless, but education for all cannot be achieved by skimping on funds. And if miserliness also wishes to appear benevolent, the combination can be seriously damaging. The Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre introduced reservations for economically weaker sections in education and public employment through a constitutional amendment. The EWS quota, fixed at 10 per cent, provoked questions: for breaching the 50 per cent cap on reservations, for example, or for shifting the grounds of reservations from historical injustice and lack of representation to welfarism, for giving the higher castes quota advantages and so on. The government, however, ordered educational institutions to accommodate 10 per cent of EWS students, increasing class strengths in such a way as not to reduce the space for the non-reserved category. Yet this is not accompanied adequately by the government’s financial support for the creation of matching infrastructure as regards laboratories, hostel seats or larger classrooms. Neither is there an increase in teaching posts. The institutions are already struggling with teacher-student ratios of over 1:20 when the government’s target is 1:10. The situation is custom-made to lower standards of teaching and cause disaffection among teachers who are being asked to achieve the impossible. Is it indifference, ignorance or a policy of withdrawing from public goods that shapes the government’s thinking about education? In another move, institutions that the government selected as Institutes of Eminence are being asked to have only 60 per cent of regular teachers on their staff. The others are to be adjunct teachers, part-time or visiting faculty: they are paid less and have no gratuity. This is another blow to education. Transient teachers cannot contribute to the building of academic traditions or the improving of standards, while the system leaves students insecure. Regular teachers do much more than lecture; they nurture academic and allied activities, help build libraries, mentor students, preside over admissions and conduct examinations. They alone can supervise research; reducing their numbers will affect research productivity. And what about the profession of teaching? Lack of continuity and low pay cannot be incentives to commitment. The overall damage to the educational sphere would be incalculable. Does the government really believe that a country which pays no attention to its students and teachers can show great progress? Or does it want to wipe out learning?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||At last a blessed moment||Of all the time spent at a hospital, I think the dreariest is the bit spent at the admission and insurance counters. On this occasion at the admission counter, I was again being asked for the details of my identification documents and my mother’s. But unlike on other occasions, I was fully prepared. All my IDs were saved in the photo gallery of my phone. But not very methodically, I realized. I had saved them over a period of time. Whenever I had used an ID, I had taken a photo, but not of all of them together, because I hate looking at IDs and can only have them one at a time, not more. They lay scattered all over. Trying to focus through my face shield, I spotted my Aadhaar card photo on top of a heap of pictures of me — taken by my daughter through Snapchat filters. They were silly, they were grotesque, they were hideous. I was featured with a cat’s face that knocked my chin in and extended my jowls even more, a bunny face and, mostly, as a baby. The baby pictures made me look monstrous. One picture showed me as a bald man. Another with two giant front teeth. When they had been taken I had been annoyed with my daughter for filling my phone up with rubbish. Now they felt different. They were oddly comforting. Instead of mailing the Aadhaar card, I began to scroll down through my pictures, lingering over each of them. Between my Aadhaar and PAN card I found another stash, of random screenshots of Shashi Kapoor, whose beauty never fails to move me. I began to linger over them too. What was I doing? I was at the hospital finishing the admission process for my mother, the gentleman at the counter was glaring at me and asking me for the details every second minute, and others at the counter were also looking at me accusingly, and I was failing to drag myself away from Shashi Kapoor and also from the pictures of a silly, lovely evening that were stacked below. My activities took less time in reality, and are taking more time to be written down, but what I was passing through seemed like an eternity. I was troubled by my own behaviour, although I had made sure that there were no other patients’ families queuing up behind me. It was so silly, but I was paralyzed by joy. I was looking at another world, one which I had almost forgotten, having been snatched away by death, disease, virtual life and endless gloom. That other world was less perfect when I lived in it, but the photographs made it perfect. They were the very antidote to the hospital now. Did Wordsworth feel like me, lying on the couch, focusing his inward eye on the daffodils? Emotions recollected in tranquillity, or in a hospital? The admission process could not wait any more and I began to fill in a series of forms, when there was a commotion on my right. I looked up and saw a miracle. Really. Santa Claus had appeared and was wishing me ‘Merry Christmas’. He was standing at the head of a mini procession of revellers in Christmas colours and at least two angels, in white gowns and white wings, although walking on earth. Each of them offered me and everyone at the counters and all the visitors in the lobby a candy each. The gentleman at the counter told me that they were all hospital staff, Christians, mostly from the Northeast and the South. They had not been able to go home for an entire year, not even for Christmas. This is what they had organized to make themselves, and others, feel good. Santa Claus and the merrymakers moved towards the hospital entrance and seemed to vanish as they had materialized. I felt blessed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||There are grounds for renaming stadiums||Ajinkya Rahane has become the first recipient of the Mullagh Medal. From 2020, every Player of the Match from a Boxing Day Test started receiving the Mullagh Medal, established in honour of Johnny Mullagh, a star from the 1868 Aboriginal tour of England. The Aboriginals of 1868 were Australia’s first sporting team to compete overseas. They have only recently been given their due in Australia’s cricketing consciousness. India, however, is a very long way from celebrating its champions or paying formal tribute to their legacies. A day before Rahane received the Mullagh Medal, a statue of the late Arun Jaitley, the former finance minister and president of the Delhi & District Cricket Association, was unveiled at the Feroz Shah Kotla. The former India cricketer, Bishan Singh Bedi, had protested vehemently, saying Jaitley could be remembered in Parliament as a politician but “not [in] a cricket stadium”. Bedi had many run-ins with Jaitley’s presidency, terming it a “corrupt durbar of sycophants”, and wanted his name to be taken down from a Kotla stand. Bedi also surrendered his DDCA membership. The Kotla has already formally been named the Arun Jaitley Stadium but there appears to be no limit to servility, particularly now that Jaitley Jr, Rohan, has been elected the new DDCA president. Public objection to the Jaitley statue was interpreted as a challenge to the ruling dispensation’s higher standards of stadium nomenclature. In defence of Jaitley’s statue in the stadium, whataboutery101 cited the obscene number of sports arenas — 28 — named after the Nehru-Gandhi clan. Sixteen for Jawaharlal Nehru, seven for Indira Gandhi, and five for Rajiv. Since most Indian stadia are government-owned, their political scorecard is long and distinguished: Rajendra Prasad (three), Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy (two). A rough count of other single-stadium politicians crosses 10. Of the handful of grounds named after athletes, hockey used to be proactive: Dhyan Chand, K.D. Singh Babu and Roop Singh (Gwalior’s cricket stadium). There’s a Bhaichung stadium in Namchi, Sikkim, and Coimbatore’s Kari Motorway Speedway honours the motorsport pioneer, S. Karivardhan. The figure for cricket is zero because the more self-aggrandizing cricket administrators also chose to name grounds after themselves — M.A. Chidambaram, M. Chinnaswamy, S. Wankhede who, in turn, inspired tennis’s R.K. Khanna. Mohali’s PCA-I.S. Bindra stadium was anointed a year after Bindra retired from cricket administration, only to be elected chairman in 2015, which appears to be a ceremonial post. How many statues does India have of its finest athletes? Not Madame Tussauds social media wax works but real ones. Some of the names that come to mind the quickest are those of Dhyan Chand, C.K. Nayudu, D.B. Deodhar and the footballing hero, Gostha Pal, opposite the Eden Gardens. Calcutta also acknowledges Leslie Claudius and Shute Banerjee. Plus there’s Vinoo Mankad in Jamnagar, Gujarat, Sachin Tendulkar in Atarwalia, Bihar, Yuvraj Singh in Ferozepur, Punjab, and Sourav Ganguly in Balurghat, Bengal. That’s only 10 in all and there are no women among them. It is patently clear that our sport is not an engine of or for athletic excellence. In India, sport is a centrifugal force-generator for political power and its allied sycophancy industry. So here’s a thought. Let’s treat the stadia like the politicians treat sport — by cutting across party lines to exercise our love for sport in the most fitting manner. Since renaming, demolishing and appropriation — cities, institutions, programmes — are the policy du jour, what stops the ruling dispensation and their cheerleaders from passing a bill in Parliament to rename every single politico-inspired ground after India’s greatest athletes? One nation, one sports policy: no politics in sport. It will free our sporting venues from their political names and rid us of a 70-year-old habit. In an atmosphere of political disinvestment from sport, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna also requires a sport-centric title. And while we’re at it, surely the most inappropriately-titled Indian sports award — the Dronacharya — must be renamed. How can an award for coaching be named after a coach who cut off the thumb of a student who secretly studied archery after he was first shooed away by the coach? What kind of coaches are we recognizing? Let’s name the award after a real Indian coaching legend — football’s Syed Abdul Rahim who took India to the 1956 Olympic semi-final and the 1962 Asian Games gold medal. No patriotic Indian sports fan should have any objections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||A troubled prognosis||The drama at the Capitol in Washington obscured the resumption of the intra-Afghan dialogue with the second round between the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan beginning last week. The first round extended for some three months and ended in December with an agreement on the ‘Rules of Procedure’ and an exchange of issues that each side wanted the talks to focus on. How the first round is evaluated in terms of success or failure depends largely on where you stand on what is happening in Afghanistan today. For some, the intra-Afghan process is no more than a sideshow to the main event — what the United States of America will do in the coming months given that it has to have closure on its longest-ever military intervention. For others, that warring Afghan parties are discussing and negotiating ways forward is a huge plus and significant in itself. The differences between the two sides are vast. The Taliban is committed to an ‘Emirate’ as the only legitimate government of the future. This puts in jeopardy the entire Afghanistan project as constituted following the Taliban’s overthrow in 2001. Thus, from the outside, the difference between the two sides appears insurmountable — how do you reconcile an ‘Islamic Republic’ with an ‘Islamic Emirate’? Yet, Afghanistan from the outside is not the same as Afghanistan from the inside. Merely securing an end to the conflict seems to be to many enough of a common ground to smoothen the interface between these two rival, competing, and conflicting ideas of Afghanistan. The road ahead in the second round of negotiations could, therefore, be even bumpier. The area where progress is the least is on the cessation of hostilities and violence. For the government of Afghanistan, a ceasefire is an obvious accompaniment to the negotiations. For the Taliban, this is putting the cart before the horse: the ceasefire can only be the outcome of a successful negotiation. Terrorist attacks in Afghanistan continue and, increasingly, the targets are soft ones — the very institutions and personalities that have emerged as a result of the construction of a new State in Afghanistan over the past two decades. The ‘Rules of Procedure’ on which agreement was reached between the two sides in the first round of negotiations include formal protocol arrangements. It was agreed that discussions must begin with a recitation from the holy Quran and that meetings must have periodic breaks for the five daily prayers. Provisions such as these possibly would not have been the cause of any dispute.  More difficult was the issue of the legal framework that would be used to resolve disagreements during the process of negotiations. The Taliban demand was that this framework had to be based on Sunni jurisprudence. This would exclude the Shia minorities and was an obvious point of contention for the government side. What is significant perhaps is that a way out was found: a joint committee comprising members from both sides would resolve differences that came up. In the protracted negotiations that led to the agreed ‘Rules of Procedure’, what was at stake was more than the positions that each side took with respect to Afghan religious and political traditions. For those concerned about the steady deterioration in Afghanistan’s security and the gloomy forecasts that now invariably accompany most sober analysis of its future, these negotiations are a diversion. The stark reality that confronts the country today is that the Taliban insurgency with Pakistan’s support has gained an upper hand and that this position will progressively strengthen. What will happen in the next round of discussions? It is reasonable to expect some kind of zeroing-in on the principal issues highlighted by both sides — a ceasefire for the Afghan government and an ‘Islamic’ government for the Taliban. Already, there are reports accumulating of the US and others pushing for an interim government to take charge in Kabul to enable a ceasefire to be put in place. It remains to be seen how this works out but clearly some changes in the present architecture in Kabul were to be expected from the time the US and the Taliban reached an agreement on ‘bringing peace to Afghanistan’ in February last year. Alongside this is the concomitant increase in Pakistan’s influence. This is in large part because of the traditional role that Pakistan has played with the Taliban but it also arises from its role in bringing the Taliban and the US on converging tracks. How much this influence will be and how it will play out given the problems Pakistan is facing domestically with the visible alienation of, and protests emanating from, Pakistani Pashtuns are real issues. But these will only surface over a longer time span. Afghanistan’s best-case scenario is that the Taliban is actually negotiating in good faith and will play its part in a future power-sharing arrangement in that spirit. This case rests on the premise that large sections amongst the Taliban are as weary of the constant violence as everyone else and are, therefore, agreeable to reasonable compromises. Mullah Barader, the deputy leader of the Taliban and head of its political office, is seen as a moderate and as someone long regarded as being open to a political settlement on the basis of compromising with the government of Afghanistan. The arguments against are powerful and, primarily, allege that the intra-Afghan negotiations are the outcome of war weariness and exhaustion not so much of the warring Afghans as of the US. Afghanistan’s history is replete with illustrations of the fragility of externally determined agendas. With a new administration on the anvil in the US, how one future milestone is approached may provide some clues. The February 2020 agreement between the US and the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban) specified the withdrawal of all US forces by May 2021. How the new US administration will work with this commitment of its predecessor is also going to be a matter of some weight for what happens next in Afghanistan. Details apart, what stands out also are older continuities from Afghanistan’s recent history. In 1988, Pakistan and the then government of Afghanistan had signed the Geneva Accord — a face-saving arrangement to enable the Soviet Union to withdraw its troops. The agreement was co-signed as guarantors by the US and the USSR. The US premised its signature on this with the condition that the signature did not mean recognition of the government of Afghanistan — one of the signatories. The 2020 agreement with the Taliban is similarly premised on the stipulation that the agreement does not imply recognition. In diplomatic practice, such ambiguities of engagement without recognition are not unusual. Yet, in Afghanistan’s case, they put an additional burden on the already troubled future ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covishield for 200 health workers in steel city on first day||As many as 200 healthcare workers, including doctors, will be vaccinated in the steel city at MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital on Saturday, the first day of the immunisation programme being launched nationwide. "We have already installed a two-way communication facility at MGM Medical College. In all, 100 health workers, mostly doctors, will be vaccinated at the medical college. An equal number of health workers will be administered the vaccine at Tata Main Hospital," said East Singhbhum district civil surgeon R.N. Jha From Sunday, vaccinations will be conducted at 11 other places, including Sadar hospital in Khasmahal, Birsanagar urban community health centre and  other health centres in the remaining blocks. The civil surgeon said logistics pertaining to the vaccination drive were in place, and a dozen committees had been set up to ensure there is no hitch. The district health department has already carried out two dry runs for the Covid vaccination drive _--_ on January 2 and January 8 -- at 13 health hubs across East Singhbhum district, including the private-run Tata Main Hospital. On Wednesday, the first lot of 8,700 vials of the vaccine, Covishield, reached the steel city. It has been kept at the district cold storage. District surveillance officer Sahir Pal said the first lot vaccines was only for health workers. “The first recipients will be health workers, which include doctors and nurses, and the frontline workers. Others will get the vaccine after the next lot reaches us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Loyola School launches platinum jubilee bash||Loyola School, Jamshedpur kicked off its platinum jubilee celebrations on its premises in Beldih on Friday by conducting a small event, involving teachers, Jesuits, and members of the school’s alumni association. Although the school has a lot of plans for its platinum jubilee year, the celebrations will entirely depend on the Covid-19 situation. The entire function of about 20 minutes was graced by the Jesuits, primarily to announce the commencement of the celebrations. The programme on Friday included a welcome speech, release of balloons and pigeons as a mark of the platinum jubilee and vote of thanks. Father Jerome Cutinha, the Provincial of the Jamshedpur Jesuit Society declared the opening of the platinum jubilee celebrations. The school has ambitious plans for marking the year in a special way. The celebrations will culminate in the grand closing ceremony, which is scheduled to be held in December with the get-together of alumni members. “Loyola for its students is an emotion and a way of life, more than just a school. We hope to have a spectacular platinum jubilee. All are hopeful that the situation will become normal so that the celebrations may take place as planned. We would want to take one step at a time seeing the Covid situation,” said Rajiv Talwar, the senior vice president of Loyola Alumni Association and chairman for the Platinum Jubilee Organising Committee. His words assumed significance as former students of the school and members of the Loyola Alumni Association had a golden walk down memory lane as they reminisced about their growing years in the portals of the institution. Loyola School was founded in 1947 and is managed by the Jesuits of the Society of Jesus. The day school with about 3200 students from KG to Std. XII offers Arts, Science and Commerce at the higher secondary school level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Shifting process of RSP College expedited||The ongoing shifting process of RSP College from its existing place at Belgaria to Nunudih in Jharia has gained momentum after state coordinator of Rashtriya Uchchtar Shikhas Abhiyan Shambhu Dayal Singh, in a letter, asked the Jharkhand State Building Construction Limited (JSBCL) to appoint an architect for the construction and renovation of new and old buildings respectively. Under the initiative of Rashtriya Uchchattar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), a holistic scheme of development for higher education in India initiated in 2013 by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, an amount of Rs 2 crore has been approved for the renovation and construction work. Singh said, “The architect will visit the site at Nunudih where Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) has issued NOC for the construction of the new building on 13.5 acres of land and prepare the detailed project report for both the buildings.” “The project report will be submitted before the board of governors of the college after which the funds will be sanctioned to JSBCL,” said Singh. “An amount of Rs 2 crore was approved for the college development in 2015-16 and the institution had also received a part of it. However, the remaining amount could not be provided as the college had planned to shift in 2017 because of the underground fire threat,” Singh said. The college is operating in a two-storey building of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority at Belgaria. Jai Naryan Singh, principal of RSP College, said, “We have already launched the counselling centre or the regional office of RSP College at the BCCL building in Nunudih on  November 25 last year. Students can get their college leaving certificates and admission  forms from the office.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||On Day One, 4,800 to get vaccine across state||Around 4,800 people across 48 centres in Jharkhand will be immunised on Saturday, the inaugural day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive which will be launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 10.30 am from Delhi. In Ranchi, chief minister Hemant Soren will be present at the Sadar hospital vaccine centre to oversee the proceedings and interact with a few beneficiaries, said deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan, The drive will take place at 48 centres against the earlier plan of 129 centres, and at each centre 100 beneficiaries would be immunised. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the number of centres had been trimmed following directives from the Union government. “We had readied 129 centres for the vaccination drive with a plan to inoculate 100 at each centre. However, the Union government has asked us to limit the number of centres so that drive can be managed rationally. Hence, every district will conduct a vaccination drive at two centres to begin with,” he said. Jharkhand has received 1,62,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. One vial contains 5ml which will serve 10 doses. Each beneficiary will have to be given 0.5ml. An official of the state chapter of the National Health Mission said, “Each vial contains doses for 10 people. Since each vial has to be exhausted in four hours of its opening, we have to be very careful that it doesn’t get wasted. Although the government has conducted awareness camps for selected beneficiaries as a part of confidence building measures, there are chances that many may have second thoughts for fear of side-effects. Hence, we need to be cautious.” He said districts were, however, free to conduct a vaccination drive at two centres everyday if required. “Every registered beneficiary will get an sms in advance about the time and place of the inoculation,” the official said. In Ranchi, the vaccine will be administered at Sadar hospital and the health centre at Namkum. On Friday, deputy commissioner Ranjan and his team took stock of preparations. “We are ready. At each vaccine centre, five persons—four vaccine officers and a vaccinator _ will be deployed. This apart, a sufficient number of security guards and volunteers will be present to ensure proper social distancing,” he said. Ranchi’s Sadar hospital and Jamshedpur’s MGM hospital have been equipped with webcasting facilities for the authorities, both in Ranchi and Delhi, can monitor proceedings. District administration sources maintained that the Prime Minister may also choose to interact with beneficiaries. As many as 10,000 beneficiaries have been identified for vaccination in the first phase in Ranchi. The state government has identified 99.89 lakh for receiving the vaccine of which about 1.25 lakh, mostly health workers, will be vaccinated in the first phase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||100 sanitation workers to get vaccine first in Dhanbad||The Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin in Dhanbad from Saturday at the community health centres in Tundi and Topchanchi where 100 cleanliness workers will be vaccinated on the first day. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has confirmed it at the district collectorate on Friday and said that as many as 16,000 health workers have been registered for vaccination in the first phase. “The vaccination will begin at 10:30 am on Saturday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch it virtually from New Delhi. Around 100 cleanliness workers at each of the two centres will be vaccinated,” said Singh. “In the second phase, frontline workers, district administration officials, police officials and many others will be vaccinated,” he said, adding that the people will get information about the vaccination through SMSes and calls. “People will be vaccinated after their physical examination,” said Singh. He also instructed the district control room officials, police and block-level officials to act firmly against rumour-mongers. “The vaccination will be carried out with extra precaution and care. According to the standard operating procedure, three clean and sanitized rooms, uninterrupted electricity supply, high-speed internet access, proper arrangement of cleanliness and sanitation, drinking water, sanitiser and webcasting facility will be available at both the centres,” Singh said. “All the arrangements have been made to deal with any emergency at Sadar Hospital and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College,” said Singh. Meanwhile, a dry run was also conducted at both the centres on Friday. On January 8, the dry run was carried out at nine centres of the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Olympic association, Tata Steel to join hands to groom Olympics probables||Jharkhand Olympic Association (JOA) is keen to work in tandem with Tata Steel sports wing in Jamshedpur to prepare athletes for the 2028 and 2032 Olympic Games. Both the parties have also planned to sign Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to give a direction to their initiative. “The talks are in the initial stage, but the Tatas have given positive indications. We are keen to support Tata Steel in channelising the talents and prepare them for big-ticket competitions. It’s a long-term plan, but talks with Tatas have been positive,” a JOA official said on condition of anonymity. Earlier this week, JOA general secretary MK Pathak also spoke to Tata sports officials in this connection. When contacted, Pathak said he held a meeting with Tata Steel sports wing chief Farzan Heerjee and other officials. “The discussion revolved around how to bring talents to the fore. We are keen to help out the Tatas in this direction. I have also suggested to revive the Tata Athletics Academy and set up a boxing cradle. Things are moving in a positive direction,” he said. “The Tata athletics cradle is lying defunct for over a decade now. We will prepare a draft (of the MOU) and send it to Tata Steel sports wing. Officials will study it before seeking approval from the company management. It’s a long process, but things should take a positive shape in future,” Pathak, who is also a treasurer of Athletics Federation of India, said. Pathak said they want to join hands with Tatas keeping in mind the 2028 and 2032 Olympic Games. “Athletics and boxing can bring us medals in the Olympics. I have also suggested Tatas to create facilities for shooters, who can also win medals,” he said. Pathak, who is also the president of Jharkhand Athletics Association, said JOA would provide all necessary support to Tata Steel sports wing. “We can help to bring in foreign coaches by approaching the Indian Olympics Association and AFI. The selection process of athletes would be handled by the Tatas. Being the apex sports body of the state, we want to extend supports so that athletes can be prepared in a structured and professional manner,” Pathak said. He said, “Tatas have all required facilities and infrastructure to prepare athletes for the Olympics. They have a rich history in sports, and JOA is very keen to extend its support. We are expecting positive results as more meetings will be held in this connection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Recoveries outpace fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases for the second consecutive day in Jharkhand on Thursday, bringing the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection closer to 1300, figures compiled by the heath department highlighted. As many as 144 people were found infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, while 173 patients suffering from the infection recovered during the same period, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi, the district with highest number of Covid cases, accounted for more than half of the cases that surfaced across Jharkhand on the day. The district reported 77 cases against 84 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases here down to 653, the NHM bulletin revealed. Apart from Ranchi, only East Singhbhum reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. The number of active cases shot up at 166 on Thursday as the district reported 27 fresh cases against 17 recoveries. Dhanbad reported nine cases, while Bokaro reported six cases on the day. At least seven of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection on the day. After Thursday's test results, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum had more than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 12133 people and more than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 50.16 lakh people and tested 50.06 lakh of them, highlights data with the health department. As per government data, as many as 117384 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus so far in Jharkhand and 97.97 per cent of them have recovered. However, at least 1048 people could not survive the viral infection in the state. No Covid-19 casualties were reported in Jharkhand on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.12 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus was 598.36 days in Jharkhand against the national average of 513.91 days, highlights the NHM bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi MP meets health minister on new colleges||Ranchi’s BJP MP Sanjay Seth requested Union health minister and National Medical Council (NMC) chairman to allow admission to the three new medical colleges of Jharkhand that has been kept on hold after chief minister Hemant Soren did so earlier. “I met Union health minister Harshvardhanji yesterday (Wednesday) and NMC chairman Dr Sharma today,” Seth informed The Telegraph over the phone from New Delhi on Thursday, adding he had requested both of them to reconsider their decision of stopping admission process in those colleges and allow it to go on now. “I also request the state government to remove the shortcomings so that the bottleneck is removed at the earliest,” the MP further said. “I appeal the new batch (of students) be allowed to take admission and time be given to the local authorities to rectify the shortcomings in a time bound and monitored manner,” Seth said in a letter he handed over personally to the health minister. “.... in this competitive world any such last minute deprivation of large number of seats came as a jolt to students and (their) parents,” he further said in the letter, requesting reconsideration as “lot of government decisions in all sectors have been relaxed because of the mammoth task of managing the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic”. Those three colleges were set up under a Centrally sponsored scheme at Daltonjanj, Hazaribagh and Dumka and the first batch of students were admitted in 2019. But the NMC stopped the admission process of 300 students, 100 in each of those three, in 2020, citing lack of faculty and infrastructure. Following this, chief minister Soren had written to NMC chairman in November 2020 and also to the Union health minister the next month, requesting them to reconsider the decision and allow admission process. “The state is fully aware and committed to fulfilment of the NMC norms. However, certain finishing work in building infrastructure and installation of equipment and furniture etc could not be completed due to the lockdown imposed in March (2020),” Soren had informed the NMC chairman and assured those would be done shortly. The vacant position of staff and faculty was also being addressed, he had further assured, adding they were also in the process of making certain amendments in the recruitment policy so that vacant positions of senior faculty could also be filled up. But the efforts of the chief minister did not yield any positive results. The Ranchi branch of Indian Medical Association then decided to request the MPs elected from the state to take up the issue with the Union government so that the deserving students were not deprived. Accordingly, they approached Ranchi MP Seth and the latter met both the Union health minister and NMC chairman and requested them personally to reconsider the NMC decision of holding back the admission process in those three colleges. “We all are for admission of those students but they will actually be benefitted only if the basic infrastructure is improved,” said a faculty member at one of those colleges, adding the state government must appoint adequate faculty members and complete infrastructure without further delay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
15-01-2021||Jharkhand||Prime suspect held for girl's murder at Ormanhji ||Ranchi police on Thursday arrested the main accused in the murder of a woman whose body with head severed was recovered from a forest at Ormanjhi on the outskirts of the Jharkhand capital on January 3. A police team arrested history-sheeter Sheikh Bilal early on Thursday morning from a friend’s house at Pancha village under Ormanjhi police station where he was hiding. Ranchi rural superintendent of police Naushad Alam Ansari confirmed the arrest. “We have arrested Sheikh Bilal, who has been to jail for cases of murder, under the Arms Act and other such cases in the past. We are questioning him at the moment. We are also trying to apprehend other accomplices involved in the crime as it is not possible for a single man to commit the crime in the manner in which it was done,” said Ansari, who led the police team which arrested Bilal. A source said that the accused was keeping a tab on the activities of the police through newspaper and TV. “We found several vernacular newspapers at the house where he was hiding since the day of the crime. There was also a TV in his room. He had cleverly switched off his mobile soon after committing the crime to ensure he could not be traced. However, we got a tip-off and searched the house early in the morning,” the source added. On January 12, the police finally managed to recover the woman’s head from the field of Bilal. “The head was kept in a mound of salt so that it does not emit foul smell and get decomposed soon. It was identified by the parents of the woman as that of Shufia Perveen, first wife of the prime suspect Sheikh Bilal. There had been frequent quarrels between the two of late,” added Ansari. Protests had broken out in the state following the “gruesome” incident. The BJP had termed the incident as “more gruesome than the Nirbhaya case” and claimed the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand had “failed miserably” to provide protection to women in the state. During one such protest at Kishoreganj Chowk in Ranchi on January 4 evening, the convoy of chief minister Soren was attacked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-172
