16-01-2021||Calcutta||73-year-old murdered at Calcutta home||A 73-year-old man was found murdered in his flat in a congested neighbourhood in central Calcutta’s Phears Lane on Friday afternoon. Police said Ayub Fida Ali Aga was found with his throat slit and bleeding from the head on his first-floor flat around 4.30pm. His daughter-in-law found the flat door latched from outside when she arrived to meet him. “A blood-stained vegetable knife and a pressure cooker with blood all over were found at the spot. It appears both were used to kill the man,” said an officer of Bowbazar police station. Aga lived in the flat with daughter Tehera, who had left for office around 10am. She said Rs 2 lakh and some jewellery were missing from cupboards, which had been ransacked. Police said small bags containing money were found at the spot. “The fact that no one heard anything unusual suggests the victim did not raise any alarm. It seems the assailant was known to the accused,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||A college driven by a dream to excel and expand||St Xavier’s College will turn 162 on Saturday. Past and present students and teachers of the institution came together to celebrate the eve of the 161st anniversary of the foundation day on the Park Street campus on Friday. The Jesuit priests at the gathering included Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, and former principals Father Felix Raj and Father PC Mathew. The programme was organised by the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association Remembering St Xavier’s College is to take a quiet walk back to the ’50s and ’60s when it was happy and content to be a college that stood quietly apart as a centre of unassuming excellence in academics, sports, theatre and music. In the turbulent ’60s and ’70s, St Xavier’s, just down the road from the swinging nightlife of Park Street, also stood apart as an oasis of tranquillity surrounded but untouched by the passionate and sometimes violent ideologies of student movements. Some things do not change. St Xavier’s is still an oasis of tranquillity, still a bastion of discipline, still an institution committed to academic quality and all-round excellence. But the college is no longer happy and content to stand quietly apart. The college is driven by a dream to expand and excel. The dream began a long time ago, in 1978, when the college took the momentous decision to become co-educational. Enrolment almost immediately doubled, especially in the arts departments. But it was in the ’90s that the college began to push the limits of its ambition to grow and develop and strike ahead into the future. The 21st century vision encompasses the continuing improvement of academic quality as a centre imparting education of international merit to compete on a global platform and attract the best students and teachers from India and abroad. This vision began to be implemented gradually. From the late ’90s, new departments began to be added; an undergraduate management degree course was introduced; postgraduate departments followed in commerce and science; integrated MSc programmes were initiated; and the grand culmination of this academic drive was the start of doctoral courses in select departments. To encourage research, the college made provision for seed money to promising research initiatives. Since 2017, postgraduate departments have been added in English, political science, economics and sociology. Courses in data science, history and chemistry are on the anvil. Soon, all departments of the college will be ready to offer PG and PhD courses to provide students with a seamless academic transition and varying points of exit. The academic vision now also has a broader scope. It is to introduce popular, cutting-edge programmes at both UG and PG level. This departure from traditional courses in the basic sciences, humanities and commerce is part of the vision to make the college contemporary and relevant to make it an exciting and attractive destination for students looking for new kinds of academic experience and training. Such growth and expansion requires constant upgrade of infrastructure. As a Heritage College, we cannot alter existing structures; yet the continuing expansion requires additional space for classrooms, laboratories, canteens, and other conveniences. The college library was shifted to the old hostel premises, which now also houses the BEd department in a separate and self-contained facility. Smart classrooms, a Wellness Centre, more toilets, a modern canteen with an extension outside the library, have all been part of the modernisation and improvement of infrastructure. Old labs have been upgraded; new labs like the finance lab and the Central Research Facility, which is open to students and scholars from other colleges and institutes, have been set up to ensure research and development. The faculty are offering valuable consultancy services through Consultancy Cell, which is strengthening the industry-academia collaboration. To accommodate the physical demands of further growth, the college plans to create another campus on EM Bypass. Vision 2025 will transform this campus into a communication hub and include multimedia and mass communication departments. Other PG departments will also be accommodated here to free space on the Park Street campus. Embedded into this growth were triggers that acted as catalysts to change. The year 2006, when the college was granted autonomy, can be considered as a momentous turning point. The college, still indelibly linked to its mother-university, had to learn to function as an independent institution charting its course, looking to the future, and establishing new systems. The first step towards this was to create a new curricular structure that departed from the older 1+1+1 system. The transition to a semester system was a challenge that required administration and faculty to reconfigure the old traditions of teaching and learning. There were inevitable teething problems but the college quickly found its feet, and put in place new systems of governance, administration, pedagogy, assessment and examination. The proof that the college is following the right path of excellence lies in the fact that we have been placed in 10th position in 2019 by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) among the colleges nationwide. We got more encouraged and pulled our strings up to work harder when we moved up in ranking to 7th in 2020. Other triggers have set up landmark years: the declaration of St Xavier’s as a Centre of Excellence; the granting of heritage status; and most recently ISO certification of the quality of education, infrastructure and opportunity. The college sees these as natural and inevitable steps in the ladder of progress. It has meant a change in the fundamental character of the college. Back in 1978, the college had a very different face. It was almost bucolic in its leafy verdant greens that by 4pm would be deserted and empty. The green benches, still untouched by time and change, stood quietly watching the last stragglers walking to the backgate on their way home. A solemn stillness would fall on the evening campus and the shadows in the dim corridors would lengthen. The whizzing swallows which had made the corridors home would fly in to nest. A solitary light from the physics lab on the second floor cast an empty pool of lonely light. The college was redolent with an atmosphere of scholarship and learning that belonged to another age. Now, 4pm today is abuzz with activity as the evening’s commerce classes begin. At the Entrepreneurship Development Cell where the students remain busy with brilliant start-up ideas and their implementations after their regular class hours. The college has a different feel. It remembers where it came from and will continue to hold a candle to the past, knowing that it defines and strengthens us as we hold our direction boldly to the future, keeping pace with time and technology and market realities. At the same time, it does not allow us to swerve from the humanistic essence of the Jesuit vision, which is to take the benefits of education to the poor and marginalised and to bridge the rural-urban divide and offer higher education to deserving and meritorious students irrespective of caste and creed. For this reason, the college is continuing its investment and endowments in new buildings and infrastructure at the rural campus at Raghabpur for students from rural backgrounds, many of whom are first-generation learners. The success of the Raghabpur project is the affirmation and consecration of the Jesuit ideals which give force and structure to the overall vision for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Kamala: A beautiful story comes to an end||Kasturi Gupta Menon speaks about Kamala with a quiet maternal pride. She is conducting a tour of the landmark handloom and handicrafts store in the city that she has been looking after since 2010. The store is only one large L-shaped room at the ICCR building in Ho Chi Minh Street, but the tour takes long, because Menon stops at every shelf, every display, and describes every handpicked sari and object in detail, and every description ends in a story. The Bengal taant saris alone come in at least three varieties: Phulia (for Tangail) and Shantipur in Nadia and Begampur in Hooghly. Some customers will drop in only for the Barmer curtains with their delicate applique work of white on white, which also hang in the store, illuminating the glass front. The Kullu shawls, beautiful and affordable, are vanishing fast. A small, buttoned pouch, open at both ends, with Sanganeri print, works as a cable organiser. It is simple, beautiful and efficient: the perfect design. Menon and her team have given the store their time, love and care. But now it is about to close down. On Saturday it starts its closing sale. The pandemic has taken its toll. Kamala in Calcutta was started in 2008. A former IAS officer who had been development commissioner, handicrafts and handlooms, at the ministry of textiles at the Centre, and had retired as principal secretary of the planning commission, Menon took over Kamala’s charge in 2012 and brought to it the passion and experience of a lifetime spent among India’s arts, crafts and textiles. Kamala is the craft outlet of Crafts Council of India (CCI), a registered society started by Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Menon is its current honorary president as well. CCI is headquartered in Chennai and has decided principally that after the losses incurred during the lockdown, Kamala in Calcutta cannot be operational in the future. This is most unfortunate for many reasons, feel many. One, with the shutting down of Kamala, Calcutta will lose another beloved landmark. Kamala was like a little oasis in the middle of a dreary workday, not far away from a dreary work district. Handmade cloth and objects offer an odd comfort. Two, and more important, the closing down comes at a time when it hurts most. The store sources its stock from weavers and craftsmen all over India. “We get our stock from artisans in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, as well as from the interiors of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. And also from other craft-rich states in India such as Karnataka, Gujarat and Rajasthan,” says Menon. The lacquered toys from Chennapatna in Karnataka are a delight. The Calcutta store has stocked the works of thousands of weavers and craftsmen, many of them National Award winners and members of co-operatives. The handloom and crafts sector have been among the worst-hit during the pandemic. To close a store like Kamala is going to be a second blow to them. Chattopadhyay’s vision has guided the Kamala stores, which are located in Chennai and Delhi, other than in Calcutta. “She was deeply interested in the question of crafts as a livelihood,” says Menon. Chattopadhyay, who was instrumental in setting up Sangeet Natak Akademi and National School of Drama, was also the driving force behind the revival of arts and crafts in independent India, including the establishment of Central Cottage Industries. She was also a founding member of All India Women’s Conference. “Under her influence, the craft sectors got a lot of money allocated to them in the 1st and 2nd Five Year Plans,” says Menon. They were also recognised as livelihood generating sectors and given equal weightage as agriculture. Chattopadhyay saw the crafts as functional, Menon adds. They are a part of our everyday activities, our worship, and also integral to forms of culture such as theatre and dance, but ignored ordinarily by capital. “So it is more important that a store in her name should not close down now, when craftsmen need the most help,” says Menon. Chattopadhyay had a special connection with the Bengal crafts. In the 1940s, after the famine, she was visiting Bankura, and staying with Menon’s family, when she spotted two old terracotta horses that belonged to one of the family attendants. She liked them so much that she got them as a gift from the attendant. These “Bankura horses” became an icon as the logo of Cottage Industries. “Kamala should not be closed down,” stresses Ruby Palchoudhuri, who heads Crafts Council of West Bengal. It was Palchoudhuri’s idea to set up a Kamala store in Calcutta. She has always been a part of Kamala in Calcutta in a very supportive role in all its events. Kamala has hosted four events through the year, bringing much joy: Poila Baishak was for saris; Patram, held in July, was for household and lifestyle objects; the Puja event was for saris; and Christmas was about gifts of various kinds. The store not only sourced traditional handicrafts, but has also innovated. “Tradition is not enough,” says Menon. Kamala experimen-ted with the colour mauve — “panaphool rong”, the colour of water hyacinths — and pink, and silver grey with the Shantipur weavers. Tradition evolves, says Menon. It is not a static thing. The same weave changes from village to village. The craft is inseparable from its makers and is coloured by the environment, literally. Such interactions with the craftsmen go far beyond just the market. “We went into their homes, ate with them.” It was a vital connection. Kamala may close down, but its last collection is still on display, if for a few days. Menon resumes her tour. A cluster of perfectly finished ladles are from Bankura, made of Akashmoni wood, and also from Burdwan. A set of exquisite weaves are from Bhagalpur. At one side, lies a bunch of Gondh paintings. Their colours are vibrant and their patterns delicate and fine. Why then the distinction between art and craft? “This is art,” says Menon. “The artist, Ramkumar Tekam, had not sold a single piece when he brought them all over here,” she adds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Celsius takes sub-15 plunge after 10 days||The Celsius plunged to 14.5 degrees in Calcutta on Friday, going under 15 degrees for the first time in 10 days and living up to the January reputation. The minimum temperature on January 5 was 13.4 degrees. Ten days of 15-degree plus minimum temperatures in January is extremely unusual in Calcutta, said Met officials. The warm spell was triggered by a strong Western Disturbance over north and northwest India, that had stalled the flow of north-westerly winds across northern parts of India. The system has since dissipated, leading to a fresh flow of north-westerly winds from Jammu and Kashmir, which has been witnessing heavy snowfall. After the long warm spell, cold winds have started making their effect felt in Calcutta again from Wednesday. The woollens are back to being visible on roads over the past couple of days. The Met forecast is mixed — the temperature is tipped to slide marginally over the next 48 hours, then climb up again before another plunge. “The temperature is expected to be around 14 degrees on Saturday as well. Sunday morning will also be cold. But from Sunday evening, the temperature is expected to rise again,” said a Met official. A trough of low pressure, tipped to reach Bay of Bengal over the next couple of days, will trigger the flow of easterly and south-easterly winds from the sea towards the direction of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh from Sunday. The moisture-laden winds will again stall the flow of north-westerly winds from Kashmir, the official said. “The winds (from the Bay) will not directly head towards south Bengal. But they will stall the north-westerly winds that bring chill to Calcutta,” he added. The only hope in the forecast — the warm spell is expected to be brief. “The trough is expected to dissipate soon. The warm spell should not last beyond a couple of days. From January 20-21, cold winds will enter Calcutta again and the Celsius will go south,” the Met official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Refund and damages order for 2 Calcutta  hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Thursday asked AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria to refund Rs 3.19 lakh to the family of a man who was admitted to the hospital with Covid. The hospital had billed the patient Rs 9.34 lakh for a stay of 11 days. The commission also asked Bandhan Hospital in Nadia’s Krishnagar to pay Rs 3 lakh as compensation to the family of a man who was admitted there after meeting with a road accident. The man was kept at the hospital for two days without proper treatment, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “A 74-year-old man was admitted to AMRI Dhakuria on July 12. He was on a ventilator from the first day and passed away after 11 days. The hospital had billed the patient Rs 9.34 lakh for the treatment,” said Banerjee. “We examined the bill and found that the hospital had charged Remdesivir (a drug) at the maximum retail price (MRP). Besides, they could not justify why they had given the patient the costlier version of Meropenem (a drug).” The commission had issued an advisory in August asking private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the MRP of medicines and consumables. It had also asked private hospitals to offer patients cheaper versions of a drug unless the doctor prescribed the costlier version. “AMRI Dhakuria could not justify why it had offered the patient the costlier version of Meropenem,” said Banerjee. The commission also found that the cost of some pathology tests like liver function test and blood gas test was very high. “The test costs were twice or thrice than what we considered as reasonable rates. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 3.19 lakh to the patient’s family,” he said. As for Bandhan Hospital, the commission said: “A man was admitted there after meeting with a road accident. His family alleged they wanted to take him to a government hospital but a friend of the driver of the ambulance they had hired suggested Bandhan. At the hospital, the man received no treatment, because of which his condition deteriorated.” The man was later shifted to another hospital. The commission had ordered a probe against the hospital. The probe, conducted by the district administration, found that the hospital “was run with quacks”. The hospital was shut down but reopened after hiring qualified doctors. “We have asked the hospital to give Rs 3 lakh to the man as compensation,” said Banerjee. The commission also asked Sankarnath Dialysis Centre in Tollygunge’s Swiss Park to offer Rs 20,000 as compensation to a patient and RSV Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 13,000 on a bill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Bagbazar fire ravages dreams and life savings||Chumki Samadder was staring at her burnt books and weeping inconsolably on Friday morning. The home in Bagbazar that the student of history shared with her mother was gutted in the devastating blaze on Wednesday night. Chumki was at home when the fire broke out. She and her mother ran out but could not take anything with them. “We ran to the main road near Sanjeevani Hospital. The next day, when we were allowed to go, there was nothing left. No books. No clothes. No utensils,” said Chumki. “We tried to rummage through the contents of our almirah, but there was nothing left. I found a bag which contained my certificates. They were half burnt,” said Chumki. The almirah also contained saris and some jewellery that her mother had been saving for years for Chumki’s wedding. None of that was intact. Chumki’s father had passed away in September, following a prolonged illness. Her mother runs a tea stall in front of their home, which was also gutted. Chumki’s mother could only study till Class IX but she has been relentlessly trying to ensure that her daughter completes her education. NGO Calcutta Rescue, which has been helping Chumki continue her studies, stepped in to help beneficiaries in the area. But it will take long to rebuild their lives, said Ananya Chatterjee, the school administrator of the NGO. “We can give them clothes and ration. But we cannot restore their life savings,” she said. Chatterjee said the fire had left Chumki “shocked”. “Everything has been damaged and it will take so many years to get things back again,” said Chumki. Chatterjee said they would have to provide moral support too. “We are counselling her that she would be able to get her life back on track. She will complete her graduation in a few months and with a vocational training in computers, she will be able to get a job.” On Friday, some of the teachers of the NGO  went with clothes and handed them to some of the beneficiaries. The NGO also supports Sharmila Mondal, a Class IX student whose house has been gutted, too. Sharmila’s father is a bus driver. Her mother Mamta, who works as a domestic help, tried to pull out a trunk that contained their valuables — two gold earrings and a silver trinket. “But my husband stopped me... everything is gone,” said Mamta. The neighbourhood includes two other families who are cardholders of the medical unit of the NGO. The NGO had offered the families a temporary place to stay but they refused to move from the area. “They are scared that if they go, they might lose their space in the area,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Calcutta||Doctors speak on the eve of the Covid vaccine rollout||Three doctors spoke to The Telegraph on the eve of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Here are their views:  Arunabha Sengupta, 65, professor of ENT at SSKM Hospital: I have been informed by the health department that I will get Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. I am very happy. I will definitely take the vaccine and request everyone else to take it. There are some people, including a few doctors I know, who are saying they don’t want to take the Covid vaccine in the first phase fearing adverse reactions. But as health-care workers, we should know that most drugs, including some of the commonest ones like paracetamol and vitamin pills, can trigger adverse effects. But does that stop us from having these medicines? I have spoken to two of my students who are doctors in the UK and who have taken Covishield. Both said they didn’t have any side-effect and urged me to take the vaccine. I have suffered from severe Covid infection and underwent physical and mental trauma. I was admitted to AMRI Salt Lake on May 11 and was in the intensive care unit for 18 days. The unit had four beds, and the other three Covid patients had died. My condition had turned critical, too. I could not see patients for a month after returning home. I don’t want to go through that trauma again and so I want to take the vaccine. I have co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes and COPD. Next time I have Covid, it can be fatal. Dulal Basu, 77, ENT surgeon: I had tested positive for Covid on October 22 and was admitted to Peerless Hospital for 10 days. Recently, I got tested for Covid antibody and the levels were quite high. So, I can do without a vaccine for maybe a month or two. That is why I decided not to take the vaccine in this phase. I feel that everyone should take a Covid-19 vaccine as that is the most effective way to fight the pandemic. Since I have developed strong antibodies against Covid, I want to make way for a colleague who has not been infected by the virus. I have heard limited doses of the vaccine have arrived and so it will be unethical of me to get the vaccine now despite knowing that I have developed antibodies. My colleagues, especially those who are treating Covid patients, should get priority. So many of them have sacrificed their family lives for all these months. Many have elderly parents and children at home but still they are discharging their duties in Covid wards. Many people are talking about side-effects. I think there is no reason for concern as data reveals the reactions are mostly not severe. lso, the vaccine will be administered under medical surveillance. So, any adverse effect will be dealt with immediately.I will get another antibody test done after a month. If I see the levels have fallen, I will take the vaccine. Ajoy Krishna Sarkar, 62, respiratory and critical care expert: Till Friday evening, I did not receive any message from the health department about when I will get the vaccine. Once I get the message, I will take Covishield on the designated day. But I also want to know why will there not be multiple vaccines to choose from? There will be many who want to pay and get vaccinated. Given a chance, I would have gone for a vaccine whose efficacy is more than Covishield. I had suffered from Covid and had almost collapsed in my home. I was in the hospital for 13 days. I had experienced the severity of Covid-19 infection and would definitely take Covishield because that is the only available option for the time being. But once other vaccines with more efficacy are available, I will again get myself vaccinated. I want to make it clear that I am not doubting the quality of the vaccine that is being given. Many people are raising doubts about these vaccines because approvals came in less than a year after trials began. Usually, it takes almost 10 years to get a vaccine. But we must not forget the world had not seen a pandemic like this. So, huge funds were made available for development of Covid-19 vaccines. All vaccines have undergone proper trials for safety and efficacy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
16-01-2021||Business||Newsprint publishers seek waiver in customs duty||Newsprint cost has jumped 20 per cent in the last three months due to demand-supply imbalance post-pandemic, prompting news publishers to petition the government for waiver of 5 per cent import duty to help cut cost. The industry has been hit hard due to COVID-19 led disruptions and the most newspapers have stopped sending newspapers to rural areas where there is less than 50 copies to reduce the distribution cost, said the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) President L Adimoolam. In a representation to the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday ahead of the forthcoming union budget, INS has suggested to take steps as to reduce the customs duty on import of newsprints, a stimulus package for the industry or at least to help the publications by releasing advertisement with an increased tariff of 50 per cent. "If working out a stimulus package for print media is difficult at this juncture, DAVP (Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity) may please consider releasing advertisement for all its departments to all publications with an increased tariff of 50 per cent, which would be highly helpful for the industry as a whole," the INS representation said. It has also asked to extend the validity of RNI (Registrar of Newspapers for India) Circulation Certificates up to March 31, 2022 which will enable DAVP rates to remain the same till next year. It is estimated that the print media would take two or three years to recover from the current situation, the INS added. When asked about the situation, Adimoolam told PTI: "We have been asking for the stimulus package. The government is helping a few industries with stimulus packages. We are (also) expecting some stimulus." Several newspapers have taken cost-cutting efforts and many editions are closed, the number of pages have been reduced and people have lost jobs. Several small papers have also closed down, Adimoolam added. According to him, the newspaper distribution has become very costly. "Sending newspaper to remote and small villages is being slowly reduced. The newspaper reaches only to a nearby town. Villages would be deprived of the news," he said. After the pandemic, reportedly 3 million tonnes of newsprint capacities have been closed or converted to brown paper grades worldwide, resulting in a demand-supply imbalance. The Indian publishers continue to be dependent on imported newsprint, due to insufficient domestic capacity/output and poor quality. "Prices of newsprint have shot up by 20 per cent in the last 3 months. Another increase of 10-15 per cent is in the anvil next month which will severely impact the Publishers," said the INS in the memorandum adding that domestic producers are severely under-stocked on their raw materials to supply adequate quantities. Moreover, leading domestic producers such as Emami Paper Mill, Khanna Paper and Shree Rama Newsprint have already increased their prices by Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per metric tonnes. Requesting to remove 5 per cent customs duty from import, the INS said it will utmost yield Rs 200 crore to the government exchequer in the next fiscal year. "But in view of the grim situation, it would be a great relief for the print industry, if the government can consider abolishing the Customs Duty on import of newsprint, it said. However, the Indian Newsprint Manufacturers Association (INMA), which represents newsprint industry such as Emami Paper Mill, Khanna Paper and Shree Rama Newsprint, has said that enough capacity is available and the domestic industry is having full potential to provide unstinted support to print media. "Domestic industry has full potential to meet the demand in terms of quantity and quality. During COVID-19 lockdown, it is the only domestic industry which came forward to support consumers," said INMA Secretary-General Vijay Kumar. The domestic new print industry is facing the issue of under-utilisation of the installed capacity as more than 75 per cent market share of the newsprint has been captured by cheap imports and dumping in India by the foreign companies. When asked about the reason for such situation, Kumar said import duty exemption was availed by spreading a false narrative about domestic produce. "Encouraging unethical import trade including stock and trade business dissuading domestic produce for want of cheap imports a demand-supply gap was created. Such exemption and unethical imports denied a level playing field to the domestic industry," he added. The INMA has also filed anti-dumping plea and an investigation was initiated by Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) on January 20, 2020, and final measures are awaited. "We understand that DGTR has sought an extension of 5 months for completing their study on the anti-dumping case on newsprint. We request this extension of time be allowed to DGTR for them to comprehensively study the case and submit their final report," said INS adding that it is hopeful that the report will establish that newsprint of 42 gsm (grams per sq metre) and below to be exempted from anti-dumping as the same is not made in India. Even the quality of other grades of newsprint is very poor as compared to the imported newsprint, it added. As per the information available on the website of the INMA, the present domestic capacity of newsprint industry is 2.2 MTPA (million tonnes per annum) and over 1.5 MTPA is underutilisation due to continuous offloading of cheap imports. However, Adimoolam said "it's not true. Almost 100 per cent newsprints produced by the Indian manufactures are being consumed. Only the balance is imported." The Indian newsprint industry produces newsprints below 45 gsm and the most of the newspapers in India now use 40 gsm and 42.5 gsm, Adimoolam said. "Instead of 40 gsm, you would have to use 45 gsm (Indian newsprints) and it creates a 12 per cent difference in the cost. Moreover, quality of the Indian newsprints can not be compared with the international quality," he said adding that now the newspaper industry uses the high-speed machine for printing and the domestic newsprint has issues with that. Moreover, the Indian newsprint manufacturers still follow the BIS standards of 1990, which is almost three decades old, he added. The Indian newspaper industry required 2.5 MTPA and the domestic production is around 1 MTPA and the balance 1.5 MTPA is being imported by the publications, Adimoolam added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Insurance – Emerging as a true savior to restart responsibly||​At least once in our lives, we all have been advised to buy insurance, be it for life, health, and even before purchasing a new vehicle. Having an insurance cover, especially during trying times like today is a necessity. The world today is fighting a battle against the worst pandemic in human history. Protecting your family in times of the COVID-19 pandemic is not only essential but crucial for all. Buying the right insurance policy helps protect your family. For instance, health insurance can be used to meet the treatment expenditure in case you or your family member is contracted with the disease. Today, most of the insurance policies are offering COVID-19 cover, which ensures the buyer peace of mind by providing a financial cushion. But the majority of people shy away from buying insurance owing to questions like ‘Why, What, How Much and Do I really need insurance’. PNB MetLife understands the costumers’ dilemmas and believes in putting the customers’ needs first. Hence the insurer is constantly launching various digital initiatives, which help in simplifying the customer’s journey through the process of purchasing a policy. The insurer is a firm believer of the philosophy of circle of life which comes from the concept of need-based selling. This is essentially about developing products and solutions, which cater to the financial needs of customers at every stage of life. To help the consumers understand insurance better and to answer all these questions, PNB MetLife, in association with Anandabazar.com, is conducting a webinar on 27th Jan'21 at 3PM. Through this webinar, PNB MetLife wishes to open a dialogue with the masses of the region to enhance their awareness of insurance and their changing protection needs in a post-pandemic world. The webinar will be paneled by big stalwarts of the Insurance industry like Mr. Ashish Kumar Srivastava (MD & CEO, PNB MetLife), Mr. Anurag Somani (MD, Eureka Securities), etc. PNB MetLife has a strong Distribution Model. The company’s PAN-India presence along with multi-distribution channels allows customers to avail PNB MetLife’s services as per their convenience. The webinar talks exclusively about PNB MetLife’s expanding presence in West Bengal, through Punjab National Bank’s merger with United Bank of India, and how the same will enhance the customers’ association with the insurer suggesting the right life insurance plan. Its distribution channels include productive bancassurance relationships with their partners, and strong direct sales and agency channels that are actively managed through a consolidated operating model. What benefits can you draw from this Webinar? ● Decode the myths associated with insurance ● Types of insurance ● Why it is so important ● Contemporary health issues and how insurance can be a savior ● Insurance and tax benefit ● How PNB MetLife plans to expand its roots in West B​​engal with Punjab National Bank’s merger ● Guaranteed returns plan - Bengal’s favorite flavor of insurance To register for free, click here||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Indian economy continues to be ‘weak’: American brokerage||American brokerage BofA Securities on Friday said the Indian economy continues to be “weak”, pointing to activity indicators tracked by it. On the positive side, the brokerage said credit demand is bottoming out and the real lending rates adjusted for wholesale inflation are falling. “The bad news is that the continued drop in our BofA India Activity Indicator reinforces our view that the economy still remains weak,” the brokerage said in a note. The indicator fell (-) 0.6 per cent in November on top of the (-) 0.8 per cent decline in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Google sews up Fitbit deal||Google has completed its $2.1-billion acquisition of fitness-gadget maker Fitbit, a deal that could help the internet company grow even stronger while the US government regulators pursue an antitrust case aimed at undermining its power. Thursday’s completion of the acquisition comes 14 months after Google announced a deal that immediately raised alarms. Google makes most of its money by selling ads based on information it collects about its billions of users’ interests and whereabouts. Privacy watchdogs feared it might exploit Fitbit to peer even deeper into people’s lives. But Google wound up entering a series of commitments in Europe and other parts of the world pledging it won’t use the health and fitness data from Fitbit’s 29 million users to sell more ads. It insists it is more interested in adding Fitbit to its expanding arsenal of internet-connected products, which include smartphones, laptops, speakers, cameras and thermostats. “This deal has always been about devices, not data,” Rick Osterloh, Google’s senior vice-president of devices and services, wrote in a Thursday blog post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Tata arm show hints at sunny days in steel||A near six-fold increase in the net profit of Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, the first steel company to announce its quarterly results, may signal how the company’s parent Tata Steel and the other integrated players may fare in this results season. TSLPL, formerly Tata Sponge, posted a profit of Rs 304.39 crore in the third quarter compared with Rs 59.05 crore in the preceding quarter and Rs 112.90-crore loss in the same period last fiscal. The stock closed at a fresh 52-week high of Rs 859.85, up 20 per cent, or Rs 143.30. Shares of  Tata Metaliks, which will be merged with TSLPL, also rose 20 per cent to close at Rs 866.15. Odisha-based TSLPL is a subsidiary of Tata Steel Ltd, which holds a 74.91 per cent stake in the company. Experts say steel companies are expected to post better results in the third quarter than the second, backed by record prices of the alloy. “Integrated players such as Tata Steel and Steel Authority of India will benefit the most from the record prices as they procure iron ore at production cost. Those who buy iron ore from the market will also benefit as the extent of the rise in steel prices has been higher than that of iron ore cost per tonne of steel, adding to the spread in the EBIDTA margin,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head of corporate sector ratings at Icra. Benchmark hot-rolled coil (HRC) steel prices have rallied from the low of Rs 35,000 tonnes in July to Rs 50,000 tonnes by the end of December, an increase of Rs 15,000 per tonne. During the same period, NMDC raised iron ore (65.5 per cent ferrous content) prices from Rs 2,450 per tonne to Rs 5,200 per tonne by the middle of December, a hike by Rs 2,750 per tonne. Given that 1.7 tonnes of iron ore is required to produce a tonne of steel, the spread between the two has only gone up in the last six months. Moreover, prices of coking coal — the other crucial raw material — has remained benign during this period. Icra says the next fiscal would also be good for the ferrous players. The previous upcycle in the domestic steel industry lasted for only three quarters, beginning in Q4 of FY2018 and fizzling out during Q3 FY2019. “This time around, we believe that the upcycle could be more durable than the previous one, with the recovery being more broad-based across primary and secondary steelmakers and being led by a combination of both domestic and international factors,” Roy added. Benchmark steel prices have now reached Rs 58,000 a tonne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
16-01-2021||Business||Digital loans at Maruti Arena||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) has extended its online financing platform — Smart Finance — to its Arena customers across 30 cities. Earlier, the company had launched the digital financing platform for its Nexa customers only. With the Smart Finance programme, 24  of the 26 steps in buying a vehicle have been digitised, the company said. Smart Finance offers customers a one-stop shop for financing. The services include option to choose among a range of finance products based on customer needs, selecting the best-suited loan product, completion of all finance related formalities and the disbursal of loan online. The Maruti Suzuki website will act as a facilitator between the customer and the financier. Smart Finance also offers transparency in loan tracking as consumers will be able to check the status of the loan online at each stage of the process in real time. MSIL has partnered 12 financiers, including State Bank of India, HDFC Bank, Mahindra Finance, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Yes Bank. Subsequently, the company will bring on board other financiers. Shashank Srivastava, executive director (marketing and sales), Maruti Suzuki India, said, “We are overwhelmed with the response to our Smart Finance platform from our Nexa customers. Now, we want to extend the ease of a car buying journey for our Arena customers as well. With Smart Finance, we aim to reach out to a larger audience, assist them and make every stage of the loan process transparent.” Kia has unveiled its new brand and strategy which will see the company go beyond vehicle manufacturing to creating sustainable mobility solutions for customers. Removing “Motors” from its name (previously “Kia Motors Corporation”), Kia will expand in new and emerging business areas. Ho Sung Song, president and CEO of Kia Corporation, said: “At Kia, our vision is to create sustainable mobility solutions.” Skoda Auto India on Friday launched its refurbished sedan, the Superb. There are two variants of the Superb — the new SportLine as well as the Laurin & Klement — priced at Rs 31.99 lakh and Rs 34.99 lakh, ex-showroom, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||International Monetary Fund to up forecasts||The global growth forecasts for 2021 paint a less dire picture than the previous estimates of October, the head of the IMF said on Thursday, asserting that this year promises to be a “consequential year” as the world faces an unprecedented race between coronavirus, vaccines and a risk of diverging recoveries. Cautioning that a “difficult period” lies ahead, International Monetary Fund (IMF) managing director Kristalina Georgieva said there are also “incredible opportunities” for structural transformation. “We are in the process of updating our 2020 growth estimates for 2021. They paint a less dire picture than our October forecasts, specially with data from the third quarter surprising on the upside,” she said during a global media roundtable. Georgieva praised India for taking “very decisive” steps to deal with the pandemic and its economic consequences and asked the country to do more this year to support an accelerated transformation of the economy. The IMF chief predicted a less bad outlook for India in the upcoming World Economic Update .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||Court call on online loans||The Delhi high court on Friday sought a response of the central government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on a PIL seeking the regulation of online lending platforms offering short-term personal loans at exorbitant interest rates through mobile apps. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice to the finance ministry and the banking regulator seeking their stand on the plea, which has claimed that such lending platforms charge very high interest rates on the loans given by them. A PTI report said the petition has been moved by a Telengana-based Dharanidhar Karimojji, who works as a freelancer in the digital marketing space, claiming there are more than 300 mobile applications that provide instant loans ranging from Rs 1,500 to Rs 30,000 for 7-to15 day periods. However, these money lending platforms deduct almost 35 per cent to 45 per cent of the loan as platform fees, service charges or processing fees and only transfer the remaining money to the borrower’s bank accounts, the petition has said. The petition comes two days after the banking regulator, which wants to implement an appropriate regulatory framework for such platforms, announced the formation of a working group to study all aspects of digital lending activities. The panel, chaired by RBI executive director Jayant Kumar Dash, will suggest regulatory measures to promote orderly growth of digital lending. According to the terms of reference for the working group, it has been asked to evaluate digital lending activities and assess the penetration and standards of outsourced digital lending activities in RBI regulated entities, and identify risks posed by unregulated digital lending to financial stability, regulated entities and consumers. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Karimojji, told the court that these entities pose a menace as they charge exorbitant interests rates of 1 per cent or more per day and in the event of non-payment of delay in repayment of the loaned amount, they call up everyone on the borrower’s contact list to humiliate and harass them into making payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||DHFL lenders favour Piramal proposal||Piramal Enterprises has won the race to acquire the troubled mortgage lender Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) with its offer getting more than 90 per cent of creditors’ support as voting for the resolution process ended on Friday. Piramal’s plan received support from 94 per cent of the lenders by value compared with around 45 per cent secured by Oaktree Capital. The lenders had three choices while voting on the resolution plans: Piramals, Oaktree or both. And that is why the sum of the votes exceeds 100 per cent, sources said. Though a formal announcement is awaited, observers say the bids for the acquisition of  DHFL may not be over as Oaktree Capital has said it will take legal action if its proposal is not approved. The race for DHFL was largely between Piramal and the US-based asset management firm. Both firms have been claiming that their offer is better than the other. Voting for the resolution plans ended late Friday evening. The lenders will meet next week and issue a letter of intent to the Piramal group. They are also expected to submit Piramal’s  plan to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approval. If the Piramal group succeeds in acquiring DHFL, it may merge Piramal Capital & Housing Finance with the mortgage lender. The Piramal group had offered Rs 37,250 crore for DHFL, of which it proposes to make an upfront payment of Rs 17,250 crore, apart from Rs 150 crore for fixed deposit holders and over Rs 19,000 crore through debentures. Oaktree Capital had offered Rs 38,400 crore, including an upfront payment of Rs 17,100 crore and Rs 300 crore to fixed deposit holders. It also proposed to pay Rs 21,000 crore by debentures. Last Saturday, Piramal had claimed that its bid was better than Oaktree’s. “SThe payment structure offered by Oaktree is complex. The bidder has promised to pay this amount out of any proceeds they get from selling DHFL’s insurance subsidiary. Since Oaktree is a foreign institution, they face severe legal challenges in owning and selling the insurance unit, which is at the maximum permissible foreign ownership limit of 49 per cent,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||HCL Tech net profit rises 31%||HCL Technologies on Friday posted a 31.1 per cent rise in its December quarter net profit at Rs 3,982 crore on the back of a strong momentum in its digital products and platform segment, and exuded confidence in clocking further acceleration in bookings in the coming quarters. The IT services major, which had registered a net profit of Rs 3,037 crore in the year-ago period, has also crossed the $10-billion revenue milestone in calendar year 2020. HCL Tech’s revenue grew 6.4 per cent to Rs 19,302 crore in the quarter under review, from Rs 18,135 crore in the year-ago period (according to US GAAP). The company recorded revenue growth at 3.5 per cent quarter-on-quarter in constant currency, beating its own estimate of 1.5-2.5 per cent growth for the December quarter. HCL Tech has now revised its sequential revenue growth guidance to 2-3 per cent (including contribution by DWS which it acquired last year) in constant currency from its previous estimate of 1.5-2.5 per cent increase quarter-on-quarter for the March 2021 quarter. “Calendar year 2021 has started on a strong financial note. Our strategic bets continue to deliver outstanding results as reflected in our sequential revenue growth of 3.5 per cent in constant currency and 4.4 per cent in dollars,” HCL Technologies president and CEO C. Vijayakumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||India’s trade gap highest in two years ||India’s exports rose marginally to $27.15 billion in December 2020, while imports surged 7.56 per cent to $42.59 billion, official data showed on Friday. The merchandise exports were valued at $27.11 billion in December 2019, while imports had totalled $39.59 billion. “Trade deficit for December 2020 was estimated at $15.44 billion against the deficit of $12.49 billion in December 2019, which is an increase of 23.66 per cent,” according to the government data. “The sharp rise in merchandise trade deficit to a 25-month high of $15.4 billion in December 2020 was driven by the surge in non-oil imports that was exaggerated by pent-up demand. In an encouraging sign, the growth in non-oil exports improved to 5.6 per cent in the quarter-ending month, reversing the dips seen in the previous two months,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra. “Gold imports rose to the highest level since May 2019, amid the easing of restrictions that drove wedding season demand. We expect the pace of growth of gold imports to temper to an extent in the fourth quarter of FY2021, with a satiation of pent-up demand.” Major Indian export items that helped India’s outbound shipments turn the corner include gems and jewellery (up 6.75 per cent), drugs and pharmaceuticals (17.47 per cent), chemicals (10.8 per cent), engineering goods (0.3 per cent) and electronic goods (16.51%) while the sharp contraction in the exports of readymade garments (-15 per cent) and petroleum products (-35.35 per cent) kept overall exports growth minimal. Gold (81.82 per cent), vegetable oils (43.5 per cent), chemicals (23.3 per cent), artificial resins (32.27 per cent), iron and steel (12.67 per cent), non-ferrous metal (28.1 per cent) saw significant rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||Business||Benchmark bond yields jump to their highest in four weeks||Benchmark bond yields jumped to their highest in four weeks on Friday as the RBI mopped up Rs 2 lakh crore through a variable rate reverse repo auction even as its silence on an open market operation during trading hours also hurt sentiment. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last week said it would conduct the reverse repo auction on January 15 after a review of the liquidity and financial conditions. Markets read the release as an indication that the RBI was looking to roll back the massive cash surplus in the banking system, despite its reiteration that it would ensure availability of ample liquidity. “The market is confused about what the RBI is trying to do. A lot of times it feels like the RBI doesn’t realise the fallout of its actions and then tries to balance it out,” Reuters  quoted a senior debt trader at a private bank. The benchmark 10-year bond yield ended at 5.95 per cent versus 5.93 per cent on Thursday, its first weekly rise in three and its biggest since the week ending September 11. This came as the 14-day variable rate reverse repo auction saw the central bank setting a higher cut-off rate of 3.55 per cent compared with the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent, thus signaling to the markets that it wanted higher rates at the shorter end of the spectrum. A Bloomberg News Survey had forecast the cut-off at 3.5 per cent. The yields also rose over uncertainty whether  the central bank would announce an open market operation (OMO). which supports government security prices. However, the central bank announced an OMO of Rs 10,000 crore after the market hours. Observers feel bond yields could soften as trading resumes on Monday following this announcement. A key intention behind Friday's variable reverse repo auction was to push up the shorter term rates above the reverse repo rate, which is usually this lower bound of the policy corridor. After the RBI’s announcement last week, yields on shorter term bonds had risen over 20 basis points. At the auction, as against the notified amount of Rs 2 lakh crore, the RBI received bids of Rs 3.05 lakh crore. In a separate announcement after market hours, the RBI said in a statement that on a review of current liquidity and financial conditions, it has decided to conduct purchase of government securities under OMO for an aggregate amount of Rs 10,000 crore on January 21. Market circles say that the intention of the central bank here is to keep interest rates softer at the longer end of the spectrum to support the economy which is expected to contract 7.7 per cent this fiscal. The benchmark indices — the Sensex and the Nifty — ended in the red because of profit booking amid weak global cues despite a good beginning to the results season. The 30-share BSE Sensex slumped 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent to finish at 49034.67. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14433.70. Global equities came under pressure as the $1.9 trillion stimulus package unveiled by US President-elect Joe Biden fell short of expectations, even as jobless claimrose. With inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-169
16-01-2021||India||Over 1.65 lakh beneficiaries receive Covid-19 jabs on Day One||As India kicked off the first phase of its massive Covid-19 vaccination drive, over 1.65 lakh beneficiaries were inoculated with the jabs across 3,351 session sites in the country on Saturday, the government said. It added that no no case of post-inoculation hospitalisation has been reported so far. Addressing a press briefing, Additional Secretary in the Union health ministry Manohar Agnani said that the vaccination drive was conducted successfully on the first day. “A total of 3,351 sessions were held wherein 1,65,714 beneficiaries were vaccinated, as per provisional reports,” Agnani said. “A total of 16,755 personnel were involved in organising the vaccination sessions,” he added. Sanitation worker Manish Kumar became the first recipient of the vaccination drive at Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), according to the health ministry. The 11 states and union territories where both Covishield and Covaxin were administered were Assam (65 sessions), Bihar (301), Delhi (81), Haryana (77), Karnataka (242), Maharashtra (285), Odisha (161), Rajasthan (167) Tamil Nadu (160), Telangana (14) and Uttar Pradesh (317). Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. The 1,65,714 beneficiaries included 78 from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 76 from Ladakh, 43 from Daman and Diu, 64 from Dadra And Nagar Haveli, 21 from Lakshadweep, 195 from Chandigarh and 373 from Goa . Besides, 16,963 were vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh, 16,401 in Bihar, 15,727 in Maharashtra, 4,985 in Chhattisgarh, 8,557 in Gujarat, 743 in Arunachal Pradesh, 2,721 in Assam, 3,403 in Delhi, 4,656 in Haryana, 1,408 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,954 in Jammu and Kashmir. More than one crore cases and 1.5 lakh fatalities later, India took its first steps out of the pandemic with shots of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines being administered at medical centres across the country. Of the first day beneficiaries, 2,897 were in Jharkhand, 12,637 in Karnataka, 7,206 in Kerala, 6,739 in Madhya Pradesh, 510 in Manipur, 509 in Meghalaya, 314 in Mizoram, 499 in Nagaland, 8,675 in Odisha, 206 in Puducherry, 1,200 in Punjab, 9,279 in Rajasthan, 120 in Sikkim, 2,728 in Tamil Nadu, 3,600 in Telangana, 266 in Tripura, 15,975 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,226 in Uttarakhand and 9,578 in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Congress leader, Health Minister spar on Twitter over Covaxin approval||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Saturday had a war of words on Twitter, as the Opposition member raised questions on the emergency use  approval of the Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin. Vardhan on the other hand hit back and said that Tewari was only passionate about spreading rumours. India’s nationwide vaccination programme commenced on Saturday with thousands getting inoculated with the recently approved Covaxin or the Serum Institute of India-made Covishield vaccine. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out in the country, Tewari raised questions over the emergency use approval given to the indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin and alleged that it was “sans due process”. “As vaccine roll-out begins, it is all a bit puzzling India has no policy framework for authorising emergency use. Yet, two vaccines have been approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Tewari tweeted just before Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the programme. “COVAXIN is another story -- Approvals sans Due Process,” the former Union minister added, tagging a media report which claimed that scientists and doctors are divided on the issue of restricted use approval granted to the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Responding to Tewari's remarks raising questions over approval to Covaxin, Vardhan, in a tweet, quoted English cleric Charles Caleb Colton who said, "So blinded are we by our passions that we suffer more to be damned than to be saved." “Sh @ManishTewari & @INCIndia are only passionate about spreading distrust & rumours. Open your eyes, sharing photos of eminent Doctors & Govt functionaries getting inoculated,” Vardhan tweeted and posted pictures from the inoculation drive that began earlier in the day. Hitting back at Vardhan for his jibe, Tewari said, “Dear Dr @drharshvardhan, Concerns that I have articulated are real & not imagined. It is not fear Mongering. Look what is happening in Norway. It may be a different vaccine but do not hide behind vaccine nationalism. ANS QUES Expected better of you Sir.” Addressing Tewari, in another tweet, the Union health minister said the science behind Covid-19 vaccines is resolute. “Our scientists have worked at lightning speed to expedite functions that contribute to development of a vaccine but not a single function has been circumvented. Safety above all else has been the guiding principle,” he said. Tagging Vardhan's tweet, Tewari said, “Well @drharshvardhan since you say so & as you are aware that I have deep personal regard for you I am more than willing to take your word for it. However, why is the medical fraternity so deeply divided over the safety,reliability & efficacy of COVAXIN?” Tewari also shared a letter on Twitter which was purportedly from the Resident Doctor Association (RDA) of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to the medical superintendent of the hospital in which apprehensions were expressed over the use of Covaxin in the vaccination drive for the resident doctors. “Is this letter a genuine or a fake? A journalist sent it to me. Just bringing it to your attention. kind of FYA (for your attention),” Tewari tweeted along with the letter. Earlier this month, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor had also raised concerns over India's drugs regulator's nod to restricted use of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine. However, there were different voices within the party as its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Kejriwal 'certifies' vaccines, asks people not to believe in rumours||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged people not to believe in rumours and listen to experts who say COVID-19 vaccines are safe, as the world's largest immunisation programme against the disease began in the country. Kejriwal inspected the COVID-19 vaccination campaign at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital here, interacted with some health workers who received the shot and lauded their contribution in fighting the pandemic. The vaccination drive has started at 81 centres in Delhi. Atmaja Priyadarshini Nayak, nursing officer at the LNJP Hospital, was administered the vaccine shot in the presence of the chief minister. "I have interacted with those vaccinated. No one has any problem. All are happy that they will get rid of coronavirus," the chief minister said. He said, "I want to say to all not to pay attention to rumours and misinformation. The experts say vaccines are safe and there is no need to worry." But there is a need to use face masks and maintain social distancing even after receiving the vaccine shots, Kejriwal stressed. The Delhi government has made all the preparations and around 8,100 people will be vaccinated on Saturday at 81 sites across Delhi, he said, adding the exercise was running smoothly at LNJP and those vaccinated were very happy. The chief minister said there was no need to launch a separate app to register people for vaccination as the Centre has devised the same system for the entire country. Number of vaccination centres will be raised to 175 gradually in the coming days and to 1000 as and when vaccine availability increases, Kejriwal said. Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain said health workers will be the first to receive the vaccine followed by frontline workers such as civil defence volunteers and police officials. Following this, people above 50 years and then younger people but with co-morbidities will be vaccinated, he said. LNJP Hospital director Dr Suresh Kumar said, "World's largest vaccination drive has started in Delhi from LNJP Hospital. CM Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain inspected the preparations and they spoke to eight people who received the vaccine." "I want to request people to participate in the vaccination drive," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and urged people to show patience during the COVID-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to pay compensation if Covaxin causes side effects||Bharat Biotech, which has received a government purchase order for the supply of 55 lakh doses of Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine, said the company will pay compensation to recipients in case of any serious adverse effects experienced after receiving the antidote. In the consent form to be signed by the vaccine recipients, Bharat Biotech said, "In case of any adverse events or serious adverse events, you will be provided medically recognised standard of care in the government designated and authorised centres/hospitals." "The compensation for serious adverse event will be paid by sponsor (BBIL) in case if the SAE is proven to be causally related to the vaccine," the consent form said. In phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials, Covaxin has demonstrated the ability to produce antidotes against COVID- 19. However the clinical efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be established and it is still being studied in phase 3 clinical trials, the vaccine maker said. "Hence it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean that other precautions related to COVID-19 need not be followed," the consent form said. According to an industry expert, the company is liable to pay compensation to people in case of serious side effects as the vaccine is being administered while in the clinical trial mode. The central licensing authority has granted permission for the sale or distribution of Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant caution, in clinical trial mode. Meanwhile, Joint Managing Director of BharatBiotech International Ltd, SuchitraElla in her twitter account said, "Covaxin & Bharat Biotech is truly humbled & honoured to be of service to the nation & the fraternity of all first responders of covid who have served public health."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla takes Covishield jab||Adar Poonawalla, whose Serum Institute of India (SII) manufactured the first lot of COVID-19 vaccines, was among those who got vaccinated on Saturday, as India kicked off world's largest immunisation campaign to bring the pandemic under control. He wished the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi success for the vaccination programme. As sanitation and healthcare workers around the country got the first inoculation, Poonawalla tweeted a short video of him getting the vaccine. "I wish India & Sri @narendramodi ji great success in launching the world's largest COVID vaccination roll-out. It brings me great pride that #COVISHIELD is part of this historic effort & to endorse it's safety & efficacy, I join our health workers in taking the vaccine myself," Poonawalla tweeted. SII manufactured Oxford University-AstraZeneca's vaccine Covishield, while Bharat Biotech developed the other vaccine Covaxin that is being administered in the inoculation drive. Over 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated on the first day of the much-anticipated drive against coronavirus. The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors, including ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase, according to the health ministry. Earlier in the day, the prime minister launched the vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country, and urged people to show patience during COVID-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan described COVID-19 vaccines as "Sanjivani" in the fight against the infectious disease as he urged people not to pay heed to hearsay and instead believe in experts and scientists. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Covishield and the indigenously developed Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country. The government has already bought 1.1 crore doses of Covishield and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Vaccination drive underway as hopes soar||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine is like Sanjivani, says Harsh Vardhan ||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday described the Covid-19 vaccines as 'Sanjivani' in the fight against the infectious disease as he urged people not to pay heed to hearsay and instead believe in experts and scientists. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and urged people to show patience during the Covid-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. "It's a historic day. We have been blessed by the prime minister all through our fight against COVID-19. It's the largest coronavirus vaccination programme in world," Vardhan told reporters at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. "We have been able to put up a valiant fight against the disease during the last one year. Adopting a preemptive and proactive strategy has resulted in very good performance by India. We have probably the lowest fatality rate in the world," he said. Thanking all, including doctors, nurses, healthcare staff, security personnel and journalists, who have been at the frontline in the fight against the pandemic, the minister said they ensured India reaches the stage when vaccine gets delivered to the people. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. "These vaccines are 'sanjivani' in our fight against this pandemic. We have won the battles against polio and small pox. Now, we have reached the decisive phase of winning the war against coronavirus. "I want to congratulate all frontline workers on this day. At times when rumours are being spread, I hope the media will spread the correct information and this move will help in the fight against the disease," the health minister said. Asserting that both the vaccines are safe and effective, Vardhan urged people not to give in to hearsay and instead believe in experts. "They have put their heart and soul into it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Modi launches India's Covid vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's COVID-19 vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. Addressing the nation ahead of the launch of what he described as the world's largest vaccination programme, Modi said these vaccines will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic, but asked countrymen to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing even after receiving the jabs. Emphasising the enormity of the vaccination drive, which he launched through a remote control amid chanting of Sanskrit shloka that meant 'let everybody be happy, let everybody be healthy', Modi said never before in history, has this type of a large-scale vaccination campaign been undertaken. There are more than 100 countries in the world whose population is less than three crore and India is vaccinating three crore people in its first phase of vaccination, he said. In the second phase, the number of those vaccinated has to be taken to 30 crore, Modi said, pointing out that only two countries other than India have a population in excess of 30 crore -- the US and China. The Prime Minister said that those who are elderly, are suffering from a serious illness, will get vaccinated in the second stage. "Dawai bhi, kadai bhi (vaccine also and strict discipline also)" should be the mantra going forward, he said. "I want to remind people of the country that two doses of the Corona vaccine are very important. Don't commit the mistake that you take one dose and forget the second one. As experts have been saying, there will be a gap of about one month between the two doses," Modi said. He asked people not to let their guard down even after taking the vaccine as only two weeks after taking the second dose, the human body will develop necessary immunity against the virus. During his speech, the prime minister also turned emotional as he spoke of the disruption the pandemic caused to people's lives, isolating victims of the coronavirus and denying the dead traditional last rites. In a choked voice, the Prime Minister also referred to sacrifices made by healthcare and frontline workers, hundreds of whom lost their lives to the viral infection. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for the massive inoculation drive. Modi also reassured the country about the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines given approval by India for restricted emergency use. "I want to tell the people of the country that only when our scientists and experts were convinced about the safety and effectiveness of both the made-in-India vaccines, only then they gave permission for their emergency use. That is why the people of the country should beware of any type of propaganda, rumours and misinformation," he said. "Our vaccine scientists, our medical system and the process India follows hold a lot of credibility in the world...we have won this confidence due to our track record," Modi said. His remarks come amid apprehensions being raised by opposition leaders, including some senior Congress leaders, about the process of approval to the Bharat Biotech vaccine. "Indian vaccines compared with foreign vaccines are much cheaper and their use is also very easy. Even one dose of some foreign vaccines costs Rs 5000 and have to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius, while the Indian vaccines have been made with such technology that is tried and tested," Modi said. These vaccines, from storage to transportation, are suited to Indian conditions, he said. "These (made-in-India) vaccines will ensure a decisive victory for India against coronavirus," he asserted. "India begins the world's Largest Vaccine Drive. This is a day of pride, a celebration of the prowess of our scientists and hard work of our medical fraternity, nursing staff, police personnel and sanitation workers," Modi said in a tweet after the launch of the drive. In his remarks at the launch event, Modi also urged the country to show patience during the vaccination drive as it had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. Normally, it takes years to make a vaccine but in such a short span of time, not one, but two 'made in India' vaccines are ready, Modi said, adding work on other vaccines is also progressing at a fast pace. India getting two vaccines in such a short time is a testimony to the country's capability, scientific efficiency and talent, the Prime Minister said. "Our vaccination programme is driven by humanitarian concerns, those exposed to maximum risk will get priority," he said. In its fight against the pandemic, India took right decisions at the right time while keeping a vigil round the clock, he asserted. On January 30, the first case of coronavirus was found in India, but even more than two weeks before that India had formed a high-level committee, he said. The country had issued its first advisory on January 17 and India was among first few nations that started screening at airports, Modi said emphasising the speed at which India acted to deal with the pandemic. Modi also talked about the evacuation of Indians stuck abroad, saying that at a time when many countries of the world had left their citizens stranded in China, India evacuated not only Indians but citizens of other countries. The Prime Minister congratulated the countrymen for passing the challenge of discipline and patience during the 'Janata Curfew' in March. He pointed out that the exercise prepared the country psychologically for the lockdown. Morale of the country was kept high with the campaigns like 'taali-thali' and lighting of diyas, the Prime Minister added. Asserting that India's response to the crisis has been acknowledged globally, Modi said it was an example of the integrated and unified response from centre, states, local governments, government offices, social bodies who performed efficiently in unison. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||India reports 15,158 Covid cases, 175 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 1,05,42,841 on Saturday with 15,158 more people testing positive for the disease while recoveries surged to 1,01,79,715, according to the Union health ministry data. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,093 with 175 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,79,715, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.56 per cent. The country's COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The country's active caseload remained below 3 lakh on Saturday. There are 2,11,033 active coronavirus infections in the country which constitute 2 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,57,65,491 samples had been tested up to January 15, with 8,03,090 tested on Friday alone. The 175 new fatalities include 45 from Maharashtra, 23 from Kerala, 16 from West Bengal, 15 from Uttar Pradesh, 12 from Punjab and 10 from Delhi. A total of 1,52,093 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,336 from Maharashtra, 12,251 from Tamil Nadu, 12,158 from Karnataka, 10,732 from Delhi, 10,026 from West Bengal, 8,558 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,139 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,485 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||More than 50 flights delayed as 'very dense' fog lowers visibility to zero in Delhi||More than 50 flights were delayed on Saturday morning due to dense fog at the Delhi airport, officials said. The thick blanket of fog reduced visibility to zero metres and affected traffic movement in the national capital on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. This hit aircraft traffic movement with more than 50 flights being delayed, airport officials said. This is the third time this season -- after December 8 and January 1 -- that visibility dropped to zero metres in the city. 'Very dense' fog lowered visibility to zero meters at Palam and Safdarjung. 'Dense' fog is predicted in parts of the city on Sunday as well, an IMD official said. According to the IMD, 'very dense' fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of 'dense' fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, 'moderate' is between 201 and 500 metres, and 'shallow' is between 501 and 1,000 metres. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, on Saturday. The Lodhi Road weather station recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius. It was 2 degrees Celsius on Thursday and 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. There was no improvement in the city's air quality which remained in the 'severe' category on Saturday. The air quality index (AQI) had entered the 'severe' category on Thursday due to "extremely unfavourable" conditions for the dispersion of pollutants, government agencies said. The city's AQI was 436 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, 354 on Wednesday, 293 on Tuesday and 243 on Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the wind speed has slowed down and the moisture in the air has made the pollutants heavier. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said slow winds and ventilation conditions are "extremely unfavourable" for the dispersion of pollutants. This will lead to further deterioration of the air quality, the agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind donates money for Ayodhya Ram temple construction||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday donated Rs 500,100 towards the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. The temple is to come up at the same spot where the Babri Masjid stood before being razed by a Hindutva mob in 1992. A delegation of Vishwa Hindu Parishad international working president Alok Kumar and Govind Dev Giri, treasurer of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust tasked with building the Ram temple, met the President to seek his blessings for a countrywide Sangh parivar donation drive that began on Friday to facilitate the construction. Outside Rashtrapati Bhavan, the delegation members displayed the cheque signed by the President. “He is the First Citizen of the country, so we went to him to initiate the drive. He donated a sum of Rs 500,100,” Kumar told reporters. There was no official communication from Rashtrapati Bhavan on the donation. Nor did the President’s official Twitter handle post any pictures of the meeting. Officials at Rashtrapati Bhavan said the President’s contribution was a personal one. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan handed over a cheque for Rs 1 lakh as his donation. “This is not only a Ram temple, it’s a national temple,” Chouhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers complain about witch-hunt||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday asked the Narendra Modi government to stop using the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to target those helping the farmers sustain their protest and making contributions to the families of those who died during the movement. This was forcefully taken up by farmer organisations during their ninth meeting with the government interlocutors on the three farm laws. The SKM delegates said transporters who had given their buses to ferry people to and from the protest sites were being targeted by the NIA. Cases with grave charges were being registered against nearly 100 farmers involved in the vandalism of the stage prepared for Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar’s “kisan panchayat” in Kaimal village of Karnal on Sunday, they added. According to farmer union leaders, the ministers at first sought to blame the state government for bus owners being targeted but they were given a fact-check. “We told them that this was being done by the NIA, which comes under the Centre. The NIA has been visiting their houses and also the house of those who had contributed towards compensation for the martyrs. ‘What is this, if not revenge? Is this the way a government should be behaving with people who are protesting peacefully in a democracy?’ we asked,” All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah told The Telegraph. Underlining that buses are used by organisers for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies, too, the union leaders said the targeting of the facilitators was essentially an attempt by the government to weaken the movement after efforts to discredit the protesters with all sorts of name-calling had failed. The ministers, according to Kavita Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch, said they would address this issue as well as the disruption of a farmers’ protest by BJP and Bajrang Dal workers in Andhra Pradesh. At the meeting, the union leaders rejected the government’s proposal to leave to the Supreme Court the matter of repealing the three farm laws enacted by Parliament, calling it an abdication of responsibility by the Centre. “These laws were made by Parliament, and they should be repealed by Parliament,” the SKM said after the meeting, during which the ministers again pushed for amendments to the three laws. The government tried to convince the union leaders to set up an informal committee themselves and present a coherent legal view of the laws and their expectations from the government. “They can give us a proposal and we will discuss it with an open mind. We have acknowledged many of their apprehensions and given them a written suggestion also, but they rejected it,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the meeting.     The union leaders said they had made their position clear to the government not once but several times and that they had only one demand on the farm laws: repeal them. “The government must understand that it is not the union leaders who got such a large gathering of farmers out to protest. It is the farmers who forced the union leaders to do this. The government should recognise the groundswell of opinion against these laws,” a union leader said. Tomar said the government would present its case before the Supreme Court-appointed committee, adding that everyone should respect the directions of the court in a clear reference to the decision of the SKM not to engage with the process. He wanted to know when the farmers intended to call off their protest, questioning the rationale in discussing minimum support price when the farmers were stuck on repealing the three farm laws. “It was clarified that both are equally important demands, and the next meeting’s agenda was fixed on both these points, and not just one or the other,” Kavita said. The unions also explicitly told the ministers that the ongoing movement had nothing to do with the US-based pro-Khalistani group, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and “therefore, there should be no projection from the government’s side that they are involved”. Since the beginning of this week, a mail purportedly from the SFJ, which is banned in India, has been received by some journalists, offering a cash prize of $250,000 for anyone hoisting the Khalistani flag at India Gate on January 26 and legal assistance to secure such a person asylum in the UK. The government’s ecosystem has used this to build a narrative against the farmers’ movement. The farmers see this as another attempt to discredit the movement but are trying to ensure that no mischief is created in this guise. They know their struggle is at a crucial stage and the government would try to use any incident to build a case for their removal from the protest sites ahead of Republic Day, when they plan a Kisan Parade after the official event not just in Delhi but across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine private-govt split worries doctors||The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive starts on Saturday amid speculation among some doctors whether the home-grown vaccine, which is yet to prove its efficacy, is being sent to public institutions that have fewer opportunities to question the decision. The doctors who have questioned the inclusion of the home-grown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech alongside the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine at the start of the inoculation campaign say the proposed split of the two vaccines in Delhi has amplified their concerns. Six government hospitals in Delhi will receive Covaxin while all the 42 private hospitals will receive the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield, produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, according to a document received by the sites. While government district hospitals will also receive Covishield with the private hospitals, the public hospitals to receive Covaxin are the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohiya Hospital, Kalawati Saran Hospital and two Employees State Insurance hospitals. The Union health ministry has not explained the criteria adopted to decide how the 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin that have been ordered to initiate the vaccination campaign would be split between the states or between the hospitals within a state. Multiple messages this newspaper sent to health officials asking about the criteria have remained unanswered. How the vaccines are split assumes significance because, several doctors and researchers said, many among them are unconvinced about the wisdom of introducing Covaxin before waiting for efficacy results that they expect to emerge in another two months. In Tamil Nadu, the state government doctors’ association has circulated a note to its 20,000-odd members recommending that all practising doctors go for vaccination and “insist on Covishield” until the efficacy results of Covaxin are out. “These are suggestions for doctors in government service in the state. Vaccination is voluntary, the choice remains with the individual,” N. Ravishankar, a doctor at the Government Medical College in Coimbatore and the association’s secretary, told The Telegraph. “We’re not opposed to Covaxin — all we’re pointing out is the absence of evidence for efficacy.” India’s drug regulatory authority on January 3 accepted the recommendations of an expert panel and approved restricted emergency use of Covaxin on the basis of its safety and its capacity to generate an immune response. Covishield’s efficacy has been proved in trials outside India. Health officials have over the past week underlined the safety and immunogenicity of Covaxin and defended the accelerated approval, citing the daily lives lost to Covid-19. But several doctors have told this newspaper they do not understand the haste to release the vaccine. A senior medical doctor from a government academic institution told this newspaper: “Vaccination campaigns should be based on trust. I’m worried that this campaign being rolled out could erode gains that India has made over the decades through vaccines.” The health ministry has signalled that the recipients will have no choice over the vaccine. The inoculation campaign will start on Saturday at 3,006 vaccination sites across the country. Each site has been asked to cap the number of inoculations to around 100 per day. During the campaign’s first stage, around 10 million healthcare workers are expected to receive the vaccines. This is expected to be followed by the inoculation of 20 million frontline public workers. The vaccine options are under discussion in medical circles across the country. “Many, particularly the younger lot, seem to wish to wait for the efficacy results to come out,” a doctor-researcher said, describing the exchanges among peers. Many researchers believe that the haste to roll out Covaxin reflects a political desire to launch a home-grown vaccine alongside Covishield, facilitated by officials and researchers willing to play along. “Not waiting for even preliminary efficacy evidence before starting injections of Covaxin looks like one more step in a process that seems more focused on nationalistic brownie points than on substantive public good,” Satyajit Rath, a medical immunologist and adjunct faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Query for Facebook: US fine, what about India?||In Sri Lanka and Myanmar, Facebook kept up posts that it had been warned contributed to violence. In India, activists have urged the company to combat posts by political figures targeting Muslims. And in Ethiopia, groups pleaded for the social network to block hate speech after hundreds were killed in ethnic violence inflamed by social media. For years, Facebook and Twitter have largely rebuffed calls to remove hate speech or other comments made by public figures and government officials that civil society groups and activists said risked inciting violence. The companies stuck to policies, driven by American ideals of free speech, that give such figures more leeway to use their platforms to communicate. But last week, Facebook and Twitter cut off President Donald Trump from their platforms for inciting a crowd that attacked the US Capitol. Those decisions have angered human rights groups and activists, who are now urging the companies to apply their policies evenly, particularly in smaller countries where the platforms dominate communications. “When I saw what the platforms did with Trump, I thought, ‘You should have done this before, and you should do this consistently in other countries around the world,’” said Javier Pallero, policy director at Access Now, a human rights group involved in the Ethiopia letter. “Around the world, we are at the mercy of when they decide to act.” “Sometimes they act very late,” he added, “and sometimes they act not at all.” David Kaye, a law professor and former UN monitor for freedom of expression, said political figures in India, the Philippines, Brazil and elsewhere deserved scrutiny for their behaviour online. But he said the actions against Trump raised difficult questions about how the power of American Internet companies was applied, and if their actions set a new precedent to more aggressively police speech around the world. “The question going forward is whether this is a new kind of standard they intend to apply for leaders worldwide, and do they have the resources to do it?” Kaye said. “There is going to be a real increase in demand to do this elsewhere in the world.” Many activists singled out Facebook for its global influence and not applying rules uniformly. They said that in many countries it lacked the cultural understanding to identify when posts might incite violence. Too often, they said, Facebook and other social media companies do not act even when they receive warnings. In many countries, there’s a perception that Facebook bases its actions on its business interests more than on human rights. In India, home to Facebook’s most users, the company has been accused of not policing anti-Muslim content from political figures for fear of upsetting the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ruling party. “Developments in our countries aren’t addressed seriously,” said Mishi Choudhary, a technology lawyer and founder of the Software Freedom Law Centre, a digital rights group in India. “Any takedown of content raises the questions of free expression, but incitement of violence or using a platform for dangerous speech is not a free speech matter but a matter of democracy, law and order.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Odisha minister Naba Kishore Das’s cars worth Rs 24 crore||Odisha health minister Naba Kishore Das has a penchant for new cars, which has come to light after he submitted his list of properties. Das and his family own a fleet of vehicles, including a Mercedes-Benz. In sharp contrast, chief minister Naveen Patnaik only has a 1980-make Ambassador. Das has purchased all the vehicles within a span of two years between 2018 and 2020. The minister, who hails from the industrial town of Jharsuguda in western Odisha, owns properties worth Rs 34 crore. A businessman, Das had joined the BJD just before the elections after quitting the Congress, of which he was then an MLA. All these vehicles are valued at Rs 24.69 crore and price of the Mercedes-Benz alone is Rs 1.96 crore. Das owns immovable properties worth over Rs 1.81 crore, while his wife Minati Das owns immovable properties worth Rs 1.74 crore. Asked about how he came to own such a large fleet of vehicles, Das told The Telegraph: “My family has several businesses. My son is also into business. We all pay income tax. We are into several businesses, including transport and hotel. What is wrong in owning multiple vehicles?” Das said his family business was flourishing. Besides movable and immovable properties and fixed deposits, he has three licensed guns, including a .32 revolver, a 12-bore gun and a 22-bore rifle. Das has properties in Delhi, Calcutta and other parts of Odisha. A law degree holder, Das started his political career with the Students’ Federation of India (SFI). He represented Jharsuguda constituency in 2009 and was re-elected in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Nitish Kumar loses cool over inquiries on crime||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday lost his temper and entered into a spat with mediapersons after they asked questions about the rise in crimes in the state. He also questioned the political affiliations of the reporters instead of replying to their queries, accused them of asking wrong and inappropriate questions, and trying to demoralise the police force. “Your questions are wrong and completely inappropriate. You are a great person! How can I even talk to you? Whose supporter are you? I am asking you directly. Why don’t you highlight the crimes that happened during the 15-year reign of husband and wife (read RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and his wife Rabri Devi and their rule between 1990 and 2005),” an enraged Nitish screamed at the top of his voice after being questioned by a senior journalist from a news channel (NDTV). Nitish went on to insinuate that the journalist was friendly with the Opposition leaders, who were behind the increasing incidents of crime. “You should also pay attention to your special counsellor and provide him some training. Also, find out who commits the crime and the identity of such people,” Nitish yelled, before the hangers-on started shouting slogans in his favour. Nitish was speaking at a function to inaugurate the first phase of an expressway built at a cost of Rs 380 crore in Patna connecting with north Bihar, when mediapersons hurled questions pertaining to the murder of IndiGo airlines station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh and gang rapes, towards the fag end of his address. They also sought to know the reasons behind the police’s inability to control crime. Rupesh was shot dead in the basement of his apartment on Tuesday evening and the police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the crime and the perpetrators. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the incident so far. Bihar is witnessing a spate of serious crimes like murder, rape, kidnapping, loot and extortion on a daily basis due to which the people are constantly worried and afraid. Incidentally, Nitish holds the home portfolio, under which the police department falls. “Do not forget how much action is being taken against crime. Anybody’s murder is unfortunate. The criminals do not commit crime after taking permission from anybody. Do not demoralise the police force like this. They are working. Bihar is at the 23rd position in crime among the states in the country,” Nitish said, while asking Bihar to be compared with other states. The chief minister also asked mediapersons to “share clues with the police if they have and don’t demoralise the police force”. However, he was told that even director-general of police S.K. Singhal does not take calls of the journalists. Nitish then talked to him and directed him to publicise his contact numbers and respond to calls by the mediapersons. Meanwhile, leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said Nitish’s outburst on being grilled over the deteriorating law and order situation was “unfortunate” and asserted that the chief minister has “put his hands up and surrendered before criminals”. “Nitish Kumar says nobody can check crime and it used to happen even during the Harappan period. Just compare. He asks mediapersons whether they know the criminals and why they commit crimes,” Tejashwi said. Even ally BJP has been questioning the deteriorating law and order situation. BJP state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal, Rajya Sabha member Gopal Narayan Singh, several legislators and leaders have expressed concern over the increasing incidents of crime. Many leaders of Nitish’s Janata Dal United and the BJP are of the opinion that the rot of corruption has compromised the entire police force and its rank and file was busy making money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Odisha farmers head to Delhi ||Nearly 500 farmers boarded buses for Delhi from Lower PMG Square near the Odisha Assembly on Friday to join their brethren braving the winter chill in the national capital to protest against the new farm laws. The bunch appeared to be in high spirits with even the older ones among them confident of victory of the farmers in their agitation. Surendranath Maharana, 70, who has lost a few of his teeth, said he was not bothered about the winter in Delhi. “Just give your phone number. I will give a call when I return from Delhi. I will return only after we emerge victorious,” he said. Asked whether he was carrying any medicines with him , Maharana said: “Believe me, I am fit and fine. I am not bothered about my health at this moment. I am not carrying a single medicine even for cold. I will be back to Odisha again. Don’t worry.” They left for Delhi after attending a state-level farmers’ convention organised by the Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan, a farmers’ organisation. Maharana was very critical about the government’s move to impose the new laws. “Thanks to the Supreme Court. It has finally intervened. Now the Centre should repeal the farm laws immediately. They had planned to implement the laws during the current pandemic crisis and thought no one would protest,” he said. He also showed this reporter how he was carrying only a sweater, a blanket and a muffler to beat the cold. “It’s your conviction, mental strength and the willingness to fight for a cause that would give you the courage to go to Delhi at this age,” said the septuagenarian. Another farmer, Duryodhana Lenka, 56, intervened and said: “We are not even bothered about the Covid threat at this moment. It’s better to die rather than to lose our livelihood forever. The way East India Company entered India and monopolised the entire business and administration, now the big private players are taking the help of the government and are trying to replicate it. We are not ready to hand over our age-old livelihood to the traders.” Farmer Guaranga Jena alleged: “Those who framed the laws have little knowledge about the ground realities. They framed the laws sitting inside AC chambers taking the traders’ interests into account. They have not seen the vagaries and wrath of nature and how the farmers are facing problems.” The farmers who are going to Delhi have contributed Rs 2,000 each. “They have made this contribution and those who are not going have also donated for the cause,” said Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan convener Akshaya Kumar. He said: “We have made all arrangements for the travel of our brothers. As per the route plan, we will go via Kharagpur, Ranchi, Varanasi, Lucknow and later reach Delhi. Today, nine buses and some four-wheelers have left for Delhi. Many others would follow us from different parts of the state. We will leave Delhi on January 29 after attending the parallel parade by farmers on Republic Day.” The journey to Delhi was flagged off by former Union minister Braja Kishore Tripathy. The state Congress unit on Friday also organised a demonstration demanding the repeal of the farm laws and lodged their protest against rising petrol and diesel prices. Later a delegation led by PCC president Niranjan Patnaik met the governor and submitted a memorandum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: Modi stuck, being remote-controlled||Rahul Gandhi on Friday warned that if the government could not be thwarted over the farm laws, its next targets would be other sectors and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s capitalist friends would “snatch away whatever belongs to the people”. Rahul, who led the Congress’s nationwide agitation on “Kisan Adhikar Divas”, featuring marches to Raj Bhavans, claimed the farmers had understood the sinister game but the rest of India hadn’t. “The day India’s food security is destroyed, India’s freedom is gone. Modi and his capitalist friends are on one side and India is on the other. The farmers have understood this and that’s why they have risen against it,” he said. “Hindustan hasn’t understood this yet. Hindustan doesn’t understand that if the farmers’ freedom is gone, the next step will be (against the) middle class, workers…. If we don’t stop the government now, this will escalate. India will have to realise this today or tomorrow or the day after. I will keep repeating this till they understand. “Modi and his capitalist friends are going to snatch away whatever belongs to the people. There are only four-five people who control every sector — media, IT, retail, power…. Airports, ports, everything is controlled by them with Modi’s help. “Modi doesn’t understand India. He thinks three-four industrialists run the country. This is superficial thinking. This country is run by kisan-mazdoor. The youth runs this country.” Rahul had joined a sit-in protest by Congress MPs from Punjab at Jantar Mantar after police prevented a large crowd of party workers from surrounding Raj Bhavan. He sought to question Modi’s understanding of basic aspects of governance. “One senior leader who had discussed farming with Modi told me once that he believes rice and wheat can be purchased from other countries if these are not cultivated in India. This is a fundamental misunderstanding,” he said. “India got freedom in 1947 but who maintained the freedom? The farmers sustained the freedom, not Adani-Ambani. These laws are not for farmers but meant to finish the farmers.” Rahul claimed that Modi had begun his assault on the farmers much earlier — at the time when he tried to kill the Land Acquisition Act, which stipulated strict conditions for any land acquisition. “The talks (with the protesting farmers) are aimed at buying time. Modi has failed to assess the strength of the farmers, he thinks they will get tired and run away in two-three months. The farmers won’t go back. Modi will have to run away. These laws will have to be scrapped,” he said. Asked why the Prime Minister might have failed to express sympathy over the death of 70-odd protesting farmers, he said: “Because Modi doesn’t have basic respect for the farmers. One, two or 200 farmers dying will not make any difference to him.” To a question about the “debate” on the farmers’ plan for a tractor rally on Republic Day, he said: “Where is the debate; what debate? There is just one loudspeaker and that is Modi. If farmers want to parade with their tractors, what is the problem?” Asked about the protesting farmers being called Khalistani, he appeared shocked: “What do they mean — these lakhs of farmers are Khalistani? Their sons protecting our borders, are they sons of Khalistanis?” Rahul accused the media of failing to show the real picture. “The media is controlled by these three-four capitalists. Modi works for them and they show what Modi wants. If Modi won’t work for them, the balloon will burst. In fact, Modi too is stuck. I pity him. He is being remote-controlled.” The Congress organised marches to Raj Bhavan in every state but was foiled by the police in BJP-ruled states. The party, however, mobilised sizeable gatherings everywhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||India is committed to resolving the border standoff with China: General M.M. Naravane||Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Friday said India was committed to resolving the border standoff with China through military and political efforts but “no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience”. In his address at the Army Day parade, he said: “India had given a fitting response to the conspiracy of attempting to unilaterally change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control where the armies of the two countries have been locked in an impasse since May last year. We are committed to resolve the disputes through talks and political efforts but no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience. I want to assure the country that the sacrifice of the Galwan braves will not go in vain. The Indian Army will not allow any harm to the country’s sovereignty and security.” Twenty Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troopers were killed in a violent face-off with the Chinese on June 15 at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. General Naravane said the morale of the Indian troops deployed along the LAC in eastern Ladakh was higher than the mountains they were defending. On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, General Naravane said close to 300 to 400 terrorists were present in camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and were planning to infiltrate into India. Earlier this week, the army chief had said India was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh for “as long as it takes” to achieve the national objectives and his force was alert and ready for any eventuality, but at the same time expressed hope for an amicable solution to the border standoff through the ongoing military talks with China. He had also said that both Pakistan and China posed a “potent threat” to national security and their collusive approach towards India could not be wished away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||EC moves to insulate officers from disciplinary action by states and Union Territories||The Election Commission has moved to insulate its officers from disciplinary action by states and Union Territories ahead of polls to five Assemblies. In a letter, the EC has directed all states and Union Territories to seek its approval before initiating disciplinary action against its senior officials or reducing facilities provided to them. The letter, signed by EC secretary-general Umesh Sinha, has been sent to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, department of personnel and training secretary Ajay Bhalla and all chief secretaries and chief electoral officers, who head the bureaucracy and the election machinery, respectively, in the states and Union Territories. Sinha wrote: “The Commission has noted some instances of victimisation of Chief Electoral Officers, Addl./Joint/Deputy/Assistant Chief Electoral Officer in the post-election period. Many a times they are targeted for political vendetta by charging them with disciplinary cases on flimsy grounds for their earlier tenures in the state government after the completion of their tenure (as election officials). An environment of fear is created to convey that upright, steadfast and sincere officers can be taken to task at any time, on the flimsiest of grounds.” The letter imposes two restrictions on possible action by states and Union Territories against these officers. “(i) The state/UT governments shall invariably obtain prior approval of the Commission if any disciplinary action is initiated against the Chief Electoral Officers and other officers up to Joint Chief Electoral Officer during their tenure and also up to one year from its expiry. (ii) The state/UT government shall not reduce facilities such as vehicle, security and other facilities/amenities provided to the office of the Chief Electoral Officer for proper discharge of his/her duties.” In 2017, the EC had directed the governments of Bihar and Manipur to withdraw disciplinary action against chief electoral officers Ajay Nayak and V.K. Dewangan, respectively. The duo were perceived to have acted tough against alleged undue interference by the two state governments. Several officers had also spoken out against the disciplinary action on Andhra Pradesh chief electoral officer Bhanwar Lal by the then N. Chandrababu Naidu government. The EC’s move is significant in the run-up to polls in Assam, Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Bengal is seen as a particularly tough election due to multiple complaints by the state’s Opposition parties against misuse of the state machinery. All three election commissioners are scheduled to visit Assam and Bengal next week, and sources said the poll schedule is expected to be longer than usual in Bengal for higher than usual deployment of central forces as well as crowd-control regulations due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||Nepal prod on equality promise||Nepal on Friday asserted its right to sovereign equality and mutual respect while urging India to receive and implement a 2018 report to review the entire spectrum of bilateral relations that New Delhi also had signed up for during the first visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kathmandu in 2014. A forceful case for taking forward that commitment was made by Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali during a talk given by him at the Indian Council of World Affairs in New Delhi after raising the unresolved boundary issue during his bilateral engagement with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar. An Eminent Persons’ Group (EPG) had finalised its report in 2018 but India has not accepted it yet, thereby stalling the process of updating the bilateral relationship that New Delhi had committed itself to in 2014. This has become an irritant in the bilateral relationship and Gyawali did not mince words on Friday. Stating that Nepal holds “dearer than anything else the principles of sovereign equality, mutual respect and non-interference”, Gyawali said: “We want to see a 21st-century Nepal-India relationship, which is forward looking and firmly founded on equality, mutual respect, justice and understanding of each other’s concerns and sensitivities. “For that, we should sincerely attend to the issues that we have inherited from the past; address them appropriately and should creatively work out the agendas for the future. With the same objective, we created an Eminent Persons’ Group in 2016 and mandated it to review the entire spectrum of Nepal-India relations and recommend measures to upgrade them in the changed context. The EPG has done its work and our job is to receive their report and implement it.” One of the tasks assigned to the EPG was to recommend inputs for the review of past treaties and agreements, including the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950 that democratic Nepal views as an archaic hand-me-down of the former monarch that does not put the country on equal terms with the larger neighbour. “We have agreed to revise, adjust and update the treaty to better reflect the current reality and to further consolidate and expand our friendship. We need to do it sooner than later,” the Nepalese foreign minister said. Gyawali also used the public platform to raise the boundary issue that was prised open in late 2019 after India released new maps showing Kalapani within Indian territory. Nepal came up with a new map of its own, showing Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of its territory though India only recognises that there is an issue on the boundary at Kalapani in Uttarakhand and Narsahi-Susta in Bihar. Without referring specifically to the particularly bitter patch in the relationship last summer when Nepalese Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli led the charge with shrill rhetoric and actions, Gyawali said building and nurturing trust was essential to any relationship. “In this spirit, we desire to start the conversation with a view to resolving the question of boundary alignment in the remaining segments.… Finding an agreeable boundary alignment in these segments may not only take us to the stage of a fully settled international boundary but may also help generate a positive vibe in public sentiment as well as help instil a greater degree of trust and confidence in bilateral relations.” The official statements put out by the foreign ministries of the two countries were at variance on the boundary issue and the EPG. The Indian statement makes no mention of the border matter being discussed during the meeting of the India-Nepal Joint Commission (JCM). Neither is there any mention of the EPG. The Nepalese foreign ministry, on the other hand, said: “The meeting discussed the boundary matter and expressed the commitment to early completion of the boundary works in the remaining segments. It also discussed the review of the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950, submission of the report of the Eminent Persons Group, and air entry routes.” Nepal has been seeking a meeting of the foreign secretary-level mechanism on the boundary question since 2019 after the Kalapani row, which forefronted an issue that was on the backburner, but India has not committed to a date. On Thursday, when asked at the weekly briefing if the boundary issue will be taken up during Gyawali’s visit, external affairs ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava had said: “Let me say that the JCM and boundary talks are separate mechanisms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||SC pandemic freeze on physical hearings questioned||Former Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh on Friday questioned the top court’s “unilateral” decision to continue with virtual proceedings instead of resuming physical hearings despite all other sectors in the country having gradually returned to normal functioning. In a letter to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and others, the senior advocate said the pandemic-related freeze on physical hearings since last March had caused immense hardship to litigants and advocates and hamstrung the justice delivery system. “I am deeply concerned with the non-resumption of normal functioning of this institution. Bar and Bench are the two main pillars on which the system of justice stands; however, (the) recent turn of events ha(s) created a situation whereby the interests of the Bar are being neglected and the Bench is taking unilateral decisions with regard to the functioning of the institution,” Singh wrote. The letter was marked to senior Supreme Court judges such as Justices N.V. Ramana, R.F. Nariman, Uday Umesh Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao besides apex court secretary-general Sanjeev S. Kalgaonkar and others. Singh cited Justice Bobde’s recent observation that physical hearing may not resume immediately because of the pandemic situation. “In my view when the entire country is opening up, of course with sufficient safeguards, I see no reason why the Supreme Court which is the foundation of our democratic polity should not resume full normal functioning by putting in place sufficient safeguards for the said opening,” he wrote. “While the judges and the court staff are completely protected being away from the areas where the lawyers, litigants and media come, till date no effort has been (made) to think of a method whereby the number of people entering the court is restricted and normal functioning of courts starts on that basis.” Singh said these were “extraordinary times and accordingly require extraordinary measures”. “The largest stakeholders in the functioning of the Supreme Court are the litigants for whose benefit this entire institution has been created, and while the issue of the pandemic is looming large in this country, the litigants cannot be ignored by the non-functioning of the Supreme Court in a proper manner,” he wrote. Singh regretted that the apex court is not allowing “mentioning” – the practice of orally mentioning matters of urgent public importance before the court — which he said was affecting the justice delivery system. “You will appreciate that mentioning is a very important activity with regard to the accessibility of the Supreme Court at all times and the said activity has never been denied in the functioning of this court right from the inception,” he wrote. “It is a method by which urgent matters which need immediate attention can be brought to the notice of the court for immediate remedial action. When I took up this issue with yourself, I was informed that there are bandwidth issues for allowing mentioning. I personally feel that any technological shortcoming cannot be an impediment in this vital activity. “There are always ways and means to overcome the same. As the CJI court has sat at 12 noon through most of the pandemic, an hour of exclusive sitting for the mentioning could have been provided before the CJI’s court from 10.30am onwards, which is the normal functioning time of the Supreme Court, in which the lawyers/ litigants who have matters listed during the day need not be given access and the entire system be used for the purpose of mentioning only. “In this way it could easily be ensured that matters which need urgent attention are not made to wait unnecessarily and if required, urgent orders can also be passed during mentioning.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||Mayawati asks Modi govt to accept farmers’ demands||Mayawati has advised the Narendra Modi government to accept the demands of the protesting farmers because they are aware of what is good and bad for agriculture. “The farmers have organised unprecedented protest at the Delhi borders. Several talks with the government have failed. The central government should accept all the demands of the farmers. It would be better for the government because the farmers know what is good and what is bad for them,” the Bahujan Samaj Party president said at a news meet in Lucknow on Friday on her 65th birthday. She also said the Modi government should provide coronavirus vaccine to every person in the country free of cost. “If the Centre doesn’t agree to my demand, then I would request the state governments to do so. If they all reject my demand, then I would promise the people that the BSP would provide them free vaccine when it comes to power,” she said. She said the BSP would not enter into any alliance for the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Her party has 18 MLAs in a House of 403 in Uttar Pradesh and none in the Vidhan Sabha of 71 in the hill state. “The BSP will contest on its own in UP and Uttarakhand in next year’s elections. We are not going to ally with any political party. Alliance is mostly harmful for us,” said the four-time former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The BSP, the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal had fought 2019 Lok Sabha elections together. The BSP had won 10 seats while the SP won five. The RLD got none. While addressing a news conference the same day last year,  Mayawati had asked her followers to vote for the BSP to ensure the chair of the Prime Minister as her birthday gift. Like past years, she also released the new volume (15th) of her book A Travelogue of My Struggle-Ridden Life and BSP’s Movement. The book is not available in the market and nobody knows where to find it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||UP House call for Arvind Kumar Sharma||Arvind Kumar Sharma, a bureaucrat who joined the BJP on Thursday after working closely with Narendra Modi for nearly two decades in his administrative capacity, was on Friday nominated for a Legislative Council berth in Uttar Pradesh by the party. On its own strength, the BJP will be able to get 10 members elected in the January 28 polls. Sharma, an IAS officer who was serving as the micro, small and medium enterprises secretary, took voluntary retirement last week. Before that he had held senior positions in the Gujarat CMO between 2002 and 2014 when Modi was chief minister and in the PMO after the leader took over as Prime Minister. The speculation that Sharma could be made a minister or even a deputy chief minister grew after his Legislative Council nomination. Uttar Pradesh now has two deputy chief ministers — Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. According to sources, Maurya doesn’t enjoy a cordial relation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Reacting to Sharma’s candidature, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said: “It is good that someone joined the BJP yesterday and his name was announced as a candidate today. Someone was telling me something which could be wrong or right…. the CM should also become a member of the BJP now.” Several leaders across parties claim that Adityanath is still not a member of the BJP. Along with Sharma, the BJP also announced the names of deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and RSS veteran Laxman Prasad Acharya as nominees for the elections. The terms of 12 members are to end on January 30. The BJP is to choose six more nominees. The Samajwadi Party has fielded senior leaders Ahmad Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary. However, the party has 49 MLAs whereas the votes of 32 legislators are needed to elect one Legislative Council member. BSP chief Mayawati has said her party will support the BJP or any other party to defeat the SP’s nominees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||JNU veil on exam outsource deal to National Testing Agency||JNU has thrown a veil over a two-year-old deal under which it outsourced its entrance exams to the National Testing Agency, prompting teachers and students to suspect the university has been diverting academic funds to pay the agency. Both the university and the NTA, an autonomous body set up by the central government, have stonewalled RTI applications seeking details of their deal, including the financial terms. A group of JNU teachers, who wish to remain unnamed, had filed the applications last November after the university had for months refused to reveal the terms and conditions of the deal. The JNU teachers’ association on Thursday demanded that the details be made public and alleged that the deal was not preceded by proper discussions at the academic council or the executive council. Till 2018, JNU itself conducted pen-and-paper entrance tests for its MPhil-PhD, master’s and bachelor’s programmes. Since 2019, the NTA has been holding the exams, now converted into computer-based, objective-type tests. In 2019, the NTA had conducted the tests while JNU teachers prepared the question papers. In 2020, the NTA took over complete control of the process, from preparing the questions to hosting the exams and declaring the results. Till 2018, JNU charged a fee between Rs 250 and Rs 300 per subject for the entrance exams. It spent between Rs 2.5 crore and Rs 3 crore on the conduct of these tests every year while making a surplus of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore, varsity sources said. In 2019, the NTA announced an exam fee of Rs 800-900 per subject but student protests forced it to stick to the earlier fees of Rs 250-300. Former JNU students’ union president N. Sai Balaji said varsity officials had told him the cost of holding the entrance tests had risen threefold after they became computer-based. Balaji suggested that JNU may be diverting its fellowship and hostel management funds to pay the NTA. “Students entitled to the non-NET fellowship and the Merit-cum-Means Scholarship haven’t received their stipends for the past six months,” he said. “Our hunch is that JNU has diverted the fellowship funds to the NTA for the conduct of the entrance tests. This expenditure could have been avoided had JNU continued to conduct its own tests.” JNU’s one-line reply on December 2 to the RTI application had said: “The information sought is not available with the Admission Branch.” The first appeal was then disposed of with the answer: “Reply has already been provided as per available records. No further information is available.” Moushumi Basu, secretary of the JNU teachers’ association, said: “This is remarkable --- the university doesn’t know how much it has paid or owes the NTA.” The NTA, replying to the RTI application filed with it, referred to a letter sent by the JNU administration in December 2018 about the outsourcing of the entrance tests, but was silent on the details sought. Nor did it provide the text of the letter. However, it said it had suffered a “minimum” shortfall of Rs 2.57 crore in revenues from the JNU entrance tests in 2019. It added that the 2020 accounts had not been finalised. “It’s noteworthy that the NTA doesn’t provide a precise figure even for 2019 but only says the shortfall was a ‘minimum’ Rs 2.57 crore,” Basu said. “Whether JNU is expected to compensate the NTA for this shortfall or whether the NTA is going to foot this expenditure is not clear.” Basu said an appeal would be filed with the NTA, and another with the Central Information Commission in connection with the JNU’s failure to reveal the deal’s details. Emails sent to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar and the NTA seeking the reasons for the shroud over the details of the deal brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||Yediyurappa ‘CD’ murmurs in party||A mystery “CD” has become the hot topic in Karnataka’s political circles with BJP lawmakers miffed over being ignored for ministerial berths and also the Opposition accusing chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa of being stung by a video clip on an unspecified questionable deed. While the allegation was raked up by the chief minister’s arch rivals in the party, Basangouda Patil Yatnal and A.H. Vishwanath, after realising that their names were missing from the list of seven lawmakers inducted into the cabinet on Wednesday, the CD allegation has since gathered momentum. The so-called “CD” could well be a euphemism for a secretly recorded audio or video clip that was now being purportedly used to blackmail Yediyurappa. Neither Yatnal not Vishwanath has revealed what exactly was the CD all about. But some Opposition sources claimed that there were a few “video clips” on some illegal financial transactions that could put Yediyurappa on a sticky wicket. Yatnal claimed that Yediyurappa’s grandchildren had clandestinely recorded his “ill-deeds”. “These recordings have fallen into the hands of some Congress leaders and some of our own lawmakers,” he told reporters. Asked if he had any of the recordings, Yatnal quipped: “I would be deputy chief minister if I had.” Yatnal had earlier demanded the chief minister’s resignation after Karnataka High Court last week dismissed Yediyurappa’s plea to quash criminal proceedings against him in a land scam and instead slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on him. Vishwanath had questioned some of the choices for ministerial assignments and wondered if Yediyurappa was being blackmailed. Neither Yediyurappa nor the BJP’s top leadership has uttered a word on the allegations swirling around the “CD”. Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP should be called “Blackmailers’ Janata Party” based on what its own lawmakers have alleged. “I was not taken seriously when I said a CD was behind the suicide attempt by his (Yediyurappa’s) aide some time ago. But even their own party leaders are saying the same thing now,” Shivakumar told reporters. The chief minister’s political aide, N.R. Santosh, had allegedly attempted suicide in November 2020, but later claimed he had accidentally swallowed some tablets without realising they were sleeping pills. Santosh had played a key role in destabilising the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy in 2019 by luring 17 lawmakers to the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Ram temple fundraising drive used for Bengal poll survey||Temple is meeting the temporal in Bengal as the Sangh parivar launched on Friday a fundraising drive for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Using the donation window, the parivar has begun a dipstick survey in Bengal to assess its support base and launch an outreach campaign ahead of the Assembly elections. As the donation drive, initiated by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, began across the country, parivar officials revealed that the initiative in Bengal had a political objective too. “The fund collection programme is a bit different in Bengal. As elections are approaching here, we will collect the basic details of all the donors in the state during the drive,” said Krishnendu Guha, district spokesperson for the Vishwa Hindu Parishad in Jalpaiguri. On Friday, VHP and BJP activists were seen distributing wads of printed receipts — for donations of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 — among the fund collectors. The foot soldiers were being instructed to start with the villages and municipal wards, and remember to collect the donors’ details. Sources in the VHP and the BJP said the effort would continue till February 28 and enable them to make a preliminary assessment of the BJP’s support base in the state. “This will act as a dipstick survey for us, for it’s unlikely that a donor or his family would not support us in the upcoming elections. The donor database is therefore also a supporter database for us,” a source said. He said the data would help the parivar to not just map the constituency-wise support for the BJP but also draw up an intensive outreach campaign ahead of the polls. “Specific campaign strategies for particular regions would be drawn up after analysing the database.... The data will also make it easier to communicate with the supporters ahead of the polls using their phone numbers,” a source said. The Supreme Court had in November 2019 handed the disputed plot in Ayodhya to Hindus and asked the government to form a trust to build the Ram temple. Following this, the nationwide fundraising drive was planned for the Rs 1,100-crore temple project. As it became clear on Friday that the fundraising effort would be used as an electoral tool in Bengal, Trinamul Congress leaders accused the Sangh parivar of using religion for politics. “As expected, the saffron ecosystem is trying to play the religion card for political gain. But such strategies will not work here,” said Trinamul’s district chief for Jalpaiguri, K.K. Kalyani. “People will choose Trinamul because of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s inclusive approach and the development carried out by her government.” Kalyani added: “We will keep an eye out to ensure that the fundraising drive doesn’t lead to any breach of peace.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||PM and CM line up vaccine outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee will use the webcasting platform to interact with health workers in poll-bound Bengal on the first day of the country-wide roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccination process on Saturday. During Modi’s address in the morning, he is likely to interact with health workers at two vaccination centres in Bengal — SSKM in Calcutta and North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri — through the webcasting platform. Mamata, however, will interact with health workers at vaccination camps of her choice around 1pm and can reach out to any of the 204 centres across Bengal. “Two hospitals — SSKM in Calcutta and North Bengal Medical College and Hospital — have been chosen for interactive sessions with the Prime Minister though his office can connect to any centre. Similarly, all centres will be able to listen to the chief minister on Saturday afternoon and it will be up to her to decide which centres to interact with,” said a senior health official. Sources in the state health department said the Union health ministry had asked them to keep ready at least two vaccination centres at prime locations of the state to facilitate an interaction with the Prime Minister around 10.30 on Saturday morning. The two centres will be among at least 60 across the country where Modi will interact directly with the people connected with the vaccination. The sources said the chief minister was equally eager to ensure that the first day of the vaccination process went off smoothly and she would keep a watch on the proceedings through the webcasting facility from Nabanna. Mamata’s concern for a smooth roll-out of the vaccination process was evident during the virtual meeting that Modi had with chief ministers on January 11. The controversy about the safety and efficacy of the two vaccines had prompted Mamata to ask Modi whether “adequate scientific confirmation” had been taken by the Centre in favour of Covishield and Covaxin. However, she was assured by Niti Ayog member Vinod K. Paul that both the vaccines were based on scientific evidence and completely safe. Speaking about the preparedness for the drive, a senior health department official in Birbhum said that the first jab was expected to be given at 9am and the drive would continue till 4pm. Each centre will vaccinate 100 health workers on a day, the official added. “Saturday will be a very challenging day for us as we have to carry out the vaccination process throughout the day,” said a health official. “According to the directive, those who have been shortlisted for vaccination can turn up for the jab between 9am and 4pm. Although a text message will be sent to each of the beneficiaries, we are personally contacting them to avoid rush at the camps,” said an official in Birbhum. As a finishing touch to the preparations for Saturday’s roll-out, officials of Union health ministry took the final class of vaccinators through video-conference on Friday and advised them to follow the guidelines diligently. The sources said officials had been asked to request the enlisted persons to come for the jabs with Aadhaar cards. The identity proof would be required to register the beneficiaries on the portal set-up for the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC told to scrap suspension of students||A group of varsity students wrote to Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Friday seeking an unconditional repeal of Thursday’s order suspending two student leaders. Visva-Bharati’s proctor Sankar Majumder had on Thursday suspended student leaders Somnath Sow and Phalguni Pan after the varsity accused them of “forcibly” breaking a lock at faculty chambers on January 9. Pan and Sow, postgraduate economics students, had taken part in the students’ protest that day condemning the suspension of their professor and faculty association president Sudipta Bhattacharyya who had been critical of the VC’s alleged “saffron agenda”. The suspension of students came soon after noted academics signed a petition addressed to the VC demanding Bhattacharyya be reinstated. “The authorities led by the VC have proved that the campus won’t allow voices of dissent. Today (on Friday), we wrote to the VC and will launch a larger movement if the suspension of students is not revoked,” said Mainul Hasan, a student of English in Visva-Bharati and an SFI leader. Letter to VC apart, students on Friday also organised a street corner protest. A student protester added that the VC “got his chance to play out his whims” as there were no students on campus during the pandemic. “Had the campus been open, we would have shown him our power.” The SFI has also called a protest march in Santiniketan against the suspension of the two students — Sow happens to be its unit leader — on Saturday afternoon. CPM youth wing DYFI will also organise protests in all 19 blocks of Birbhum over this weekend. “First professor Bhattacharyya (was suspended) and now these two students — all three went against the VC’s move to saffronise the campus,” said Wasif Iqbal, SFI district secretary. “The VC proved how the BJP is desperately trying to kill the voice of protests.” Varsity sources said the VC and officials close to him were “aggressive in penalising the economics professor for the role he played in revealing how the VC had insulted Nobel laureate Amartya Sen”. A teacher said that on Wednesday the VC had summoned teaching and non-teaching staff of the economics department and asked them to identify the students who took part in the protests against Bhattacharyya's suspension. Sources in Visva-Bharati said that they were planning to suspend more students who had joined the protest against Bhattacharyya’s suspension. Authorities reportedly also sacked a temporary employee of economics department for not resisting students’ attempt to “forcibly breaking seal/lock of the chamber of a particular professor”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||7,223 active cases on eve of jab day||Bengal on Friday reported a drop in total active cases for the 81st day on the trot since Vijaya Dashami, an improvement of nearly 81 per cent during this time, to 7,223. The state on Friday, the eve of the first phase of the nation-wide vaccination rollout, logged 656 Covid-19 recoveries, 623 new infections and 16 deaths, five from Calcutta. Bengal’s Covid recovery rate has risen for 85 days straight, from 87.44, to 96.94 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.43 per cent now. Calcutta High Court had intervened with instructions against crowding over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of the court’s instructions came ahead of New Year celebrations. Both times, the number of infections showed that the court’s instructions were effective. “Friday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 6…We have managed to see off the Christmas-New Year spell of revelry without a worsening of the outbreak,” said a minister, calling the phase “incredible”. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.43 per cent now, having improved steadily over 56 days, from 8.27. “That is a fairly definite indicator that the spread is shrinking in the state,” added the minister, crediting “excellent pandemic management”. In 81 days since Dashami on October 26, the state reported nearly 2.37 lakh recoveries and 2.1 lakh new infections. Overall, Bengal’s 5.64 lakh cases includes nearly 5.47 lakh recoveries and 10,026 deaths. The state attributed 8,411 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77 compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Bengal’s total test count, including 30,560 tests on Friday, is over 75.91 lakh now, at 84,346 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Talk it over with state: HC to Visva-Bharati on boundary wall issue||Calcutta High Court on Friday observed that Visva-Bharati authorities have the right to build any structure on its premises but if a dispute arose, the varsity should settle the issue by holding discussions with the state administration. The court made the observation while disposing of a PIL filed by advocate Ramprasad Sarkar relating to the construction of a controversial boundary wall on the varsity’s Pous mela ground in Santiniketan. The division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan observed: “If any dispute arises on any act of (the) university, the authorities concerned can easily settle the issue after discussion with the state administration. There is no need to spoil the time of the judiciary by filing PILs over the issue.” The court’s observation comes in the wake of a committee report filed in the wake of a clash over the wall last July. Many people, mainly local residents, allegedly ransacked the varsity campus and broke the main gateway to the university in protest, claiming that the wall was destroying Rabindranath’s Tagore’s idea of an open university. University authorities had to stop the construction. Later, following a PIL, the high court formed a three-member committee to visit the area, settle the dispute and file a report before the court. Friday’s high court observation was passed on the basis of the report. During the hearing, Chief Justice Radhakrishnan remarked: “What is the necessity of the government if the judiciary has to settle the dispute. Each and every such dispute should be settled by sitting with the state authorities.” Contempt case In response to a contempt petition filed by Visva-Bharati professor Shruti Bandyopadhyay in Calcutta High Court, the division bench of Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya and Justice Soumen Sen on Friday directed the university registrar to appear before court and clarify why authorities had failed to obey the court’s directive of paying the salary due to the petitioning teacher. Bandyopadhyay, Manipuri dance teacher of Sangit Bhavana, joined the varsity in 2014. In June 2020, she was told by the authorities that she had been erroneously paid over Rs 21,000 per month as increment and asked the teacher to refund the excess. When she moved court against the varsity’s decision, her salary was stopped. The high court in December last year directed the varsity to disburse her pending salary by December 31 and keep the “excess” in a separate bank account till the case was finally settled. Varsity authorities did not obey the court’s directive, leading the teacher to move a contempt petition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||First jabs for grassroots health workers||Grassroots health-care facilitators have been given priority by various district administrations across the state while drawing up the list of beneficiaries of the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination process that begins on Saturday. Even though there is no specific advisory from the Centre to give priority to these workers, except the advice to consider all frontline health workers as “first recipients”, district authorities have drawn up a plan to inoculate community health workers, including Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha), group D staff of rural hospitals and ICDS workers when the vaccination begins on Saturday. “We will vaccinate those health workers who work at the grassroots level, because they work directly at the rural level in close contact with the people,” said deputy CMOH-III of Basirhat, Shyamal Kumar Biswas. Sources in several districts indicated at most centres, around 50 per cent of the beneficiaries would be rural or ground-level health workers as they “have been on the frontlines of the war against Covid since March”. Welcoming the government’s move, an Asha worker in Nadia said: “For the past 10 months, we have been bravely working on the ground making people aware of Covid protocols, visiting containment zones and even taking care of the affected. It is good officials have realised our need.” In November, the Centre had advised the state to prepare a database of health workers who should receive the vaccine on a priority basis. In Bengal, district administrations have drawn up the lists and registered beneficiaries to include health workers at all levels in the first phase. Eventually, a majority of the districts decided to give precedence to the health workers at the grassroots level in the initial stage. “We have prepared the list of beneficiaries in such a way that Asha workers, ancillary nurses, midwives, and ICDS workers are vaccinated first. They will constitute more than 50 per cent of registered beneficiaries in the first phase,” Biswas added. Explaining the approach, a senior health official in South 24-Parganas said: “The objective is to build immunity among the health-care facilitators before the vaccination of those beyond frontline workers begins. Once they are vaccinated, the antibody response will develop in them and they will hopefully become immune to novel coronavirus. The success of our country’s mass immunisation plan for Covid largely depends on these community health workers,” a senior health official said. While the state fine-tuned the roll-out of the vaccination process on Friday, sources said in a few districts, a section of health workers, who had been registered as beneficiaries, were reluctant to take the jab in the first phase. “It appears these health workers are reluctant to take the vaccine fearing possible side-effects. According to the protocol, the vaccination is a matter of solicitation, so we cannot put pressure on them,” said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Wife of jailed Rose Valley boss arrested||The CBI on Friday arrested Subhra Kundu, a former actress and wife of jailed Rose Valley owner Gautam Kundu, amid murmurs that the central agency was trying to fast-track probe into several Ponzi scams in Bengal ahead of the state polls. The Rose Valley group has been under the scanner of central agencies for allegedly running multiple illegal deposit mobilisation schemes to cheat thousands of investors. Subhra’s arrest comes five years after the ED arrested Gautam in connection with its probe into the Rs 17,000 crore Rose Valley scam. She was arrested two days after former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member and businessman K.D. Singh in Delhi in connection with an alleged money laundering case involving his Alchemist Group. A CBI team reached Subhra’s south Calcutta condominium on Friday afternoon armed with a tip-off that she was back in Calcutta from Mumbai barely 48 hours ago. “She was requested to participate in a question-answer session and asked to share information on recent diversion of funds from different accounts of Rose Valley,” said a source. Subhra, who acted in some movies produced by Rose Valley, is the director of two sister companies of the Rose Valley group. Some CBI officers said they found evidence of recent transactions from accounts of these two companies, now shut. “The amount involved several hundreds of crores, and none of the staff of the two companies could give a proper explanation,” said a source. Subhra, CBI officers said, was arrested after a two-hour interrogation after she allegedly failed to provide any satisfactory answers. She was later brought to the CBI office in CGO Complex in Salt Lake and would be produced before a court in Bhubaneswar on Saturday. On her way to the CBI office, Subhra refused to reply to journalists on whether she had been framed. Trinamul questioned the timing of her arrest. “Why was she arrested now? Her husband was arrested several years back,” said Trinamul MP Saugata Roy. “The CBI is a caged parrot dancing to the tunes of the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Village in Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary set to receive solar power||Residents of Laltongbusty, a tiny hamlet located on the lap of the Teesta and adjacent to the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, are set to receive electricity for the first time. The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) will use solar power to illuminate the village that was developed 30 years ago, said sources. The state-run power company has already conducted a survey for providing electricity to the village that is around 25km from here. The estimated cost of the project was around Rs 7.55 crore. “As implementation of the project was taking time, it has been decided that the WBSEDCL will install solar panels at Laltongbusty to provide power to households,” state tourism minister Gautam Deb said here on Friday. The village comes under Deb’s Assembly segment, Dabgram-Fulbari. According to him, WBSEDCL was facing difficulties to electrify the village as the employees have to reach the spot through the dense forest. “It was also planned that underground cables would be laid for the power supply. But for the project, approval was required from the state forest department. Altogether, there had been some delay and hence, the decision to install solar panels was taken. It will largely help in expediting the project now and we believe the villagers will soon have power supply at their homes,” the minister said. In total, there are 45 houses at the village that is considered as one of the remote forest villages in Jalpaiguri district. Laltongbusty is in the Dabgram 1 panchayat. The villagers eke out a living by selling dairy products in Siliguri. Champey Mukhia, a resident who has been staying at Laltongbusty since the eighties, has said elephant depredation and attacks by other wild animals is a common menace that the villagers often face. “The attacks have forced us to change our occupation from agriculture to dairy farming. Almost every hut has cattle and we have to commute to Salugara (located 15km away) and some other prominent sweet shops of Siliguri for supply of milk,” Mukhia said. “There was a similar initiative (installation of solar power) taken up with the help of private operators at the village about 10 years ago. But eventually, it did not work.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC joins wage-hike chorus||Trinamul leaders in the north Bengal tea belt on Friday held a seven-hour sit-in demonstration across most tea gardens of the region over demands, including immediate hike of workers’ wages and the salaries of the staff and sub-staff associated with the sector. The demonstration under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union came on the heels of a public meeting by the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) — the trade union backed by the RSS — in the Dooars where it announced it had started foraying in the tea sector and intends to build its support base. “We demonstrated in almost every tea garden of the region. We urged tea companies to increase in the wages and salaries immediately and also fulfil some other demands like extending the retirement age from 58 to 60 years,” said Prabhat Mukherjee, vice-president of the union. As state elections draw near, all political parties and their trade union fronts are focussing on the tea sector of north Bengal. Each is trying to galvanise support in its own way by flagging pending issues of tea workers, which include wage revision. In north Bengal, votes of tea workers and their families decide the results of at least 15 Assembly seats. During the past few months, most trade unions other than the ones backed by Trinamul have intensified their activities over the wage and some other demands. A number of unions backed by other parties have flayed the Mamata Banerjee government for not being able to fix the minimum wage rate of tea workers — the daily wage rate is Rs 176 now — even though the initiative was taken six years back through formation of a committee. “Even though the state initiated a housing project for tea workers...wage revision is an issue that can turn tables in favour of any political party. It is evident that Trinamul does not want to lag behind other parties on this,” said a political observer on Friday’s protest. The state labour department has convened a tripartite meeting in Siliguri on January 20. “Representatives of tea trade unions and tea planters’ associations will be there at the meeting,” said Md Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner of north Bengal. Senior tea trade union leaders pointed out that it was unlikely that the state would be able to fix and announce the minimum wage rate before the elections. So most unions now want the state to act as a facilitator for wage revision through tripartite talks. “Each union wants to take the credit of flagging the issue and seek support for its political party from the tea population. Trinamul was silent so far on the issue and was playing the development card to draw support. However, it seems that trade union leaders of the party have realised the need to be vocal on the wage issue, because it is the planters and not the state who have to shell out the money for the hike,” the leader said. The demonstration that commenced at 8am, continued till 3pm. The agitation, however, did not affect the industry much because production has halted in gardens because of the lean season. Activities like irrigation and pruning got hit to an extent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Cops rescue women, find them jobs||A group of police officers here went beyond the call of duty and arranged jobs for two women who hail from a closed tea estate of the district and were headed to Dubai with an “agent”, suspected to be a trafficker, who had promised them jobs. This police initiative, taken at a time when the Mamata Banerjee government is trying to prove that there are job opportunities in Bengal and that people need not to migrate to other places, has earned appreciation from many. Sources said a police officer had received information on January 12 that the two women, both in their 20s and school dropouts, had contacted an agent who assured them of jobs in Dubai with hefty salaries. “Acting swiftly, the officer started gathering information on the situation. He learnt that the women would take a train, accompanied by the agent, for New Delhi from the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district on January 12 itself. He reached there with a team and rescued both the women. Milan Tamang, the agent who is suspected to be a trafficker, was arrested,” said a senior police officer. When the police personnel spoke to the duo, they admitted that they had been heading for Dubai where Tamang had promised them some jobs. “We realised that both the women are from very poor homes and were desperate to make some earnings for their families,” the officer added. Probe over, the police team could have withdrawn from the case. Instead, they immediately started scouting for possible jobs in the district for these two women so that they did not fall in similar traps in the future. Soon, the police team came to know of jobs at a private resort in the Alipurduar district. They contacted the resort owner who agreed to provide jobs to the women for a monthly salary of Rs 6,000 each. On Friday, both the women joined their new jobs as trainees in the hospitality sector. “We have heard their story and have decided to engage them. Both of them will be trained in hospitality management. They have also been provided with accommodation. We hope they will prove themselves in their new role,” said a resort representative. The proactive efforts of the police to help these women drew appreciation from the girls’ families and also from people in the area. “We want to stop human trafficking and will encourage private entrepreneurs of the region to reach out to the local population to offer them suitable employment,” said a senior police officer. “We are there to extend any possible help to them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-232
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Dad killed over dinner argument||An argument over “what’s for dinner” turned fatal on Thursday night at a village in Falakata block of Alipurduar as a former CRPF jawan bludgeoned his septuagenarian father to death. Police sources said that around 10.30pm, former CRPF jawan Pankaj Hore argued with his father Subhash over the dinner menu at their home in Palashtali village under Falakata police station. While Subhash wanted fish for dinner, Pankaj insisted on chicken. As the fish-versus-chicken debate got more heated, Pankaj suddenly got furious. He picked up a wooden plank and hit his father on the head. Subhash fell on the ground. Neighbours rushed the old man to the super-specialty hospital in Falakata where he died soon after. Some other villagers in the meantime detained Pankaj and thrashed him. Some people had also informed the police, which arrived and arrested Pankaj. Later at night, Pankaj's brother Dipankar filed a complaint with the police, based on which a case was registered against him. On Friday morning, Pankaj was produced at a local court in Alipurduar and was sent to judicial custody for seven days. Brown sugar arrests In Malda, the Englishbazar police arrested two persons and seized 350 grams of brown sugar (a derivative of opium) and around Rs 11 lakh in cash from them from near Loton Mosque of Mahadipur on Thursday night. The duo was nabbed when they were waiting in an SUV with the cash to allegedly collect some more narcotic substances. They have been identified as Prasenjit Ghosh and Naserul Islam, both residents of villages located under Baishnabnagar police station of the district. Another person with them managed to scamper away, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Reshuffle in Malda district Trinamul||The Trinamul Congress leadership has brought about a number of significant changes in the party’s Malda district committee by inducting a number of old and new leaders. The move, observers said, is an attempt to pass a message of inclusiveness across the tiers of the party ahead of the Assembly elections and also try to strike a balance among rival lobbies. Sources in the party said Subrata Bakshi, the state Trinamul chief, and some other leaders had held a meeting with core committee members of Malda district Trinamul in Calcutta on Friday. Six of the eight core committee members were present at the meeting. During the talks, it was decided to put Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, a former state minister, in the post of the chairman of the district committee, instead of Moazzem Hossain. Hossain, who is also a core committee member, has been offered the post of a vice-president. Nihar Ranjan Ghosh, the Englishbazar MLA who joined Trinamul four years ago and is an arch political rival of Choudhury, was included in the core committee. “The party has also decided to nominate Sabina Yeasmin, the MLA of Mothabari and Hemanta Sharma, a close aide to district party chief Mausam Noor as two new coordinators of district Trinamul. Their inclusion has increased the number of coordinators to five,” said a source. While talking to the state leaders, Noor, who is also a Rajya Sabha member, had reportedly told them that she intended to discontinue as the district president. “She was, however, asked to continue in the post until the Assembly elections are over,” the source added. So far, Trinamul’s performance in the Assembly polls has been poor in the district. Also, the surge in BJP’s support base in the past couple of years came up as yet another concern for the party. Till now, Mamata Banerjee’s party won only one Assembly seat (in 2011), and that too, with the Congress’s support. In the 2016 polls, the party could not win even one seat in the district even though Malda has over 50 per cent minority population, a vote bank that has always helped Trinamul. Although Choudhury, the former minister, remained reticent about his new responsibility and said the reshuffle-proposal would be confirmed by Mamata Banerjee, his arch rival Ghosh and his supporters thanked the chief minister for his inclusion in the core committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Research starts on tribes, their languages||The Centre for Studies in Local Languages & Cultures at North Bengal University has launched a project to carry out researches on some of the primitive tribes in the region and prepare monographs for the conservation of their language and cultural heritage. “We have planned to prepare monographs on different languages spoken by some communities, including a few primitive tribes in north Bengal. Some of these are endangered languages spoken by communities like Dhimal, Toto, Mech and Rajbanshi,” said Koushik Joardar, the director of the centre. Monographs are detailed documents which carry illustrative and other details of any language and culture. For this purpose, the varsity has planned to host workshops where faculty members and experts would congregate to provide inputs for the monographs. On Friday, a three-day workshop commenced at the centre to collect details of the language spoken by Dhimals, a community that dwells in the Naxalbari block of Siliguri. Linguists, researchers, faculty members from different departments and some members of the community are attending the workshop. “After the workshop, we will prepare a monograph on the Dhimal language and culture. It would be an important document for the community in future,” Joardar said. The experts will also visit respective localities where the communities live. “During the study, we will try to find out why these languages are endangered. There will be comparative studies, vis-à-vis, the status of other languages, along with geographical status and other details of each of these communities,” said a source. The initiative has been welcomed by members of the community. “We have been seeking the Scheduled Tribe status. The monograph, we feel, can act as an important document for us,” said Garjan Mallick, a senior member of the Dhimal community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
16-01-2021||West Bengal||Musician who beat blindness dies||Paras Gazmer lost his eyesight and his face was distorted at the age of one-and-a-half-years after a bout of measles but it did not stop him from belting out super hit songs like Sajha ko Gham Dhubi Sakyo (the evening sun has set). The life journey of Gazmer set, never to rise again, in the early hours of Friday at Darjeeling district hospital but not before leaving an indelible mark in Nepali music. He was 58. Smita Sunuwar, niece of the musician, said Gazmer had been suffering from diabetes, thyroid and high blood pressure for long. “He complained of uneasiness last evening and we rushed him to the hospital,” said Smita. Gazmer, a musician, composer, lyricist and singer, all rolled in one, had told The Telegraph in 2002: “It is the anguish of being denied the gift of vision to see the wonders of the world that find expression in my songs.” The singer who was born at Tindharia was sent to Salvation Army (blind school) in Kalimpong at the age of seven and it was there he found inspiration to take music lessons from his seniors. He never took formal training in music. A guitar player, Gazmer took the music scene by storm with two successive albums — Sajha Ko Gham (the evening sun) in 1993 and Mero Bhagya (my destiny) — with the latter having been nominated for the best Nepali album in 1999 by the Grihalaxami Association, Darjeeling. Even though Gazmer would sing on stage, he did not record his songs in his own voice even though he would pen and compose them. “I’ve done everything in the albums but just could not sing songs which truly reflected my feelings,” he rued. Gazmer, however, found solace in the fact that he could bring in another blind singer, Iswar Kafley, from Kathmandu, to sing the title song of Mero Bhagya. “Only he could have felt the pain and bring out the pathos and passion in the songs,” Gazmer had earlier said. While on stage, his singing and lyrics would invariably bring tears to the audience and most of his songs spoke of the pains of the differently-abled and society at large. Paeans and condolences from a cross section of Nepali society scattered across the world flowed through the day. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, MLA Neeraj Zimba, Anit Thapa, chairman, board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, leaders of both faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Binay Tamang and Bimal Gurung, and host of celebrities remembered the singer. Gazmer’s funeral will be held at Darjeeling on Saturday noon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-233
16-01-2021||North East||Biren Singh firm on fight against drugs||Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh on Thursday said his government’s “war on drugs” was a “committed mission” and nobody could derail it with “unfounded” criticisms and politically-motivated instigations. Singh said this while destroying pre-trial drugs and psychotropic substances worth over Rs 34 crore in the international market at Pungdongbam Chingmang in Imphal East District in the presence of ministers, MLAs, high-ranking police officers, mediapersons, villagers and local leaders. These drugs were seized by Narcotics and Affairs of Border (NAB) and Manipur police, the chief minister’s office said. Singh asserted that for him, ‘War on Drugs’ is not an idea which was conceptualised recently. He began to feel the need of commencing an effective campaign against intoxicants in mid-90s when he was the editor of a vernacular daily. After he became the chief minister, he announced the launch of the ‘War on Drugs’ in 2018 on International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, which falls on June 26. Manipur has been affected by the drug menace because of its proximity to the Golden Triangle, a region in Southeast Asia bordering Myanmar, Laos and Thailand and globally considered an opium-producing hub. India shares 1,643 km border with Myanmar from where drugs produced in the Golden Triangle such as opium, heroin, methamphetamine are smuggled into the country through Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland. Urging different organisations to help fight the drugs menace, Singh said instead of “making fun” of the mission, the government’s efforts should be acknowledged. He did not name anyone. However, the name of a police official figuring in a drug trafficking case making it to the gallantry award list and assistant superintendent of police Thounaojam Brinda returning her gallantry medal following the acquittal of seven accused in a high-profile drug trafficking case, has sparked off a lot of discussion and raised questions about the government war on drugs. The chief minister said travelling to most interior areas, hiking through difficult terrains to destroy poppy plants and convincing villagers to grow alternative cash crops in place of poppy is “not” an easy task. It needs efforts guided by true conviction, Singh said, adding that “destruction” of poppy farms would continue until villagers stop growing it while lauding the NAB, Manipur police, paramilitary forces and all thoseinvolved in the ongoing war on drugs. As part of its war on drugs, the Manipur government has involved the Army and Assam Rifles — to wean away drug users and destroy poppy cultivation in remote border areas. Talking tough, Singh also said the state government would terminate the service of anybody from the Manipur police department found involved in drug and psychotropic substance related cases no matter whether “he or she is a relative or a family member”. He informed that around 40 departmental enquiries involving police personnel regarding drug related cases are going on. Those dealing with drug addicts attribute easy availability of drug, economic status and lack of employment are leading to rise in drug users who are also responsible, among others, for high incidence of HIV/AIDS cases in the state, attributed to “sharing of HIV-infected injecting equipment/needles among the intravenous drug users”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
16-01-2021||Opinion||Good riddance: Donald Trump impeached||Sir — The news that Donald Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives earlier this week came as a relief. This impeachment is historic, as it is the first time ever in the United States of America that a president has been impeached twice. In 2019, he was charged with abuse of power and the obstruction of Congress; this year, the impeachment is on a charge of “incitement of insurrection” after the riot at the US Capitol. He had made a reportedly violence-inciting speech at a rally just before the riot; that speech is at the centre of the impeachment charge against him. As the House of Representatives voted 232-196 to impeach Trump, they did so amid tight security. In fact, members of Trump’s own party echoed the Democrats in voicing the need to hold him accountable, and ominously said that there was a “clear and present danger” if Congress were to leave Trump unchecked before the inauguration of the president-elect, Joe Biden, on January 20. Charges of impeachment in the US are serious; it is rarely a process that is invoked unless there is sufficient cause for it. At least five people died in the riot caused by Trump supporters storming into the Capitol building, destroying property and getting in fights with police officers. Now that the vote is in, the Senate is supposed to be holding a trial to prove Trump’s guilt. A two-thirds majority in the upper House will be required to impeach the president. However, it is unlikely that the Senate will convene before January 19, which would effectively mean that the trial will only begin after Trump renounces office on January 20. Had the trial taken place on time, and Trump been proven guilty, he would not have been able to contest the presidency the next time. However, in spite of the unfortunate timing, it would be foolhardy to allow Trump’s crimes to go unpunished, as it would set an unwanted and dangerous precedent. As long as he is held accountable and duly penalized, it will serve as a warning for future leaders who might think like him. Ashish Ganguly,Delhi Sir — Following the January 6 attacks on the US Capitol while Congress met to formalize Joe Biden’s presidential victory, the House of Representatives impeached Donald Trump for the second time. Interestingly, ten Republicans also voted with the Democrats. The House adopted a single article of impeachment — one of the weightiest tools that the US Constitution gives to the Congress, to hold government officials, including the president, accountable for misconduct and abuse of power — voting 232 to 196 to charge Trump with inciting violence and requesting his immediate removal and disqualification from ever holding office again. The vote set the stage for Trump’s second Senate trial since 2019, although senators are not expected to convene to sit in judgment before January 20, when Biden will take the oath of office. Even though time is limited, it is never too late to do the right thing. There is still enough reason to put Trump on trial even after he leaves the White House. The manner in which Trump, under the guise of patriotism, provoked a violent attack makes him deserving of an impeachment. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Well played Sir — It was deeply heartening to read that the New Zealand skipper, Sophie Devine, hit the fastest century in the history of women’s Twenty20 cricket — 100 runs off just 36 balls — in a domestic match. This is a significant milestone because women’s cricket always tends to get sidelined — by spectators, advertisers and brands alike — in favour of men’s cricket, even though women are doing so many exciting things in the sport. Even in India, the achievements of the likes of Mithali Raj, Jhulan Goswami and Smriti Mandhana get overshadowed regularly. It is high time that women’s cricket attracted the same kind of attention and investment that the men’s game gets. Aria Mitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Opinion||A snack across the universe||A samosa has boldly gone where no jalebi, khakra or kachori has gone before. This deep-fried pastry — one of India’s favourite snacks — was launched into space by a restaurant-owner in Bath, England. Even though the high-flying snack plummeted back to earth — it crash-landed across the channel — this novel operation, it was hoped, would lighten up the mood in these dark times. A careful examination of the history of savouries would reveal that food shares a symbiotic relationship with joy and wonder. For instance, the samosa, apart from being a space explorer, has also been a migrant. At a time when the ‘outsider’ is raising a tempest in Bengal’s tea cups, the Bengali, biting contently into a piping hot phulkopir shingara, would do well to remember that this beloved snack came from a land distant from Bengal and, indeed, India. The samosa originated in the Middle East, tracing its ancestry to the sanbusak, which, by the way, is also the forbear of the calzone of Italy, the coca of Catalonia and the empanada of Central America. Migrants travel in groups; so does food. The potato — can the samosa or the biryani be imagined without it? — began its journey from Latin America, hitching a ride with Portuguese sailors, to reach the subcontinent in the 17th century. Its good friend, the tomato — Italy cannot do without its pomodoro — originated in the Americas too. A study by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture has shown that about 69 per cent of all food supplied to and produced in any country is ‘foreign’. Yet, these edible travellers have been known to make competitors forgive and forget animosity. In spite of the Chinese intrusion, have Indians given up their chai? Even in the Age of Untruth, there is no doubt that China gifted tea to the world. The jet-setting samosa that is making Indians puff up with pride has also been voted Pakistan’s most popular food, along with other Indian dishes like halwa puri and paratha. Food and its journeys are, thus, the embodiment of umbilical cords that have survived geographical, political and cultural purgings. This is not to suggest that fight over food among cultures is rare. Kimchi is a bone of contention between Japan and South Korea; Israel and Lebanon have frequently quarrelled over the hummus; closer to home, both Bengalis and Odias — their mouths drooling — have claimed ownership of the rosogolla. The animosity is understandable. Food serves as the imprimatur of indigenous — bona fide — identity. Yet, a grave new threat has gone unnoticed amidst these raging food wars. As the world gets smaller, food — its texture and smells — has begun to look and taste similar, thanks to the spreading tentacles of a globalized, but unimaginative, market. This industrial, mass-produced strain of refreshments is overwhelming distinct, often local, foods as well as the histories, myths, and stories of migrations embedded in them. Indigenous food — the original migrant — may well survive among pockets of migrant communities that continue to relive memories of what they have left behind through the morsels that survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Opinion||Different promises: New Year resolutions||People notoriously fail to stick to New Year’s resolutions, and this year it may be even harder. Common New Year’s resolutions each year include exercising more, losing weight, saving money, spending less time on social media, spending more time with family and so on. A job website analyzed Google trends and found that for 2021, the most common resolution across states in the United States of America was to seek therapy. The second common one was to lose weight. Therapy was the top goal in Pennsylvania, Arizona, Connecticut, Florida, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, New Jersey, New York and Tennessee ( notice the lack of any West Coast states here). It is not surprising that therapy trended high this year considering the roller coaster ride that 2020 was. Many people experienced the same things: losing jobs, stressing over a presidential election and binge-watching Netflix. In Alaska, Kansas, Oregon and Washington, “better sleep” trended as a goal for 2021. Dating was a common trend in California, Hawaii, Illinois, Michigan, Nevada and Utah. The new year was rung in without the usual crowds. The Times Square bash honoured the frontline workers who have risked their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic. Las Vegas, New York City and Miami are usually the most popular destinations for New Year’s Eve, but this time celebrations were subdued or cancelled. For the people Martin Luther King, Jr Day is celebrated on the third Monday of every year. Most businesses are closed and the federal government is off as well on this day as people come together to honour and remember civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr. The proposition to mark this day as a federal holiday was introduced in the late 1960s, but did not come into effect until decades later. It was finally nationally recognized in 2000. King’s widow, Coretta Scott King, continued to fight for the approval of the holiday and testified before Congress multiple times. In fact, in Alabama and Mississippi, it coincides with Robert E. Lee Day, which celebrates the life of a Confederate general. MLK’s birthday is actually on January 15, but was designated to fall on the third Monday every year owing to the Uniform Monday Holiday Act that was signed into law in 1968, owing to which federal holidays, including Memorial Day and George Washington’s birthday, fall on a Monday to allow families to travel to visit each other. MLK is known both as a national hero of democracy and a civil rights activist. He fought for equality for the black American community through peaceful protests. He was assassinated at the age of 39. This year, several events have been cancelled owing to the pandemic, impending storms and predicted protests in all 50 states in the wake of the US Capitol riots. The 26th annual Greater Philadelphia Martin Luther King Day of Service will take place on January 18, the largest MLK Day event in the US. This year the theme is the Covid-19 health crisis.Stop the hate After the assault on the US Capitol building, the power and responsibility of social media companies have become contentious issues. There is little doubt that the president, Donald Trump, leveraged Twitter and Facebook to reach his supporters. During the attack, he even posted a now deleted Tweet calling the rioters ‘special people’. But now Facebook, Instagram and Twitter are pushing back. They suspended Trump’s accounts, first temporarily, then permanently, preventing him from tweeting even under other account names. This spurred a debate on free speech, with Conservatives slamming Twitter for obstructing First Amendment rights. However, the amendment does not apply to private businesses such as Twitter or Facebook. In the midst of this, a social media application called Parler, tailored for far-right conservatives, has emerged. Unlike Twitter, Parler allows speech with no monitoring. It became one of the most downloaded apps until the App Store, Google Play store and even Amazon Web Services kicked it off their platforms. Peace over violence Every January, US cities organize and participate in the Women’s March. This year, not only are the marches cancelled owing to the pandemic, but it was prefaced by domestic terrorism at the US Capitol carried out by several members belonging to far-right groups. The Women’s March has been the largest single-day demonstration in the US. The march is completely peaceful with a goal to vent frustrations about inequality and advocate for basic human rights — not only for women but for every individual, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, gender and sexual orientation. It is in sharp contrast to the events of January 6 in which people also came to protest, but with pipe bombs and zip ties. The fourth annual 2021 Womxn’s March on Raleigh will be a virtual march on January 23, live for 12 hours. The theme is ‘Onward Together’ with a focus on community organization. The Women’s March Foundation issued a statement saying it would be “irresponsible” to organize a march “in the face of these issues and it is imperative to keep our communities safe”. With Kamala Harris becoming the country’s first woman vice-president, there is more to celebrate this year. Footnote If you need some motivation to go get a Covid-19 test done, that motivation could be wine. The City Winery in New York has creatively adapted the new ‘no indoor dining’ policy by transforming its venue into a Covid test zone. The promotion, now expired, gave you a free Covid test with the purchase of a case of wine. It also added a $50 Covid rapid test for anyone who wanted to dine indoors. The promotion was in partnership with Accurex Diagnostic Services, which is overseeing and administering all of the 15-minute rapid tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Opinion||Riches and dust||In the third week of January 2020 — exactly a year ago — I was in New Delhi, working in the collections of the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. I first discovered the archival riches of the NMML in the early 1980s, and explored them most fully while living in Delhi between 1988 and 1994. In those years I would spend a couple of days a week in the NMML, exploring its repository of private papers of major (and minor) figures in modern Indian history and digging deep into its holdings of old newspapers. In 1994, I moved to Bangalore. I no longer had daily access to the NMML, and made do with a few trips a year. These were generally in January, April, September and November, thus escaping the brutal heat of summer and the sapping stickiness of the monsoon too. I would book myself for a week or ten days in a boarding house in New Delhi, within walking distance of the NMML. I would reach the Manuscripts Room at 9 am, as soon as it opened, colonize a desk by the window, order my files, and settle in for a concentrated day’s work. Apart from a short break for lunch and two shorter breaks for chai, I would take notes until 5 pm, coming back the next day for more. I have worked in dozens of archives around the world, but the NMML has always been my favourite place to do research in. The reasons were various — the setting, a tree-laden campus rich in bird life, behind the magnificent Teen Murti House; the range of primary materials on all aspects of our history; the capable and helpful staff; the planned and unplanned meetings with other scholars who came to work there. For the past quarter-of-a-century, I have made at least four, sometimes five and even six, pilgrimages each year to this shrine for historical researchers. When I was there last January, I had no clue 2020 would be any different. Then the pandemic set in, and for the rest of the year I was marooned in South India. Even if I had somehow got on a flight to New Delhi, I would have found the NMML shut. Nonetheless, through the course of the year this much-loved archive kept me company anyway. I was finishing a book on foreigners who joined the freedom struggle, based in large part on research previously conducted in the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. And I was reading manuscripts of younger scholars, these likewise drawing on the collections of the NMML. In the summer and autumn of 2020, I read draft chapters of a biography of the socialist leader, George Fernandes, written by Rahul Ramagundam, and of a biography of the Bharatiya Janata Party icon, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, written by Abhishek Choudhary. I also had several long conversations with Akshaya Mukul, who is working on a new biography of Jayaprakash Narayan. These three book projects have four things in common. First, when published all will be major and perhaps definitive biographies of the individuals concerned. Second, since these books are about important (and controversial) historical figures, they should command a wide readership. Third, the subjects of these books were all opponents (sometimes implacably so) of the Congress and its pre-eminent leader, Jawaharlal Nehru. Fourth, none of these books could have been conceived, researched or written without access to the rare and rich materials pertaining to Fernandes, Vajpayee and JP kept in an archive named after their common political adversary. This was not an accident. Though named for Nehru, the NMML was never intended to be partisan in its orientation. That is why biographers of JP, Fernandes and Vajpayee have to conduct much of their research there. So must biographers of other celebrated anti-Congress (and anti-Nehru) politicians such as Shyama Prasad Mookerjee and C. Rajagopalachari. Unlike many other Indian institutions, the NMML was lucky in the people who built it. Its first two directors, B.R. Nanda and Ravinder Kumar, were outstanding as scholars and as administrators. Working with Nanda and Kumar were a team of excellent archivists who sourced manuscripts and newspaper collections from around India, indexed, catalogued and preserved them, and made them accessible to scholars. Over the decades, thousands of books and dissertations have been written on the basis of the NMML collections. Anyone working with any seriousness on any aspect of modern Indian history had to spend time here. Whether one was desi or videshi, young, old or middle-aged, whether one was a social historian, an economic historian, a cultural historian, a historian of science, a film historian or sports historian, a student of feminism or environmentalism or socialism, one began and often ended one’s research at the NMML. With no disrespect to the other men and women who made the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, perhaps the person who best embodied its spirit and character was a scholar named Dr Hari Dev Sharma (picture). A historian from the Punjab, he joined the place in 1966, shortly after it was established, and worked there for more than three decades. Many of the most important collections at the NMML were acquired through the skill, industry and selflessness of Hari Dev Sharma. These include the Fernandes, JP and Rajagopalachari papers mentioned above, as well as an extensive collection of the papers of Mahatma Gandhi himself. It was also Sharma who oversaw the oral history collections, these often based on interviews with freedom fighters that he had himself conducted. From February to December 2020, while deprived of physical access to the NMML, I kept in touch with this great institution via the manuscripts I was reading. While discussing Fernandes with Rahul Ramagundam, or Vajpayee with Abhishek Choudhary, or JP with Akshaya Mukul, the figure of Hari Dev Sharma often came into my mind. These scholars are all too young to have met the man, although they know that it was archivists like him who made their scholarship possible. I was myself fortunate both to have known Dr Sharma and be a direct beneficiary of his work and his wisdom. Short and stocky, Haridevji was clad always in a kurta-pyjama, coloured white and made of khadi. He came to office riding his own scooter, stoutly refusing a sarkari car. As I write this, I can picture us meeting on a wintry January morning, on the steps of the Library building. I have just disembarked from an autorickshaw, and he has just parked his Vespa and taken off his helmet. As we come across one another this sort of conversation ensues: The Archivist (in Hindi): “Kaho Ram, kaise ho? Bung-lore se kab aaye?” The Researcher (in Hinglish): “Meri flight kal raat ko pahunchi, Haridevji.” The Archivist: “Toh is baar kya dekh rahe ho?” The Researcher: “Main Gandhiji ke disciples par kaam start karna chahta hoon.” The Archivist: “Tab ao mere saath kamre mein.” Had I not run into Haridevji on the Library steps, I would have proceeded to the Manuscripts Room, shooting in the dark, beginning my research unguided and unaided. Now, having met him and being taken to his office, my time amidst the NMML’s collections would be more profitably spent. I wished to know what Gandhi’s closest followers did after the Mahatma’s assassination, he asked? In that case I must access the collection of the economist, J.C. Kumarappa, focusing in particular on his correspondence with Vinoba Bhave and Mira Behn. Then I should look at the materials on the Frontier Gandhi, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, contained in the papers of D.G. Tendulkar and Kamalnayan Bajaj. And so the stream of recommendatory advice would flow, making the researcher’s task so much easier. Hari Dev Sharma retired as deputy director of the NMML in 1999, and passed away the following year. Ever since, whenever I have entered the NMML I have imagined meeting him, helmet in hand, and his taking me to his room for instruction. However, the last eleven months of 2020 passed without my stepping into my favourite archive at all. I don’t know whether I will see it in 2021 either. Perhaps that is just as well, for in recent years the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library has entered into a steady and probably irreversible decline. The fine archivists who retired were not replaced, while important collections donated by well-meaning Indians remain uncatalogued, gathering dust. Meanwhile, the NMML’s administration has been commanded by its political bosses to disregard scholars and scholarship and, instead, devote its attention to the construction of a hideous new building on the lawns. This is ostensibly a museum to honour all of India’s prime ministers but is — like so many other ugly structures under construction in New Delhi — in essence a monument merely to the vanity of the present prime minister. One doesn’t know in what form or shape the NMML will survive the mayhem of the Modi years. A centre of intellectual excellence, once staffed with archivists like Hari Dev Sharma, once so hospitable and welcoming to scholars of all generations, ideologies and nationalities, has become a sad and forlorn place, bereft of creativity and the capacity for self-renewal. As someone who knew the NMML in its prime, I feel fortunate, in having masses of notes from it that will sustain me for the rest of my life, as well as guilty, since scholars younger or as yet unborn will never be able to draw as deeply from this once great archive as I myself have. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau conducts successful vaccination drive on Day One||With India kicking off its Covid-19 vaccination programme across the country, slow server at the community health centre in Palamau’s Chainpur caused some minor hiccups in its smooth execution. Due to a technical glitch the server behaved erratically, thereby making the matching of beneficiaries’ names and identity proofs take over five minutes each. Civil Surgeon Palamau, John F. Kennedy said the medical-in-charge of the community health centre Chainpur had informed him it about the issue, but he maintained that the glitch didn’t halt the vaccination drive there. It took more than five minutes to match the initials of each beneficiary, sources said. Back at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj, it was 52-year-old, fourth grade staff, Nageshwar Dubey, who took the first shot. “I am all fit and fine,” Dubey said after coming out of the vaccination room sporting a big smile. Palamu has been administered 4,160 doses in the first phase of the programme for a total of 711 health workers and officers in Daltonganj. District Reproductive Child Health Officer Anil Kr Singh said the consignment is worth two shots of Covishield vaccines for 1,800 people. Singh said those who got vaccinated in the first phase will have to come to the same session site after 28 days of being administered the first shot to get the second shot. He said no vaccinated beneficiary can change the session site. A sense of relief and joy was common among all beneficiaries who received the jabs. No nervousness or anxiety was detected. Immediately after being vaccinated, the health workers rushed to their duties like any other day. DC Palamau Shahi Ranjan appreciated the arrangements made for the vaccination at Daltonganj and Chainpur community health centre, where green carpets were rolled out for the beneficiaries. “I wish I should have taken the shot but today it was just for the health workers and officers,” said Ranjan, who supervised the vaccination drive for over 30 minutes at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ashish Kothari addresses XLRI  Verghese Kurien lecture||Eminent environmental activist Ashish Kothari on Saturday spoke on the importance of being respectful towards nature and recognising that other species and earth as a whole also have inherent rights not just because they are useful for human beings. Speaking at an online oration organised by the Fr Arrupe Center for Ecology and Sustainability (FACES) of XLRI, Kothari said, “The principles of Swaraj have never been fully realised. Yet, they continue to resonate through Indian civic culture to this day in the country's grassroots environmental movement. Recognising that living harmoniously with nature is central to Swaraj. Eco-Swaraj is not a movement in itself, but it describes patterns. Juxtaposing Eco-Swaraj with Covid-19 alongwith other ongoing global crises such as climate, biodiversity, and inequality will provide us an opportunity to rethink what development should really mean.” The programme was organised in memory of Verghese Kurien, the founder of Amul, popularly known as the Milkman of India. Kothari was speaking on the topic ‘Eco-Swaraj: Recovery towards Justice and Sustainability’. In his address XLRI director Fr. P. Christie said, “Verghese Kurien was an ingenious thinker, a revolutionary, and a social entrepreneur who ideated the world's biggest agricultural development program. His remarkable life and achievements are an embodiment of his faith in the common man’s ability to exercise control over his destiny. His life and work exemplify the model for a responsible management leader, combining business skills with the larger good of the society and nation-building.” The annual oration aims to provide a platform to listen to and learn from thought leaders, social entrepreneurs, development sector professionals and policymakers who have made a significant contribution to the idea of an empowered, prosperous, and sustainable society. Prof. Raghuram Tata, convenor of the Fr Arrupe Center for Ecology and  Sustainability (FACES) also delivered an address during the event. “FACES at XLRI was established with the mission to promote practices, policies, and dialogue that have an impact on holistic and sustainable development of society and enterprises. Verghese Kurien Memorial Oration on Sustainable Development is our humble initiative to pay tribute to the great visionary,” he said. Welcoming Kothari, the B-school director said, “His vast work on environmental issues like the environment interface, biodiversity policy, and alternatives would help our students understand the current global environmental issues and inspire them to work for the greater good.” Ashish Kothari is an Indian environmentalist working on environmental and development issues. He is one of the founders of Kalpavriksh, an Indian environmental NGO. He has been associated with peoples’ movements like Narmada Bachao Andolan and Beej Bachao Andolan. Kothari has also been a teacher of the environment at the Indian Institute of Public Administration, New Delhi. He has also been a guest faculty at several universities and institutes and Mellon Fellow at Bowdoin College, USA. Kothari has also worked as members of quite a few Government of India committees, including Environmental Appraisal Committee on River Valley Projects of the ministry of environment and forests, the committee to Assess Implementation of the Forest Rights Act, and committees to draft design the National Wildlife Action Plan and India's Biological Diversity Act. He coordinated the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan process in India commissioned by the Government of India. Kothari is currently coordinating the Vikalp Sangam (Alternatives Confluence) a process that provides a forum for organisations and individuals working on development alternatives across India to come together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||On Day One, 3,200 get first shot of Covishield in state||Around 3,200 of the 4,800 health and sanitation workers registered for Covishield shots on Day 1 of the vaccination programme in Jharkhand turned up at various centres across the state on Saturday and were administered 0.5ml injections – the first of the two shots required for developing optimal levels of antibodies against the coronavirus over a period of 42 days. “More than 3,200 were administered vaccine shots in Jharkhand today (Saturday). All the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines were strictly followed at all vaccination centres,” state health minister Banna Gupta said during a meeting over video conferencing with officials from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare soon after vaccination for Day 1 concluded. A senior official from the National Health Mission (NHM) said the response to the vaccination programme was positive in Jharkhand despite rumours over social media over possible side effects. Chief Minister Hemant Soren inaugurated the vaccination programme at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi and hoped that the vaccine proves to be a boon for the people of the country. “I personally saw the first shot being administered to a sanitation worker here. It is important to keep the beneficiary under observation for at least 30 minutes after the vaccine shot is administered,” said Hemant, adding that all necessary arrangements were made at vaccination centres of the state for safe immunization. The vaccination programme began at around 11.30 am, but shots will be administered at the various centres 10am onwards from Sunday, health officials said. The vaccine shots, officials said, will be administered from 10am to 5pm at all the centres. Mariam Guriya of Sadar Hospital in Ranchi was the first sanitation worker to get the Covishield shot in the city on Saturday. The second shot was administered to Dr Vijay Mishra, a senior doctor working at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi. Dr Mishra said that he was not feeling any immediate side effects of the vaccination and encouraged people to take the shots without any sense of apprehension. “I was under observation for about 30 minutes after the shot, and my blood pressure, pulse and heart rate were monitored. The vaccine is safe and people must not reject it as all rumours have been put to rest,” said the doctor, who treated State Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto at Medica Hospital before he was sent to Chennai. The vaccination programme was run at 48 centres across Jharkhand on the day, and about 100 beneficiaries were registered to get the shots at each centre, the government had stated earlier. However, the list of beneficiaries at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi carried only 72 names on Saturday. Health Minister Gupta also requested the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to grant permission to the state for setting up 139 vaccination booths across Jharkhand. He urged the ministry officials to include journalists and frontline workers in the list of beneficiaries for the vaccination programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Private schools announce dates for nursery and KG admissions||Around 60 private schools affiliated with CBSE and CISCE boards in Jamshedpur declared admission dates for nursery and KG students on Saturday. Almost all the schools have declared their entry-level admission results through online and offline modes for the convenience of parents. Since a few years, private schools, under the Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act, have been organising lotteries to randomly select students to fill up the entry-level seats instead of interviewing them. As per the RTE Act, 25% of the total nursery or KG seats are reserved for the downtrodden, SC, or ST. While the schools conduct lotteries for the rest. “Most of the schools have online and offline modes of declaring admission results. The admission formalities will be done next week between January 18 and 22,” said Swarna Mishra, principal of Dayanand Public School in Sakchi. Loyola School, Sacred Heart Convent School, Carmel Junior College and DAV Public School have uploaded their results on their respective websites, while the other schools have also put up a list on their notice boards for the convenience of parents. The schools have decided to hold their annual examinations from February 8. They are now waiting for the state government’s directive to begin the new session. However, the online classes will begin from March 21 if they do not get any instruction from the government. “My daughter has been selected by two schools. Online learning cannot replace the school classroom. I hope the students will be able to visit schools this year, meet with friends, and get special attention of teachers,” said Simran Singh, a happy parent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Medica director, Sadar hospital worker get first jabs in Ranchi||When Mariam Guriya, a cleanliness worker at Ranchi’s Sadar hospital, walked out of the vaccination centre about an hour after becoming the first recipient of Covishield in the state on Saturday, all she had to say was: “It felt like a small pinch in my arm. Nothing unusual.” The 30-year-old frontline worker said she was proud to be among the first people to get the vaccine and appealed to others to not refrain from doing so. “Since the outbreak of the virus, the pandemic threatened human existence, but now we can fight the deadly disease. I appeal to others to also take the vaccine as it is like any other normal vaccine dose,” she said. Guriya said she remained in the observation room for half an hour but did not feel anything unusual. “I did not feel any sense of dizziness, nausea or any other abnormality at all. I am good to go on my day’s job,” she said flashing a victory sign. At 11.30 am, an hour after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination programme in the country, chief minister Hemant Soren kicked off the state campaign from Sadar hospital and stayed in the vaccination room to oversee the administration of Covishield among the first few beneficiaries. Dr Vijay Mishra, critical care head and director of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspeciality Hospital, who was vaccinated after Mariam, said he chose to volunteer for the dose in the first phase to build confidence among others. “Being a doctor and the director of a hospital I thought it is my job to also be the first to take the vaccine so that others can get motivated. I am here to allay fears about the vaccine among a few people. I felt totally safe,” he said. The vaccination centre set up at the Sadar hospital wore a festive look with balloons put up all round. There was a sense of joy among beneficiaries and the health department staff ahead of the launch of vaccine. As the chief minister arrived at around 10.30am, tribal artists welcomed him by playing the mandar and traditional drums. After launching the drive, Hemant said he hoped the vaccine turned out to be a boon for its people. “Today, we are at a decisive stage in our fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last one year, the entire world has been through many phases of trauma, despair and hope. From here, we hope that we shall be able to overcome the virus,” he said, adding that even after taking the vaccine, people must continue with the prescribed precautionary steps to prevent any infection. On Day One, the vaccination drive was rolled out at 48 centres across all 24 districts with a target of covering 4,800 people at the rate of 100 people per centre. A total of 1,62,000 Covishield doses have been allocated to Jharkhand in the first phase. Hemant said that focus should be on the quality of administration rather than covering the maximum number of people at one go. “Yes, we are starting off with a small number of centres but we must remember that the key should be on safe vaccination. We will gradually increase centres to cover more people. If you recall, when Covid-19 broke in March last year, we didn’t have any testing centre. Today, facilities exist in every block and our testing ratio is among the top three states in the country. Similarly, we shall catch up with vaccination too,” he said. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said all members his department and other stakeholders had to first work day and night to curb the spread of the virus, and later ran against time to prepare for the vaccination programme. “We held a series of workshops, training sessions and counselling sessions in the run-up to the vaccine drive. A couple of successful dry runs also helped build confidence,” he reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Seraikela archery secretary finds place in Khelo India programme||Searikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association (SKDAA) secretary SC Mohanty on Saturday has been nominated as a member of  Talent Identification Zonal Committee for East Zone (archery) for the Khelo India identification programme. The programme was organised under the initiative of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Mohanty, who lives in the erstwhile princely state of Kharsawan, has identified and promoted several talents in the district. He actively oversees the functioning of an archery cradle in Kharsawan which is patronised by Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda. According to Mohanty, his role includes identification of grassroots talent by using an appropriate method in non-competitive events, to update the database and create a ranking of athletes and many other responsibilities. The states covered under the East Zone include Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. He said it is a new responsibility for him and he is confident enough to do a good job. “I have been active in spotting talents in the Seraikela hinterland and would like to use my experience in other earmarked states which come under the Khelo India programme,” he added. Mohanty also visits the government-run archery cradle in Dugni (near Seraikela) to encourage talents. An experienced archery administrator, Mohanty, who is also the joint secretary of Archery Association of India, said he was also looking forward to working in other states. “The opportunity would add to my experience in spotting talents and bringing them into a structured training apparatus. It’s a very good initiative on part of Khelo India,” he added. Archery Association of India and state archery outfit’s president Arjun Munda, SKDAA chief Meera Munda, Jharkhand Archery Association secretary and Dronacharya awardee Purnima Mahato, archery Olympian and Dronacharya award winner Sanjeev Singh, as well as other coaches, have congratulated Mohanty for his nomination as a member of talent identification programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Railways alert passengers about fraudulent agents||South Eastern Railway has issued an alert about unscrupulous ticket agents operating in its zones, citing the instance of some passengers who discovered their tickets had been cancelled without their knowledge after boarding their train. On Saturday, Garden Reach, the SER's Calcutta-based headquarters, revealed the plight of a group of 10 passengers travelling between Howrah and Barbil in the first week of this month. They were travelling in the second class chair car of Howrah–Barbil Janshatabdi Special (Dn). They were told their tickets had been cancelled. Hey had to pay a fine as per provisions of Railway Act to avoid legal action though they were carrying tickets for the journey. On enquiry, it was found that their ticket was cancelled by the agent who had booked the ticket. The passengers didn’t get to know as the agent used his mobile number to book the tickets instead of the passengers. Each second class chair car ticket between the two destinations cost Rs 190. On cancellation 50 per cent refund is given by the railways. Chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway Sanjay Ghosh said: "Of late, a couple of such cases of unscrupulous agents have come to our notice. They cheated passengers taking advantage of missing mobile numbers. The group in question booked tickets from an unknown self-claimed agent in their locality without providing their mobile numbers.” Ghosh added that it was this incident that prompted them to issue an alert to passengers. He asked passengers to furnish their own mobile number while booking tickets either through a railway counter or online. "If passengers’ mobile numbers are not furnished, railways will not be able to communicate with passengers in the event of any changes in schedule timings, route of the train and others. Information will only be sent to the mobile number which is given at the time of booking," he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||MGM principal, sweeper get first jabs in Steel city  ||B.K. Barla was the first doctor and sweeper Alice Biswas Banra the first health worker to get a shot of Covishield in Jamshedpur on Saturday at their place of work, the MGM Medical College at Dimna. In all, 49 doctors and 51 other health workers, including nurses, para-medics and sweepers, were administered the vaccine and allowed to disperse from an observation room where they had to wait for about 30 minutes after receiving their jabs. "I was waiting for a Covid-19 vaccine and finally I got it today. I am absolutely OK, feeling fine,” said Alice (50), a mother of two, who got the job at MGM on compensatory grounds after her husband died in 2007. Principal Barla was upbeat, saying no one should have any misgivings about the vaccine. "I was always optimistic about Covishield and none in the medical fraternity has any suspicion or fear about it," he told The Telegraph Online an hour after he received his shot. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha, who was monitoring the vaccination drive at both MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, said 70 people were vaccinated at MGM and 50 people at TMH by 4pm. He expressed the hope that by 7pm, all 200 registered beneficiaries would have got their jabs. "Those vaccinated on Saturday will have to be vaccinated after 28 days.  Immunity against the Covid-19 will kick in two weeks after the second dose of the vaccine is administered," said Jha. The civil surgeon pointed out that half of the 8,000-plus vials of Covishield had been kept in reserve for use after 28 days. This way, only 4,000 vials would be used in the first phase of vaccination. "As of now the vaccination drive will continue at MG and TMH till fresh stocks reach the district. Vaccination will be conducted four days a week, starting from Monday and 200 health workers -- 100 at MGM and 100 at TMH -- will be vaccinated each day from now on," he said. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar also monitored Saturday’s exercise closely at MGM. He interacted with the health workers as well as doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren launches vaccination drive across 48 centres||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Delhi-bound farmers to halt at Ranchi for the night||Around 1000 farmers from different neighbouring states of Jharkhand heading to Delhi to take part in tractor rally on January 26 will camp for a night in Ranchi on January 16 en route to their destination. Capital’s Sikh community and the state unit of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has prepared elaborate groundworks to host them in the city by providing food and other logistic support in their fight against the three new farm laws implemented by the union government. Jharkhand State Kisan Sabha (JSKS), an affiliate of AIKS said that farmers in transit will make a night halt in Ranchi’s Kamre area on January 16. Dayamani Barla, one of the officials of the outfit informed, “Farmers bound to Delhi will be staying in Guru Gobind Singh Public School in Kamre along Ring Road in Ratu on January 16 night. Ranchi’s gurudwara Samiti has been kind enough to take care of their lodging and langars (fooding) to all the visiting farmers. On January 17, the farmers will be meeting state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and others in Morabadi before heading forward.” Barla added that the farmers from Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand are heading to Delhi for the mega rally on Republic Day called by national farm bodies against the new farm laws. For close to two months now, hundreds of farmers continue to protest along Delhi borders against the new laws. “Farmers from across 26 different states are heading to Delhi for the mega rally. From Bhubneshwar, the delegation of farmers will begin their journey via road and rail on January 15. Similarly, farmers from other neighbouring states too will be heading to Delhi. Many will be crossing via road from Jharkhand for whom we are making necessary arrangements as part of our efforts to help them,” she said, adding that the new farm laws are anti-farmers and should be repealed. Early this week, the Supreme Court stayed implementation of the farm laws by announcing to form a committee to evaluate it amid the unending protests along Delhi borders in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. JMM and Congress, ruling alliance partners in Jharkhand had welcomed the move but demanded that the protests be continued till the laws are completely rolled back. Again on Friday i.e. January 15, state Congress is holding a slew of protests across the state in favour of scrapping of the new legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand falls as 96 test positive for the virus||As many as 96 cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Friday, one of the lowest single-digit-spike reported in the state this month, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. Friday's findings also caused a drop in the number of active cases as at least 133 Covid patients recovered in 24 hours, bringing the total number of patients in the state down to 1289, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. While nine of 24 districts did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection, as many as 33 people were found infected in Ranchi, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. At least 55 Covid recoveries in Ranchi on the day brought the count of active cases here to 631, the NHM bulletin stated. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 17 cases against 18 recoveries and Dhanbad reported seven cases against 13 recoveries. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Palamu, all the remaining 21 districts either reported a single-digit-spike or did not report any fresh cases on the day. Besides reporting the highest number of fresh cases on the day in Jharkhand, Ranchi also reported a Covid-19 casualty, taking the Covid toll in the district up at 224 and that in Jharkhand up at 1049, the NHM highlighted in its bulletin on Friday night. The government tested swab samples of 14431 people on the day and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 50.35 lakh people and tested 50.22 lakh of them, reveals government data. As per figures with the health department, as many as 117480 people have been found infected by the virus so far in the state and 115142 of them have recovered, helping the state achieve a Covid recovery rate of 98 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.10 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. The doubling rate was over 700 days in Jharkhand against the national doubling rate of over 500 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
16-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress observes Kisan Divas ||The state unit of the Congress observed Kisan Adhikar Divas in Ranchi on Friday to express its solidarity with the farmers who had been agitating for withdrawal of the three new farm laws. Over 5,000 party workers from across the state gathered at Morabadi grounds where they held a meeting before marching towards Raj Bhavan, about 2 km away. Before the meeting began, they also observed two minutes silence in memory of those farmers who died during their agitation. “The Union government must take back these three farm laws as those will break the backbone of the farmers,” R.P.N. Singh, in-charge of the party’s state unit, said while addressing the meeting, adding the Congress took pro-farmers stand whenever it was in power at the Centre. “The UPA government had waived farmers’ loans worth Rs 70,000 crore,” he claimed, adding it also increased the minimum support prices of their crops from time to time. “Repealing the farm laws is the only solution for the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” opined Jharkhand finance minister and state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, explaining that the agitating farmers had become uncertain about the outcome of the Supreme Court appointed four-member committee and did not know what would happen next if the committee supported the farm laws. “The central government must withdraw those laws as so many rounds of talks during the past 51 days of the farmers’ agitation were not fruitful,” said Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam who also addressed the meeting. “In contrast, the ruling JMM-Congress- RJD combine in Jharkhand has already shown its pro-farmers attitude as it waived farmers’ loans worth Rs 2,000 crore in the very first year,” said state agriculture minister Badal Patrakekh, adding people could judge political parties by their actions. “This was for the first time in 73 years since the country won Independence that the farmers resorted to such an agitation to express their anger over an action taken by the central government,” said health minister Banna Gupta, adding the country would not tolerate such things. The meeting was also attended by Congress MLAs such as Pradeep Yadav, Bandhu Tirkey, Deepika Pandey Singh, Purnima Neeraj Singh, Rajesh Kachchap, Irfan Ansari and Naman Vixel Kongari, besides former chief minister Madhu Koda and his wife Geeta Koda who is also an MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-171
