17-01-2021||Calcutta||Xavier’s expands primary section||St Xavier’s Collegiate School has expanded the primary section and added more classrooms to accommodate kindergarten students. The primary department annexe on the Wood Street campus was inaugurated on Saturday, which is the foundation day of the school Since last year the school started taking in children for kindergarten, lowering the entry level in the school. Earlier, the school would take in children from Class I, apart from a preparatory class reserved for Christians. “We have five sections in kindergarten and four sections Class I upwards. So, for five new classes in kindergarten and an additional section in each class from Class I we will need more space. The additional rooms will be used to accommodate more number of students,” said Reverend Father M. Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School. In December 2018, Metro had reported when a plaque for the kindergarten section was unveiled and the school had announced its decision to start a kindergarten section by 2020. The principal of the school said because of the pandemic the kindergarten students have not been able to see the school and have been attending classes from home. “There are so many parents who want to put their children in St Xavier’s Collegiate School but because of lack of space we were not able to expand. So, after a lot of planning we decided to increase the intake because we felt there is a need. Also, the Jesuit principle is to provide an educational system to not only those who can afford but also to those who cannot afford,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, who was also present at the programme. The primary building of the school now also has a multipurpose AV room on the fourth floor, which can be used for cultural programmes, prize distribution ceremonies, examination hall, said a school official. “The additional space can also be used for more computer labs, language room, an additional music room and other activities,” said Soma Gomes, the vice-principal of the primary section of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Jute bags for New Town||The New Town authorities will start distributing bags and boxes made of jute and paper in markets of Action Area I, II and III and urge shopkeepers not to hand out plastic bags to customers, an NKDA official said. The decision to use these biodegradable boxes and bags was taken at a recent board meeting of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority. The step is to reduce the generation of plastic waste in the township’s shops, eateries, households and food delivery establishments, the official said. Three NGOs have been inducted to make paper bags, boxes and jute bags, the official said. The bags will be given to shops in the community markets and to residents. A pilot project will be carried out where sweetshops at the Mishti Hub near Eco Park and Cafe Ekante outlets will be given these bags and boxes. “Plastic is very bad for the environment and we want to reduce its usage to the maximum extent,” said Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman. Three kiosks will be set up near bus stands in New Town where people can buy the items, Sen said. The NKDA will also organise awareness workshops and camps among shopkeepers and residents of the township to reduce the use of plastic. Earlier this month, The Telegraph had reported that the NKDA has decided to start using plastic waste collected from homes, offices and commercial establishments to make paver blocks in a bid to recycle plastic, which is otherwise difficult to dispose of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Held for defrauding job seeker||A woman, in her late 30s, was arrested early on Saturday for allegedly duping a job seeker by telling him that he had bagged a job in Singapore and taking money from him for “Covid-19 fitness certificates and documents needed to travel abroad”, police said. Pubali Mitra, who hails from Khardah in North 24-Parganas, was picked up from her rented accommodation in Kasba after Purnangshu Bose lodged a complaint at cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. He complained that he had received a mail directing him to call a number if he wanted a job after he had put up his resume on a website in October, an officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate said. “He also received a second email asking him to get in touch with a Mitra, who had introduced herself as the placement officer of a fake Singapore-based company. The mail offered him a senior position in sales at a telecom company,” said the officer. When Bose called the number for a job interview, Mitra asked him to cough up nearly Rs 15,000 for preparing his “Covid-19 fitness certificate and other medical certificates”, the officer said. Bose was convinced since she had also asked for his payslips, identity cards and other documents. After he paid the money Mitra even gave him a money receipt and a few days later asked him to give more than Rs 30,000. “That made him suspicious and he lodged a complaint,” said the officer. Mitra was produced before a court in Salt Lake that sent her to judicial custody for 14 days. She has been charged under various IPC sections, including 420 (cheating). If proven, she can be sent to jail for seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Kolkata International Film Festival ends with first open-air closing event||The 26th Kolkata International Film Festival  concluded on Friday with the awards being announced in the competition categories in a closing ceremony held outdoor for the first time. But there was no prize distribution. The Iranian film Bander Band, directed by Manijeh Hekmat, was named the Best Film while Artykpai Suiundukov of Kyrgyzstan was the Best Director in the Innovations in Moving Images segment. Ukrainian film Blindfold got Special Jury Mention. In the Indian Languages category, the Best Director was Biswajit Bhora for the Assamese film God on the Balcony while the Best Film was False Eye in Malayalam, by Rahul Riji Nair. Nonajoler Kabyo, directed by Rezwan Shahriar Sumit of Bangladesh, won Best Film in Asian Select Netpac section. Ujjwal Pal’s Dusk was the Best Short Film. The Best Documentary was Highways of Life by Amar Maibam. Festival chairman Raj Chakrabarty was relieved and happy. “This was the first physical film festival to be held in India after the Covid outbreak. We were worried whether people would come. They did so, maintaining protocol. Even after online booking was scrapped and entry was allowed with delegate cards, those in the queue who were denied entry after the 50 per cent seats filled up waited for the next show without a murmur. Our industry colleagues too participated wholeheartedly,” he said. Watching films at the festival, he hoped, had served to allay the fear of entering cinemas that has been keeping the audience away from halls. “Small is beautiful,” said filmmaker Sudeshna Roy, who curated the exhibition on Soumitra Chatterjee, coordinated the daily cine adda held on the open-air stage and co-edited the daily bulletin. “International guests might have been missing but  the enthusiasm of those who came was high. Films like Abhijatrik, Bander Band and The Man Who Sold His Skin drew full house as did Federico Fellini’s La Dolce Vita,” she said. In deference to the chief minister’s wish, some old films, like Dadar Kirti, were shown on the three LED screens set up outdoor in the Nandan complex after the Cine Adda concluded every evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||90 healthworkers receive Covishield vaccine ||Over 90 healthworkers received the Covishield vaccine at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s health clinic in Chetla, Ward number 82, on Saturday. Soma Laha, 38, the medical officer of the clinic was the first among them to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. She narrated her experience to Metro.  A slight prick of a needle inserting through the skin — that’s all what I felt while receiving the shot of Covishield on Saturday. It is a similar feeling to receiving a tetanus vaccine. I did not feel much pain or any discomfort while I was administered the vaccine. I received the dose around 11.30am and did not experience any adverse reaction. There is no pain around the site where the injection was pushed. Being the in-charge of the Ward 82 health clinic, which was chosen as one of the Covid-19 vaccination sites in Calcutta, I took the first vaccine here on Saturday. I did so to alleviate any fear in the mind of any healthcare worker about the safety of the vaccine. I thought that other healthcare workers in our clinic would think it was safe to take the vaccine if they see me taking it. I suffered from Covid-19 in November. I had moderate symptoms, including severe cough. I would suggest everyone take the vaccine and there is nothing to fear. More than 90 people took the vaccine from the Ward 82 health clinic. They included doctors, nurses, honourary health workers and accredited social health activists (ASHA). None of them reported any adverse event till evening. No one reported even common after effects like lump at the injection site, pain or redness. I did not have any fear in my mind regarding receiving the vaccine. I have read about the trials that the Covishield vaccine has undergone and its results. The Covishield vaccine has completed third phase and there has no report of any major adverse event. So, when I learnt on Friday that I will be among the select few who will receive the vaccine on Saturday, I instantly made up my mind to take the vaccine. No vaccine can give protection to all people, but they protect a large majority. Similarly, there are very good chances that taking the Covishield vaccine would trigger immune responses in a person, which can reduce chances of contracting Covid-19. I would motivate all my doctor friends and healthcare workers to take the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||App failure on Day 1 of rollout||Over 1,700 frontline healthcare workers including doctors, nurses, group-D workers and security guards received their first jab of the Covishield vaccine across 19 centres in Calcutta on Saturday. Only two recipients complained of minor adverse effects till late evening. Of them, one is a nursing staff from BC Roy Memorial Hospital for Children who was admitted to NRS Medical College and Hospital. What left senior health department officials, who were monitoring the vaccination process on Day 1 from Swasthya Bhavan, on the edge were intermittent snags in the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network or CoWin app. The app has been developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process. The app remained mostly unresponsive through Saturday and at the end of the day, the health department left it to the respective health officials in Calcutta and the districts to decide on which days next week the vaccination programme will be held. Monday has been fixed tentatively with three other days yet to be decided, depending on how the CoWin app functions. The CoWin app plays a key role in the inoculation process. It registers recipients, according to the data that it is fed, and allotment of date, time and venue is done through it. After administering the jab, a health worker has to upload details of the recipient on the app. Ahead of Saturday’s rollout, Swasthya Bhavan had collected a list of healthcare workers for each of the 19 centres in the city — 212 for Bengal — so that the data could be fed into the app to ensure SMSs would be sent to recipients for Saturday. But the app developed snags through most of Friday and entering the list of recipients for the vaccination centres could not be completed. “Our staff were awake through Friday night struggling to use the app to upload the names and mobile numbers. Finally, we decided to call each recipient and inform them about the venue and time,” said a senior health department official. Many recipients could not be contacted in time and didn’t turn up to receive their vaccine. In many centres including the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital, a new list of recipients had to be drawn up on the spot, which caused inordinate delays. Vaccination at some centres continued well past 5pm, which was the scheduled deadline for wrapping up the day’s process. “To open a vial, you need 10 people with each receiving 0.5ml as intramuscular injection. Each vial contains 10 doses and once it is opened, it can’t be stored half-used,” said an official of the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital.  All major medical colleges and hospitals in Calcutta had earmarked areas as “Covid vaccination centre” with separate rooms dedicated for receiving recipients, moving them to the vaccination room and then to a waiting room for the mandatory 30-minute wait period. Separate tables with covers had been readied for scanning details including identity checks. Guardrails had been placed in the compounds with police overseeing the queues. Private healthcare institutions had even bigger and more elaborate arrangements. The five sites under Calcutta Municipal Corporation had comparatively smaller arrangements with partitions used to set up separate chambers where health staff from the civic body worked with trained inoculators. Firhad Hakim, the chairman of CMC’s board of administrators, and health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam went to one such site in Chetla to oversee the process. “After our identities were checked, each of us were handed a card with the number of the vaccination site and a serial number. My number was 4. Once the process started rolling, it didn’t take much time,” said Priyanka Maitra Karak, an anaesthetist at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. “We have been told that the next date will be informed over the phone. Till then, it will at least leave me feeling that science has found a breakthrough that we have all been waiting for during this pandemic,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
17-01-2021||Calcutta||Lab work for only third semester Calcutta University students||The department of chemistry, which is first among the departments of Calcutta University to start postgraduate practical classes on campus from Monday, will resume lab work only for third semester students to avoid crowding, said a university official. A department committee meeting on Thursday decided that first semester classes would not be started immediately as the first-year batch could not be split into small groups as the practical paper was common. “First-semester has 70 students. Third semester has an equal number of students but as the practical classes are split into specialised areas — organic, inorganic, physical and analytical chemistry — from second year, the batch can be split into small groups,” said a teacher of the department. Each group in the third semester will be split into two sub groups based on the specialised paper. Classes will be held thrice a week involving each sub group. The university has started the sanitisation process of the labs that are located at Rajabazar Science College. Physics department will start practical classes with students of the first semester from Wednesday. Since the practical papers in physics are spread over the first and second semester, the first-year students are being called, said a teacher of the department. The batch will be split into four groups. Classes will be held twice a week and each day will be set aside for each group. Practical classes can be held on Calcutta University campuses, provided students attend them in small batches, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had said on Monday following a letter from the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association urging her “to allow holding practical classes in willing departments maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols” since those classes are essential for many courses. “It has been left to the departments to decide on when they want to start classes,” she said earlier. However, there is no clarity on whether the colleges can start the practical classes for the undergraduate students. The principal of New Alipore College, Joydeep Sarangi, said: “Our students want to know when practical classes will start. We are planning to get in touch with the university”. The exams of the fifth semester for the undergraduate students are likely to be held in March. IIEST Shibpur has postponed its convocation because the institute’s director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, has been admitted to hospital with Covid, an official of the institute said. The convocation, which was to be held virtually, had been scheduled for January 30. A notice signed by IIEST registrar Biman Banerjee says “the annual convocation has been postponed till further order” because of unavoidable circumstances. A revised date will be announced later. Chakrabarti’s condition is stable, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
17-01-2021||Calcutta||‘Excited to be among first Covid vaccinators’||Salini Mondal, 27, a lecturer at the Peerless Institute of Nursing and a nurse at the Peerless Hospital, has been administering vaccines for three years. She spoke to The Telegraph about how she felt. Administering the Covishield vaccine is similar to administering a TT (Tetanus toxoid) vaccine. I did not face any difficulty on Saturday. The route is the same for administering the vaccines. Both are intramuscular injections, administered in the upper arm, the portion of the arm above one’s elbow. The Covishield vaccine has to be given in the deltoid muscle. The other thing to remember is that the vaccinator has to maintain a 90-degree angle between the recipient’s arm and the syringe while administering the vaccine. I used 0.5ml syringes and 24 gauge needles. Most of the 30 healthcare workers who received the Covishield vaccine from me on Saturday seemed very excited. Some of them had doubts, but I counselled them before pushing the injection. I told them it was safe to take the vaccine, that it may save one from getting Covid. Some of the recipients who are support staff like security personnel or housekeeping staff seemed nervous. But they all agreed to take the vaccine once they were counselled. There were four of us administering the vaccine in rotation. Each of the vials had 5ml volume of the vaccine. Ten people could be vaccinated from one vial. Each person was administered 0.5ml of the vaccine. The Covishield vaccine cannot be used after four hours of opening the vial. I administered vaccine to 30 people, all of them my colleagues at Peerless Hospital. I started around 11.20am and continued till around 6pm, with several breaks. We were a team of four, administering the vaccine to a total of 101 recipients. Personally, I never felt any anxiety. I am a pediatric vaccinator and have pushed similar type of injections to many children. Since the route of administering is known to me, I did not feel nervous. I was very excited since yesterday, being among those trained by the health department to run the vaccination site at our hospital. I was excited thinking that I will be among the first few across the country who will be administering the vaccine to people. This vaccine can save so many lives. It can save so many people in the pandemic. I read up the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry for the vaccination. Before administering the vaccine, I asked each of the recipients if they had allergic reactions to any food or drug, whether they have diseases like HIV or tuberculosis. Such people will not be given the vaccine. Women who are pregnant or lactating mothers will not be given the vaccine. I also told the recipients that they should come to the emergency ward of the hospital if they had high-fever or breathing trouble or allergy after receiving the shot. I am now looking forward to my turn to receive the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-171
17-01-2021||Business||HDFC Bank beats estimates with a growth of 18% in net profits||HDFC Bank on Saturday beat Street estimates when it reported an 18  per cent growth in standalone net profits for the December quarter of 2020. The country’s largest private sector bank posted a net profit of Rs 8,758.29 crore compared with Rs 7,416.48 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the lender to report net profits in the range of Rs 7,700-8,500 crore. The better-than-expected performance on the bottomline front came as the bank saw only a marginal rise in provisions even as the core net interest income witnessed good growth. It was the first quarterly results for the lender under CEO Sashidhar Jagdishan and the first among major banks to declare numbers this earnings season. During the quarter, provisions inched up to Rs 3,414.13 crore from Rs 3,043.56 crore a year ago. It included specific loan loss provisions of Rs 691.2 crore (Rs 2,883.6 crore) and general and other provisions of Rs 2,722.9 crore (Rs 159.9 crore). HDFC Bank disclosed that total provisions for the quarter included contingent provisions of Rs 2,400 crore for ‘‘proforma’’ non-performing assets (NPA). During the period, the asset quality improved with gross NPAs in absolute terms declining to Rs 8,825.56 crore from Rs 11,304.60 crore in the preceding three months. The gross NPAs were 0.81 per cent of the gross advances compared with 1.08 per cent in April-September 2020. Through an interim order on September 3, 2020, the Supreme Court had directed that accounts which were not declared NPAs till August 31, 2020, shall not be declared as such until further orders. HDFC Bank said that if it had classified borrower accounts as NPA after August 31, 2020, using its analytical models (proforma approach), the proforma gross NPA ratio would have been 1.38 per cent as on December 31, 2020, against 1.37 per cent as on September 30, 2020 and 1.42 per cent as on December 31, 2019. During the quarter, its core net interest income (interest earned minus interest paid) rose 15.1 per cent to Rs 16,317.6 crore from Rs 14,172.9 crore in the same period of the previous year, driven by a 15.6 per cent growth in advances. HDFC Bank disclosed that one-time restructuring under RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-19 was close to 0.5 per cent of the advances. Other income (non-interest revenue) also rose to Rs 7,443.2 crore from Rs 6,669.3 crore in the corresponding quarter ended December 31, 2019. The bank said that total advances as on December 31, 2020, were Rs 1,082,324 crore, an increase of 15.6 per cent over December 31, 2019, while the mix between retail and wholesale stood at 48:52.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp delays rollout of its updated privacy policy||WhatsApp has delayed the rollout of its updated privacy policy in a bid to clear the concerns among its users worldwide. Users of the instant messaging app will now have more time to accept the new terms instead of the earlier date of February 8, 2021. WhatsApp came under scrutiny after it revealed the updated policy earlier this month raising concern among its users about data privacy and whether the parent company — Facebook — and third party service providers will have access to user data. Competing applications such as Telegram and Signal gained as users started looking for alternatives, prompting WhatsApp to allay the concerns, including on suspension of accounts if a user does not agree to the new terms. “We are now moving back the date on which people will be asked to review and accept the terms. No one will have their account suspended or deleted on February 8. “We are also going to do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp. We will then go to people gradually to review the policy at their own pace before new business options are available on May 15,” said WhatsApp in a blog post. The post said WhatsApp protects personal conversations with end-to-end encryption, so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see private messages among users. “It’s why we don’t keep logs of who everyone’s messaging or calling. We also can’t see your shared location and we don’t share your contacts with Facebook,” the post said. The policy provides further transparency about how the platform collects and uses data for business on WhatsApp. “While not everyone shops with a business on WhatsApp today, we think that more people will choose to do so in the future and it’s important people are aware of these services.” This update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook," the blog post said. WhatsApp also said that it is committed to "defend" the end-to-end encryption technology now and in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||Shaktikanta Das defends foreign-exchange build-up||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Saturday said emerging economies such as India have no other option but to build their foreign-exchange reserves as a cushion against global shocks even if it comes at the risk of the country being added to a list of currency manipulators by the US. This is the first official comment from the RBI governor after the US department of treasury last month put India in its monitoring list of currency manipulating countries. Its report said that India met two of the three criteria of having a material current account surplus and engaging in persistent, one-sided intervention over the reporting period. The US clubbed India with Vietnam, Switzerland and Singapore for ‘‘intervening in the foreign exchange market in a sustained, asymmetric manner’’. The central bank has been building forex reserves amid strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) and through foreign direct investment to maintain the country’s export competitiveness and protect it against any global shocks. India’s forex reserves stood at over $586 billion as on January 8. The RBI has consistently maintained that it does not target a particular level of the rupee and that its intervention in the markets is to only curb undue volatility in the exchange rate. Addressing the Nani Palkhivala Memorial Lecture, Das strongly defended the addition to forex reserves, saying that it has improved India’s import cover to 18.4 months even as the reserves cover 236 per cent of short-term debt in terms of residual maturity. Das pointed out that sound external sector indicators augur well to limit the impact of spillovers of possible global shocks and financial stability concerns as investors and markets are assured of the buffer against potential contagion. He added that while abundant capital inflows have been largely driven by accommodative global liquidity conditions and India’s optimistic medium-term growth outlook, domestic financial markets must remain prepared for sudden stops and reversals, if there is a global risk aversion. ‘‘Under uncertain global economic environment, emerging market economies (EMEs) typically remain at the receiving end. In order to mitigate global spillovers, they have no recourse but to build their own forex reserve buffers, even though at the cost of being included in the list of currency manipulators or the monitoring list of the US Treasury. I feel that this aspect needs greater understanding on both sides so that EMEs can actively use policy tools to overcome the capital flow related challenges,’’ he said. Here, Das disclosed that the RBI is closely monitoring both global headwinds and tailwinds while assessing the domestic macroeconomic situation and its resilience. The RBI governor further said that the central bank remains steadfast to take any further measures as may be required to support growth even as it would not compromise on financial stability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||Narendra Modi announces Rs 1,000cr for start-ups||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the launch of a Rs 1,000-crore ‘‘Startup India Seed Fund’’ to support startups and help budding entrepreneurs pursue innovative ideas. Addressing the ‘‘Prarambh: Startup India International Summit’’, Modi exuded confidence that the growth of start-ups will help to generate jobs and improve the lives of people in the region. The summit marked the fifth anniversary of the Startup India initiative launched by Modi on this day in 2016. The government, Modi added, has been implementing the Fund of Fund Scheme to help start-ups raise equity capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||Business||CAIT files plea in Supreme Court||Traders’ body CAIT on Saturday filed a petition in the Supreme Court, making a plea to direct WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy. The body issued a statement claiming that the new WhatsApp privacy policy encroaches upon various fundamental rights of the citizens. About the petition, the traders’ body said it “has also prayed that India must frame guidelines to govern big technology companies like WhatsApp and frame policies which would protect the privacy of citizens and businesses”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-168
17-01-2021||India||Tractor rally on Republic Day will be held as scheduled, say farmers||Protesting farmers’ unions on Sunday said they will not call off their proposed tractor parade in Delhi when India will celebrate Republic Day on January 26. Union leader Yogendra Yadav, addressing a press conference at the Singhu border in Delhi, said, “We will carry out a tractor parade on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day. The parade will be very peaceful. There will be no disruption of the Republic Day parade. The farmers will put up the national flag on their tractors.” The authorities had moved the Supreme Court seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of Republic Day on January 26. The matter is pending in court. Another farmer union leader, Darshan Pal Singh, alleged that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is filing cases against those who are part of the protest or supporting it. “All farmer unions condemn this,”  Pal said, referring to the NIA summons reportedly issued to a farmer union leader in a case related to the banned Sikhs For Justice outfit. Earlier in the day, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again urged the protesting farm leaders to give up their “stubborn” stand on the new farm laws and come for a clause by clause discussion. His comment came ahead of the big day on January 19, when the farmers will meet the three central ministers for the tenth time at the Vigyan Bhawan, while the Supreme Court appointed panel will conduct its first meeting at the Pusa campus in New Delhi. Now that the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of these laws, then there is no question of being stubborn,” Tomar told reporters before leaving for his home constituency of Morena in Madhya Pradesh. The government wants farmer leaders to come for clause by clause discussion at the next meeting on January 19. Except for the demand of repealing the laws, the government is ready to consider “seriously and with an open heart” other alternatives, he said. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Tomar said the government offered certain concessions, but the farmer leaders have not shown flexibility and were constantly demanding a repeal of the laws. He reiterated that the government makes laws for the entire country. Many farmers, experts and other stakeholders have supported the laws. So far, the nine rounds of formal talks between the Centre and 41 farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results to end the long-running protest at Delhi’s borders as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the three laws -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
17-01-2021||India||Delhi schools prepare to open the doors to classes 10, 12 students on Jan 18||Staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, and entry and exit through multiple gates are among various new ways adopted by schools in Delhi as they prepare to welcome students of classes 10 and 12 back on Monday, for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic forced closure of educational institutes in March last year. The Delhi government has allowed all schools outside Covid-19 containment zones to reopen for classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams. However, it made clear that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with the consent of parents. The Directorate of Education (DoE) has instructed schools to follow all Covid-19 guidelines when classroom studies resume. A representative at Greenwood Public School said, "We are calling students in slots -- half of the students in a class will be in classroom while another half will be in the laboratory to conduct practical lessons. We have sent out consent forms to all parents and the number of students willing to come to school is high." According to Alka Kapur, Principal of Modern School in Shalimar Bagh, the safest way for students to commute to school would be in private vehicles of their parents and guardians. "There are a number of steps that the school authorities will take to ensure that the students stay safe from the infection," she said. Allowing 15 students at a time in a classroom, placing handwashing consoles and sanitiser dispensers in corridors, deploying volunteers to ensure social distancing and conduct temperature checks, and keeping medical facilities on standby for any eventuality are among various other initiatives planned by schools. Schools are also working out plans to ensure students who choose not to come to campus, do not miss out on anything. Priyanka Barara, Principal of MRG School in Rohini, said while the government has made optional for parents to send their wards to school, it is recommended that they come for better preparations for board exams. Ashok Pandey, Director of Ahlcon International School, said not more than 10 students will be allowed in laboratories at a time. The Union education ministry has already announced that board exams for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10, even though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to release an examination date-sheet. Over three lakh students have registered from the Delhi region for the Class 10 CBSE board exam, while over 2.5 lakh candidates have enrolled themselves for the class 12 exam. The Delhi government has suggested that schools conducted pre-board exams for class 12 from March 20 to April 15 and for class 10 from April 1 to April 15. Schools were closed in March last year before a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Will poor and underprivileged get COVID-19 vaccine for free? asks Congress||A day after India rolled out the world’s largest inoculation drive against COVID-19, the Congress on Sunday asked whether the government plans to provide free vaccines to all Indians, especially the underprivileged and the poor, and when. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that though the government claims it will cover three crore people in the first round of the vaccination drive, it is yet to clarify if the remaining population of India will get a vaccine and whether they will get it for free. “Is the government not aware that 81.35 crore people are eligible for subsidised ration under the Food Security Act? Will the SC, ST, BC, OBC, BPL, APL, the poor and the underprivileged get the vaccine for free or not? If yes, what is the roll-out plan and by when will the government ensure free vaccination,” he asked? “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government need to answer...Who will get free corona vaccine? How many people will get the free corona vaccine? Where will you get free corona vaccine,” he said. Surjewala also raised questions over the pricing of the two vaccines -- Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable manufactured by the SII -- approved for emergency use in India and asked why the government has not put them in the National List of Essential Medicines. The Congress general secretary asked why the government should pay Rs 95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has been developed with the expertise and experience of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists. “Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than the AstraZeneca-Serum Institute? Why is the price of corona vaccine Rs 1,000 per dose in the open market,” he asked. He said the government should demand transparency from companies on the cost of production and profits being made from the vaccine. “Vaccine development and mass immunizations were neither events now publicity stunts, but important milestones in the service of the people. “While India stands united in providing immunisation against the coronavirus to our frontline corona warriors -- doctors, health workers, police personnel and others -- let's remember that vaccinations are an important public service and not a political or business opportunity,” he told reporters at a press conference. The first COVID-19 vaccine shots in India were given on Saturday to nearly two lakh frontline healthcare and sanitation workers as Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolled out the world's largest inoculation drive against the pandemic that has caused 1,52,093 deaths and upended millions of lives in the country. Modi asserted that the two vaccines being deployed will ensure a decisive victory for India against the coronavirus. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||SC appointed panel on farm laws to hold first meeting on January 19||Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the three contentious farm laws, said that the board is scheduled to hold its first meeting on January 19 at Pusa campus in New Delhi. On January 11, the top court stayed the implementation of the new, controversial laws,  against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for over 50 days now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. However, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann recused himself of the panel days ago. Apart from Ghanwat, agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the two other panel members. “We are meeting on January 19 at the Pusa campus. Only members will meet to decide the future course of action,” Ghanwat, who is the president of the Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra), told PTI. “One of the four members has backed out of the committee. If the apex court does not appoint a new member, the existing members will continue,” he said about Mann. “The committee has received the terms of reference and will begin the work from January 21 onwards,” he added. On questions about the government holding talks with the farmers parallely after the appointment of the panel by the SC, Ghanwat said, “We have no issue if a solution is found and the protests end from either (efforts of) our panel or from the government's separate talks with the protesting farmer unions.” “Let (Government) them continue the discussion, we have been given a duty and we will focus on that,” he remarked. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the pleas relating to the controversial farm laws and the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders. It may take into account the matter of recusal of the member from the panel. The top court would also hear the plea of the central government, filed through the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against a proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers that may disrupt the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. So far, the government has held nine rounds of formal talks with 41 farmer unions but has failed to break the logjam as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. In the last meeting, the Centre had suggested that the unions constitute their own informal group to prepare a concrete proposal on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting on January 19 to end the long-running protest at various Delhi borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||One ‘severe’, 51 ‘minor’ cases of complications in Delhi on V-day||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said one ‘severe’ and 51 other cases of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday. A security guard of the AIIMS had developed an allergic reaction following his inoculation. An official said on Saturday that he was kept under observation of doctors. “His current status is not known... 51 others were discharged after some time,” Jain said. He also said that some people did not turn up for coronavirus vaccination at the last moment, adding that the government cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the jab. “Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it,” the health minister informed. He also said that the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be increased from 81 to 175 soon. “The number of vaccination sites will be increased from 81 to 175 in some days. Thereafter, it will be increased to 1,000. It will also include the sites of municipal corporations,” Jain said. In Delhi, a total of 4,319 healthcare workers - 53.3 per cent of those registered - got the vaccine shots on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, the minister said. Jain noted that a similar trend was observed across the country, adding that around 50 per cent of those registered got the jabs on the first day. On some political parties questioning the efficacy of the vaccines, Jain said the Centre gave permission for emergency use of the vaccines after completing a rigorous process. “All protocols were followed. So, there should be no questions about it,” he said. The health minister added that the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has come down to 0.44 per cent. “The coronavirus positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane. Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Delhi's transport department firming up 'rent a bike' scheme||Tourists in the national capital may soon enjoy rides on rented two-wheelers as the Delhi government's transport department is firming up a scheme to issue licences for 'rent a bike' services in the city, officials said. A presentation of the draft scheme is likely to be made before the transport minister next week for further discussions, a senior transport department officer said. "The presentation was scheduled earlier this month but it was postponed. Now it will be held next week. The draft proposal for bike rental service will require the approval of the State Transport Authority (STA)," he said. The proposed scheme stipulates issuance of licences to applicants having a minimum of five bikes with necessary permits and insurance cover, and sound financial condition to ensure maintenance of the vehicles and efficient management of the establishment, the officer said. Under the scheme, licences will be issued to eligible bike operators by the STA to engage in the bike renting business. The applicants for proposed 'rent a bike' scheme will also require to have necessary facilities for the housing, maintenance and repair of vehicles, sanitary block, reception room and 24x7 telephone connectivity. The licence period issued to the eligible bike operators will be five years. The licence fee under the scheme is yet to be decided, officials said. The operators of bikes will also require to maintain records of hiring along with particulars of the hirer. Separate records will have to be maintained for Indian and foreign nationals, as per the draft of the scheme. The holder of a licence under the scheme will collect the hire charges from a foreign national or NRI only in foreign exchange. The licensing authority will have the power to cancel or suspend the licence of an operator if it fails to comply with the provisions of the scheme, including non-maintenance of bikes and misbehaviour with customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Shah proposes Centre’s aim to double farmers’ income||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday reiterated that the three central agri-marketing laws will ensure manifold hike in income of farmers, saying that the prime focus of the BJP-led government was to increase their earnings. The Modi government has increased the budget of the farming sector as well as the minimum support price on several crops since coming to power, he said. “I want to say that if there is any big priority of the Narendra Modi government it is to double the farmers income,” he said at an event in Kerakalmatti village in this district in Karnataka. Speaking after laying the foundation stone and inauguration of farmer-friendly projects of the MRN group, headed by newly inducted Karnataka Minister Murugesh R Nirani, Shah listed out various programmes and initiatives of the central government for the welfare of the farmers. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the state too has not left any stone unturned to work for the welfare of farmers,” the Home Minister said. Questioning the Congress as to why it could not take up measures like Rs 6,000 cash support per year for farmers and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana insurance scheme among others, he said, it was because the party’s intentions were not right. “The Narendra Modi government is a government dedicated to farmers. Three new laws that the Modi government has brought in, which the Karnataka government has also passed…,” Shah said. “I want to congratulate Yediyurappa for it. Farmer’s income will increase multifold due to them,” he added. His remarks came amid the continuing agitation by farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, on the borders of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three laws. “Farmers were not compelled anymore to sell their produce at one place and can get access to global and Indian markets for their crops,” he said. Shah added that none had the courage to abrogate the provisions of Article 370 and Article 35A in Kashmir in the past 70 years. “You made Modi the Prime Minister and on August 5, 2019 he ended Article 370 and Article 35A from Kashmir and connected it with India permanently. Today elections have also happened there peacefully without shedding even a drop of blood and Kashmir has become ours permanently,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||UK Prime Minister invites Modi to G7 summit in June ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi received an invitation to the G7 summit, to be held in the coastal region of Cornwall, Britain, from his UK counterpart Boris Johnson. Giving out details about the high-level event on Sunday, Johnson said that the summit, scheduled between June 11 and 13, will be presided over by Britain. The prime minister  had extended an invitation to Modi during a phone call last year when India was chosen alongside South Korea and Australia as guest countries of the multilateral summit. The invitation was made formal on Sunday. Johnson also said he plans to visit India ahead of the G7 summit. The leader had earlier cancelled his scheduled tour to India on January 26 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic situation in the country. The Group of Seven or G7 which is made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US is dubbed as an open forum where the world's most influential and open societies are brought together for close-knit discussions, with the pandemic likely to dominate this year's talks. “As the most prominent grouping of democratic countries, the G7 has long been the catalyst for decisive international action to tackle the greatest challenges we face. From cancelling developing world debt to our universal condemnation of Russia's annexation of Crimea, the world has looked to the G7 to apply our shared values and diplomatic might to create a more open and prosperous planet,” Johnson said. “Coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future,” he said. The UK Foreign Office notes that as the pharmacy of the world , India already supplies more than 50 per cent of the world’s vaccines, and the UK and India have worked closely together throughout the pandemic. The UK was the first P5 member to support a permanent UNSC (United Nations Security Council) seat for India and the first G7 member to invite India to a G7 Summit in 2005. As current BRICS President and G20 President in 2023, India will play a key role driving in multilateral cooperation helping to build back better around the world, reads the official UK government communique. According to the Foreign Office, the invitation to India, Australia and South Korea is a testament to the UK’s commitment to ensuring multilateral institutions better reflect today’s world. Johnson’s ambition has been laid out as wanting to use the G7 to intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations. Between them the 10 leaders represent over 60 per cent of the people living in democracies around the world. Dubbed as the first in-person G7 summit in almost two years, the agenda set out by the UK is to seize the opportunity to build back better from coronavirus, uniting to make the future fairer, greener and more prosperous. Ahead of the gathering of Prime Ministers and Presidents, the UK is also set to host a number of meetings throughout the year between government ministers from the G7, both virtually and in different locations across the UK. These ministerial summits will cover economic, environmental, health, trade, technology, development and foreign policy issues. Cornwall as the location for the summit has been chosen to focus the eyes of the world on the “beautiful, historic and innovative” region. The leaders’ meeting itself will be held in the coastal town of Carbis Bay, supported by neighbouring St. Ives and other towns across the region. In addition to the G7 Summit this year, during February, the UK will assume the Presidency of the UN Security Council, and later this year the UK will host COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and a global education conference aimed at getting children in the developing world into school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi flags off 8 new trains to Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday flagged off eight trains connecting Gujarat's Kevadia, where the Statue of Unity of Sardar Patel is located, to different regions of the country. Modi said more tourists flock to the Statue of Unity than the Statue of Liberty in the US, adding nearly 50 lakh tourists have visited the former since it opened in 2018. He referred to the Dedicated Freight Corridor project as "an example of the way things functioned in our country in the past." "A few days ago, I inaugurated a large section (of the Dedicated Freight Corridor). On this very important project, in eight years work was done only on paper. From 2006 till 2014, not even one km track was laid. Now, in the next few months, 1,100-km work will be completed," he said. Modi also inaugurated three railway stations and a broad gauge lineconnecting Dabhoi to Kevadia, via video link on Sunday. The prime minister said this is possibly the first time that so many trains were flagged off at the same time for one destination. With increased connectivity, over one lakh people will visit Kevadia daily in the near future, he said citing a survey. The amount of work done to modernise the country's railway infrastructure in recent years is unprecedented, Modi said. Unlike in the past when less focus was given to new ways of thinking and technology, wide changes have been made in the railway system on many fronts, with the government's focus on self-reliance in railway manufacturing and technology being a big reason behind the change, he said. Besides tourists visiting the Statue of Unity, the local populace will be the biggest beneficiary of the new rail connectivity, he said. "Today, Kevadia is no longer a small place in a remote area of Gujarat. It is emerging as the world's biggest tourist destination," he said. Despite everything remaining closed for months during coronavirus pandemic, the number of tourists visiting Kevadia is increasing fast, he added. He said the new Kevadia railway station is an example of his government's efforts to ensure that the Railways remain environment-friendly. "Kevadia station is the country's first to get green building certification from the beginning," he said. The Ahmedabad-Kevadia Jan Shatabdi Express, one of the eight trains, is equipped with the Vistadome coache which offers large viewing areas with rooftop glasses and seats for passengers. Modi said the Vistadome coaches on trains to Kevadia will make the travel attractive. The amount of work done to modernise the country's railway infrastructure in the recent years is unprecedented, he said. Unlike in the past when less focus was given to new thinking and new technology, the approach has changed to make wide changes in the railway system, and changes have taken place at once on many fronts, he said. "With the modernisation of the rail network, parts of the country previously not connected by railway networks are getting connected now. The conversion into broad gauge of old rail routes and electrification is being done much faster than before. "Rail tracks are being made capable for (operating trains at) higher speed. This is the reason it is being made possible to run semi high-speed trains. We are fast moving towards high speed track and technology," Modi said. "Had we not manufactured high horse-power locomotives in India in the past, then could India run the world's first double-stack long-hold container train?" he said. "Today, many modern trains made in India are part of the Indian Railways. As we move towards transformation of the Indian Railways, highly-skilled specialised manpower and transformation skill is vital," he said. The establishment of India's first deemed railway university in Vadodara is a step in the same direction, he added. The eight trains Modi flagged off will connect Kevadia, which is around 200 km from the state capital Ahmedabad, to Varanasi, Dadar in Mumbai, Ahmedabad,Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi, Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Chennai and Pratapnagar in Vadodara. Modi inaugurated new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadia, Dabhoi-Chandod gauge converted broad gauge rail line of 18 km, Chandod-Kevadia broad gauge rail line of 32 km and the newly electrified Pratapnagar-Kevadia section of 80 km. Modi paid tributes to AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran as he mentioned the train connecting Kevadia to Chennai, which was flagged off from MGR Chennai Central station. "It is a happy coincidence that today is the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna MGR. From movie screen to political screen, MGR ruled the hearts of people. His life, his entire political journey was dedicated to the poor. "He worked continuously so that the poor could get a respectful life. We all are working to fulfil the ideals of Bharat Ratna MGR. Only a few years ago, the Chennai Central Railway Station was named after MGR. I offer my tributes to MGR," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Centre trying to intimidate farmers through central agencies, says SAD chief||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday accused the Centre of trying to threaten farmers’ leaders by sending them notices through central bureaus like the National Investigation Agency (NIA). He also alleged that the Centre was being insincere in talks over the farm laws and said the government is only “trying to tire out farmers”. “Simultaneously, it (Centre) is intimidating farmers by issuing notices to them through various agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Farmers are not anti-nationals. We condemn this,” Badal said. In a tweet, he said, “Strongly condemn Centre's attempts to intimidate farmer leaders & supporters of #KisanAndolan by calling them for questioning by #NIA & ED. They aren't anti-nationals. And after failure of talks for the 9th time, it's absolutely clear that GOI is only trying to tire out farmers.” Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and farmers’ leader Baldev Singh Sirsa are among the 40 people that the NIA has summoned for quizzing in a case linked to the banned outfit Sikhs For Justice. Sidhu has been asked to appear before the agency’s headquarters in Delhi on Sunday, NDTV reported. Senior Akali leader and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia also accused the Union government of defaming farmers by calling them naxalites and Khalistanis . He said the SAD had always stood with farmers and quit the National Democratic Alliance when the government refused to listen to them. Badal also slammed Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, alleging that he has failed to fulfil any of his promises made to people. Badal asked the chief minister to tell one thing he had done for the people of the state in the past four years of his rule. In direct contrast, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal was responsible for making Punjab power surplus besides bringing in irrigation projects, providing free power for tube wells, creating the ‘mandi’ infrastructure and even ushering in the minimum support price system by taking up the issue with the Centre, he said. All this can be verified, he said, adding that his party's government in the state ensured peace and communal harmony. Meanwhile, former senior Congress leader Manjit Singh Ghaseetpura on Saturday joined the SAD at Ghaseetpura village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Delhi shivers as mercury dips to 5.7 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 5.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday but it is likely to rise over the next two days due to a change in the wind direction, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The national capital had recorded a low of 6.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius this morning. An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi that are not as cold as northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. Hence, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches over the next two days. It is expected to rise to 8 degrees Celsius on Monday, the official said. Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to the ‘very poor’ category from ‘severe’ on Saturday as favourable wind speed helped in dispersion of pollutants. The city's AQI was 347 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Delhi's AQI remained in the 'severe' category for three consecutive days till Saturday due to “extremely unfavourable” conditions for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||India reports single-day spike of over 15,000 Covid-19 cases||The Covid-19 caseload of India climbed to 1,05,57,985 on Sunday with 15,144 fresh infections while recoveries surged to 1,01,96,885, a day after the nationwide vaccination drive kicked off in the country. The death toll increased to 1,52,274 with 181 more fatalities,according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,79,715, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.56 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload remained below 3 lakh on Sunday. There are 2,08,826 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which constitute 1.98 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed.The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, it said. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,65,44,868 samples had been tested up to January 15, with 7,79,377 tested on Saturday alone. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Vegetarian wazwan? Kashmiris won’t stomach this||Kashmiris will not stomach any hanky-panky with their cherished spread, the wazwan, a BJP-friendly Bollywood director has learnt the hard way. Vivek Agnihotri, visiting the Valley for the shoot of a film on Kashmiri Pandits, had on Thursday introduced Twitterverse to what he called “vegetarian wazwan” — with an apparent threat to change Kashmiris’ food habits. For many Kashmiris, “vegetarian wazwan” sounded like “cultural invasion”. Wazwan, a multi-course spread, is all about meat, so much so that the vegetable dishes that are part of it are immersed in mutton gravy before being served to guests. In Kashmir, people from all faiths — Muslims, Pandits and Sikhs — relish the wazwan. After social media exploded in outrage, the filmmaker deleted the post while claiming he was doing so because his colleagues had received threats and abuse. Agnihotri, a member of the Central Board of Film Certification, had on Thursday posted pictures showing his team eating vegetarian dishes at a Srinagar hotel. “Nobody knows how to make a vegetarian Wazwan in Kashmir. But I am here to bring about change,” wrote Agnihotri, whose upcoming film, The Kashmir Files, is based on the “unreported story of the most tragic and gut-wrenching genocide of Kashmiri Hindus”. Many saw in Agnihotri’s tweet a design to not just impose “vegetarianism” on Kashmiris — amid the Centre’s alleged moves to change the Muslim-majority character of the region — but also bring caste-based apartheid to Kashmir. The wazwan is not just about the cuisine but also about the way people eat it. Four diners irrespective of faith and origin are together served with the dishes on a big copper plate, called trami, as a statement against caste and class divisions. Fozia S. Qazi, a mathematics professor, posted a picture showing his father sharing the “same food” with a Kashmiri Pandit, a Sikh and a Parsi. “When the wazwan and the custom of eating together was introduced, it was a statement against the harsh and rigorous caste and class divide,” wrote journalist Muzamil Jaleel. “It was and it is a leveller. It was the same principle that makes people stand in a line, shoulder to shoulder, to pray irrespective of who they are/their social status, etc. “Think how revolutionary eating from a single plate with the hand and standing together (shoulder to shoulder) to pray was in an era... when even the shadow of 85 per cent of the population was considered a (source) of ritual pollution.” Author and journalist Gowhar Geelani suggested Agnihotri was on a cultural mission. “Vegetarian narratives. Vegetarian intellect. An intellectually challenged filmmaker, who doesn’t know how to recite a poem and has no idea about the poets, is on a mission Cultural Aggression in Kashmir,” Geelani tweeted. Geelani was referring to a Persian couplet praising Kashmir — “Agar firdaus bar roo-e zameen ast; Hameen asto, hameen asto, hameen ast (If there is paradise on earth, it is here, it is here, it is here)” — that Agnihotri had recited recently. The filmmaker had claimed the poem was written by “Firdaus”, apparently unaware that the word is Persian for “paradise”. Yashraj Sharma, a Twitter user, posted: “Been here for three years — never seen anything more beautiful, and tastier, than a Kashmiri Wazwan. Don’t be a colonialist. And what in hell is that in the plate?! Keep it away.” On Friday night, Agnihotri tweeted: “With deep pain I am deleting this tweet because ever since I posted it, my local guests have come under intense threat, abuse & trolling from evil minds. I had learnt that people who eat together stay together but some people don’t want anyone to stay together. May God bless all.” Some netizens dismissed his claim of threats as propaganda and demanded evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Wife, kids and friends seek release of Kappan||The family of a Malayalam journalist lodged in a Mathura jail for the past three months on what his wife says are false charges staged a sit-in protest in Thiruvananthapuram last week and plans another in a fortnight. Siddique Kappan, 41, was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been fatally brutalised. He was accused of being an extremist and charged under the anti-terror law UAPA for allegedly trying to foment trouble. On Tuesday, about 20 people including his wife Raihanath, their three children and a few relatives and neighbours protested in the Kerala capital while honouring the Covid-related prohibition against large gatherings. “The response to our first sit-in protest in Thiruvananthapuram was very good, with relatives and even neighbours joining us. We’ll be organising a similar sit-in demonstration in Malappuram on February 1,” Raihanath told The Telegraph on Saturday. Kappan, a native of Vengara in Malappuram, lived in Delhi and worked for the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com. He is secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ). Uttar Pradesh police have accused Kappan and three others who were travelling with him of being members of the Muslim Right-wing outfit Popular Front of India. “I’m a housewife who has been forced to hit the streets to seek justice for my husband, who has been wrongly accused of links with the PFI. Now it’s up to me and my family to ensure he gets justice,” Raihanath said. She has been trying to secure permission to make a video call to her husband so he can see his 90-year-old, bedridden mother. “She used to ask for him but now she doesn’t remember much,” Raihanath said. “I had applied thrice online to the jail authorities to let my husband make a video call but there was no response. So, our lawyer filed an application with a Mathura court last week.” Kappan had to wait 43 days for permission to meet his lawyer, arranged by the KUWJ, which has moved a habeas corpus plea with the Supreme Court saying the Uttar Pradesh authorities have not been providing any information about him. Kappan’s family has been made a party to the case. “He is allowed Rs 100 worth of call time a month. He spoke to me last week,” Raihanath said. She acknowledged that there had been considerable improvement in the way Kappan was being treated after the KUWJ approached the apex court. “He has been lodged in a cell with about 75 people, among them men accused of rape and other criminal offences. But at least he is getting his medicines for diabetes,” she said. The matter came up in the Kerala Assembly recently, with several Opposition lawmakers seeking the state government’s intervention. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, clarified that the government had its limitations when it came to intervening in court cases. N.K. Premachandran, an RSP lawmaker who had inaugurated the sit-in at Thiruvananthapuram, told this newspaper the chief minister “could at least have written to the Prime Minister seeking a free and fair investigation”. Premachandran, who is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, added: “We know the state cannot intervene in a matter before a court. But political intervention is needed since he is a journalist who was arrested while on duty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Call to veterans to join farmers’ protest||The United Front of Ex-Servicemen has urged veterans and their dependents to extend their support to the farmers’ protest and also join the movement, underlining that over 70 per cent of defence personnel belong to peasant families. In a letter, Maj. Gen. Satbir Singh (retd), adviser to the United Front of Ex-Servicemen and chairman of the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement, called on veterans to mobilise and extend support to the farmers fighting for repeal of the three new farm laws, which they believe will be their “death warrant”, and a legally guaranteed minimum support price. “Over 70 per cent of the defence personnel belong to farmers’ families, therefore, we the ex-servicemen and our dependents support the farmers in their peaceful protest for the repeal of the three agricultural laws,” the letter dated January 16 said. “In order to showcase our solidarity, all ex-servicemen and their dependents are requested to assemble… at the protest locations from 11am to3 pm at the Singhu border (January 20), Tikri border (January 21) and the Ghazipur border (January 22),” it said. “All ex-servicemen and their dependents are requested to wear their medals/ribbons,” it added. Maj. Gen. Singh also requested veterans to donate as much as possible to the organisers leading the agitation. Around 400 farmers from Kerala have joined the protest near the Rajasthan-Haryana border against the three new farm laws, PTI added. The group reached Alwar’s Shahjahanpur on Friday to participate in the sit-in launched by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha against the Centre’s farm laws, former CPM MLA Amra Ram said. “The farmers are protesting amid intense cold but the Centre is not bothered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||UN voice raps government on Stan Swamy||The United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights Defenders, Mary Lawlor, on Friday evening criticised the Indian government’s treatment of human rights activists such as Father Stan Swamy. “India is a State which doesn’t properly protect human rights defenders. I am appalled by the treatment of human rights defenders such as Father Stan Swamy, who embodies solidarity,” Lawlor, an adjunct professor on business and human rights in the School of Business of Trinity College, Dublin, said. She was speaking at an online event on the 100th day since the October 8 arrest of Swamy, an 83-year-old Jesuit priest, by the National Investigation Agency from his Ranchi home. Swamy is one of 16 rights activists, lawyers, writers and academics arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and charged with Maoist links. He is lodged in a Mumbai jail. “The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention and I had written to the Indian government in November raising concerns over the arrest of human rights activists including Stan Swamy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case but have not yet received any response,” Lawlor said. “Governments are given a 60-day period during which they are expected to reply.” Lawlor was speaking 73 days after the November 3, 2020, communication was sent to the government. She said that earlier this month (January 11) she had tweeted a copy of the letter, where she described as “arbitrary detention” the arrest of Swamy, working to protect the rights of Adivasis and Dalits since the 1970s. Lawlor said that promoting and protecting human rights in India was challenging, and said the State was responsible for the protection of human rights defenders. Delhi University professor and writer Apoorvanand moderated the discussion. Advocate Mihir Desai and social activists Xavier Dias, Dayamani Barla, Aloka Kujur, Virginius Xaxa and Dorothy Fernandes participated. Dancer and activist Mallika Sarabhai, who performed to Maya Angelou’s poem Still I Rise, said Swamy had done extraordinary work for the poorest and most marginalised. A candlelight vigil was held in Dumka, Jharkhand, on Friday for Swamy’s release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||How we were turned into a nation of elated suckers||They rain fire and brimstone from the patriotism pulpit, shaking and choking in righteous indignation at the violators of the Nation and chewing them up. They are almost always in suits, the enfants terribles of television. They rain fire and brimstone from the patriotism pulpit, trembling and tearing up at the very thought of a wayward glance being cast on Bharat Mata. They are almost always in whites, the perpetual campaigners on one election trail or the other. Both stand exposed — by an insider who has not yet disowned a series of WhatsApp chats attributed to him. The picture that emerges from the court of the Emperor Without Clothes is not pretty: it shows a blood-sucking, wheeling-dealing chummy club that treats the massacre of soldiers on tour of duty with utter disdain. Worse, the deaths are sought to be exploited for scoring professional, if not commercial, bragging points. “This attack we have won like crazy,” a piece of conversation attributed to Goswami boasts. The day and time suggest the reference is to the Pulwama massacre in which 40 CRPF jawans were blown up. The bloodcurdling and celebratory victory whoop stands in sharp contrast to the “stricken” and outraged image that studios populated by Goswami, his brand of nationalists and their ideological masters portray for the benefit of their audience who, presumably, break into matching palpitations, wringing hands and shedding tears for the wounded Nation. The studio mercenaries make mincemeat of anyone seeking transparency and accountability when terrorist strikes so close to electoral exercises take place. Unwittingly, the irrepressible  celebration attributed to Goswami less than three hours after the Pulwama massacre matches the cavalier attitude of the government on the day of the attack. In the immediate aftermath of the blast, Prime Minister Modi, perhaps uninformed, was shooting a jungle adventure in the Corbett Reserve forests.  Unspeakable theatre was taking shape both on the political as well as the propaganda arena so soon after so terrible a tragedy. Whether or not anything substantial comes from the leak of the chats, the fig leaf of the super-patriots has been yanked off. On matters of state, all the players can be expected to brazen it out as they have been doing on other issues — this time aided by the silence of most political parties because of the holy cow called national security. But the chats, which have not been denied more than 24 hours after they hit the public domain, raise unavoidable questions. The chats indicate that highly classified information, including military operations known to a limited number of people in the top echelons of the Narendra Modi government, got leaked. There are at least two instances within a span of six months when Goswami had prior information of major decisions taken by the Modi government — the surgical strike in Balakot and the dilution of Article 370 to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and statehood. When Goswami purportedly tells Dasgupta that “something major will be done this time” to Pakistan, it does not take long for the ex-CEO of BARC to figure out the implications. “It is good for the big man in this season…. He will sweep polls then,” Dasgupta predicts without naming the heavyweight. In less than three months, Modi would indeed sweep the polls and return to power with a brute majority. The Pulwama attack and the Balakot strike were used by the BJP to the hilt, changing the entire narrative of the elections just as it was heating up. The chats attributed to Goswami suggest the Balakot strike was planned not for military reasons — either strategic or tactical — but for national entertainment. “On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated,” one message attributed to Goswami says. The message adds: “Exact words used.” The addition makes it clear the objective — national elation — was not an embellished description in an informal chat but exactly what the government was aiming to achieve. A few months later, Goswami claims to “have set platinum standards in breaking and this story is ours” after Dasgupta sends him a news flash on August 2 that says: “Government of India to make Jammu separate state, Kashmir and Ladakh as union territories.” It also says the announcement will be made within a week, curfew will be imposed two days ahead of the order, and Articles 370 and 35A will be automatically abrogated. On August 5, Union home minister Amit Shah introduced the bill to bifurcate the state into two Union Territories. Articles 370 and 35A were declared null and void in the same bill, which was preceded by curfew in the state along with a huge troop build-up. Although the leaked chats, annexed to the Mumbai police chargesheet in the TRP scam case, went viral, most politicians steered clear of them. Prominent among the few exceptions who spoke out was the veteran Congressman and Chhattisgarh minister T.S. Singh Deo. “It’s a major security lapse if our military secrets and strategies on Balakot strike were leaked by someone in Central Govt to pvt players for their benefit. This calls for an investigation & prosecution of culprits. Leaking of classified military information amounts to treason. A so-called journalist knew about what was supposed to be the most classified information & was passing it on further. As outrageous this is, it exposes that these people aren’t concerned about national security and terror attacks are used as propaganda to wield more power,” Deo tweeted. Former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha, who has parted ways with the BJP, said on Twitter: “I entirely agree with Prashant Bhushan that the Arnab Whatsapp chats reveal a serious lapse in national security. The matter must be investigated by an impartial authority. The govt also appears to be guilty in this matter.” Bhushan, a senior lawyer, had tweeted the leaked chats. For film director Hansal Mehta, what struck most was that “he gloated over dead soldiers. And calls himself a nationalist”. The Telegraph tried to contact both Goswami and the principal director-general, media and communications, Press Information Bureau, of the government for comment but was unsuccessful. Their comments will be published when they respond. February 14, 2019, 3.15pm: 40 CRPF jawans are killed in the Pulwama terror explosion, a little more than two months before the general election in India. February 14, 2019, 4.19pm: Purported WhatsApp message from Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami to Partho Dasgupta, ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, says: “Sir 20 min ahead on the biggest terrorist attack of the year in Kashmir…. only only channel with a ground presence.” February 14, 2019, 5.43pm: Purported message from Goswami says: “This attack we have won like crazy.” February 23, 2019, 10.31pm: Purported message from Goswami to Dasgupta says: “On another note something big will happen.” February 23, 2019, 10.36pm: Purported query by Dasgupta: “Dawood?” February 23, 2019, 10.36pm: Purported reply from Goswami: “No sir Pakistan. Something major will be done this time.” February 23, 2019, 10.40pm: Purported message from Goswami to Dasgupta: “Bigger than a normal strike. And also on the same time something major on Kashmir. On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used.” February 26, 2019, 3.45am: Indian fighter aircraft cross the Line of Control and bomb a terror camp in Balakot. India says a large number of terrorists have been killed while Pakistan says only trees were damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine Day 1: 43% missed||India launched its nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Saturday with the number of those vaccinated falling short of the day’s target by 43 per cent, which health officials and doctors attributed to opening-day delays, technology glitches and some vaccine hesitancy. More than 191,000 healthcare workers from government and private hospitals received the jabs at 3,352 vaccination sites across the country after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the campaign via a video address on Saturday morning. Medical experts expect the vaccination campaign to accelerate the population’s move towards herd immunity — a threshold at which so many people are protected either through vaccines or through natural infections that the epidemic vanishes. The campaign’s first round seeks to immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline workers. It will be followed by a second round to immunise 270 million people, either aged above 50 or afflicted with chronic health disorders. Under guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, each site was to aim at vaccinating 100 people each day. The 191,181 beneficiaries reported by the ministry on Saturday evening made up about 57 per cent of the target of about 335,000. A health official said one of the “issues” that contributed to the shortfall was delays in uploading the list of beneficiaries on the digital platform deployed to manage the vaccination campaign at some sites. The official said no vaccination site had till 5pm reported any adverse effect that required hospitalisation. However, a PTI report at night said a nurse in Calcutta had been hospitalised after she fell unconscious following vaccination. The digital platform, which is also designed to record adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), recorded 51 minor AEFIs and one serious AEFI in Delhi. The campaign is using two vaccines — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, produced in India by the Serum Institute of India and called Covishield, and the home-grown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, granted accelerated approval by India’s drug regulatory authority. Both vaccines have been shown to be safe and capable of generating an immune response. But while Covishield has demonstrated its efficacy in trials in the UK and Brazil, Covaxin is yet to prove its efficacy through trials currently under way in 12 Indian cities. The health ministry said all states and Union Territories had received Covishield consignments while Covaxin had been sent to 11 states — Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. Doctors in some government hospitals said some of their peers had declined the jabs saying they preferred Covishield and would accept Covaxin only after its efficacy had been proven. The Resident Doctors Association at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi issued an appeal to the hospital administration saying its members would prefer Covishield. The RML Hospital was one of six government hospitals in the capital that had received Covaxin vials. Seventy-five other hospitals in the city, including all the 42 private institutions, received Covishield. “Some of my colleagues on the list stayed away — at least today,” said a doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “After that, other healthcare workers who were not on the original list for today were vaccinated.” This caused some delay. Although, 8,117 healthcare workers were to receive the vaccines in Delhi, the number vaccinated till 5pm was 4,319. Health officials and doctors expect the pace of vaccination to pick up in the coming days. “The initial hesitancy we saw today could wane in the coming days as more people get vaccinated,” the AIIMS doctor said. Sanjay Rai, a community medicine professor at AIIMS, said he believed Covaxin was the safest among the vaccines approved. “It has an inactivated (killed) virus, there is no issue about safety at all,” he said. Rai said as more people get vaccinated, India would move closer towards herd immunity, a threshold at which 60 to 70 per cent of people are protected either through natural infections or vaccines. Over 10 million people across India have already been infected and recovered from Covid-19, but earlier surveys of infection prevalence suggest that the actual number of infected people is many times higher. The Centre has ordered 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin to start the campaign. India will require around 600 million doses to immunise the four priority groups identified for the campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Arrested ex-chief of TV ratings agency in hospital||Former CEO of ratings agency Barc, Partho Dasgupta, arrested in connection with an alleged fake television ratings point (TRP) case, has been admitted to the ICU of the state-run JJ Hospital in central Mumbai, an official said on Saturday. The news of the hospitalisation came a day after WhatsApp messages purportedly exchanged between Dasgupta and Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami started circulating on social media. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai after his blood sugar levels went up on Friday midnight. Dasgupta is on oxygen support, the official said. His daughter took to Twitter to allege that he was being tortured in prison, and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others to “save his life”. On Saturday, Pratyusha Dasgupta, Dasgupta’s daughter, demanded that he be shifted to a reputable private hospital. She tweeted a message titled “A helpless daughter’s anguished appeal”, tagging Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, the PMO as well as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Pratyusha said her mother received a call around 3am on Saturday informing that her father had been brought to the hospital in an unconscious state around 1pm on Friday. For 14 hours nobody from the family was informed because the authorities allegedly did not have their contact numbers, Pratyusha said. Dasgupta was arrested on December 24 last year. Mumbai police told the court that Republic TV’s Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta “lakhs of rupees” to ramp up the channel’s viewership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Dolphin, bird numbers go up at Chilika||The number of Irrawaddy dolphins, an endangered species inhabiting the Chilika lake in Odisha, has increased to 156 from 150 in 2019, according to a census report by the Chilika Development Authority. Chief executive of Chilika Development Authority, Sushant Nanda, said: “We have initiated many conservation measures for the protection and conservation of Irrawaddy dolphins. “We have taken steps for widening and deepening of the Magarmukha channel for free movement of dolphins from the outer channel to the main lake. During the survey conducted on Friday, we found the number of dolphins has increased because we have been able to provide them a conducive atmosphere.” “One significant population is now observed in the southern sector, by moving from other sectors. The dolphin population was 152 in 2013, 158 in 2014, 160 in 2015, 145 in 2016, 121in 2017, 155 in 2018, 150 in 2019 and 156 in 2020,” he added. Irrawaddy dolphins are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and listed under the Red List of Threatened Species of the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). The present distribution range of this species only found in Asia is from Chilika to Indonesia. Nanda said: “The movement of the rare species has been facilitated by clearing of gherries (obstructions created to catch fish using bamboo and nets) at places in the lake. The annual population estimation survey of Irrawaddy dolphins has been conducted by CDA since 2003. “This time, the annual survey was conducted using the ‘transact survey method’ followed worldwide for estimating the population of aquatic mammals.” Each survey team was equipped with binoculars, GPS, range finder and data recording sheets, etc. “One of the reasons for increase in the number of dolphins is the almost non-existent movement of boats in the lake because of the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic,” a source said. Officials said as the Chilika lake offers a good environment, the number of migratory birds has also increased this year. Nearly 12,42,000 individuals of 105 water bird species and 26,405 individuals of 76 wetland dependent species were counted in the entire lagoon on January 5. “The survey on Friday validated this data and a population of 1 million-plus birds is estimated. “This year, more birds have been found in the central and southern sectors of Chilika. Sudden increase in the population of diving ducks which prefer open water was noticed during the current season, particularly in the areas where prawn gherries (dykes) were removed, clearly indicating its beneficial impact for migratory birds,” Nanda said. The number of wanderers have also increased across the lake compared to the last census data. “Flamingo, Ferruginous Pochard and common Shelduck were encountered after a long gap,” Nanda said. Besides during the survey, the authorities have found five species of seagrasses — Holodule uninervis, Holodule pinifolia, Halophila ovalis, Halophila ovata and Halophila beccarii. With this finding, Chilika lake now has 22 per cent of India’s seagrass area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Bihar’s first bird fest at Nagi-Nakti ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated ‘Kalrav’, the first ever bird festival of Bihar at Nagi-Nakti bird sanctuary in Jamui district, around 200km southeast from the state capital on Saturday. The pristine bird sanctuary is famous for 136 species of birds, and a sizeable population of rajhans or the bar-headed goose, which is a migratory bird. The number of this particular species touches 1,600 at times, which is around 3 per cent of its entire population in the world. “This is a very beautiful place with regard to the environment and a large number of birds reside at the sanctuary. Many migratory birds come here during winter. Several experts and ornithologists from different parts of the country are also visiting here to guide the people,” Nitish said after inaugurating the festival. Highlighting the need to protect the birds, the chief minister said that the objective of his visit to the sanctuary was to give a message to the people to do so for the coming generations. “Such bird festivals should be organised every year to inspire and encourage the people. Experts tell that many of the migratory birds fly 13 days to arrive at such sanctuaries during winter, and keep returning every year if they like the place,” Nitish added. Deputy chief minister-cum-environment minister Tarkishore Prasad, water resources minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and several other leaders were also present with Nitish on the occasion. Bird ringing was also done on the occasion. It helps individual identification and tracking of their movements. Nagi-Nakti are twin dams separated by six kilometres, and spread across 1123 hectares surrounded by hills and forests. The Nagi dam is well known for the presence of ‘tor’ or freestanding rock outcrop, making it more beautiful. Such rock outcrops are rare in the eastern India, and is the only one in Bihar. “Bihar has several bird areas and is among the riches in the country when its comes to the number of bird species. This three-day bird festival is the first one in the state. It will keep revolving and will be organised in different bird areas every year,” environment and forest department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told The Telegraph. Dipak said that tourist cottages, bird interpretation centre, and information about heritage sites in the area have also been made available for the visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik talks to vaccine receivers||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday talked to the beneficiaries who were administered the first dose of the corona vaccine. Among the beneficiaries were a health worker from Capital Hospital, Bhubaneswar, a female health worker of the District Head Quarter Hospital Sundergarh and a doctor of the City Hospital, Berhampur, and listened to their experience. In Bhubaneswar, a health worker was the first beneficiary followed immediately by the director of the Capital Hospital and doctors. Taking to the beneficiaries through video-conferencing Naveen said: “The long wait is over. We will not forget the sacrifice and services rendered by the healthcare workers in past 10 months during the pandemic.” Former director of the AIIMS (Bhubaneswar) Dr Ashok Kumar Mohapatra who took the dose said, “All should come forward and take the vaccine. There is nothing to fear.” Almost all the health workers, including the doctors, who took the first dose on Saturday said they were ninety nine per cent sure about the efficacy of the medicine. “But as the strains of the Covid are changing, we need to be careful and follow the Covid guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Shiv Sena to contest in West Bengal assembly elections||The Shiv Sena has decided to contest the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, party MP Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. He said the decision to contest the polls has been taken after holding discussions with Maharashtra Chief Minister and Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. "So, here is the much-awaited update. After discussions with Party Chief Shri Uddhav Thackeray, Shiv Sena has decided to contest the West Bengal Assembly Elections. We are reaching Kolkata soon...!! Jai Hind, Jai Bangla!" Raut tweeted. He, however, didn't specify the number of seats the Sena will contest in West Bengal. Elections to the 294-member WB assembly are due in April-May this year. The Sena is in power in Maharashtra along with the NCP and Congress under the aegis of Maha Vikas Aghadi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||On jab day, 609 fresh Covid infections||Bengal, on Day One of Covid-19 vaccination, logged 666 recoveries, 609 new infections and 15 deaths, including two from Calcutta. The numbers dragged the total of active cases down for the 82nd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year to 7,151 now from 37,190 82 days ago. In 82 days, the state reported over 2.37 lakh recoveries and 2.1 lakh new infections. Currently, Bengal has 3.4 per cent of the national total of active cases. Recovery rate has risen for 86 days straight, from 87.44, to 96.96 per cent, bettering the national rate by 0.42 per cent. Calcutta High Court’s instructions against crowding, which proved effective in preventing the pandemic from getting worse over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, also reined in infections around New Year celebrations, a minister said. “Saturday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 7…There has been no spike in the corresponding period for the Christmas-New Year revelry. With vaccination taking off, we could be on the verge of being out of the woods,” he said. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The state’s Covid-19 total of 5.65 lakh cases includes nearly 5.48 lakh recoveries and 10,041 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. “Daily toll has come down drastically over the past month or so, down from 50-60 to 20 or less, but mortality rate has not improved as the number of new infections found daily has also reduced sharply,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,424 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities.The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.41 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 57 days ago. Bengal’s total test count — including 30,011 tests on Saturday — is over 76.21 lakh now, at 84,679 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Varsity to state govt: Measure Sen’s land||Visva-Bharati on Saturday asked the Bengal government to measure the area of Pratichi, the family home of Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen, to permanently resolve the land “controversy”. “It is true there is an allegation against Amartya Sen and several other persons over encroachment of land. We are not claiming anything now. But we will request the state government’s land department to intervene and resolve the controversy permanently. It will be clear if the land occupied by Amartya Sen is measured. In that case, we, on behalf of Visva-Bharati, and representatives of Sen will be present on the spot,” Ashok Mahato, the varsity’s officiating registrar, told a media conference. “If there is any additional land occupied by him (Sen), legal action will be taken,” added Mahato, who also looks after the estate department of the varsity. Mahato and a few other officials called the news meet on Saturday to clarify their stand on the ongoing controversy. “We calculated around 77 acres of the varsity’s 1,130 acres were illegally occupied by several persons,” he said. Asked to confirm if there was any encroachment by Sen’s family and quantify the size of land apparently encroached upon, Mahato said: “I can’t tell you right now... as there are some legal obligations. Sen’s lawyer has already sent us a letter and he might take legal measures.” He added that the varsity was yet to communicate with Sen on the issue. Many in Santiniketan questioned the varsity’s intentions. “This (intervention by the department) is a ridiculous suggestion as the land department never measures land till there is a specific complaint. It is surprising that the VC commented at a meeting and officials listed the name of Sen as an encroacher without informing him (the economist). The first information should have been sent to him,” said a senior varsity professor. Several residents of Santiniketan believe the varsity convened the media conference as vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty is under pressure because of Sen’s global standing. Visva-Bharati on Saturday claimed that economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya was suspended for launching a malicious “smear campaign” against one of his colleagues. Asked whether service rules prevented a teacher from carrying out a campaign on any issue, Mahato said: “I don’t have the details…. There will be a committee to probe the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Best shot for someone with cancer’||Ranaghat subdivisional hospital head clerk Ashis Kumar Naha, 52, a patient of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), received his first shot of Covishield on Saturday as a frontline health worker in a designated Covid hospital. He told why it was a “big relief”. Excerpts: Frankly, Saturday came to me as a big relief when I stood in the queue to take the jab that is expected to protect us from Covid-19. Since 2016 I have been suffering from a special type of blood cancer and as a health worker the risk of contracting the infection is big for me as my immunity is already low. The lockdown and subsequent lack of transport were a problem for me as a road accident in 2010 had left me with 55 per cent physical disability. But as a health department worker at a designated Covid hospital, I have never shied away from my professional obligations despite my medical vulnerabilities because I am aware that there is a battle at hand. At the same time, aware of my already compromised immunity, I have all along been waiting and hoping for the arrival of a vaccine against Covid-19. There are colleagues who are reluctant to take the jab as they doubt the vaccine’s efficacy. For me, the jab is a big relief. I hope this is the beginning of the end of Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||‘Tense before but glad now’||Gynaecologist Keya Bagchi, 45, who received the Covishield jab on Saturday at the Bolpur subdivisional hospital, told that her vaccination followed “months of anxiety”. Excerpts: “I was worried ever since the Centre announced that doctors would be among the first recipients (of the jab). My husband, an anesthesiologist, I and our 13-year-old daughter deliberated whether to take the jabs. Last evening (Friday), I received a text confirming my vaccination on Saturday. We passed a sleepless night. This morning (Saturday), I was horrified to read that 23 recipients of a Covid vaccine in Norway died of complications. To allay my fears, I got in touch with my friends in the UK in the second phase of vaccination. Finally, I got my shot. The next 30 minutes were tense, but I was fine. I went to a staff lounge, where the mood was light, and I met other vaccinated colleagues. Now I am glad I took this step, as my colleagues thanked me for taking part in this vital step of our country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Centre sent fewer vaccine vials: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday told frontline Covid warriors at 207 Covid-19 vaccination centres that the state government could not vaccinate all 5.8 lakh health workers in Bengal at one go as the Centre did not send enough Covishield vaccines for two doses. “The central government did not provide sufficient vaccines and I have requested them to send us the required consignment,” said the chief minister during a videoconference session where she spoke to those present in the vaccination centres on Saturday. Senior government officials later told The Telegraph that the state uploaded a list of 5.8 lakh health workers of both state-run and private healthcare establishments, who were to be administered vaccine in the first phase, on the Centre’s server. The Centre so far sent 6.89 lakh Covishield vaccines and directed the state to preserve the second dose of vaccines for those who get the first dose. “In this scenario, we will take up vaccination of 3.44 lakh healthcare workers with the available vaccines. That’s why the chief minister tried to explain why all 5.8 lakh health workers could not be vaccinated from the beginning,” said a senior government official. Another official explained that the state was expecting a supply of the next lot of vaccines by next week. On the Day One of the vaccination drive, Mamata stressed again that she felt all people in the state should get vaccines free of cost before adding the state would provide free vaccines if the Centre didn't. With elections nearing, the Mamata Banerjee government wants to carry out the vaccination drive in Bengal without a hitch. The performance on day one, however, was not as expected, said a source. In Bengal, it was planned that 20,700 health workers would be administered vaccines on the first day from 207 vaccination camps but primary reports pointed out that only around 15,500 persons received shots on Saturday. “The performance varied from district to district,” said a source before adding that the final count was likely to change as updates were still coming from districts. For instance, Birbhum had 12 camps where 1,200 health workers were supposed to be vaccinated, but only 658 turned up. “We think some health workers were fearing adverse side-effects,” said a health official of Birbhum. A senior state government official said if many health workers were reluctant to get the shot, they could be counselled. “Fear is common in the case of a new vaccine. I recall decades ago how we had to work hard to make people believe that polio drops did not cause trouble. The chief minister has also asked us to ensure that nobody spreads rumours during vaccination,” said an official. Next week, vaccination will be taken up on Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Ram temple funds minus VHP: TMC||Some Trinamul leaders in north Bengal said on Saturday that they too would contribute for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, but added that they would send money directly to the bank account of the temple trust. Their stand was aired a day after the Sangh parivar launched a fundraising campaign and suggested that the opportunity would be used to carry out an unofficial poll survey. Accusing the Sangh Parivar of using religion for political dividends, K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul president of Jalpaiguri, said: “We, too, want to donate for the temple... But there is no reason to pay the donation to Vishwa Hindu Parishad and some other outfits that have launched a so-called drive and intend to mix religion with politics.” The Trinamul leader’s assertion was seen as an attempt to prevent the saffron ecosystem from reaping political dividends from the temple fundraiser ahead of the crucial state polls. “The donation should be sent directly to the official bank account of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust formed by the Centre under the directives of the Supreme Court, and we would encourage people to do so," he added. On Friday, the temple trust launched the nationwide funds drive — asking for Rs 10 minimum and above from people as contribution for the temple’s construction, with coupons against cash — and the VHP is mandated to implement it to continue till February 27 or Magh Purnima. Several leaders of the saffron ecosystem had said they would use the fundraiser to assess the BJP’s poll prospects in Bengal besides an extensive outreach. In Bengal, with elections drawing near, the fundraiser was launched with specific directives to the Sangh parivar foot soldiers that they should collect basic information of the donors. A senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri said that they would not let the saffron ecosystem play the temple card. “It is a temple of the common people. Why should we allow the BJP and its associates take the credit for collecting funds for the temple? We will always encourage people to donate directly through bank transfer,” he said. Sources in Trinamul and political observers said that Bengal’s ruling party decided to take the stand primarily because of two reasons. On one hand, Trinamul is trying to prove that it is not against the Ram temple, said a source, and on the other hand, does not intend to let the saffron camp gain leverage from this fundraiser, an observer opined. VHP leaders, however, said that they would continue the fundraiser officially announced by the trust. “There are many people who find it convenient to pay in cash against coupons. That is why we have launched the drive and will continue it according to schedule,” said Krishnendu Guha, a spokesperson of the VHP in Jalpaiguri. Task force The Jalpaiguri district Trinamul unit has constituted a task force of doctors and prominent leaders of the party to look into cases where the Swasthya Sathi free health insurance card provided by the Mamata Banerjee government is not accepted by private nursing homes. “The task force will try to resolve the problems in consultation with the state health department,” said district Trinamul president Kalyani. Party insiders said the initiative was taken to thwart the BJP that dubbed the card “useless”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Rose Valley boss wife’s bail plea shot down||Subhra Kundu, wife of the jailed owner of Rose Valley group Gautam Kundu, was produced before a Bidhnanagar court on Saturday where bail plea was turned down, a day after her arrest by the CBI from her upscale south Calcutta condominium. Arrested in connection with the multi-crore Ponzi scam for which her husband had been arrested five years ago, Subhra was sent to Bhubaneswar jail on a two-day transit remand. A former actress, Subhra will be produced before a court in Bhubaneswar again after two days. Though many people cheated in the Rose Valley scam were from Bengal, the main case was started at Bhubaneswar by the CBI. Sources in the CBI said two more directors of the company and another member of the Kundu family also attached to the family business were under scanner and would soon be summoned for examination. CBI sleuths said they were trying to wrap up the case by completing the probe. “Though the case is old, it is pertinent to say that we are in the last leg of the probe. Some (company) directors who have not been examined properly will now be called very soon,” said a senior CBI officer. Two Trinamul MPs Sudip Bandopadhyay and Tapas Pal, were arrested by the CBI in 2017 in connection with the scam. The CBI also recently arrested former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member and industrialist K.D. Singh in connection with a separate money laundering case. The fact that the central agency, which had been probing these cases for the past few years, has swung into action recently has given rise to speculations that the activities are “politically motivated”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||Two leaders in north Bengal drop out of the list of vaccinated people on Day One||Two prominent political leaders in north Bengal volunteered to drop out of the list of vaccinated people on the Day One of the drive citing they would get the jab when it is available for people at large. Anit Thapa, chairman of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) from the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha, which has been a Trinamul ally since 2017, had recently announced he would be the first to take the vaccine in the hills. Thapa reached Kalimpong district hospital on Saturday but then announced that he would get vaccinated only when it becomes available for the public. “The doctors and medical experts told me that the vaccine was for health workers and there was no need to cast any doubt on the vaccine,” said Thapa, before explaining that he had earlier planned to be the first to take the shot to build confidence among health workers and dispel vaccine-related fears among the masses. On his change of heart, Thapa said: “Instead of me, one more health worker can get vaccinated. The vaccine has been approved by the WHO and by the government of India.” In Alipurduar, Trinamul MLA Sourav Chakraborty also declined to take the jab though he had been listed as the first person supposed to receive the shot in the district on Saturday. Alipurduar district health officials claimed that MLA Chakraborty had been included in the list as he was the chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samity. But some others said that his name was put on the list because he uses the prefix Dr. However, Chakraborty is not a physician but a PhD. Contacted, the MLA said he was in no mood to take the vaccine now. “I refused the vaccine. I will take it along with the common public,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC puts Biplab Mitra as chair of the district committee ahead of polls||The state Trinamul leadership put Biplab Mitra, a veteran party leader of South Dinajpur, as chair of the district committee ahead of polls. Mitra replaces another veteran Shankar Chakraborty, who has been inducted in the state committee as a vice-president, said sources. Mitra, Trinamul district party chief since 1998, was removed from the post in 2019 when BJP won the Balurghat Lok Sabha seat. He briefly joined the BJP then but returned to Trinamul in 2020. A party insider said Mitra’s strong organisational base would be of great help. “I will put in all efforts...Many (members) are inactive or have walked out of the party. My first task is to bring them in, give them new responsibilities and work together to secure Trinamul’s win in all six Assembly seats of the district,” said Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-231
17-01-2021||North East||Memorial for soldier who saved Tawang ||The Arunachal Pradesh government will build a memorial to acknowledge the contributions of Major Bob Khathing, a Tangkhul Naga from Manipur, for formally bringing Tawang under India’s administrative control in 1951 when the threat from neighbouring China loomed large over the frontier state. Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu said during an official function in Tawang on Friday that the memorial will be constructed by his government and it will also house a museum showcasing Monpa traditions and a cafeteria. Monpa is a leading tribe of Arunachal Pradesh. The foundation stone of the memorial will be laid on February 14, the day Maj. Khathing is believed to have hoisted the Tricolour in Tawang for the first time in 1951. Born in Manipur’s Ukhrul district in 1912, Ralengnao Khathing, popularly known as Bob Khathing, is a relatively unknown figure for most of Arunachal and even India. But the people of Tawang still remember him with respect for being the sole Indian official to come as their saviour amid growing threat from China, which claims Arunachal Pradesh as a part of South Tibet. China occupied Tibet in 1950. Khandu said: “Not many of us are aware of Maj. Khathing and his contribution to Arunachal Pradesh. Once the memorial is constructed, visitors will come to know about Maj. Khathing and his contributions while also getting a glimpse of the Monpa life.” The chief minister’s office said Maj. Khathing served in the British Army and fought World War II. During  WWII, he served in the famous V Force and was awarded the Military Cross for his gallantry. He also received the award of Member of the British Empire (MBE). He was also awarded the Padma Shri in 1957. He was inducted as an assistant political officer (APO) in November 1950 under the Tirap division and was posted at Pasighat and then to Kameng division with its headquarters at Charduar. Maj. Khathing is believed to have started on an arduous journey from Charduar with a team of soldiers from 5 Assam Rifles on January 17, 1951. This was the first expedition to negotiate extremely inhospitable terrain in sub-zero temperatures. Maj. Khathing reached Tawang with his team on February 6, 1951. The frontier region was sparsely populated and the road network was practically non-existent. To establish Indian presence up to the extent of the McMahon Line, which was demarcated as the border between India and Tibet in 1914, under the terms of the Simla Convention, required covering the area by foot over very difficult terrain. This was successfully accomplished by Maj. Khathing and his troop of 5 Assam Rifles. He then met and interacted with a number of gaonburhas (village headmen) and quickly and effectively established India’s administrative control over Tawang, a remote part of the country.  Maj. Khathing had an eventful career but most believe that he is yet to get his due recognition for his military, diplomatic skills and nation-building efforts. After graduating from Cotton College in Guwahati, he joined the British Army. He was later elected to the first Manipur Assembly in 1948. In 1953, he joined the Indian Frontier Administrative Service and in due course went on to become the chief secretary of Nagaland in 1967. He had also contributed to the formation of the Sashastra Seema Bal following the 1962 Indo-China war. He also served as India’s ambassador to Burma in 1972. He died at his Imphal residence on January 12, 1990. In a tribute to Maj. Khathing in 2018, the Assam Rifles released a video, “A true legend of the Northeast — Major Bob Khathing Ralengnao (1912-1990)”. On its Facebook page, the paramilitary force also said: “Maj. Bob Khathing Ralengnao, a proud Tangkhul Naga from Manipur, a God fearing man of honours & principles, a multi-dimensional personality, he was the first tribal from NE India to be the Ambassador of India (to Burma). Well-known for his humanitarian services to the Nation, he led a team of Assam Rifles soldiers & took peaceful possession of Tawang, establishing Indian administrative control in the region.” “This memorial will be our tribute to Maj. Bob Khathing,” said Khandu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
17-01-2021||Opinion||So now lend me your tongues||And I may yet lend you my ears. Heard me? We are talking. Are you listening? Come, let’s talk. Flap your ears, my tongue is wagging, and when my tongue wags it can be like a whiplash dipped in... oh whatever, use your imagination if you have one. But don’t overdo it, imagination can take you in prohibited places, places where you think you will talk and I will listen. Haaaah! That’s not happening. Let’s talk. Imagination is not allowed, imagination violates, imagination carries the risk of transporting you away from reality, and that cannot be a good thing. Imagine gorging on khichdi when you are only tucking into the hinds of a roasted leg of lamb. How pathetic would that be, haan? Get it? You are talking, don’t imagine this is a negotiation. I promised talks, but did I promise more? You have a problem? Let’s talk. You want a solution, well that’s another thing. We can talk about it. Talks after talks after talks, what splendid use of time. Meantime, I will go on doing what I do, let’s keep you busy. What is it that’s bothering you? When I have decreed that what is bothering you should not bother you, why are you getting bothered and bothering me in turn? You want to talk? Here is how it will go: Shut up. If you are confused, listen again: Shut up. And if that is not possible for you to do, or beyond your comprehension, hand over your tongue. You heard it. Off with your tongue. I would know what use to put it to. You use it too much. You abuse it. Too much of anything is bad, did you ever hear that said? A louse in your scalp, you pinch it out, or brush it if you are squeamish about pinching and what comes of pinching. But too many lice in your scalp, and you must give your scalp the treatment. You use a mower. Or, what’s it called, yes, a razor; you run a razor over that infested acreage. Too much is too much, too many too many. And if it is too many and too much, both at the same time, well that requires special arrangements. That is who you have become — folks in requirement of a prescription for special arrangements. You talk too much. And you are too many. Far too many for my liking. And you want to talk? This whole unseemly, unholy babble of you? What is the point of the noise? That you might get an opportunity to talk? Because of the noise you make? Get real. I will tell you how. Do you know of a thing called a round? Or rounds? Of being taken round and round? Round upon round? A not so merry merry-go-round? No? Let me tell you. Let me offer you a ride. I will arrange it, a roundtable, a table that goes round and round, you know what I mean, you who seem to know what I mean all the time and keep telling me this is what I really mean and this is what I mean not. Come by some day. We shall talk. I shall arrange a whole committee to talk to you since you love talking so much. You can bring your cities and towns along; your villages too. We’ve emptied enough spaces. In the prisons. Tum bhi kya yaad rakkhoge! Let’s get on with it. Now there’s the committee and they will talk. Talk is what you wanted. Talk is what you shall get. Listen up. I never said no to talks, but let this be clear, I talk, or my committee does, and you listen. The whole point of talks is someone talks and someone listens. No point talking when no one’s listening, is there? And there’s always a point listening when someone’s talking, isn’t there? Let’s talk. You listen, and I shall talk, that’s the way these talks will go. Lend me your ears. Ah yes, your ears too. Understood? Listen to me You sweet nothing Here’s what you’ll get This rat-eaten farthing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
17-01-2021||Opinion||Winter vigils||The time of Covid in India was bookended by two different yet similar winter vigils. The winter of 2019-20 saw sit-ins led by Muslim women in Shaheen Bagh and other places in protest against the Narendra Modi government’s Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The winter of 2020-21 has seen a massive sit-in on Delhi’s border led by Sikh farmers demanding the repeal of the three agriculture Acts rushed through Parliament by the Central government in September. The similarities between these two agitations are instructive, as are their differences. Both movements were protesting laws drafted by a democratically elected government, duly passed by Parliament. Both were, consequently, forms of civil disobedience: the sit-ins happened in public spaces, on major thoroughfares, and called attention to their causes by bringing traffic in their vicinity to a standstill. These were civil society movements, initiated, led and sustained by civil society groups that saw the government’s laws as existential threats to their rights and livelihood. Party political leadership in both cases was conspicuous by its absence. Opposition leaders occasionally signalled their support but they contributed little or nothing to the agenda and the organization of these agitations. Both movements filled a political vacuum created by the massive electoral success of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the consequent disarray in and demoralization of Opposition parties. The absolute majority won by the BJP in the 2019 general election was, for Modi and his party, the curtain raiser for the construction of a new republic based on the Gujarat Model. This consists of a systematically communalized polity, a segregated society where the public subordination of a Muslim underclass consolidates a murderous majoritarianism and a streamlined economy rendered fit for purpose for the ambitions of the BJP’s billionaire cronies. The Shaheen Bagh sit-in was a direct response to the inauguration of this Second Republic. The BJP’s signature triumph has been the political marginalization of Muslims. The Shaheen Bagh vigil was born of quiet desperation: the Muslim women of that neighbourhood were defending their constitutional rights as citizens against the BJP’s bid to smuggle in a religious test for citizenship in the shape of the CAA. The farmers’ protest is a response to the third aspect of this new national dispensation. The commitment of the BJP to the rationalization of India’s economy — and, therefore, its rural hinterland and its agriculture — for the benefit of friendly tycoons is absolute. The failed land acquisition bill in the early part of Modi’s first tenure and now this stalled bid to get Punjab’s farmers to love the stringent discipline of contract farming and the free market are, like love jihad and lynching, essential elements of the Gujarat Model. When the predominantly Sikh peasantry of Punjab refused to buy into this bracing vision of billionaire heaven, the BJP government of Haryana vandalized its highways by digging trenches across them to stop the farmers from marching on Delhi and the stand-off (or sit-in) at Tikri, Singhu and other places began. The Muslim women at Shaheen Bagh and the Sikh farmers on Delhi’s border are religious minorities standing up for causes larger than themselves. The idiom of the posters, the slogans, the songs and speeches at Jamia and Shaheen Bagh through the months of the protest was rigorously republican, centred on the constitutional rights of citizens and the iconic figure of B.R. Ambedkar. Given the near-absolute failure of India’s Opposition parties to stand up for secular citizenship in general and Muslim citizens in particular, the women of Shaheen Bagh and the students of historically Muslim universities like Aligarh Muslim University and Jamia Millia Islamia stepped into the breach and held the line. Their example inspired a remarkable mobilization across India in support of constitutional rights. Punjab and Haryana, the homes of the Green Revolution, were the two states whose farmers were most affected by the Central government’s agriculture laws. Like the Muslim women at Shaheen Bagh, the farmers demonstrating at Singhu and Tikri are defending themselves and, at the same time, making a larger argument about the proper relationship between government policy and the economic future of farming communities. The initiative was taken by farmers’ unions, not by political parties. They were joined by farmers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and other states who were not Sikhs but it is important to notice here that, as in Shaheen Bagh, the defence of the larger cause — citizenship on the one hand and a vision of rural livelihood on the other — was pioneered by religious minorities standing up for themselves. If the similarities between the two vigils are instructive, their differences teach us valuable truths too. Being a Sikh in India is existentially very different from being a Muslim. Sikhs, even in this time of economic stagnation in Punjab, are, according to the National Sample Survey Office, the richest religious community in India. Muslims are, by nearly every measure, consistently the poorest. Institutionally, Muslims are radically underrepresented in government service, the corporate world, in education and in all forms of salaried employment. Where Muslims are constantly stigmatized as false citizens by parties like the BJP, the Hindu Right has long lauded Sikhs as India’s ‘sword arm’ and Sikhs have traditionally been the backbone of India’s armed forces. These differences account for the differences in the scale and the reception of the two protests. The protesting farmers at Singhu and Tikri numbered in the tens of thousands. The scale of the farmer’s agitation and the logistics needed to sustain it made even as spirited and crowded a sit-in as Shaheen Bagh look small in comparison. The government’s suggestion that its agitating opponents were anti-nationals, perverse squatters inconveniencing blameless citizens, found many takers when it came to Shaheen Bagh and very few when it came to the farmer’s sit-in. Thanks to history and sentiment, the Sikh farmer has always been seen as the salt of the Indian earth. It’s hard to demonize members of a community synonymous with patriotic military service. The BJP tried. Piyush Goyal called them Maoists and Naxals. The chief minister of Haryana and a general-secretary of the BJP made dark allegations about Khalistani infiltration. Every synonym in the BJP’s anti-national lexicon was pressed into service: tukde-tukde gang, urban naxal, Pakistani agents, terrorists, international conspirators, even — this according to Madan Dilawar of the Rajasthan BJP — chicken-eating spreaders of avian flu. The malignant instinct of the BJP to impugn the character and the patriotism of religious minorities has been on display during the farmers’ agitation. However, unlike the full-court press mounted against the anti-CAA protesters, which culminated in brutal, orchestrated communal violence, the Modi government has stepped more carefully with the farmers’ movement for several reasons. It is terrified that it might become a rallying point for peasants from other provinces. Punjab is a border state with a Sikh majority that the BJP recently lost to the Congress and no party can win Punjab in the future if it alienates Sikhs. When Parkash Singh Badal returned his Padma Vibhushan in protest, a tremor ran through the ruling establishment. Also, given the size and the success of the Sikh diaspora and its consuming interest in the Punjab, the Central government has had to mind its manners. The solicitude of the Supreme Court in the matter of the farmers’ agitation, its willingness to exceed its constitutional remit to ‘suspend’ the agricultural laws for the duration of unasked-for arbitration, makes for an interesting contrast with the court’s impatience with the Shaheen Bagh sit-in and its passivity over the question of the CAA’s constitutionality. The court did not, in that instance, suggest expert arbitration nor did it step in to ‘suspend’ the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Even more intriguing is the government’s connivance in the ‘suspension’ of its own laws. The movement inspired by the Muslim women of Shaheen Bagh was stifled by pogrom and pandemic but the farmers’ protests are ongoing. Despite their different trajectories, they teach us a lesson that we would do well to learn: in political cultures beleaguered by majoritarianism, mobilized minorities offer the most reliable resistance to bigotry and reaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||Other viruses: no transparency||Vaccinating everyone in the country is far from easy. But India’s success in eradicating polio may be matched by the new achievement of inoculating its people against Covid-19. Yet some doubts are casting a shadow on the Centre’s inauguration of the vaccination drive. Narendra Modi’s government has approved two vaccines: Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured here by the Serum Institute of India, and the indigenous Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. While the Union health ministry insists, with support from some doctors and scientists, that both vaccines are capable and safe, other senior figures in medicine and research have pointed out that efficacy data for Covaxin from Phase III trials have not yet emerged. This lack of transparency is being glossed over by the government with a moral argument: there is no time for niceties when people are dying. But publishing results of Phase III trials are an indispensable part of research procedure; medicine cannot allow shortcuts. Besides, the Centre has not clarified the logic behind the distribution of the two vaccines among states and their hospitals, or given these entities — let alone individuals — any choice. Certain government hospitals in Delhi, for instance, are getting one vaccine while private ones have received the other, and do not know why. West Bengal has almost halved its planned number of frontline health workers to be inoculated in the first round, preserving shots for the second dose which must be of the same vaccine, because the state has no idea which of the two will be sent in the next batch. It seems that the Centre wishes to leave states and hospitals, which will execute the massive job, uncertain. Assurances are only to come from the Centre. When people are anxious and must accept whatever is given, the ethics of the Centre’s approach are questionable. While the urgency is overwhelming, governments must tread a razor’s edge between assured medical protocols and speed. Covishield, for example, has not completed trials in India, although it has been satisfactorily tested abroad. Mr Modi’s government seems to be racing against something other than the virus. Is vaccination against a pandemic a feather in the cap of the prime minister just before elections in certain Opposition states? Not only did he ‘launch’ the drive but he also said that both vaccines were ‘Made in India’. But Covishield was ‘made’ by scientists abroad; it is being ‘produced’ in India. Politicization of a medical emergency exposes the ugliness of contemporary Indian politics. The BJP had promised free vaccines in Bihar before state elections there; now Mamata Banerjee has said that her government is making arrangements for free vaccinations in the state, as has the chief minister of Kerala. The BJP claims that Ms Banerjee is rushing to take the credit, implying, then, that vaccinations are to the credit of the BJP. Scientists have vanished, while political parties expect votes from people for ‘saving’ them. It is a bleak time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||Changing stripes||There is a saying in these parts that when the elephant falls into the pit even the toad will kick it. After four years of enduring US President Donald Trump, suddenly a lot of US-based organisations and institutions have grown a conscience. Perhaps that’s how long it takes to have a judgement in full bloom. In other places, green shoots take longer. A farmers’ intervention? Who can say? Facebook has banned Trump through Joe Biden’s inauguration. So has Instagram. In other headlines — Facebook bans stop the steal phrase, Facebook is blocking events near White House through Inauguration Day, Facebook is tracking a rise in violent rhetoric tied to the US presidential inauguration. Twitter has frozen Trump’s account permanently. Canada-based tech company Shopify shut down Trump’s online merch stores and payment companies Stripe, PayPal and Square have reportedly said they have stopped providing services to individuals and organizations connected to the Washington riot of January 6. Amazon Web Services, Google and Apple Play Stores kicked Parler out — its users had cheered the storming of the Capitol. Deutsche Bank has announced that it is cutting off ties with Trump. He owes it $300 million. And Signature Bank, which is closing two of his personal accounts, issued a statement saying it would not do business in future with any members of Congress who voted to disregard the Electoral College. New York City, the law firm Seyfarth Shaw and real-estate firm Cushman & Wakefield have said they won’t do business with Trump. True, much of it has to do with brand image and business, layers of entwined interests, the obvious comfort of having a legitimate, distinctly different leadership. True, there is a lot of glaring hypocrisy. Check Facebook’s stance in India, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand; think Islamophobic content, think Holocaust denials and Facebook’s delayed reactions, think of its role in the 2017 US elections. Think of all the hate-spreading India-news-related accounts Twitter has never taken note of and then try to recall sane voices that were muted. Angela Merkel called out Twitter on its sanctimonious ban of Trump. “Problematic” is the word she used. But this collective flutter to protect American democracy is not nothing. The US is sure to heal hereafter. In the meantime, remember --- when it really hurts, where it really hurts, judgements will flower. And pachyderms gone rogue will eventually drive themselves into pits. Keep working on the high-kick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||Tame spirit: the illegal pet trade is difficult to monitor ||Sir — In a recent video, a leopard can be seen prowling on the highway and then proceeding to play with a man. This is highly unnatural — leopards are canny animals and would not walk into a man-animal conflict when the odds are stacked against them. Some experts have suggested that the leopard may have been kept as a pet illegally, making it comfortable around humans. The illegal pet trade is difficult to monitor given that people usually keep the animals caged and hidden in poor conditions inside their homes. Steps must be taken to nip the problem at the bud by keeping stricter vigil on wildlife habitats so that animals cannot be taken captive in the first place.  Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — The order of the Supreme Court, staying the implementation of the controversial farm laws and informing the government unequivocally that it would not take away the citizens’ right to protest, was encouraging. Yet, right off the bat came the request to send women and elderly protesters back. It is difficult to understand the contradiction in terms — are women and the elderly not citizens or are they lesser beings who do not have the right to protest? It could also be argued that this takes women for granted and endorses infantilization of labour by women. What is worse, it reveals an ignorance about farming in India. Women contribute as much to farming as their male counterparts if not more. In fact, the most difficult labour is often the responsibility of women — bending for hours while sowing seeds is just one example. Yet, their labour remains unseen. While the labour of women farmers may not be visible, women are remarkably visible in protests — be it those against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the farmers’ movements, workers’ movements or students’ movement. To participate in any movement taking place in the country is well within the rights of every Indian citizen, which is guaranteed under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. The Constitution does not impose restrictions on participating in a protest on the basis of a person’s age or gender, neither should its interpreters.Jayati Gupta, Mumbai Sir — As was predicted, the rise of the patriarchal, Hindutva politics has been directly proportional to a decline in the status of women in society. The apex court of the country thinks women farmers should sit at home — taking care of the elderly perhaps, who, too, have been asked to return home. The Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has said that women who go to work will have to register at a police station and will be ‘tracked’ for their safety. Multiple BJP states have passed a legislation that makes a joke of an adult Hindu woman’s right to choice. On the other hand, news of women being raped and then having to marry their rapist or tying a rakhi on them is becoming more and more common. A Hindu rashtra is not just one where Muslims and other minorities are discriminated against. It is also one where the modern woman is ‘tamed’ and brought back into the family, where she lives life at the mercy of her male relatives.Kakoli Das, Calcutta Sir — The ongoing farm protests have raised a host of issues that affect the sector, beyond the laws which are being sought to be rolled back. One issue which deserves sharper focus is the largely unseen role of women in the farm sector. Many women farmers are not even aware of the entitlements they can get from the government as farmers. Owing to their lack of collateral — women own less than 2 per cent of farmland in India — they cannot access credit or navigate bureaucratic waters to get support for the right inputs for their crops. There has to be gender-neutral institutional reform in agriculture for women to get their due. In most rural areas, men still dominate administrative processes which tend to work against women farmers. When a male farmer dies, the lack of access to land records, the aversion to take on powerful male family members, and the lack of awareness combine to exclude women from their right to land and livelihood. M. Agrawal, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||It's daggers drawn between allies JDU and BJP over spiralling crime||Law and order are in a free fall in Bihar. The government led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, is unable to control the accelerating pace of heinous crimes and daggers are out between the allies, Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party. A few leaders of the saffron party have been taking regular potshots at Kumar, who also heads the home ministry in the state. However, when Nitin Navin, the BJP member of legislative assembly from Bankipur demanded that Bihar should adopt the Uttar Pradesh model of encounters — a method personally approved by the CM, Yogi Adityanath — to tame criminals, it drew sharp reactions from several JDU leaders. They expressed displeasure within their own circles without going all out in public. A senior JDU leader, who is also a minister in the present cabinet, said that actually it is Kumar’s model that has been adopted by Adityanath. He pointed out that a large number of encounters and arrests of known history-sheeters during Kumar’s first full term between 2005 and 2010 did much to tame crime and criminals who had wreaked havoc during the previous years. However, the minister had no answer when asked what was stopping the CM from taking a similar stand this time around. One JD(U) leader guessed that it was the high incidence of corruption in the police force and their preoccupation with enforcing prohibition that is stopping Kumar. But neither ally seems to be worrying about the actual sufferers — the common people. After Ahmed Patel’s demise, there was much curiosity and speculation within Congress circles about who would emerge as the trusted trouble-shooter for Sonia Gandhi. Patel was the political secretary to Sonia and enjoyed her trust for over two decades. He was also the principal political manager in the party, resolving internal conflicts and advising the party chief on complex organizational issues. Although it is difficult to predict who will take Patel’s place since Sonia has mostly withdrawn from party matters and Rahul Gandhi now controls the organization, the veteran Congressman, Kamal Nath, is being viewed as a key player in the party now. Sonia met him twice, and nobody else, to discuss internal strife and assigned him the critical job of negotiating with the disgruntled senior leaders, known as Group of 23, and restore unity of purpose in the party. The former Madhya Pradesh CM has no doubt acquired a greater stature than other important players like Ashok Gehlot, P Chidambaram and even the old loyalist, AK Antony. Nath was always very close to the family but deliberately kept a low profile, keeping himself away from organizational matters. Close to Indira Gandhi and Sanjay Gandhi, Nath has never fallen out of favour because of his aversion to throwing tantrums and the politics of blackmail. In spite of being the most suitable person to lead the Congress in the Lok Sabha in 2014, Mallikarjun Kharge was chosen instead of him. But Nath did not create any trouble for the party. He was finally rewarded in 2018 when Sonia and Rahul chose him to be the CM of Madhya Pradesh over the more entrenched, Digvijaya Singh, and the impatient, Jyotiraditya Scindia. Come Makar Sankranti political parties in Bihar would vie with each other to throw feasts of dahi-chura (curd-flattened rice) and tilkut (a sweet made by pounding a mixture of sesame and semi-solid sugar or jaggery) in Patna. These would continue well after the festival, and were occasions to hobnob, show solidarity, express annoyance and indulge in politics while gorging on the delicacies. It would also set the political trends for the year. But this time neither the ruling nor the Opposition party has organized them owing primarily to the raging pandemic. But there is another peculiar factor at play — there is no warmth between the ruling allies, while the Opposition, too, is apparently having a dialogue with them in order to become a part of the government. They do not want to damage the delicate balance of power, fearing that ruling coalition leaders currently doing the tightrope walk may trip. A few leaders, though, are organizing dahi-chura-tilkut festivals privately and the Rashtriya Janata Dal has asked its leaders to feed the poor instead of throwing parties. The farmers’ protest has put the Centre in a tight spot. Both the government and the protesting farmers look equally determined not to give in. Accepting the farmers’ demands shatters the prime minister’s image as a strong leader; yet standing his ground too is damaging his image. The farmers are repeatedly exhorting that the laws are meant to benefit big corporates like Adani and Ambani. Recently, students of Panjab University held a puppet show and depicted Narendra Modi as a puppet of these two business houses. Internally, the BJP is worried by this campaign. A similar jibe — “suit-boot ki sarkar” — by the Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi, had led the government to shelve some measures. Modi would not want that image to be scarred again. Even the BJP’s own member, Subramanian Swamy, levelled his guns against corporates saying that their wealth has been growing under Modi. This double attack may be worrying for the ruling party. The Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, is surrounded by dissidents who are unhappy at being overlooked for ministerial berths. Yet to fulfil his promise to the 17 defectors from Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) who helped him back to power, the Lingayat strongman has been juggling BJP loyalists and newcomers who will not settle. Yediyurappa has now warned everyone not to take him lightly. In a clear indication that he will not take things lying down, he has bluntly asked dissenters to go to the Centre with their complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Armed Maoists kill young man in Chatra||The jam-packed weekly bazaar of Piri village became a witness to the killing of a youth on Sunday evening when armed Maoists shot a youth from point blank range after branding him a police informer. The incident took place around 5PM in the evening, a time frame when the weekly haath witnesses the maximum footfall. The slain youth has been identified as Parmeshwar Sahu. According to eyewitnesses around five to six men in black uniform entered the market along NH-100 in Piri and shot Parmeshwar from point blank range and escaped in the neigbouring forest area. According them, a few maoist squads were seen in the market area giving cover to their members who killed the youth. Before escaping, the rebels chanted a couple of Maoist slogan – “Mukhbir hosh mei aao, police murdabad and Maowadi zindabad”. The sudden firing in the market area created chaos, with those present running helter skelter. As the news of the killing spread, jawans from Sheela picket reached the spot. The victim’s family also rushed to the market but only to find him lying dead in a pool of blood. Parmeshwar was shot on his head from point blank range. His murder has drilled a sense of fear among the villagers of his hamlet. A villager on condition of anonymity said, “Parmeshwar owned a tractor and also ran a brick klin.” According to the villagers Maoist commander Deeak Yadav alias Karu Yadav is behind the murder. However, the police officers maintained the youth wasn’t a police informer and that they had initiated an inquiry to nab the culprits at the earliest. Within a short span of time, this is the fourth killing in Chatra by Maoists amid police claiming of regular police operations against the outfit. On Oct.19, one Nageshwari Devi was gunned down in Lalkimati village which falls under Pathalgadda police station. This was followed by a second killing, in which a youth Nageshwar Yadav was killed on the border of Hazaribagh and Chatra on Oct.20. Third killing was that of a coal trader Mukesh Giri in Tapsa village of Simaria when he was arghya with his family during Chhath festival on Nov.21. Chatra police tastes success Despite the Naxalites troubling Chatra police on a regular basis, the law enforcement officers were successful in busting a gang which had been terrorising people on name of extremist groups. According to the police this very gang was behind the gutting of five vehicles in Tetariakhad colliery, which falls under Balumath police station of Latehar district on December18. They had also injured four individuals. Superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha confirmed this arrest and said that they had recovered three country made pistol from them apart from live bullets, 7-mobile phones, one bike and cash worth Rs.11,150. The four individuals arrested are residents of Bali village, which falls under Tandwa block of the district. Jha said, “All were demanding levy in areas of Tandwa and neighbouring Latehar and had been nabbed from their village only.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police, traders to form coordination committee to check crime||With an aim to check criminal activities, the police administration organised a meeting with traders at district police office on Sunday where they have decided to form a coordination committee at each of 56 police stations. The meeting was organised after the traders have complained of receiving extortion calls for the last 45 days. During the two-hour meeting under the chairmanship of Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz, senior police officers and traders including city SP R Ramkumar, DSP (headquarters) Sarita Murmu, office bearers of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FDZCCI), patron Rajesh Gupta, president Chetan Goenka,  vice president Ajay Narayan Lal and treasurer Shyam Narayan Gupta discussed several issues like strengthening police bike patrolling (also known tiger mobile) in market areas. Speaking to The Telegraph Online,  FDZCCI patron Rajesh Gupta said, “The meeting was held in quite a cordial atmosphere. The SSP informed us about the recent arrest of five criminals in connection with the extortion calls.” “The SSP also asked us to inform the police immediately if we further receive any such calls,” said Gupta. “We have also demanded bike patrolling in different localities,” said Gupta, adding that they requested the SSP to ensure bike patrolling in the residential and commercial areas to prevent crime. “We have requested to deploy police personnel at market places where several incidents of theft and snatching are reported,” said FDZCCI president Chetan Goenka. He said they drew police attention towards a series of burglaries which took place in eight shops of Hirapur on January 3. Similar incidents also took place at Bhuli on January 4. “It is a serious issue. The small-time traders, who keep less than Rs 50,000 in their shops, are mainly targeted. We have requested the SSP to do the needful,” vice president of FDZCCI Ajay Naryan Lal said. According to information, a series of extortion calls were made to different traders, private coal company executives and politicians in the last 45 days. The calls were made in name of Sujit Sinha and Aman Singh’s gang. The police have also arrested five people on January 15 in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand witnesses drop in night temperature||The winter chill has intensified in Jharkhand with several of its districts including Bokaro, Dumka, Pakur, and neighbouring West Singhbhum on Sunday recording the season’s lowest minimum temperature reading, with the strong north-westerly winds making a comeback. Sunday’s meteorological department data has suggested that almost all 24 districts witnessed sub-10 chill, with moderate cold wave gripping several isolated pockets. Bokaro recorded the season’s lowest minimum reading on Sunday with the mercury plummeting six notches below the normal temperature to 6.2 °C. Several other districts in central Jharkhand including Ramgarh recorded similar temperature readings on Sunday, thereby, making it the coldest day of the season. Dumka and Pakur also experienced the coldest day on Sunday with the local IMD observatories in both places recording around 8 °C. Meanwhile, Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum too recorded its lowest night reading with the mercury dropping to 8.8 °C on Sunday. While Jamshedpur witnessed a two-degree fall in minimum reading during the last 24 hours, the local IMD observatory in steel city on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 °C. In Ranchi, the temperature fell to 7.4°C, which was three points below the average normal, while Kanke, located in the outskirts of the state capital experienced a bone-numbing cold at 6.6°C. Daltonganj and several other districts in north-western Jharkhand on Sunday recorded a minimum temperature reading of 7.5 °C. “The dominating north-westerly wind is causing the night temperature to plummet. A sub-10 chill was prevailing in all the districts of Jharkhand,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. However, he maintained that there wouldn’t be much fluctuation in the minimum temperature reading in the next 48 hours. With the dip in temperature, the early morning fog was also witnessed at several places across Jharkhand on Sunday, including Jamshedpur. Both IMD Ranchi and Patna Meteorological Centre have issued an alert on Sunday, regarding several districts experiencing shallow to moderate fog and mist in the morning for the next two days. According to their forecast, dry weather conditions will prevail over Jharkhand for the next five days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Senior citizens demand for OPD facility in Sindri||The closure of the Sindri Fertilizer factory in 2002 eventually resulted in the closure of the 200-bedded FCI hospital. The absence of any healthcare facility has forced the senior citizens of the are put forth a demand for an outpatient department (OPD) facility, at the additional primary health centre (PHC) which has been lying almost defunct due to lack of regular staff and other infrastructural facilities. Raising the issue with The Telegraph Online, former public relation officer of FCI Sindri, Sindri Sewa Singh (73) said “The entire population of over 50000 of the Sindri township is facing problems but the worst affected are the senior citizens, as they are unable to traverse 30 kilometers to Dhanbad for a checkup or simply to consult a General Physicians.” Singh is the president of All India FCI VSS Employees Association and has been quite vocal in raising issues of the general public. “The suspension of Dhanbad Sindri town passenger train ever since the lockdown has aggravated the problem for us. We can’t sustain the arduous journey in auto rickshaw. The bumpy ride is not only uncomfortable but also expensive,” said Singh. “We have heard about Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh instructing a committee led by the in-charge of Jharia Community Health Centre to start an OPD facility at Sindri. An additional model PHC was also to be developed, there had been a discussion on the same during a meeting held at the district collectorate, a month back. But nothing constructive has happened till now. The additional PHC is still deprived of any regular doctor and also lacks an OPD facility” said a former employee of Sindri Fertilizer factory, DN Sindri who is also the vice president of All India FCI VSS employees association. “A delegation of former employees under banner of All India FCI VSS employees association will also meet Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on January 20 during which we will request him to take immediate steps to launch the 24X7 OPD facility in the hospital as both Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited and ACC Sindri are ready to extend their support for the infrastructure development of the Sindri Additional PHC” said Singh. “Ours was one of the best medical facilities available in the entire district when the 200 bedded FCI hospital was operational till 2002. But the situation is gradually deteriorating after the closure of the factory and hospital. The situation is such that we are now entirely dependent on the hospitals of Dhanbad,” said Singh. Uma Shankar Singh (69) another former employee of FCI Sindri, maintained that they would be demanding for the restoration of the Sindri Dhanbad passenger train. He said, “We will also raise the demand for the restoration of Sindri Dhanbad passenger train during our meeting with the DC on January 20. We have already met additional divisional railway manager, Ashish Kumar Jha of Dhanbad on December 16 regarding the same. He had also assured to forward our demand to the Railway Board.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Blue beat Red by 56 runs in Dhanbad T20||Dhanbad Cricket Association (DCA) on Sunday organised women’s T20 Challenger Trophy at Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Stadium where the first match was played between Dhanbad Blue and Dhanbad Red teams. In the opening match, Dhanbad Blue defeated Dhanbad Red by 56 runs. Durga Kumari of the blue team scored a century with two sixes and 15 boundaries. On other hand, Ruma Kumar of Dhanbad Red also displayed her batting skills by hitting 13 boundaries. Urmila Kumari of Dhanbad Blue was the most successful bowler who picked two wickets in four overs by giving just 16 runs, while Apurva Kumari from the same team also got two wickets in four overs by giving 27 runs. Batting first, Dhanbad Blue scored 169 in 20 overs by losing two wickets. Priya Kumari of Dhanbad Blue, who scored 23 runs with four boundaries, also showed some good batting skills. Sunita Murmu of Dhanbad Red took one wicket, while Pushpa Kumari Mahto from the same team lost her wicket in 23 runs. Chasing the target, Dhanbad Red scored 113 runs by losing seven wickets. As a chief guest, chairman and managing director of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) Gopal Singh inaugurated the tournament and assured that the BCCL will extend all necessary support for the talented players in rural areas. DCA president Manoj Kumar has informed Singh that Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium is in a bad shape and it needs renovation. In reply, Singh has assured Kumar and other DCA officials that the stadium will be renovated as soon as possible. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Durga Kumari, daughter of daily wager Lukku Murmu, who was awarded Man of the Match trophy, said: “We are excited as we got an opportunity to play after 10 months.” Ruma Kumari, daughter of an autorickshaw driver, who scored 72 runs for the Dhanbad Red, said: “It was a great experience. We all have enjoyed the match.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||At MGM hospital, one dose of vaccine was left over||The two vaccination centres of the steel city recorded a turnout of 160 recipients of Covishield on Saturday, but health department sources admitted to one anomaly on Sunday: one dose of the vaccine was left unused in a vial at MGM Medical College. "Yes, one dose was left unused in a vial even though 10 recipients were administered vaccines,” said East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar who was supervising matters on the day. “I have asked the concerned health department official to keep the remnants of the vaccine in the freezer," he told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. Each vial contains 10ml of the vaccine making up for 10 doses of .5ml. Deputy commissioner Kumar could not offer a definite explanation on how a dose could be left unused. But and district surveillance officer Sahir Pal said that vials often contain additional fluid to make up for wastage during the administration of the vaccine. "There is always some additional fluid in a vial.  Certain amount of fluid is wasted in preparing the syringe and removing air bubbles from it. Vaccine makers often keep additional fluid,” Pal said. Captain (Dr) N.N. Jha, a paediatrician who had worked at Tata Main Hospital, agreed that vaccine makers tend to keep additional fluid in a vial as there was always a chance of wastage. "But, even if no loss of fluid takes place during the preparation of syringes, the leftover amount of fluid in the vial should not be equal to a dose of 0.5 ml. Maybe 0.2 ml or a little more leftover is acceptable. But if it’s more, there is a chance that others may have received less than the prescribed dose,” Jha said. Health workers who were present at MGM agreed the matter should be looked into. "How could this happen?  We should look into the matter seriously," said a senior doctor in the health department. As for the number of vaccine recipients, neither of the two centres, MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, met the target of vaccinating 100 people at each centre. While 90 people were administered Covishield at MGM, the number of recipients at Tata Main was 70. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said that those who could not be administered the vaccine on Saturday due to the time crunch would be given the vaccine at the same venues on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand||Residential schools of the state set to reopen Monday||Close to 300 residential schools in Jharkhand will reopen for higher classes from Monday after being shut for the last 10 months because of the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While day boarding schools were allowed to hold on-campus lessons for classes 10 and 12 for from the third week of December last year in view of the upcoming board examinations, residential schools like Kasturba vidyalayas and the one in Netarhat continued to remain close as a precautionary measure. But state school education and literacy department secretary Rahul Sharma said that the government had allowed residential schools to reopen from Monday amid strict adherence to Covid safety parameters. On January 12, he had issued a letter to all districts detailing dos and don’ts so that classes could begin from Monday. According to the letter, a copy of which is with The Telegraph Online, all residential schools would allow students of class 10 and 12 with consent letters from parents. Along with offline classes, online mode of teaching would also continue uninterrupted for those who did not wish to attend school. Teachers of such schools were directed to report three days in advance, while schools were asked to sanitise classrooms and hostel premises. On campus, everyone was asked to wear masks and observe social distancing norms. All schools have been asked to conducted regular health check-ups of students either through an in-house doctor/health team or by tying up with the nearest health centre. “Thermal scanning will be a must before allowing anyone to enter the school premises,” the order said. To ensure safe distancing within the hostels, school management are directed to use only up to 50 per cent capacity of any room to lodge students and entry of symptomatic people will be banned. Schools are also mandated to arrange to isolate students/staff members in case of illness. Also, schools were asked to put up posters and distribute pamphlets within the premises to sensitise students about the pandemic and various safety measures. An official of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidhyalaya in Khunti said they were ready, but the number of students ready to return to campus was not encouraging. “There are over 200 students in higher classes. But barely 10 per cent have so far expressed willingness to come. Hopefully, things will improve gradually,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
17-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand reports 119 new cases of Covid-19||At least 10 out of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report any fresh cases of Covid-19, while the state recorded 119 new infections on Saturday, figures compiled by the health department revealed. Recoveries outnumbered cases in most of the districts on the day, bringing the number of active cases down at 1,249, while Ranchi remained the worst-affected district, accounting for 65 per cent of the total number of fresh cases. The district also accounted for half of the 158 Covid recoveries on Saturday. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi reported as many as 71 cases against 78 recoveries in the past 24 hours. East Singhbhum reported 15 cases against 16 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 10 cases against five recoveries. While the number of patients reduced on the day, East Singhbhum reported a Covid-19 casualty, taking the death toll in Jharkhand up at 1,050, the NHM bulletin stated. East Singhbhum accounts for 356 of the total Covid fatalities in the state– the highest among all the districts. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of as many as 13,761 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 50.48 lakh people and tested 50.35 lakh of them. Of the 1,17,599 people infected so far by the virus, at least 1,153,00, around 98 per cent, have recovered. The Covid-19 mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent. As per the NHM bulletin, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.10 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. At this pace, it would take more than 700 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand, revealed government data. The doubling rate in India was 551 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-170
