18-01-2021||Calcutta||In the letter, and in the spirit||When Shambhu Chakraborty began his work as an apprentice signboard painter in the mid-70s, he was about 12. A signboard painter would then “draw” the letters, designed by himself, and also do the artwork that often accompanied the lettering. He would also be asked to draw portraits, of famous personalities, for political and cultural events, or compose “sceneries” that would form the backdrop of a puja or in a photo studio. A skilful signboard or scenery painter would be called an artist. Chakraborty, 58, is the owner of Kalpana Arts, a name well-known in the city since the late 70s for its neat, elegant signage and humble charges. He is still considered an artist, but his profession has changed drastically since he began. Not much art is left in it. But Chakraborty’s spirit, and his passion, remain. Kalpana Arts, which stood proudly at the Golpark-end of the Gariahat boulevard, on the vanguard of the long row of delightful shops, is now reduced to one small room on the first floor of the Gariahat market building on the side that overlooks Rashbehari Avenue. Chakraborty can be found on the balcony, a solitary figure putting finishing touches to a signboard, his working hand placed on a rest so that it does not go too close to the board, or in his shop a few feet away, cluttered with signboards and glow signs, but mostly metal nameplates. He has an assistant who is not around. Clustered around the shop are other one-room shops: a tailoring shop where clothes are both stitched and altered; a little away, a stationery store specialising in printing materials and a shop known for its framed pictures of the goddess Kali. All of them look slightly desolate, as if abandoned in an upper storey when the “real” market of fish, meat, vegetables, groceries and every household item teems at the ground level, a mini universe bursting with life. Many of the shopkeepers in the upper three floors of the market building owned shops in Gariahat Road or the boulevard, and were evicted in 1996 by Operation Sunshine, a drive to end hawkers’ shops in the city. Chakraborty’s stint at the boulevard had been a glorious one. His family had crossed over from Chattagram, Bangladesh, around 1970, and settled in Bauria, in Howrah. Chakraborty had six siblings. Kalpana, after whom his shop is named, was one of the sisters. The large family found it hard to make both ends meet. Chakraborty joined his elder brother’s sign painting shop when he was 12. His elder brother had set up the shop in Bauria. “My brother was a true artist,” says Chakraborty. “He had imagination. We had no prescribed fonts,” says Chakraborty. “He would make signboards and banners, in Bengali, Hindi, English and Urdu, which we still do. He would also draw portraits and sceneries, and make cutouts. He would design the cover of jewellery boxes, both the lettering and the design.” From his brother, Chakraborty learnt the basics of signboard painting: sorting of letters by size — M, W or O are the widest letters in English — or how to choose the thickness of a letter. The rest was instinct. “We drew freehand,” says Chakraborty. He would acquire some basic idea of fonts later — “Arial, Brush, Park Avenue” — but his lettering was mostly his own. He loved the work. It gave him joy. In 1977, he started his shop in the boulevard and it caught on. His biggest clients were political parties. “I worked for every party,” says Chakraborty. In the 80s and 90s, with the CPM in power, and Mamata Banerjee gathering strength, there was no dearth of work. Sometimes up to 20 persons were employed in a day. Plus there was work for signboards for shops and establishments. “I have forgotten how many people I have worked for.” He has worked for big enterprises, such as Bharat Biscuit, Polar Fans or Indian Oil, and also a few distinguished organisations, such as Ramakrishna Mission, Lalit Kala Akademi and Nari Seva Sangha. “For a sari block-printing shop the design would be ‘modern’,” says Chakraborty. The lettering could be slender, ornamental, striking. The boulevard had a few block-printing shops, too, which seem to have vanished. Not much of Chakraborty’s old work remains, either. Signage is ephemeral. Then Operation Sunshine struck. And so did computer technology, from the mid-90s. “They happened together. Everything changed,” says Chakraborty, who, by then, was a resident of Garia. Out of the boulevard, he first set up shop in Panchanantala, and from 2000, he relocated at the first-floor Gariahat shop. His work has now been completely transformed by technology. The signboard is there, but overwhelmed by the flex banner, glow signs and LED and SEP lighting. Chakraborty has adapted to all of this. But the processes are almost totally controlled by technology. Chakraborty’s daughter Priyanka Banerjee, a computer engineer, does the designing entirely on the computer now for him. In case of a signboard, he may draw the letters designed by Priyanka by hand on the board. In case of a flex banner, he has no role to play. But nothing has changed more than letters. Fonts available on computers, with their speed and accuracy, have killed hand-drawn lettering. If also the creativity of a person like her, Priyanka says. The volume of his work has gone down significantly. “But my father still goes to the shop every day, sometimes also on Sundays,” says Priyanka. “He can’t help it.” Chakraborty’s mainstay now is the nameplate, on metal, wood and plastic. These are also designed digitally by his daughter, but he does the metalwork himself. On a rare occasion someone comes with a special request for hand-drawn lettering on a nameplate. Then he does everything.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Attack and robbery near Lalbazar||A man has been arrested for allegedly attacking another man with a sharp weapon and snatching his money and phone near Lalbazar. Lalbabu Yadav, 45, a resident of central Calcutta, was attacked last week, police said. Based on his statement, the police tracked down the accused, identified as Mohammad Selim, and arrested him early on Sunday. The robbed mobile phone has been recovered. The police said Yadav was found profusely bleeding in front of the exit gate of the Calcutta police headquarters at Lalbazar early on January 13. “The man had suffered cut wounds all over his body. He was admitted to SSKM Hospital. When his condition stabilised, he told the police that a man had attacked him with a razor and robbed him of Rs 18,000 and also snatched his cell phone,” said an officer of Muchipara police station, where a case was registered based on Yadav’s statement. According to Yadav’s statement, he came under attack near the Ghanteswar temple on BB Ganguly Street. He ran after being attacked and collapsed outside the city police headquarters. The police tracked down the accused with the details of the stolen mobile phone.. According to Selim’s statement, he had met Yadav a few weeks ago on Prem Chand Boral Street, in central Calcutta, where he had picked a fight with him over a trivial issue. “Selim said he saw Yadav that night and decided to attack him to settle the score. He denied having robbed Yadav. We are investigating the claims made by both,” the officer said. Selim, a resident of Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, has been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Health workers’ condition stable post vaccination ||The health department has set up a medical board to look into the possible causes of illness of a nurse of the BC Memorial Hospital for Children who had to be admitted to NRS hospital on Saturday after receiving a jab of Covishield. The woman, in her 40s, complained of numbness in her hands and feet following the inoculation. A health worker in Howrah’s Bagnan, too, complained of similar adverse effects after the vaccination and is under observation at Bagnan Rural Hospital. Officials of the state health department said the condition of both women are stable. A dozen of others across Bengal who had complained of uneasiness as an after-event of immunisation (AEFI) on Saturday were sent home after being observed for some time, senior health department officials said. Almost all of them complained of dizziness. Their blood pressure and other parameters were continuously monitored by doctors who were deployed by the health department to treat such patients across all vaccination sites, said officials. Doctors said the woman admitted to the NRS Medical College and Hospital was on medication for bronchial asthma from childhood. “She is under observation and a team of critical care experts and others is trying to ascertain whether her numbness was related to the Covishield shot,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. “She has undergone several tests. The potassium level in her blood dropped. That can cause muscular weakness. Doctors are trying to find out whether the fall in the potassium level was an after-effect of immunisation.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Friday requested all recipients to alert the state health department if someone developed any complications after getting the shot. “Amra dekhey nebo (We will look into it),” she had said. Senior doctors who are part of the AEFI team in Calcutta — such teams have been formed for all districts — said that only 14 of the 15,707 recipients of the vaccine on the first day across the state had complained of after-effects. “That’s hardly a cause of concern as the number is less than 0.5 per cent of the recipients on the first day. No one complained of severe illness,” said a member of the team who refused to be named. On Sunday, the health department decided that starting next week, the vaccination drive would be carried out four days a week — Mon-day, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Health workers to be deployed for inoculation drive in rotation||The state government thinks the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination will last several months and is drawing up plans such as deploying doctors and nurses for the inoculation drive in rotation so hospital services do not suffer. The 19 Covid-19 vaccination sites in Calcutta are either in hospitals (government-run as well as private) or ward health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). Primary, secondary and tertiary care as well as routine immunisation is provided by most of these institutions. The state health department has decided that Covid-19 vaccines will be administered on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday every week. Hospital administrators said it meant that some of their nurses and doctors would be away from hospital services on four days a week. The hospitals have planned to deploy doctors and nurses at the vaccination sites in rotation so that the disruption, if any, to the other services offered by them is minimal. “Administering the Covid-19 vaccine to all healthcare workers and frontline workers could take about six months. It will also depend on how quickly we get the adequate number of vaccine doses. But a rough estimate suggests that it could take about six months to complete the first phase of vaccination,” said a health department official. According to Covid-19 vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre, one crore healthcare workers and two crore frontline workers in the country will be vaccinated in the first phase. State health department sources said around six lakh healthcare workers in the state had been registered for the vaccination. The list of frontline workers in the state is still being prepared. An official of a private hospital in south Calcutta said they would train more employees in administering Covid-19 vaccine doses so that they have a bigger pool of trained personnel to run the vaccination sites. “We have planned to train multiple batches of doctors and nurses who can run vaccination sites. We can use the batches in rotation. This will ensure that no single doctor or nurse remains stuck at the vaccination site always. That will enable them to discharge their other responsibilities,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Sisir Naskar, the superintendent of MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital, said that four doctors of the hospital were present at the vaccination site on the campus on Saturday to deal with any emergency situation. “There was one medical officer, one gynaecologist and two general medicine practitioners. We had kept the four-member team at the site to ensure that recipients got immediate medical attention if any of them had shown any adverse reaction after receiving the jab,” said Naskar. He added the number of doctors at the vaccination site may be reduced after a week or so. Several doctors have said they will get to know more about adverse events following immunisation after one or two weeks. “The Covid-19 vaccines are little known to us. We have to be very careful for the first few days. But a week or fortnight later, we will have more knowledge about after-effects of the vaccine,” said the doctor. Naskar said the hospital could keep only one doctor at the vaccination site and ask others to go back to hospital duty after around two weeks. CMC officials said they were planning to change the vaccination sites in regular intervals for two reasons — to take the sites closer to recipients and to not burden one site with vaccination workload for many days. Five ward health clinics of the CMC have been chosen as Covid-19 vaccination sites. All five are located in different boroughs. There are 16 boroughs in the Calcutta municipal area. A senior CMC official said they were mulling to shut down the current vaccination sites after the healthcare workers in the five boroughs got their first shots of the vaccine. “We will pick five new sites in five other boroughs. This will help reduce the burden on the existing sites and help them concentrate more on other routine jobs. Shifting the vaccination sites will also help healthcare workers in other boroughs as the new sites will be closer to their home or workplace,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Campus sanitisation ahead of reopening educational institutions||The state government has started sanitising educational institutions and is taking time to draw the safety protocols before approving in-person classes, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Sunday. “It is not that we are not holding any discussion on when the educational institutions can be reopened. We have already started a sanitisation drive at the institutions. Before reopening them, we are taking the time required to prepare the health protocols. Thereafter, the institutions can be reopened in consultation with the state government at any moment,” Chatterjee said in response to a question on when the schools and colleges could be reopened. The minister said it was crucial that the safety protocols be drawn up before taking a call on reopening, factoring in instances from states that allowed in-person classes only to reverse the decision following a surge in Covid cases. “It is not just about reopening the institutions. Those who reopened had to close down. We are hearing that those who reopened have reported getting infected with the coronavirus. This has happened in other states. We will reopen schools in a planned manner,” said Chatterjee. “It is a challenge to think about the health of the students as well as their education simultaneously. It is necessary to reopen the institutions but at the same time we have to ensure that students do not get infected by the coronavirus on the campus,” he said. An official of the education department referred to the Karnataka government’s decision in late November against reopening schools and colleges in December because of the still raging pandemic. “The Tamil Nadu government had revoked its order of reopening schools from November 16 for Classes IX to XII. So, we have to tread cautiously,” he said. Another official said there was a growing demand from the heads of schools that the campuses be reopened before the science practical tests of the higher secondary exams, which are to be held in March. “Since not a single practical class could be held since March 2020, when all educational institutions were shut down as a precaution against Covid, the HS science students are a worried lot. They do not have the bare minimum hands-on training. Schools heads are requesting that they be allowed to resume practicals for HS students,” he said. “We have already announced the exam dates. Classes are being held on digital platforms. We are doing everything that we could,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
18-01-2021||Calcutta||More than 5,600 birds recorded in count conducted at Santragachhi Jheel||More than 5,600 birds were recorded during a count conducted at Santragachhi Jheel on Saturday. The number of birds recorded at the water body this year is higher than the count over the past five years, said birdwatcher Prosenjit Dawn, who has been part of the census for more than 10 years. The counting procedure is tedious and requires an experienced set of eyes. Dawn said seven men and women spread around the water body in teams to count birds. The volunteers carried telescopes. “It is quite tedious and we have to use telescopes as many birds hide in the water hyacinths and are difficult to spot. Drones cannot be used as birds fly away,” said Dawn. Four Northern Pintails, trans-Himalayan migrants, were spotted on Sunday. Only one was spotted on Saturday. Northern Pintails fly from Siberia, Mongolia and northern China to spend the winter months in temperate zones. This year, around 25 Gadwalls and one Ferruginous Pochard have been spotted at the jheel. Gadwalls and Ferruginous Pochards breed in central Asia, China and Mongolia and fly thousands of miles to the subcontinent to escape the harsh winter there. The Ferruginous Pochard, also called Ferruginous Duck, is listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). A Black Winged Stilt, another trans-Himalayan migrant that had never been known to have been sighted at Santragachhi, was seen at the water body in the first week of December, said Dawn. This year's count revealed that the overwhelming majority of birds are Lesser Whistling Ducks, which are found around water bodies in Bengal through the year but in far smaller numbers. The ducks numbered 5,536. Among other birds, 25 Gadwalls, a couple of Bronze Winged Jacanas and three Barn Swallows were recorded. V.K Yadav, the chief wildlife warden, said bird counts were on at every place where migratory birds roost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Clouds keep day Celsius in check ||The maximum temperature on Sunday was 23.4 degrees, two notches below normal, for the second day on the trot. The minimum was 14 degrees. The low day temperature added bite to the chill. On January 13, the city had seen the maximum temperature dipping to 23.1 degrees. But the city had been under a warm spell back then, triggered by a strong Western Disturbance that had stalled the flow of cold north-westerly winds. With the north-westerly winds back on track and the minimum temperature in the normal range, the low day temperature on Sunday made its effect felt. Winds from the Northeast and Bangladesh have been causing some cloud formation and a blanket of fog in Calcutta, keeping the sun from shining brightly throughout the day. As a result, the day temperature has been lower than usual, said a Met official. The Met office had forecast a marginal rise in the Celsius from Monday. But a trough of low pressure over Bengal that was tipped to trigger the rise has not yet formed, said a Met official. “The trough is expected to take shape by Tuesday. Till then, the mercury will be under check in Calcutta, in the range of 14 degrees,” he added. Once the trough takes shape, it is expected to send easterly winds to Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh. The moisture-laden winds will stall the flow of the cold north-westerly winds and push the mercury upwards in Calcutta. “The minimum temperature will be in the range of 17 to 18 degrees in Calcutta. But the rise will be temporary…. From January 21, the mercury will again start plunging in Calcutta,” said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Calcutta||Plea to Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation for early end to tunnel work||Police have requested Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, the implementing agency of East-West Metro, to complete tunnel-boring work in Sealdah by Monday afternoon so that the part of the Sealdah flyover closed for the project can be opened at night. According to the schedule announced before the closure on Friday night, the flyover will be opened on Tuesday morning. The closure of the part of the Sealdah flyover between its crossings with MG Road and Beleghata Road has prompted police to put in place large-scale diversion plans. “We will request KMRC officials to try and wrap up work by Monday afternoon so that we can reopen the Sealdah flyover by Monday night,” said a senior police officer. Three other flyovers — Park Street flyover, VIP Road flyover and one flank of the flyover that connects VIP Road with EM Bypass — remain closed at night to avoid accidents. A Calcuttan who was out on a late-night drive on Saturday said he found the Chetla bridge and the one connecting the zoo with the racecourse and Park Street closed. “Monday, being the first full-fledged working day following the closure of a part of the Sealdah flyover, will pose the real challenge in managing traffic. Saturday and Sunday were comparatively easy because of lesser traffic load,” said an officer of the Calcutta police. “We will try a few changes on Monday, including making Nirmal Chunder Street one way towards SN Banerjee Road from Bowbazar. This road is now open for both-way movement.” Since 11pm on Friday, vehicles from Shyambazar and headed towards Sealdah are being diverted from the Rajabazar intersection to Narkeldanga Main Road. These vehicles are reaching the Phoolbagan crossing through Narkeldanga Main Road and then moving down RL Mitra Road and Beleghata Main Road to reach Sealdah. In other parts of Calcutta as well, commuters are forced to take alternative routes after 10pm because of closure of flyovers. Both flanks of the VIP Road flyover, which runs over Kestopur and Baguiati, remain closed to traffic at night. Guardrails stand at the entry on either side of the flyover forcing motorists to take the road underneath, dotted with traffic signals. The Bypass-bound flank of the Ultadanga flyover, which takes off from VIP Road, remains closed to traffic from 11pm to 6am. The Park Street flyover remains off to traffic between 10pm and 6am, forcing vehicles to move down the comparatively narrow stretch of JL Nehru Road on either side of the flyover. Police said the closures were aimed at reducing accidents, including fatal ones, caused by drink and reckless driving at night. The move helps the police brass to deploy more personnel elsewhere at a time when heavy vehicles ply across the city. Metro commuters will not need an e-pass to enter a station from Monday. The number of trains from Monday to Saturday will go up to 240 from 228 and the number of entry/ exit gates will be increased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Calcutta||CU undergrads keen to attend practicals||Undergraduate students of colleges under Calcutta University are writing to the authorities asking when practical classes will resume on the campuses, an official of the university said. This follows CU’s decision to allow its postgraduate departments to start practical classes from Monday in small batches. “The students are getting worried because semester exams are likely to be held in March. We are waiting for instructions from the university,” said Joydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College. Practical classes, unlike theory classes, cannot be held on digital platforms. The principal of a college in central Calcutta said: “The university’s decision to permit its postgraduate departments to start holding practical classes from Monday has made our students more eager.” Practical classes for CU’s postgraduate batches can be held provided students attend them in small groups and follow the safety protocols, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had said on January 11. A day later, CU pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Asis Chattopadhyay wrote a mail to departmental heads: “This is for your kind information that the departments those are willing to conduct practical classes may start the process as soon as possible, in small batches of students provided they agree, by strictly maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols”. But till date no such instructions have reached the college principals. “We are waiting for orders from the university or the government. I believe the university and the government must be in the know of this. I think they will take an appropriate decision at an appropriate time,” said Somnath Mukhopadhyay, the principal of Dinabandhu Andrews College and office secretary of the All Bengal Principals’ Council. A university official said they wanted to first assess whether the postgraduate departments could successfully hold practical classes following the safety protocols before taking a call on what could be done at the undergraduate level. They also want to assess whether the decision to reopen the campuses at the master’s level has resulted in any adverse health impact on students and teachers. “There is a need to tread cautiously, given that the colleges have a larger number of students. The colleges are spread across districts as well and it would be difficult to centrally monitor whether each college is abiding by the safety protocols,” said an official of the university. The university has over 140 colleges affiliated to it. Another official said in case of the postgraduate departments, the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association wrote to the VC urging her “to allow holding practical classes in willing departments maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols” since those classes are essential for many courses. Days after pro-VC Chattopadhyay had told the heads that the first and third semester postgraduate exams would be held from March 8 to March 26, the association approached the VC on January 6. “We have not received any such appeal from the principals’ council,” said the official. Repeated calls to VC Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. She also did not respond to the text messages. Calls and messages to registrar Debasish Das did not elicit any response. The department of chemistry, which is first among the departments of Calcutta University to start postgra-duate practical classes on campus from Monday, will resume lab work only for third semester students to avoid crowding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-170
18-01-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 470 points to end almost one per cent lower||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 470 points on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. After a choppy session, the 30-share BSE index ended 470.40 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48,564.27. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 152.40 points or 1.06 per cent to 14,281.30. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 5 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, Dr Reddy's and Maruti. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, Titan, HDFC Bank and ITC were the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed pullback for the second consecutive day as weak global cues continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Barring FMCG, most of the key sectoral indices witnessed sharp correction and volatility index soared over 5 per cent today before recovering from top. A sharp rebound in RIL along with buying interest in HDFC Bank after strong 3Q numbers offered support to benchmark Nifty index," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the positive zone, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent lower at USD 54.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
18-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 200 points in early trade on Monday tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC and TCS amid a mixed trend in global markets. In a highly volatile opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 203.52 points or 0.42 per cent lower at 48,831.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 70.60 points or 0.49 per cent to 14,363.10. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv and ONGC. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, HCL Tech, SBI, Tech Mahindra and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex slumped 549.49 points or 1.11 per cent to finish at 49,034.67. The broader NSE Nifty tumbled 161.90 points or 1.11 per cent to 14,433.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 971.06 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be soft at the moment. "While underlying strength of markets remains intact considering the rebound in key economic data, sustained growth in corporate earnings in 3QFY21 with upbeat management commentaries and commencement of the vaccination process," he said. Additionally, "favourable monetary policies of global central bankers, weak dollar and large fiscal stimulus in the US are expected to ensure sustained FPI flow in domestic equities," he noted. US markets witnessed high volatility last week especially after the announcement of USD 1.9 trillion stimulus program by President-elect Joe Biden. "Sell on news tendency led US indices to register weekly loss of 0.9-1.5 per cent. Further, indications by Biden about reversal of lower tax rates sooner also weighed on investor sentiments," Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading in the positive zone, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.93 per cent lower at USD 54.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Problem of plenty||The markets have bounced back sharply from the sharp correction in March last year after the Covid-19 outbreak. Strong FPI flows and hopes of further reforms in the upcoming budget have been driving the market to fresh all-time highs. Amidst this market uptrend, the mutual fund industry has been witnessing steady outflows from equity funds. This reflects on the investors’ perception of booking profits regularly during times of high market valuations. However, the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic have also led to exceptional responses from the governments of several developed economies. Countries across the globe have loosened their purse strings with liberal stimulus policies. The economic revival based on government stimulus and increased levels of industrial activity can potentially fuel the next rally in the equity markets. Except for a couple of sectors, the remaining sectors have rebounded reasonably well. The pent-up demand during the lockdown period is also unwinding steadily in the consumption and hospitality sectors. Robust inflows Retail investors have continued to reflect mature investment behaviour as SIP inflows have remained robust and consistent. Even during the turbulent times of the Covid-19 outbreak, the monthly SIP inflows have sustained above Rs 7,300 crore. The SIP inflows stood at Rs 8,418 crore in December 2020, the highest monthly inflow in the current financial year. While the valuations seem to be expensive according to the historical valuation multiples, the same will have to be evaluated in the context of sustained economic revival and lower cost of funds for the corporates. This in turn can help market re-rating leading to multiple expansion. However, one cannot expect investment performance across different pockets to be the same. The recent outperformance has been polarised within a select few stocks and sectors, while the broader equity markets have not performed well. Thus, while the valuation in some narrow segments appears to be rich, a good part of the broader market still looks reasonable. The right market segment Amidst the wide spectrum of market emotions, it is a million-dollar question for the investors to choose the right market segment. This becomes more complex for the investors as the markets have been diverse regarding the segments that have outperformed during the last decade. In the last decade — from 2010 to 2019 — large-cap and mid-cap segments have been winners four times each, while the small-cap segment was the winner only twice. So, while large-cap funds were the winners in four years, they were also the underperformers for another five years. As such, predicting market winners remains a challenge for investors. Instead, investing across market caps may help generate potentially better returns over the long run as investors can seize attractive investment opportunities across segments. The broader markets also tend to outperform in the uptrend phases and the current phase seems similar to previous market rallies in 2003-2007, 2008-2010, 2013-2015 and 2016-2017. This is where multi-cap and flexi-cap funds emerge as the saviour for the investors as these funds enjoy the flexibility of  investing in different market capitalisation segments. The flexibility embedded within multi-cap funds has also helped such funds to remain popular among investors. Such funds are the second-most popular among open-ended equity funds with AUM (assets under management) of Rs 1.68 lakh crore as on 31 December 31, 2020, with a 19 per cent share (Source: Association of Mutual Funds in India). Collective wisdom The investors can further mitigate the risk of investing in the equity markets by investing through passively managed funds. There are also fund of funds which invest across large-cap, mid-cap, and small-cap funds/ETFs, providing investors with the flavour of of multi-caps/flexi caps. Such funds are not reliant on the wisdom of one or two fund managers but instead aim to gain from the collective wisdom of the equity markets. As selecting winners has been tougher, the market consensus can often guide towards the right investment allocation across different market segments. The returns are further optimised for investors because of the lower expense ratios of such passively managed funds. Such diversified exposure also helps the funds compensate for the underperformance of select stocks, thereby providing a sense of stability in the portfolio returns. These funds can be considered suitable for investors with a moderate to aggressive risk profile. Further, the rebalacing of investment allocation among different segments does not trigger any tax-related compliances unless the investor himself redeems his/her investments. As such, the investors can also benefit from the tax-efficiency of mutual funds as the gains are taxable for the investors only at the time of realisation. Betting on the possibilities of an economic revival, equities continue to offer interesting opportunities. The investors can consider investing in multi-cap/ flexi-cap funds with investment exposure across market capitalisation segments to gain from the collective market wisdom. This also sets aside investor dilemma of choosing specific market segments to invest in. The writer is co-chief business officer, Nippon India Mutual Fund||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Taxpayers seek real simplification in income tax provisions||Taxpayers with income from business or profession are looking for real simplification in income tax provisions that will push the envelope up in terms of ease of doing business and achieve the broader objective of ensuring tax compliance. The tax burden also needs to moderated. Here is a small compendium of suggestions that would make life more bearable for taxpayers who have been battling a stressful period brought on by a raging pandemic. The present monetary limit under Section 44AA requires maintenance of books of account in case income exceeds Rs 2,50,000, or sales or turnover or gross receipts exceeds Rs 25 lakh in a year or three preceding years. These limits needs to be at least doubled from the existing levels. Business income Business income under the presumptive scheme under Section 44AD is computed at 8 per cent of the turnover. However, in the case of sale by cheque/credit card (that is, other than cash), the profit is considered at 6 per cent. The new phenomena of online supply at home, without extra cost, has increased the cost of suppliers and it has also led to tough competition for the traders’ community. Therefore, the presumptive profit in the case of cash sale should be reduced to 6 per cent. In the case of sale by cheque/credit or debit cards etc, it should be pegged at 5 per cent. Income of professionals The income of those engaged in profession is computed under presumptive scheme under Section 44ADA at 50 per cent of the gross receipts, which is prohibitive. The R.V. Easwar committee had suggested the rate should be 33 per cent. In view of the multiplicity of expenses and outgoings for professionals, the rate of presumptive income in the case of profession should be taken at 30 per cent for sale by cheque/credit card etc (other than cash). For realisation in cash, it ought to be kept at 33 per cent. Only those professionals can opt for the scheme whose gross receipts do not exceed Rs 50 lakh. This limit should be raised to Rs 1 crore. This has also been suggested to the finance minister in a representation made by the Direct Taxes Professionals Association. The moderate presumptive rate and increased monetary limit will inspire more professionals to opt for the presumptive tax scheme. The monetary limit for tax audit of accounts for businesses is sale or turnover of Rs 1 crore and, for professionals, it is gross receipts of Rs 50 lakh. This needs to be reviewed and be doubled. For the purpose of Section 44AA and 44ADA, all professions, including management consultancy, financial consultancy, economic advisory services should be covered. The broad definition will simplify the tax system and make compliance easy. Deemed income The scope of deemed income needs to be substantially curtailed. A pragmatic system should be introduced to tax real income which can be substantiated by evidence such as investments and other data reported in Form 26AS. For the transfer of immovable property, the sale consideration is the stamp duty value for business as well as others. The determination of stamp duty value is not scientific and hefty in most of the cases. Section 68 gives discretionary powers to the assessing officer to treat any cash credit, loan or any amount credited in the books of account of the assessee. Likewise, the assessing officer may deem under Section 69, unexplained investments as income; under Section 69A, unexplained money, jewellery and other valuable articles can be deemed as income, while Section 69B provides for deeming income for investments in acquiring jewellery or other assets not fully disclosed in books of account. Further, Section 69C empowers the officer to deem income of unexplained expenditure. In all these sections, the common barometer is satisfaction of the assessing officer about the explanation offered by the taxpayer. There is a big question mark on how “satisfaction” is measured or determined. There is no proper yardstick and the taxpayers often have to suffer because of arbitrary decisions of the officer, resulting in enormous litigation. The deemed income under Section 68 to 69D is taxed under Section 115BBE at the rate of 60 per cent plus 25 per cent surcharge and 4 per cent education cess. The effective aggregate rate comes to 78 per cent. If the assessing officer makes addition penalty under Section 271AAC levied at 10 per cent of the tax, the overall burden will be 84 per cent. This needs urgent review. It is desirable that tax under Section 115BBE is 30 per cent or the maximum marginal rate. The rate was basically increased drastically because of demonetisation. It should be brought back to the level of pre-assessment year 2017-18. Taxpayers will be hoping that the finance minister will ponder over these suggestions while framing her budget. The writer is a tax advocate||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz India Limited witnesses gradual recovery of sales||After a terrible April-June quarter last year, because of the pandemic-induced lockdown, Mercedes Benz India Limited (MBIL) has witnessed a gradual recovery of sales and is upbeat on 2021, having drawn up 15 launches for the year. “We have witnessed a strong return of demand since quarter three and in the fourth quarter our sales were more than the corresponding quarter in 2019. We feel this is not just pent-up demand. The overall indicators of the economy showed substantial sales momentum in quarter four that can be carried forward in 2021,” said Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO of Mercedes Benz. In the pandemic year, 2020, the German company managed to sell 7,893 units. In the first quarter, the company sold 2,386 units; in the hardest hit second quarter it sold 563 units; in the third quarter, its numbers were up to 2,058 units and in the fourth quarter it sold 2,886 units. The company will focus on its product line-up with 15 launches in 2021 starting with the much awaited A-Class limousine and the GLA Class in the second quarter (April-June). Among the 15 launches, there will be facelifts as well as new vehicles in new categories. If 2020 was the year of SUVs for Mercedes, having launched the GLC, GLE, GLS facelifts, this year it will be a push for sedans, said Schwenk. Apart from product launches, it will also redesign its dealership facilities with a new architectural layout though it ruled out any additions to its existing 100 outlets. “We will also stress on keeping inventory levels down at dealerships,” said Schwenk, adding that Mercedes will be aiming for 40 per cent growth in the next two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Mines ministry proposal to terminate iron ore leases||The mines ministry has made a proposal to terminate the iron ore leases of those working mines that have not started production even after a lapse of 7-8 months of auction and have not maintained minimum dispatch for three consecutive quarters. The mines ministry proposed to do so through the amendment of certain mining rules and has invited comments from the stakeholders on the same. “The ministry of mines has prepared the Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro Carbons Energy Minerals) Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021, seeking to amend the Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro Carbons Energy Minerals) Concession Rules, 2016,” the mines ministry said. Several successful bidders of such working mines whose previous mining leases expired on March 31, 2020, have not started production even after a lapse of 7-8 months of auction and execution of mining leases in their favour. “Accordingly, it is proposed to strengthen the norms of minimum production/dispatch through amendment of Rule 12A of the MCR Rules, 1960, in order to ensure sustained supply of mineral in the market in future,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Plea in Delhi high challenges Lakshmi Vilas Bank with Development Bank of Singapore merger||A plea in the Delhi high court has challenged the scheme of amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with Development Bank of Singapore (DBS), contending that its shareholders have been “left in the lurch” and the Centre and the Reserve Bank have failed to protect their interests. The petition was listed before a bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh on January 13, but was adjourned to February 19 after the bench was told that the RBI has moved a plea in the Supreme Court to transfer all pleas against the amalgamation to the Bombay high court. The petition in the Delhi high court has been filed by lawyer Sudhir Kathpalia, who was also a shareholder in Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) and lost his 20,000 shares in the company because of the amalgamation scheme. Kathpalia has sought quashing of the clause in the scheme which states that from the date of merger, “the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus, including the balances in the share/securities premium account of the transferor bank, shall stand written off”. Under the scheme, DBS was not required to give any shares to the LVB investors in return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Duty cut call to stave off RCEP threat||A top India-centric American business advocacy group has suggested finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to lower tariff in the Union budget if the country wants to compete with China-backed mega free trade agreement — the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). China and 14 other countries in November last year established the world’s largest trading bloc that represents roughly 30 per cent of the world’s GDP and population. India walked out of the mega free trade agreement as negotiations failed to address New Delhi’s concerns. The members of RCEP are 10-nation bloc Asean (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia), China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand. “If India can focus on a much more predictable environment from a policy framework, it will give more confidence to the investors. Bringing a sense of transparency in policy making also sends a very positive signal. And if India is going to be competing, especially with the RCEP, then it has to look at lowering its tariff,” Mukesh Aghi, president of US India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF). Pointing that in the last 12 months tariffs in India have been going up steadily, he said, “It is important to protect the local industry, but  it is also important to make them more competent intervals. Lowering of tariff is important.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Centre to raise expenditure on health, housing and infrastructure||The Centre is expected to raise the  expenditure on health, housing and infrastructure which reinvigorate demand in many more sectors and breathe life into the economy which is expected to contract 7.7 per cent this fiscal against 4.2 per cent growth a year ago. The contraction in the economy would be the sharpest since Independence. Economists have argued for increased government spending to revive the demand cycle. They expect the government to spend more in sectors such as healthcare, housing and construction-heavy infrastructure, which positively impact many industries. Indications are that it will be more an “expenditure budget” than a “revenue budget” as public spending has a huge trickle-down effect and benefits many industries from cement to steel besides creating durable jobs. The government had estimated spending in the current fiscal at Rs 30.42 lakh crore and 55 per cent of the sum has been exhausted by October against over 59 per cent spent in the corresponding period of the previous year. Step up spending In the pre-budget consultations, economists, industry chambers and others have suggested to the senior finance ministry officials that the government should lead the way by enhancing infrastructure spend by 1 per cent of GDP; increase allocation for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana; and increase public health expenditure to 3 per cent of GDP by 2025. North Block officials said the suggestions are being considered and measures and directions towards this end would be visible in the budget. Industry chamber CII said because of the challenges faced by the economy, there is no option but for the Centre to aggressively intervene immediately and invest heavily to lift growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||CESC to acquire 23.18 per cent additional stake in Noida Power Company Ltd||CESC is going to acquire a 23.18 per cent additional stake in Noida Power Company Ltd (NPCL) from promoter group entities for Rs 450 crore, turning the profit making electricity distribution venture a subsidiary of the company. The RP-SG Group held a 72.73 per cent stake in NPCL while Uttar Pradesh government entity Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority held the balance 27.27 per cent. CESC Ltd directly held 49.55 per cent in the company, which started operations in 1993, while the rest was owned by two promoter group entities — Shaft Investment Pvt Ltd and Stel Holdings Ltd. The decision adds one more dimension to the company’s stated decision to consolidate existing and future distribution businesses under Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd, a wholly owned step-down subsidiary. CESC, which supplies power in Calcutta and surrounding areas, is likely to fund the stake purchase from the healthy cash reserve it has on the balance sheet. Post acquisition, which requires statutory approvals, the company will hold 72.73 per cent in NPCL. The acquisition is being routed through Eminent. “The idea has been to consolidate various fragments of the distribution business under one roof. The acquisition of additional stake in NPCL by Eminent is a move in that direction,” a senior CESC official said. While the promoters cash out, analysts tracking the sector and the company said the deal is positive for CESC, pointing that the transaction is being done at a fair valuation. Moreover, the transaction is being seen as a positive from the corporate governance point of view as well. Valuation In a note to clients, ICICI Securities said the deal terms put the enterprise value of NPCL at Rs 1,950 crore. “The transaction is being done at 7.1 times of 2019-20 EBIDTA of Rs 270 crore, while market transactions are being done at eight times EV to EBIDTA. So it is not expensive,” Rahul Modi, senior analyst at ICICI Securities, argued. Moreover, there is expected to be a 14-15 per cent return on equity for the investment made to buy the stake. In comparison, mere cash sitting on the balance sheet of CESC would not have given more than 5-6 per cent return to the company. In short, CESC investors would earn more for the NPCL stake than idle cash on the books, analysts noted. Since inception, NPCL’s revenue and profit after tax have grown at a CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 26 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively. It posted a PAT of Rs 140 crore on a revenue of Rs 1,729 crore in 2019-20. Corporate governance The buyout also puts to rest the concerns of a few investors on how CESC is utilising surplus cash. Analysts said the dividend payout was not commensurate with the large free cash flow the company was making in the past. “The other concern was promoters continued to hold stake in NPCL when the company (CESC) had a majority stake. However, the higher dividend payout along with the promoters’ Noida business stake sale to CESC will allay investor concerns regarding the misuse of surplus cash,” Swarnim Maheshwari, analyst with Edelweiss Research, said. CESC declared an interim dividend of Rs 45 a share (450 per cent), the highest in the history of the company. Analysts say the trend could continue as CESC does not have major capex lined up in the immediate future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||Business||Budget expected to focus on bettering manufacturing chain and raising exports||The budget is expected to unveil more measures to build India as a hub in the global manufacturing chain and raise exports to increase the country's share in global trade to 5 per cent by 2025 from 1.67 per cent now. The pandemic has provided the Centre an opportunity to attract global manufacturers and make the country a manufacturing hub emerging as an alternative to China. Officials said the budget could have policies on how the country could participate in a big way in the global value chains. The government has announced production-linked incentive schemes for several sectors, but have not finalised the details for many sectors. Sources said the finance ministry is in discussions with the concerned ministries on the details, while more sectors would get the production incentives. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will also announce measures to strengthen the trade infrastructure, steps to boost the export of goods as well as reduce the cost of export credits. A taskforce under commerce ministry could be set up to identify the global value chain opportunities in consultation with the industry. The task force will announce policies targeted at attracting investments, both domestic and foreign investments, in the key areas. Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president Sharad Kumar Saraf said the government should introduce a “Double Tax Deduction Scheme” which would allow exporters to deduct against their taxable income. “A ceiling of $5,00,000 may be put under the scheme so that the investment and tax deduction are limited.” He added the marketing support under the Market Access Initiative of the Ministry of Commerce is “very” small and there is a need to create an Export Development Fund with a corpus of 0.5 per cent of the country’s exports to help MSMEs. Saraf said Indian companies winning contracts in India under a global tender may be accorded deemed exports status, since they substitute direct import which would have taken place if the contract had been won by a foreign supplier. “Deemed export status would enhance the competitiveness of Indian industry vis-a-vis foreign suppliers as the former would enjoy certain tax-related benefits,” Saraf said. Industry association CII said the government should extend trade infrastructure for export schemes (TIES) for another 3 years and should consider creating 5-10 exclusive Manufacturing Zones/clusters for exports in sectors such as textiles, leather, gems & jewellery and toys. These Manufacturing Economic Zones for Exports would be able to attract export oriented FDI and domestic investments, where globally competitive policies and infrastructure would be provided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-167
18-01-2021||India||3,81,305 beneficiaries received Covid vaccine, 580 adverse events reported||A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated for Covid-19 and 580 adverse events following immunisation were reported in the country till now, the Union health ministry said on Monday. Addressing a press briefing, Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary in the ministry of health, said 1,48,266 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 25 states and union territories till 5 pm on Monday. "A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated (till 5 pm on Monday) till today through 7,704 sessions, as per the provisional reports," the ministry said. Of the 1,48,266 beneficiaries who were administered the vaccine on Monday, 8,656 were from Bihar, 1,822 from Assam, 36,888 from Karnataka, 7,070 from Kerala, 6,665 from Madhya Pradesh, 7,628 from Tamil Nadu, 10,352 from Telangana, 11,588 from West Bengal and 3,111 were from Delhi. Agnani said a cumulative 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) and seven hospitalisations have so far been reported in the country since the nationwide Covid inoculation drive began on January 16. In Delhi, three hospitalisations were reported, out of which, two have been discharged, and one who fainted is under observation at Max Hospital, Patparganj. The reported case of AEFI in Uttarakhand is stable and under observation at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. In Chhattisgarh, one person is under observation at the Government Medical College, Rajnandgaon. Of the two cases of AEFI in Karnataka, one is under observation at District Hospital, Chitradurga and the second person is under observation at General Hospital, Challakere, Chitradurga, Agnani said. "Of the two deaths reported, the death of the 52-year-old man from Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh (who was vaccinated on January 16 and died on evening of January 17) is not related to vaccination as per the post mortem report. The death was caused due to cardiopulmonary disease," he said. The second death was of a 43-year-old man, a resident of Bellary, Karnataka. He was vaccinated on January 16 and died on Monday. The cause of the death is anterior wall infarction with cardiopulmonary failure. The post mortem is scheduled on Monday at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bellary, Karnataka, Agnani said. "No case of serious/severe AEFI attributable to vaccination till date," the additional secretary added. The health ministry has said each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries per day and has advised states not to organise "unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Media trial hinders justice: HC on Sushant suicide coverage||The Bombay High Court on Monday asked media houses to exercise restraint when reporting on suicide cases, saying "media trial leads to interference and obstruction to administration of justice" and amounts to contempt of court. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the press must avoid discussions and debates relating to criminal investigations, and it should confine only to informative reportage that is in the public interest. The bench also held that prima facie some reportage by Republic TV and Times Now in the aftermath of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput were "contemptuous". The court said it had, however, decided against initiating any action against the two TV channels under the Contempt of Courts Act. The bench said media trials ran counter to the programme code framed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act. It also passed a slew of guidelines for the press to follow while reporting on sensitive cases. The HC said such reportage by any media organisation, that obstructs an ongoing investigation or administration of justice in a case will amount to contempt of court. "Media trial leads to interference and obstruction to administration of justice and violates programme code under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act," it observed. "Any reportage has to be in accordance with the norms of journalistic standards and ethics, else media houses stand to face contempt action," it said. The directions are a part of the verdict pronounced by the bench on a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) seeking that the press, particularly TV news channels, be restrained in their reportage on Rajput's death. The HC said it had tried in its verdict to answer questions on striking a balance among one's freedom of speech and expression, a fair investigation, one's right to a fair trial and to what extent, if at all, should the press and media reporting be regulated, if it interfered with or tended to obstruct the administration of justice. It also said until there came a mechanism to regulate the electronic media, TV channels should follow the Press Council of India's guidelines on reporting on suicides, and sensitive cases. "Media should observe restraint in discussions about an ongoing investigation so as not to prejudice the rights of the accused and witness," the high court said. "Publishing a confession alleged to have been made by an accused as if it is an admissible evidence without letting the public know about its inadmissibility should be avoided," it said. The HC said while reporting a suicide, "to suggest that the person was of weak character should be avoided". It also restrained media houses from reconstructing crime scenes, interviews with potential witnesses, and leaking sensitive and confidential information. "Investigative agencies are entitled to maintain secrecy about an ongoing investigation and they are under no obligation to divulge information," the high court said. The court also accepted the accusation made in the pleas that the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had "abdicated statutory functions" pertaining to regulations related to reportage on Rajput's death. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his home in Bandra area of Mumbai on June 14 last year. Following weeks of exhaustive arguments, the bench had on November 6 last year reserved its verdict on a bunch of PILs seeking that the press, particularly TV news channels, be restrained in their reportage on the death Rajput. The PILs, filed through senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, by activists, private citizens, and a group of retired police officers had also sought that TV news channels be stopped from conducting a media trial into the case. During the arguments, the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had said there already existed adequate statutory as well as self-regulatory mechanism for the media, including TV news channels, to follow while printing or broadcasting any news item. Private TV news channels that are party to the case had also argued that the self-regulatory mechanism was adequate and no new statutory mechanism or guidelines were required to control the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India|| FIR filed in UP against ‘Tandav’ director, Amazon content head||An FIR has been lodged here against the makers of web series 'Tandav' and Amazon's India head of original content for allegedly depicting Hindu gods in a manner hurtful to religious sentiments of the people. The FIR against Aparna Purohit, the head of Amazon's India head of original content, director of the series Ali Abbas, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki, and an unknown person was lodged late on Sunday night by senior Sub Inspector Amar Nath Yadav at the Hazratganj Kotwali police station here. The film starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform on Friday. Taking to Twitter, BSP President Mayawati called for removing the objectionable content from the web series. Protests are being registered against some scenes hurting the religious and ethnic sentiments in the Tandav web series, in respect of which it would be appropriate to remove whatever is objectionable so that the atmosphere of peace, harmony and mutual brotherhood in the country is not spoiled anywhere, she said. According to the FIR, following public outrage expressed on social media platforms, the web series was viewed and it was found in the 17th minute of the first episode of the series that Hindu gods and goddesses have been allegedly presented in an "undignified manner' and shown using the language which is hurtful to religious sentiments. Dialogues in the web series can incite caste anger, the FIR stated. It also alleged that the person occupying the high post of Prime Minister of India has been portrayed in a very belittling manner besides there are scenes in which castes have been presented as low and high and women in an insulting manner. The FIR further alleged that intent of the web series is to incite religious sentiments of a particular community and create enmity among classes. This act of the producer-director has hurt and incited religious and caste sentiments of the people, the FIR added. The FIR has been lodged under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 505 (1) (B) (statements conducing to public mischief with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity) and 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation) along with sections of the IT Act. Taking cognizance of complaints that Hindu gods and goddesses have been ridiculed in the web series, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had on Sunday sought an explanation from the streaming platform Amazon Prime Video on the issue, sources had said. The development came after BJP MP Manoj Kotak on Sunday said he has written to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a ban on Amazon Prime Video's series 'Tandav' for ridiculing Hindu deities. "The ministry has taken cognizance of the matter (complaints) and asked Amazon Prime Video to explain," a source in the ministry had said. Kotak, the MP from Mumbai North-East, said different organisations and individuals have complained that Hindu gods and goddesses have been ridiculed in the 'Tandav' web series. Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam on Monday urged people to boycott new web series "Tandav" for allegedly mocking Hindu deities. In a tweet, Kadam said, It's been close to 24 hrs and still no apology from Amazon. "Seems like they are proud of or don't regret their demeaning act of mocking or targeting our Hindu Gods." I urge all Hindus to boycott Amazon's products, be it their shopping site or content platform, he said. When contacted about the complaints, Amazon Prime Video PR had said the platform "won't be responding" on the matter. The government recently brought OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar, besides other online news and current affairs content, under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, giving it powers to regulate policies and rules for the digital space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||All efforts being made to extradite the extradition process of Vijay Mallya, Centre tells SC ||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it is taking all efforts to extradite fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines from United Kingdom, but the process is being delayed to some legal issues involved in the matter. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing on March 15, after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought some time to file report on the status of extradition of Mallya. At the outset, Mehta shared a letter of the Ministry of External Affairs' official Devesh Uttam written to him on the status of extradition of Mallya from the United Kingdom. The solicitor general stated that Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has raised the issue of extradition with the UK government and the Centre is taking all serious efforts to extradite Mallya. He said that government is trying its best but the status remains the same and from the political executive level to administrative level the matter is being looked into repeatedly. The bench took the letter on record. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The letter submitted by the law officer stated that, the Ministry of External Affairs has been informed by the UK government that there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mallya can be extradited. It said, Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. As it is judicial in nature, the issue is confidential and you will understand that Her Majesty's government cannot provide any more details. We also cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve. Her Majesty's government fully understands the importance of this case to the government of India. I can reassure that Her Majesty's government is seeking to deal with the issue as quickly as possible. The letter further stated, The government of India has been making consistent efforts for early extradition of Vijay Mallya. In November 2020, Foreign secretary Harshvardhan Shringla raised this issue with Priti Patel, UK Home Secretary who informed that UK's legal complexities were preventing the quick extradition of Vijay Mallya. It further said, In December 2020, the external affairs minister Dr. S Jaishankar raised the issue with the UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab and most recently in January 2021, the Home Secretary of India raised it with the UK Permanent Under Secretary of Home. UK's response remains the same. On November 2, last year, the top court had asked the Centre to file status report in six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the UK on extradition of Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate secret legal process in the UK, which is judicial and confidential in nature is resolved . The top court had also refused to accept the plea of advocate E C Agarwala, appearing for Mallya in the apex court, seeking discharge from the case. The Centre had in October, last year said it is not aware of the secret on-going proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the government of India is not party to the process. On August 31, last year the top court had directed Mallya to appear before it on October 5, 2020, while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of court orders. When the top court had asked Mehta about the time-frame for conclusion of proceeding pending in the UK, he had said they have no information about it from the London High Commission. The Ministry of Home Affairs, in its affidavit filed earlier in the contempt case in which Mallya has been held guilty, said that the pending legal issue in the UK is outside and apart from the extradition process and is confidential and cannot be disclosed . The top court had in October, 2020 asked Mallya's lawyer to apprise the apex court by November 2, last year what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. The Centre had given details of the extradition proceedings against Mallya starting from February 9, 2017 till dismissal of his appeal against extradition in UK on May 14, last year and said that the fugitive businessman has thus exhausted all avenues of appeal in the United Kingdom. The Centre had said that following the refusal of leave to appeal, Mallya's surrender to India should, in principle, have been completed within 28 days but the UK home office intimated that there is a further legal issue which needs to be resolved before Vijay Mallya's extradition may take place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Farmers remind govt about constitutional rights ahead of tractor rally||Protesting union leaders on Monday said that farmers have a constitutional right to take out their tractor rally peacefully and asserted that thousands of people will participate in the proposed event on January 26. The Supreme Court said on Monday that the Delhi Police is the first authority to decide the entry of protesting farmers into the national capital. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) Punjab general secretary Paramjit Singh said that farmers are not going to hold their rally on Rajpath and in other high-security areas, adding that they would only take out it on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi and that there will be no disruption in the official Republic Day parade. "We are stuck at the Delhi borders. We have not decided to sit at these borders ourselves, we have been stopped from entering Delhi. We will take out the rally peacefully without disrupting any law and order. We will exercise our constitutional right and we will definitely enter Delhi," Singh told PTI. Another farmer leader Lakhbir Singh, who is vice president (Punjab) of All India Kisan Sabha, said that farmers will return to protest sites after taking out the tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road on January 26. "We will not go to any place where there might be a government gathering, and all our tractors will have a national flag and the flags of our farmer unions," Lakhbir said. Asked about their stand in case the Delhi Police does not give them permission for the tractor parade, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that farmers have constitutional rights to hold the tractor rally peacefully. "If the Delhi Police has some issues over law and order on Republic Day, they can sit with Sankyukt Kisan Morcha and tell about alternatives routes for the tractor rally. Thereafter, our farmers' committee will decide the same. But, it is very clear that their tractor rally will be taken out in the national capital on January 26," Ugrahan told PTI. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi borders since November 28, demanding a repeal of farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. While hearing a petition, the Supreme Court told the Centre that the proposed tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day on January 26 is a matter of "law and order" and Delhi Police is the first authority to decide who should be allowed to enter the national capital. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, while hearing the Centre's application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day, said that police has all the authority to deal with the matter. The tenth round of talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions is scheduled on January 19. On the same day, the Supreme Court-appointed committee to resolve the impasse will hold its first meeting. The previous nine rounds of formal talks between the Centre and 41 farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results to end the long-running protest at Delhi's borders as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three acts. The Supreme Court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, recused himself from the committee last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Tractor rally on January 26 a matter of law and order, rules SC||The Supreme Court Monday told the Centre that the proposed tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day on January 26 is a matter of law and order and Delhi Police is the first authority to decide who should be allowed to enter the national capital. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, while hearing the Centre's application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day, said that police has all the authority to deal with the matter. "Does the Supreme Court will say as to what are the powers of police and how they will exercise them? We are not going to tell you what to do," said the bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and Vineet Saran. The apex court told Attorney General K K Venugopal that it will take up the matter for further hearing on January 20. The question of entering into Delhi is a law and order matter and will be determined by the police, the bench said, adding, Mr Attorney General, we are adjourning the matter and you have all the authority to deal with this matter. The Centre, in an application filed through Delhi Police, has said that any proposed march or protest which seeks to disrupt and disturb the Republic Day celebrations will cause an embarrassment to the nation. The top court had on January 12 agreed to hear the application.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||India logs 13,788 fresh Covid cases, 145 fatalities in a day||The daily coronavirus infections fell below 14,000 for the second time this month taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 1,05,71,773, while 145 new fatalities were recorded, the lowest in around eight months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 13,788 infections have been reported in a day. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,419 with 145 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recoveries have crossed 1.02 crore. The daily Covid-19 infections were 12,548 on January 12. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,11,342 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.59 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,08,012 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.97 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,70,93,036 samples have been tested up to January 17 with 5,48,168 samples being tested on Sunday. The 145 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 12 from West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 152419 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,438 from Maharashtra followed by 12,264 from Tamil Nadu, 12,166 from Karnataka, 10,746 from Delhi, 10,053 from West Bengal, 8,576 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,140 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,504 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Ranchi records almost 70 per cent of the total fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||While at least 15 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, Ranchi accounted for almost 70 per cent of the less than 100 people who were found infected on the day, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. As many as 60 of the 87 people found infected by the deadly virus on the day were residents of Ranchi, while a dozen of them were from East Singhbhum, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The figures highlight that over 72 per cent of total Covid cases in the state were reported in Ranchi and East Singhbhum. At least 111 Covid patients also recovered from the infection on Sunday, bringing the number of active cases in the state down at 1225, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per the bulletin, 98.06 per cent of the 1,17,686 people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered. Jharkhand administered Covishield vaccine shots to around 3200 beneficiaries on Saturday – Day 1 of what has been touted as the world's largest vaccination programme. However, no vaccine shots were administered in the state on Sunday. NHM officials said that the vaccine would be administered to beneficiaries in Jharkhand four days a week – Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 10,390 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 50.54 lakh people and tested 50.46 lakh of them. The intensity of Covid testing in Jharkhand, however, has reduced lately. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts either reported a single-digit-spike in cases on Sunday or did not report fresh cases. Bokaro reported five cases against six recoveries, while Hazaribag reported two cases and the same number of recoveries. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.09 per cent against the national average of 0.12 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 785 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 558.82 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. No Covid casualties occurred in Jharkhand on Sunday, keeping the toll at 1050. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Cloud cover forces Delhi's minimum temperature to rise ||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 9 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal, on Monday due to party cloudy weather and prevailing easterly winds, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 17 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the minimum and maximum temperatures stood at 5.7 degrees Celsius and 15.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, resulting in cold day conditions. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal. An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi which are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. Also, a light cloud cover trapped some of the outgoing infrared radiation. Hence, the minimum temperature has increased slightly, he said. The city's air quality index was 380 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 347 on Sunday. It was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi's overall air quality index (AQI) remained in the severe category for three days on the trot till Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Pakistan prompts Republic TV to end a 48-hour silence on boss||Pakistan has prompted Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV to end a 48-hour silence on its boss but the nation still wants to know who “NM” and “AS” are. Goswami’s Republic News Network issued a statement on Sunday night after Pakistan sought to milk a controversy, citing chats attributed to him to say that the BJP government stages “false flag” operations, “stokes hyper-nationalism”, claims to launch so-called “surgical strike” and deviously manipulates national sentiment in its bid to win elections. The purported chats quote Goswami as saying “this attack we have won like crazy”, presumably referring to his channel’s coverage and ratings, less than three hours into the Pulwama massacre in which 40 CRPF jawans died. The chats attributed to Goswami also say three days before the Balakot air strikes that the government would respond in such a way that “people will be elated”. Goswami had not responded to questions from Indian news media on the authenticity of the chats that became public on Friday and the identity of “NM” and “AS” — two abbreviations that figure in the messages about getting things done. On Sunday night, Republic Media Network confined itself to lecturing Pakistan and the Congress party in India. “Goswami exposed every sinister design, and evil intention of the Government of Pakistan and the ISI,” it said. “As the days pass, we will expose this conspiracy…,” the 267-word statement added.  It urged the Congress to stop working in tandem with the Pakistan government, consciously or unconsciously, to spread lies against India’s interests. But not a word on the leaked chats or “NM” or “AS”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: 'Kisan parade' on Republic Day despite NIA tactics to cut support||The protesting farmers on Sunday confirmed they would conduct a “kisan parade” in Delhi on Republic Day and invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s principle of peaceful protest, upset but outwardly unfazed by the government’s use of the National Investigation Agency to cut off support for them. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemned the “repression” by the government, which has got the NIA to file cases against those supporting the farmers by providing buses, organising langars or paying compensation to the kin of the dead. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, a constituent of the SKM, said the farmer unions would challenge the NIA action in court. “This is harassment,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakkaji” of the Madhya Pradesh-based Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh. The farmers are particularly upset that the NIA action is continuing despite the union leaders having raised the subject at their last meeting with the government on Friday. “Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said he would look into it, but still the harassment continues,” Pal said. Ranjit Singh Raju of the Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Ganganagar, said that instead of harassing people in general, the government should arrest anyone with Khalistani links. Some of the union leaders think the government is using the NIA for a fishing expedition. They maintain that the banned separatist group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), which has offered to pay $250,000 to anyone who hoists the Khalistani flag at India Gate, is an Indian deep-state asset. Amid the farmers’ complaint about the mainstream media painting them in a poor light, CNNNews18 — a Reliance-controlled media house — has withdrawn a news report that named Canadian talk show host Joginder Bassi as a foreign funder of the farmers’ protest with Khalistani links. The channel had claimed the story was based on an “intelligence report”. While the Punjabi diaspora in Canada had a hearty laugh, it became an embarrassment for the government after photographs emerged of Bassi –said to be a strong voice against Khalistan — with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Another photograph has surfaced showing Modi with Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, a supporter of the farmers’ agitation. Sidhu was an aide to actor-turned-BJP parliamentarian Sunny Deol during the last Lok Sabha elections, but Deol distanced himself from Sidhu after he backed the agitation. Sidhu has received NIA summons in a case against the SFJ. Kakkaji likened the “repression” to what the British had done during the freedom struggle. “In this entire movement, Gandhi is our guiding light. The British would carry out repression and lathi-charges and send people to jail but Gandhiji would still talk to them and hold no grudge. We too are dealing with this repression and accepting the suffering,” he said. “It’s our tapasya and sadhna (penance and prayer). We are on the path of Gandhism. They should evaluate what path they are on. We have said over and over again that ‘Hamla chahe jaisa bhi ho, haath hamara nahi uthega (However the attack comes, we shall not raise our hand)’. The people of India will give them a reply.” While the SKM has repeatedly asserted that the kisan parade would not disrupt the main Republic Day parade, farmer union leaders said the matter bore repetition keeping in mind the canards being spread by the government’s supporters. The kisan parade will be carried out along Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, and only the national flag and the flags of the various farmer unions will be used. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the farmers’ ability to carry out such a large movement peacefully was their most powerful weapon. “No political party will be allowed to use its flag in the parade, and there will be no provocative sloganeering,” he said. “We have no plans to lay siege to any national monument or building. We hope that Delhi and Haryana police would not create hurdles on our way.” Asked what they might do if the Supreme Court accepted the Delhi police plea not to permit the parade, the farmer leaders said they would wait for the verdict before commenting. But they maintained their parade was on course. “Why would the Supreme Court stop a parade of farmers under the national flag? Republic Day belongs to the people, and we are joining in that celebration,” Yadav said. Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said: “Our parade is not a protest but a celebration.” With some farmers refitting their tractors to make them more powerful, union leaders have urged the protesters not to try and turn their tractors into tanks. “We are asking all the farmers to use their usual tractors, besides having tableaux from every state highlighting not just the farm laws and farming issues but also issues like brotherhood and national integration,” a union leader said. A Niti Aayog reply to an RTI plea has raised questions whether junior food and public distribution minister Raosaheb Danve Ministry had misled the Lok Sabha during the debate on the farm laws. Danve had said the high-powered committee of chief ministers set up by the Prime Minister had approved the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act in keeping with a decision by the Niti Aayog’s governing council. The Niti Aayog told transparency advocate Anjali Bhardwaj in response to an RTI request for access to the report of the committee that it had to be first placed before the governing council. This, she said, indicates “that the farm ordinances were promulgated and introduced in Parliament without the report of the high-powered committee of chief ministers being appraised by the governing council”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Part of Partho-Arnab WhatsApp chats deal with economy||Arvind Subramanian did flag grave concerns on the economy. So did Kaushik Basu and several others. The dire remarks fell on deaf ears in the Narendra Modi government. Understandably, because Subramanian, Basu and the others are economists — a source of mistrust for a regime sceptical of domain expertise. Now, possible evidence has emerged that a non-economist whose credentials and intentions the Modi government trusts was privy to a blunt insight, shorn of tiresome jargon, on the economy as far back as April 2019. The purported WhatsApp chats — attached to a supplementary chargesheet filed by Mumbai police — between Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the then CEO of rating agency BARC, have a segment that deals with the economy, so to speak. On April 10, 2019, at 12.07pm, a message attributed to Dasgupta and sent to Goswami said: “NM/AS should first rejig finance ministry in the second term — the economy is screwed — no matter what we tell outside.” The message does not expand “NM” and “AS” but there aren’t too many duopolies with the telling abbreviations in the country that can “rejig” the finance ministry at the drop of a hat. The concluding part of the purported message from Dasgupta — “no matter what we tell outside” — is certain to ring a bell among several corporate chieftains and industrialists, post-demonetisation. Although the economy has been in the doldrums since then, almost every industrialist, barring a handful, has sung hosannas to the Modi government in public while some criticised it in private. The message credited to Dasgupta also confirms another point: after the Pulwama terror attack and the Balakot strike, there was little doubt that Modi was on the verge of a second term. On that summer day two years ago and a day before the first day of polling in the general election of 2019, there was no reply from Goswami over WhatsApp to Dasgupta for over half an hour. In spite of the lack of response, another message attributed to Dasgupta added: “Jaitley is their biggest failure.” This time, a purported reply from Goswami arrived fast. At 12.45pm itself, the reply said: “That I agree totally.” Many would consider it an unfair assessment as it was well-known that Arun Jaitley, the then finance minister, had not been given a free hand on the economy. It’s not clear whether the purported agreement on the part of Goswami was confined to the sweeping judgement on Jaitley or whether it covered the preceding message on the sorry state of the economy, too. Traditional wisdom (silence is concurrence) suggests that there was consensus on both counts. If Goswami had a different perception about the economy — and no evidence is needed on his skills to get across his views — he could be counted on to challenge the purported opinion of Dasgupta, rectify the crude categorisation of the economy and restore the reputation of the Modi regime. Especially since the Modi government is not known for taking kindly to uncharitable descriptions of the economy on its watch. If Goswami had the kind of access he boasts, and given his well-cultivated image as a fearless and ruthless inquisitor in selfless service of the nation, he could be expected to have done the right thing after not disagreeing with Dasgupta’s assessment of the economy. Which is to convey to Modi how bad the economic situation was in the last leg of his first term as Prime Minister. It is not known whether Goswami briefed “NM” or “AS” on the dire economic straits. A new finance minister was indeed found in the second term but that was because an ailing Jaitley had by then sought retirement from public office. If Goswami did warn the government, it did not appear to have had the desired result. In the financial year that followed (2019-20), economic growth in India plunged to an 11-year low at 4.2 per cent. And Covid cannot be blamed entirely because the lockdown kicked in only in the last week of the financial year. Some of the messages attributed to Goswami do stand out for their insensitivity, especially on Jaitley and just five days before the former finance minister breathed his last. A message from this newspaper to Goswami seeking his comment on the purported messages did not elicit any response till the time of going to press.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Adverse events following immunisation count ‘comforting’||India has recorded 447 cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) among over 224,300 healthcare workers who received Covid-19 vaccines over the weekend, the vast majority of them minor or mild, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The ministry also said that three people who had developed AEFIs had been hospitalised. Two have already been discharged from two hospitals in Delhi and one vaccine recipient is under observation at a hospital in Rishikesh, a health official said, without revealing the conditions that required hospitalisation. In Bengal, two recipients have been hospitalised. Medical experts said typical AEFIs include pain and mild swelling at the injection site, mild fever, body ache, nausea or giddiness and mild allergic reactions such as rashes. The rate of AEFIs observed in India so far – 447 among 224,301 vaccinated, or 1.9 per 1,000 – is not unusual. “The numbers we’re seeing are comforting,” Narendra Arora, the chair of India’s AEFI communications panel, told The Telegraph. “We believe the two vaccines we’re using are safe and much less reactogenic (capable of triggering adverse reactions) than other Covid-19 vaccines.” In contrast, a report prepared by a medical expert in the US on December 19, tracking AEFIs over five days of vaccinations, had documented 3,150 “health impact events” among 272,001 people (11.6 per 1,000) administered doses of a vaccine based on mRNA technology. Health researchers, however, say that while both vaccines used in the Indian campaign -– AstraZeneca-Oxford’s Covishield and the home-grown Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin -– have proved safe in clinical trials, it is critical to continue monitoring the AEFIs. “Both vaccines are expected to be safe. That is why they were approved for restricted emergency use. But the history of vaccines shows that sometimes very rare adverse effects show up after hundreds of thousands of doses have been administered,” said a senior scientist. The Union health ministry has deployed a digital platform called Co-Win that is being used to manage the vaccination campaign and to track in real-time the AEFIs reported by those receiving the vaccines. “Protocols are in place for reporting, for immediate case management at the vaccination sites, and for transport and hospitalisation” and further care of AEFIs that require hospitalisation, a senior health official said on Sunday. Arora said Co-Win had enabled AEFI monitoring in real time for the first time in the country. “We’re now counting AEFIs every day. With the childhood vaccines, AEFI surveillance was passive: we used to wait for the parents to report them. And not everyone did.” The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign is expected to be punctuated by breaks, with most states proposing to vaccinate four days a week and only one state – Andhra Pradesh – planning six days of immunisation a week. Only six states – Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu – conducted the vaccination sessions on Sunday, adding around 17,000 beneficiaries to the around 207,000 vaccinated nationwide on Saturday. Assam, Bihar, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana are among the states that propose to vaccinate four days a week. Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Goa will vaccinate two days a week. A health ministry official said the states had been advised to plan the campaigns to “minimise disruption” to routine healthcare services. The official said the number of days chosen by the states would likely be determined by the resources available and the number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated during this first round of the campaign. The first round seeks to immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. The second round would cover an estimated 270 million people from two priority groups – those aged above 50 and those below 50 but with chronic health disorders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Congress seeks vaccine free for poor||The Congress on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the country’s citizens, particularly the poor, would receive the Covid-19 vaccine free and wondered why pharmaceutical companies were being allowed to profiteer in a time of distress. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala was referring to reports that the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing AstraZeneca’s Covishield in the country, would sell each dose of the two-dose vaccine in the market at Rs 1,000. “Serum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla has said they will sell Covishield for Rs 1,000 per dose in the open market. They are selling the same to the government for Rs 200 per dose. Why has the Prime Minister allowed the company to create business opportunity in this crisis?” he asked. “Why can’t the government buy from the company and make it available to those who want to buy at Rs 200 per dose?” Surjewala went on to do the maths. “Of Rs 1,000, let us deduct Rs 200, which is the actual price. Which means Rs 800 extra per dose. If 100 crore people buy two doses of the vaccine in the open market, that means a profit of Rs 1.6 lakh crore. Has the government examined this aspect?” he said. “We want vaccines for all and free of cost, at least for the vulnerable sections of society. While 28 per cent of the population are in the BPL (below poverty line category), 81.35 crore people are eligible for subsidised rations under the Food Security Act. It would be very difficult for these people to buy vaccines for the entire family.” Surjewala asked whether the Covid vaccines had been put on the National List of Essential Medicines and whether the price of Rs 1,000 per dose had been approved by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority. The NPPA can set price caps on medicines on the essential list. “Why is the Modi government not demanding transparency from companies on the cost of production, licensing and the profit margin?” Surjewala said. He also questioned the price of Rs 200 the government was paying for each dose of Covishield. “AstraZeneca has committed to supplying the vaccine ‘at no profit’. According to Belgium minister Eva De Bleeker, the cost of (one dose of the) AstraZeneca vaccine for them is 1.78 euros ($2.18), that is, Rs 158. Why should our government pay Rs 200?” he said. “Also, Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, is being supplied at Rs 295 per dose to the government. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research. Why is it charging more?” He underlined that Covaxin had been approved for use without efficacy data. “Why should the government pay Rs 95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has been developed with the expertise of ICMR (and) whose trials are not completed? Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than (that of) the AstraZeneca (vaccine) which has completed due process?” he said. Surjewala appeared to chastise BJP leaders for attributing the development of the vaccines to Modi, whom one former minister has described as a “devdoot” or angel. “Vaccine development and mass immunisation have never been political events or publicity stunts. This is not an occasion to refurbish the image of a leader,” he said. “This (mass immunisation) is the duty of the government of the day.” Surjewala said that past Congress governments had carried out “mass vaccination to demolish widespread superstition and fight diseases like tuberculosis, smallpox, polio, leprosy, measles, tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, cholera, meningitis and encephalitis”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Congress queries Balakot strike ‘leak’||Senior Congress leaders on Sunday expressed concern about the implications for national security following the leak of purported WhatsApp messages that suggest Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami may have known about the February 2019 Balakot air strikes in advance. While one Congress minister used the word “treason” to describe the alleged leak of military secrets,sources said the central leadership had taken the matter “very seriously” and would articulate its position soon. Former home minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Did a journalist (and his friend) know about the retaliatory strike on Balakot camp three days before the actual strike? If yes, what is the guarantee that their ‘source’ did not share the information with others as well, including spies or informers working for Pakistan? How did a ‘For Your Eyes Only’ decision find its way to the government-supporting journalist?” Former information and broadcasting minister Manish Tewari tweeted: “Was national security milked for electoral purposes? Needs a JPC (joint parliamentary committee) investigation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Ready to protest till 2024: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said farmers are prepared to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws “till May 2024” if necessary. The next general election is due in April-May 2024. “This is an ideological revolution of farmers started from Delhi and will not fail. Farmers from villages do not want us come back until the three farm bills are taken back,” Tikait told a news conference in Nagpur. Tens of thousands of farmers have been on dharna at Delhi’s borders since November-end to demand the repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed minimum support price. Farmer leaders are mobilising support for the protest from across the country. “The government is adamant on its stance of not withdrawing the bills and this agitation will continue for long,” he added. Asked how long farmers will protest, Tikait said: “We are prepared to sit in protest till May 2024...our demand is that the three laws be taken back and the government provide a legal guarantee on the MSP.” The farmers believe the three laws will serve large corporates and will reduce them to labourers in their own land. The Supreme Court last Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi borders. Dismissing allegations that “rich farmers” were fuelling the protest, Tikait said people from villages and various outfits have joined the protest. He welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision on staying the implementation of the farm laws, but said the committee formed by the apex court has members who “supported” the farm bills.  “We do not want to go before the committee formed by the court. The government has also said that the government and farmers will find solution on this issue,” he said. Tikait also said the Opposition parties in the country were weak and that is why farmers had to start this agitation against the Centre’s new laws. On National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) notices to some people supporting the farmers’ protest, he said Indians also had to face retribution during the freedom struggle. “Those who want to be part of the agitation must be ready for court cases, imprisonment and sealing of property.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Science scores low in education policy||Scientist Bikash Sinha analyses the New Education Policy in this dialogue with the author, a professor of human science. Q: How do you see the New Education Policy? Sinha: The new policy articulated by the Kasturirangan Committee has emerged after 34 long years. It has been a subject of considerable introspection and consultation across the country and it asserts that education for every Indian child should be his or her birthright. The most important element of the new policy is the flexibility granted in the choice of subjects. Why can’t a student belonging to the science stream take up music or philosophy or a student of literature take up mathematics? This flexibility will give the students a more holistic education and prepare them to tackle eventualities in later life. My experience tells me that a really good scientist could also be excellent in language and the humanities. Let us take a few examples. Robert Oppenheimer was well conversant with the Gita and the Upanishads; Satish Dhawan was a serious and dedicated student of literature; Raja Ramanna was not only a great pianist but also well versed in Shakespeare; Homi Bhabha was an expert on the opera as well as a great admirer of Subbulakshmi. He was also an accomplished painter. I feel, therefore, that (knowledge of) history is a must. That is, there is a history to all disciplines, which we have to master in order to create a history of our own. Q: You are one of our renowned disseminators of scientific knowledge. How has science been treated in the New Education Policy? Sinha: Science, as expected, has a rather insignificant priority in the new policy. This, to say the least, is extremely unfortunate and harmful. In fact, science is the foundation of tomorrow’s dream and only science or the scientific attitude can ensure a rapid and balanced progress of our country’s economy. By “science” I do not mean institutes of technology, which are no doubt absolutely essential, but the nurturing of fundamental science, whose demands and application improve technology by quantum jumps. I could cite the example of the CERN laboratory in Geneva to emphasise this aspect. The irrepressible desire of humankind to discover the most elementary building blocks of nature, Higgs Bosons, led CERN scientists in collaboration with the best and the most innovative engineers to develop and embark on the most advanced, large-scale modern technology of superconductivity and the associated cryogenics, unprecedentedly fast electronics, vacuum technology and even very accurate tunnel technology through 27km, which is a miracle in the sphere of mechanical engineering. Indeed, the whole of Central Europe has benefited vastly from these ventures, which have made science the driving force behind the most advanced technology in the world. Here, at home, while building the superconducting cyclotron in Calcutta we had to learn and master similar challenges on a smaller scale. We are just beginning to get technological dividends from this process of amalgamating fundamental science and applied technology. What we direly need is the build-up of the motivated scientific manpower to take on the challenge. One needs to confess that the New Education Policy has shown scant respect for this scientific-creative endeavour. I ask, where is the will? All efforts in this crucial direction have been drowned in blinding propaganda and misleading metaphors. The political leaders of the day should never overlook the basic fact that the demand of fundamental science is the nurturing ground of tomorrow’s technology. The investment in this sphere could be relatively small but the returns would be huge. Q: Good that you have recalled the role of political leaders. There appears to be a serious conflict between political ideology and education policy, which applies even to the language used for our education. Sinha: You have hit the nail on the head. One can certainly teach in vernacular up to a certain class in school, but surely not in our IITs, NITs and IISERs. Higher education cannot be vernacularised by bringing in all kinds of fantastic Puranic myths like flying carpets, plastic surgery and so on and so forth. This sort of dogmatic, linguistic horror will crush our educational system and thereby our human resources. We have two big impediments. One is the choice of language and the other is the choice of subject matter. Basic science cannot be taught after a certain level in the vernacular and, moreover, the subject matter should avoid, at all cost, invocations of Hindutva. The education policy, one has to admit, wants to be broad-based, flexible and secular. But, on the other side, a central minister goes to IIT Kharagpur where he declares that the “Rameswaram Setu” is a marvel of ancient Indian science. Not only does he himself indulge in this fantasy, he also invites the others in the auditorium to agree with him. The expression “Hindutva” and the showering of inappropriate eulogies on ancient Indian science have no role to play in education policy. Q: This irreconcilable battle between religious ideology and humanistic science has a long history. Will the New Education Policy be also a site for war between ancient faith and a modern rational weltanschauung? Sinha: You are correct. There has always been a conflict between political or religious ideology and enlightening knowledge. Giordano Bruno was burnt at the stakes for professing rational knowledge; Galileo had to send his Discorsi beyond the borders of his country to save it from the hands of corrupters; the great (Isaac) Newton had to spend a substantial part of his time on theology without much success and Albert Einstein had to leave his country. India, indeed, has been a great exception. Liberal education and rational science have flourished here right from the days of Harappa and Mohenjo Daro. They were carried through in bits and pieces up to the Nehruvian era but, at the same time, were somewhat diluted by the Mahatma whose extraordinarily original philosophy of life was deliberately distorted by desecrators. We have to bear in mind that religious chauvinism can create havoc; it is far worse than addiction to opium. We can only sincerely hope that the light of the New Education Policy would remove the lurking darkness of the dogma of religion, which forbids rational positivism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Tejashwi appeals to Nitish to control crimes||Leader of Opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar asking him to control crime instead of allowing people to be sacrificed at the hands of the criminals with deteriorating law and order. He also termed the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government “a curse” for the state. “The situation is fearsome in the state. The criminals are ruling the roost here. We appeal to Nitish Kumar with folded hands. We know you are a weak chief minister, but please do not let the people to be sacrificed like carrots and tomatoes in your greed for the post. The condition of the people has become like insects,” Tejashwi said. “Control crime in the state. It is your responsibility. People are being continuously murdered. Women and girls are being raped every day. The director general of police (DGP) is also expressing helplessness. The fact is that you have been the chief minister for 16 years. If you also wash your hands off where will the people of Bihar go,” he asked. Expressing concern over the growing lawlessness in Bihar, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader pointed out that the present NDA government has come to power through the backdoor, and wants to cling to power at any cost. “These people just want to hold the positions they have. They are greedy for power. They don’t work for the people or share their misery, nor have to struggle for anything. This NDA government is a curse for the state,” he  said. Tejashwi also visited Chhapra and met the family members of Rupesh Kumar Singh, the IndiGo airlines station manager at the Patna airport, who was killed on Tuesday. The police have been unable to crack the case so far. Sharing details of his visit, which turned emotional when Rupesh’s father caught him and started weeping, Tejashwi said that he found it difficult to look into the eyes of the family members of the murdered airlines officer. “I just wonder how this insensitive chief minister is able to sleep despite several murders on a daily basis and the ongoing ‘goondaraj’ (rule of the goondas or criminals) in the state,” Tejashwi tweeted. The RJD leader also said that he would take the Grand Alliance MLAs to Delhi and meet the President if the law and situation in Bihar does not improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Britain to host G7 summit at Cornwall in June||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have his first meeting with Joe Biden at the G7 summit in the quaint Cornwall village of Carbis Bay from June 11 to 13, surrounded by a landscape whose wild beauty has inspired many a romantic novel or murder mystery. After four years of being a cheerleader for Donald Trump, this will be an opportunity for Modi to reach out to the new American President and put behind him such slogans as “Abki bar Trump sarkar (This time, a Trump government)”. The summit host, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, will also be seeking to repair his country’ “special relationship” with Biden, who once ridiculed him as “a physical and emotional clone of Donald Trump”. Biden strongly opposed Brexit, and warned there would be no US-UK free trade agreement if Britain’s exit from the European Union harmed the “Good Friday Agreement” with Ireland, with which he has family connections. It won’t help that Trump, the outgoing US President, once lauded Boris as “Britain Trump”. The choice of venue for the summit is no accident: Cornwall is one of the most scenic — and romantic — holiday locations in England. Britain’s hard-hit tourism industry has warmly welcomed the decision to organise the summit in Cornwall. The world leaders will be put up at Carbis Bay, with neighbouring St Ives and other sites in Cornwall, such as Falmouth, hosting international delegates and the media. “Cornwall is the perfect location for such a crucial summit,” Johnson gushed. The writer Daphne du Maurier placed three of her memorable novels — Rebecca, Jamaica Inn and Frenchman’s Creek — in Cornwall, where she spent much of her life. Alfred Hitchcock turned Rebecca into a classic movie in 1940, starring Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine. Among other novels that use Cornwall as almost a character are Ross Poldark by Winston Graham, Penmarric by Susan Howatch, The Camomile Lawn by Mary Wesley, The Shell Seekers by Rosamunde Pilcher, and Notes from an Exhibition by Patrick Gale. Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot too had to solve a murder mystery set in Cornwall, Peril at End House. As full members of the G7, the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US will attend, along with the European Union. But Johnson has also asked along the leaders of India, Australia and South Korea. Prince Charles will probably put in an appearance to add the royal touch to proceedings. One of his titles is “Duke of Cornwall”, while his wife Camilla, who incidentally loves books, is known as the “Duchess of Cornwall”. Julian German, leader of the Cornwall Council, said: “This is a fantastic opportunity to showcase the best of Cornwall and the UK on the world stage.” Malcolm Bell, chief executive of Visit Cornwall, added: “Cornwall has been voted the best holiday region in the UK but is little known to many countries around the world. The G7 leaders’ summit will showcase the beauty of Cornwall.” Johnson has reminded his would-be guests: “Two hundred years ago Cornwall’s tin and copper mines were at the heart of the UK’s industrial revolution and this summer Cornwall will again be the nucleus of great global change and advancement. I’m very much looking forward to welcoming world leaders to this great region and country.” He explained his choice of guests: “As the most prominent grouping of democratic countries, the G7 has long been the catalyst for decisive international action to tackle the greatest challenges we face. From cancelling developing world debt to our universal condemnation of Russia’s annexation of Crimea, the world has looked to the G7 to apply our shared values and diplomatic might to create a more open and prosperous planet. “The coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future.” Biden may also visit Britain in November for the COP26 climate change conference in Glasgow. Its president is an Indian, Alok Sharma, who has stepped down from his job as business secretary although Johnson is keeping him in the cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Stones hurled on BJP supporters in South Calcutta||Tension prevailed in south Calcutta on Monday evening after unidentified miscreants, carrying TMC flags, hurled bricks and stones at BJP activists when they were conducting a mega roadshow near Rashbehari Avenue and Charu Market area. The roadshow, which commenced at Tollygunge tram depot, was set to culminate at Rashbehari Avenue -- often referred to as the backyard of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. According to police sources, as the rally, led by state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and senior leader Suvendu Adhikari, proceeded toward Charu Market, miscreants threw bricks and stones at the entourage, injuring some of the saffron party activists. Infuriated over the attack, BJP workers chased the miscreants, who by then had fled to nearby bylanes, the officer said. The saffron camp activists then ransacked a few motorcycles and shops in the area. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the incensed activists. State minister Aroop Biswas has also reached the troubled area to take stock of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to contest from Nandigram in 2021 Assembly Elections||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee kicked off the Trinamool Congress's campaign for the assembly elections on Monday, announcing that she will contest the polls from Nandigram -- a political gambit aimed at the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari who won the seat in 2016 as a TMC candidate, while also retroceding to the land movement that catapulted her to power. Addressing a rally in Nandigram, Banerjee said she is not worried about those jumping to other parties as to when TMC was formed none of them was there, in a reference to the party leaders, including Adhikari, who has joined the BJP. Banerjee said these leaders left the party to protect the money "they have looted" in the last few years. "I have always started my campaign for the assembly polls from Nandigram. It is a lucky place for me. So this time, I feel that I should contest the assembly polls from here. I would request our state party president Subrata Bakshi to approve my name from this seat," Banerjee said. Bakshi, who was on the podium, swiftly accepted the request. The agitation in Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district over land acquisition in the late 2000s catapulted Banerjee to power in 2011, ending the 34 years of Left rule. However, Adhikari after switching over to the BJP has been alleging that the chief minister has forgotten the people of the area that helped her get to the top post. Banerjee is at present the MLA from Bhawanipore in South Calcutta. "If possible, I will contest from both Bhawanipore and Nandigram. In case, I am unable to contest from Bhawanipore, someone else would contest," she said. Banerjee said she would never allow "some people" to sell out Bengal to the BJP. "Those who have left the part, have my best wishes. Let them become president and vice president of the country. But don't you dare to sell out Bengal to the BJP. As long as I am alive, I won't allow them to sell out my state to the BJP," she said. The assembly elections in the state are likely in April-May.  Mamata Banerjee on Monday declared she will contest the upcoming assembly election from Nandigram, as she took her battle for West Bengal to the home turf of poitical heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who recently quit the TMC and joined the BJP. That Banerjee chose Nandigram to make the big announcement reflects the TMC supremo's determination to take the BJP, which has launched a spirited campaign to unseat her after a decade-long stint in power, head on. Addressing a rally here, Banerjee said she is not worried about those joining rival parties as they were hardly areound when the TMC was formed. Banerjee said these leaders left the ruling party to protect the money "they have looted" in the last few years. "I have always started my campaign for the assembly polls from Nandigram. It is a lucky place for me. So this time I feel that I should contest the assembly polls from here. I request our state party president Subrata Bakshi to approve my name from this seat," Banerjee said. Bakshi, who was on the podium, swiftly accepted the request. Nandigram was the scene of massive public protest against "forcible" land acquisition by the then Left Front government for creation of a special economic zone. The protracted and often bloody protests added to Banerjee and her party's political heft and catapulted the TMC to power in 2011, marking the end of the Left Front rule of 34 years. Adhikari is considered the face of the movement in Nandigram. After switching over to ther BJP, Adhikari has often accused Banerjee of having forgotten the people of the area who helped her gain power in the state. Banerjee is at present the MLA from Bhawanipore in south Kolkata. "If possible, I will contest from both Bhawanipore and Nandigram. Nandigram is my elder sister and Bhawanipore is my younger sister. I will give a strong candidate from Bhawanipore also, in case I don't fight from that seat," she said. Banerjee said she would never allow "a handful of people" to sell out Bengal to the BJP. "Those who have left the party have my best wishes. Let them become president and vice president of the country. But don't you dare to sell out Bengal to the BJP. As long as I am alive, I won't allow them to sell out my state to the BJP," she said. TMC sources said Banerjee's announcement will galvanise party workers in East and West Midnapore districts and adjoining areas who were feeling rudderless after Suvendu Adhikari quit the party. Without naming Adhikari, Banerjee said he will have to fight the local TMC leaders first before even dreaming of winning the state. She recalled the struggles she waged in Nandigram and Singur over forcible land acquisition by the Left Front government, and asserted the BJP was committing the same mistake by trying to undermine the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders. "No one should undermine the farmers' struggle. The BJP is trying to undermine it and will face the same consequences like the Left did because of Nandigram and Singur," she said, and reaffirmed her opposition to the three farms laws. "The CPI(M) tried to snatch away the land of the farmers. The BJP is trying to snatch away the crops of the farmers," she said. Attacking the BJP for inducting a raft of leaders from rival political parties, Banerjee said it had turned itself into washing powder where tainted leaders come out clean after joining the saffron camp. "BJP is the biggest junk party in the country. BJP is not a political party but washing powder. It's using moneybags and intimidatory tactics to lure or coerce TMC leaders into joining them," she alleged. Referring to the desertions from her own party, she said the BJP might have "bought a few leaders but cannot buy the people of Bengal". "There are three kinds of leaders-- lobhi (greedy), "bhogi" (hedonist) and the "tyagi" (the one who renounces). The bhogis and lobhis might quit the party, but the tyagis never will. This party is like a mother to us and the tyagis will never ever quit the party," she said. Banerjee asserted the TMC will win a third straight term in office and the BJP will be decimated. The TMC supremo alleged the BJP has bought off some media houses which are coming up with fake surveys favouring the saffron party in the assembly elections. Suvendu Adhikari switched over to the BJP in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah last month, in a reflection of the importance the leader from Nandigram has in the saffron party's scheme of things for the West Bengal elections. He also persuaded his younger brother Soumendu, who was removed as Kanti municipality administrator, to join the BJP. His another younger brother Dibyendu and father Sisir Adhikari are TMC Lok Sabha members from Tamluk and Kanthi. Both gave Banerjee's rally a miss. The Adhikaris wield considerable influence in at least 40-45 assembly segments in East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata to address meeting in Nandigram today||Core committee members of the Trinamul Congress in East Midnapore will “monitor and scrutinise” the attendance and patterns of rural and district-level leaders at Mamata Banerjee’s “mega” rally in Nandigram’s Tekhali on Monday. The scrutiny has been planned in the midst of lingering uncertainty over who moved to the BJP with the defection of East Midnapore strongman Suvendu Adhikari. The East Midnapore district Trinamul leaders had appealed to the chief minister to hold the rally in the aftermath of Adhikari’s switch, when they had feared an en masse defection of local functionaries. Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi and minister of state Indranil Sen have been monitoring the setting-up of three adjacent stages for the rally, which has a target turnout of over two lakh. Other senior Trinamul leaders, such as ministers Firhad Hakim and Purnendu Bose and Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, would also address the gathering. “This rally was rescheduled twice and Suvendu has been publicly mocking us over the delay, accusing us of fear and whatnot. We have a point to prove to him,” said a senior minister. Mamata’s Monday rally will be her first visit to Nandigram after December 2015, when ironically, her arrival had been made to name then Trinamul MP from Tamluk, Adhikari, as her nominee from the Nandigram Assembly seat for the 2016 polls. “Her comments, direct or indirect, on the Suvendu front are keenly awaited,” said a source. “Didi is most likely to not only lambaste the likes of Suvendu for their political opportunism but also seize total ownership of the historic anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram. She would also underscore how the party remains unaffected by such desertions,” said a Trinamul MP. Sources said over 1,000 delegates, including state, district and rural-level leaders, had been invited to the event and were “expected to attend” it. “Following Suvendu’s defection, a few leaders, including MLAs, have distanced themselves from our activities. We will be keeping a keen eye on their attendance and mull appropriate steps,” said district core committee member Mahmood Hossain. Sources noted the example of zilla parishad functionary Siraj Khan, who had defected to the BJP even before Adhikari, but rejoined Trinamul in Calcutta on Sunday. The chief minister is slated to reach Tekhali on Monday by helicopter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Brick stack at kiln falls on workers in Nadia’s Santipur||Two women labourers were killed and three others and their male colleague injured when a stack of bricks collapsed on them at a kiln in Nadia’s Santipur on Sunday afternoon. The workers were reportedly lifting bricks from Sonali kiln’s pit in Chandra village. All six were rushed to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar where two were declared dead. The four injured are serious but stable. The deceased were Pinki Dahari, 28, and Pulin Suranda, 35, natives of Jharkhand. Sources said the six-year-old kiln employs roughly 150 labourers. “A huge stack of bricks collapsed after it was accidentally brushed by the group of workers during the course of their tasks. We heard the deafening sound of the collapse and rushed to the spot to see labourers trapped under the bricks,” said an eyewitness, claiming that a few thousand bricks were routinely stacked in close proximity to each other inside the kiln. “Other labourers and residents rushed to rescue the trapped labourers from the 10-foot-deep pit and rushed them to the hospital in Krishnaga,” said labourer Mohon Murmu. Kiln owner Adhir Ghosh said it was unclear how the stack collapsed. “We always try to ensure safety of our labourers,” he said. A local resident claimed that the lack of regular checks at the kiln led to the accident. “The side wall of the pit needs to be checked regularly. It appears that a crack on the pit’s wall led to the collapse of the brick stack,” he said. Ghosh denied the allegation. A senior police officer said they were probing if there were any errors on the part of the brick kiln authorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Want simple citizenship rules for Matuas: Santanu Thakur||All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur on Sunday urged members of his Matua community to visit their holy abode Thakurnagar  on January 30 — irrespective of political leanings — to demand “unconditional citizenship” before home minister Amit Shah who is likely to visit the area that day. Thakur appealed to community members to be vocal for “simplified provisions” of the amended citizenship law initiated by the BJP-led Centre in 2019 so no one is “harassed”. Speaking at the religious gathering organised by the Santipur unit of the All India Matua Mahasangha, Thakur said: “Please visit Thakurnagar on January 30 to demand unconditional citizenship with easy and clear provisions under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. It is your matter of right, so raise your voice before the home minister forgetting all political prejudices.” Bongaon MP Thakur’s plea comes at a time chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ruled out the need for the CAA and offered freehold land deeds to refugees to try and woo the Matuas, lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh. The citizenship issue has divided opinion among the Matuas ahead of Bengal polls where the community is an important vote bank. While the BJP has resolved to solve the community’s “identity crisis” through the CAA, the Trinamul has discouraged the Matuas, terming the law a “trap” that will eventually rob them of their residency rights. “Please believe that only a simplified provision of the citizenship act can solve our problem... A land right or any other document can’t prove your identity as citizen,” Thakur added. He also indirectly addressed another of Mamata’s arguments against CAA for the Matuas — paperwork. “We will appeal before the home minister for simplified provisions so that no religiously persecuted refugee like us is harassed in the absence of documents,” he said. He added that for a religiously persecuted person, obtaining documents was not just difficult but impossible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC’s farmer front to launch mass campaign in Jalpaiguri||The farmers’ front of the Trinamul Congress has chalked out a plan to launch a district-wide mass contact campaign to draw support from among the agricultural sector of the Jalpaiguri district. Christened as “Ghar Ghar Pe Charcha (interactions at households)”, the campaign would be launched later this month during the visit of Becharam Manna, an MLA and the president of the Trinamul Kishan Khet Mazdoor Congress, to Jalpaiguri. “We want to reach out to the farmers living across the district to apprise them of the new farm law of the Centre which is detrimental to their interests. We would also explain to the farmers and others associated with the sector an array of initiatives taken by the Mamata Banerjee government for them,” said Dulal Debnath, the Jalpaiguri district president of Trinamul’s farmers’ front. According to sources, 35 to 40 per cent people living in the district are associated with agriculture and most of them reside at Rajganj, Jalpaiguri Sadar, Maynaguri and Dhupguri. Debnath said Manna, who would be in the district on January 24 and 25, would launch the campaign. As teams of Trinamul leaders and workers will visit the farmers’ households, they will speak about the hike in petro fuel prices and LPG and will distribute leaflets in different languages. Asked whether the campaign had been planned to counter BJP’s “Ek Mutthi Chawal” and “Chai Pe Charcha” — state-wide campaigns to develop contact with people, including farmers, Debnath said: “We do not believe in gimmicks like symbolic collection of paddy from farmers…..our programme has been planned to create support against the farm laws.” The BJP has, however, scoffed at Trinamul. “Trinamul leaders are desperate to win back people’s support and thus, they are simply imitating us. Such tactics will not work,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||I won’t contest polls, my party will: Binay Tamang||Leader of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha breakaway faction Binay Tamang on Sunday announced his decision to quit electoral politics. “I will not indulge in electoral politics further...under no circumstances,” Tamang told mediapersons, adding that he was making the announcement after having discussed the issue with his family, friends and well-wishers. However, Tamang also added that he would continue to indulge in politics and his party would contest the elections. “I will indulge in politics. It is just that I will not contest elections. My party will contest elections,” said the hill leader. Of late, Tamang has started speaking on larger issues like the review of the India-Nepal Friendship Treaty 1950, the administrative history of the region, the inclusion of the region under the ministry for Northeast states. These are all issues whose impact would be felt by Indian Gorkhas across the country and not just Darjeeling hills. Many believe that Tamang is probably attempting to position himself as a leader of the community and not just of the region by flagging these issues that are seen as a step towards creating a distinct identity of the Indian Gorkhas from Nepal citizens. “I have taken the decision (to quit electoral politics) to ensure the success of the issues that I have recently raised,” said Tamang, hinting that electoral politics and pursuing community-specific issues could not go hand in hand. Many hill observers believe that without electoral success, his acceptance as a leader of the community would be difficult. On his part, Tamang however asserted he would not put one foot in each boat, a clear indication that his intent now was to pursue these issues instead of running after elections or administrative positions. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader had formed a splinter group in 2017 and had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly by-election. Tamang had then quit as chairman of board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), to contest the Assembly election which was finally won by Neeraj Zimba, a GNLF leader who had contested on a BJP ticket. His trusted aide Anit Thapa became the GTA chairman, a position he continues to hold. During his interaction with the media in Kalimpong on Sunday, Tamang repeatedly stressed that he was not “power hungry”. “I stayed in the most important chair of the hills (chairman of the GTA) for 18 months. Now that Anit Thapa (general secretary of his party) is there. If I was power hungry I could have gone back to the GTA,” said Tamang. Many believe Tamang is trying to bolster his image by bringing out the “not power hungry” narrative. “If I become power hungry, I will not be successful in (working on) the issues raised,” said Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA draws flak for inoculation on Day 1||Monodeb Sinha, the Trinamul Congress MLA of Karandighi in North Dinajpur district, has caused embarrassment for the ruling patty in Bengal with the BJP launching a bitter attack on him for receiving a jab on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Sources said, Sinha, who is the chairman of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti (RKS) of the block health centre of Karandighi, had reached the facility on Saturday to inaugurate the vaccination drive. The MLA then took the jab at the centre. “It is unfortunate that the MLA did not think about common people and frontline health workers. Instead, he went ahead proactively for the inoculation. We fail to understand how officials of the district health department endorsed the move,” said Biswajit Lahiri, the BJP district president of North Dinajpur. The MLA, however sounded unperturbed and said being the RKS chairman of the block health centre, his name was on the list and accordingly, he had received the jab. “There is no anomaly in it. A number of other people who hold similar position in different health establishments of the state have also received the vaccine,” Sinha said. On Saturday, Manjula Lama, the sabhapati of Kumargram panchayat samiti of Alipurduar, had invited criticism for the same reason. Amid the controversy on whether the MLA did the right thing by receiving the jab, the North Dinajpur district health officials have also backed the MLA’s move. “He is the RKS chairman and has hence, received the vaccine. We are acting according to the laid down guidelines in choosing people who should receive the vaccine in the first phase,” said Kartick Chandra Mondal, the chief medical officer of health of the district. A section of Trinamul leaders, however, said the MLA should have refrained from the move. They said even if the district health department had included Sinha’s name as one of the beneficiaries, he himself should have refrained from taking the jab like Sourav Chakraborty, the MLA of Alipurduar (who is also the RKS chairman of Alipurduar district hospital). “Such moves unnecessarily provide opportunities to the Opposition ahead of the elections. Being an elected representative, he should have acted more responsibly,” said a party insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Health dept asks districts to vaccinate by 'random' selection from database||The state health department has asked all districts to select health service workers “randomly” through an available database for vaccination, the move reportedly coming as a bid to avoid jabs for “ineligible” candidates. Officials said the government had prepared a list of beneficiaries for vaccination “manually” for the first day and they suspected it was the reason for the inclusion of unwanted candidates by technicians handling the database. “In a video conference on Saturday night in the presence of top health officials, it was conveyed to all concerned that beneficiaries were to be selected randomly using the database. We think it will minimise the chance of inviting ineligible candidates,” said a senior official in the state health department. “If the random selection is done through a computerised database, the software will automatically take names from the system. The officials were asked only to put the categories of people such as ASHA workers, doctors, nurses when asking the software to prepare the random list,” the official added. A section of health officials in the district, however, said there would be major problems if the software — CoWin — failed. “We have observed the CoWin software became defunct on Saturday and if it happens again, the random selection process will be very tough. However, we will do it according to directions,” said a health official in Birbhum. State officials said manual selection would be allowed only when the software failed. On the other hand, the health department reportedly asked up to 150 health workers to report at the vaccination camp instead of the actual target of 100 following a poor show in different districts on Saturday. The turnout was attributed to widespread apprehension about possible side effects. “Many are skipping vaccination amid the fear of adverse side effects, so we asked the districts to summon 150 health workers a day. It will help reach the target of 100 even if 50 persons don’t come. The officials have been asked to call 120 health workers at the centers where the attendance was pretty good on the first day,” said an official. Amid stray reports of illness of some recipients of the Covid, nodal authorities have begun scanning the physical condition of health workers who received the jab. From Sunday morning, officials began calling the recipients over the phone to know if they have felt any sort of uneasiness in the past 12 hours. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Ripples in  BJP over Saumitra Khan's ‘CM  Dilip’ remark||At least three senior Bengal BJP leaders reportedly rebuked Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan on Sunday for publicly claiming that state president Dilip Ghosh would be the next chief minister if the party came to power. Khan, who is also the state chief of the BJP’s youth wing, received the dressing-down from Shivprakash, Kailash Vijavargiya and Amitava Chakraborty. While Shivprakash is the national joint general secretary (organisation), Vijavargiya is a national general secretary and the BJP’s minder for the state. Amitava Chakraborty is the state general secretary (organisation) of the BJP. “Shivprakashji, Kailashji and Amitavada rebuked Saumitra at the meeting in front of Dilipda himself,” a source in the BJP said. “He was asked to control his tongue. Kailashji even told him that he would be even showcaused if he repeated such statements,” a BJP insider said. Khan was told that BJP MLAs and the party's parliamentary committee would decide on the chief minister. While addressing a rally in West Midnapore’s Deuli recently, Khan had said Ghosh would be Bengal’s next chief minister. “Dilipda is a true leader. He didn’t even start his own family. I firmly believe that he is going to be chief minister one day,” Khan had publicly said. Sunday’s meeting was convened to discuss a series of important organisational issues. “The party hasn’t given us any clarity over who is going to be the next CM. Union home minister Amit Shah has only said that it will be a son of the soil. However, there are multiple chief ministerial aspirants in our party already,” a state BJP office-bearer said. According to BJP sources, Ghosh is undoubtedly a major contender for the top post if the party won majority in the coming Assembly elections. However, multiple names including party’s Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta, Union minister Babul Supriyo, MP Locket Chatterjee and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, keep doing rounds as possible CM candidate. Khan’s comment will not go down well with the other leaders, a party source said. This person added that the leaders had sent a message to Ghosh as well by rebuking Khan as the Bishnupur MP wouldn’t have made a public speech on this issue without endorsement from Ghosh. While the incident of Khan being rebuked has made the anti-Ghosh lobby happy, leaders close to Ghosh were upset. “The reprimand in public was too harsh... besides, there is no doubt that Dilipda is the tallest BJP leader in the state,” said a source. The BJP state leaders are working on a plan to hold a rath yatra in Bengal sometime during the next month in the run up to the polls. The rath yatra, which is being tentatively called the Poriborton Yatra or a rally for change, is going to cover all 294 Assembly seats in the state. On Sunday, leaders from the five organisational zones of the party were asked to form five different committees in their respective zones  for the programme. “The plan is to bring out five different chariot rallies from each of the zones,” a source said. State president Dilip Ghosh said that preliminary talks had been held on the rally, but nothing concrete had been decided. “Our plan is to do the rally on the lines of the Ganatantro Bachao Yatra, which we had planned in 2019,” Ghosh said. The Ganatantro Bachao Yatra was planned in Bengal ahead of the 2019 parliamentary polls, but was later cancelled since the party failed to obtain the necessary permissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid patients down to 7,083 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged 621 recoveries, 565 infections and 12 deaths, which dragged the total of active Covid-19 cases down to 7,083. The drop in the active number of patients was for the 83rd consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. In these 83 days since the end of Durga Puja on October 26, the total of active cases has fallen by over 30,000, from 37,190 reported then. The total of active cases is now back almost to where it was 195 days ago, on July 6 last year. “That, simply put, is damage of six months undone in about 12 weeks,” said a minister. “A look at the hospitalisation (of Covid-19 patients) on October 26 and today is enough evidence of the kind of improvement there has been, overall,” he added, referring to the 36.83 per cent occupancy (on 12,751 Covid-19 beds) on Dashami and 7.39 per cent (on 12,440 dedicated beds) on Sunday. The 200 state-run safe homes had, with 11,507 beds between them, had 1,012 people on October 26. On Sunday, there were 50 patients at the safe homes. The recovery rate has risen for 87 consecutive days, from 87.44, to 96.97 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.4 per cent. In the 83-day turnaround, the state reported over 2.38 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.11 lakh new infections found during the same period. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations. “Sunday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on January 8…. It can be conclusively said now that we managed to observe the Christmas-New Year phase without worsening the outbreak, much like Durga Puja, Kali Puja and other festivals prior to it,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.39 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent 58 days ago. Bengal’s total number of swab samples examined so far are over 76.47 lakh, which include 26,231 tests logged on Sunday. Tests per million people are 84,971. The overall total of 5.65 lakh cases include nearly 5.48 lakh recoveries and 10,053 deaths. The dozen deaths reported on Sunday included two recorded in the city. “Even till a few weeks ago, the state was reporting 60-odd deaths daily, with 20-plus from Calcutta alone. Look at where we are now,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,435 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.77 per cent, compared to 1.44 per cent at the national level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||West Bengal||Seat-sharing deal eludes Congress and Left ||A consensus on seat sharing for the Bengal polls eluded allies Left and Congress when their leaders met on Sunday, with multiple sources saying the failure did not bode well for the alliance. A source said Congress leadership demanded contesting from 130 of the 294 Assembly seats. The figure, the source added, was an astounding jump from 92 seats it had contested in 2016 state polls as part of the same alliance. “If the Congress is allowed to fight in 130 seats, the Left Front is left with 164 seats only,” a CPM leader said. “How will we distribute seats among our Front allies?” “We have to think of the larger Left family, the 17 Left parties,” the leader added Though the Left Front and Congress leaders had met several times these last few months to finalise a course of action for a political alliance, seat sharing was discussed for the first time in Sunday’s meeting. Left Front chairman Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra led the discussions for the Left parties. The Congress leadership, represented by state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, MP Pradip Bhattacharya, MLAs Abdul Mannan and Nepal Mahata did not specify which seats they wanted, but the overall number that they presented gave Left leaders the impression that they might stake claim on seats that are traditional Left bastions. “If that’s the case, chances are that the alliance will hit a dead end repeating the events of 2016,” said a Left leader. During the 2016 Assembly elections, the Congress had rigidly stuck to its demand of contesting from seats that were strong Left pockets. In the absence of any resolution, alliance partners fought against each other in several seats such as Baghmundi in Purulia. A Left leader present in Sunday’s meeting said that Chowdhury at one point very confidently said “we are ready”. “...Adhir’s attitude didn’t give me a sense that he would easily give up on his demands,” this leader said. Pradip Bhattacharya of the Congress, however, said the Congress was not rigid about 130 seats. “We’ve proposed a preliminary number in order to start the discussion. There will always be room for modifications,” Bhattacharya said, adding that the Left parties would now have to discuss and suggest the number of seats they want to contest. Amid the uncertainty on what lies ahead for the alliance, Chowdhury and Left Front chairman Biman Bose said seat sharing would be final by January-end. Both leaders also said there was no bitterness between the two camps and no one would force the other to fall in line. However, these assurances haven’t been able to address the concerns of Left workers, especially ones from the minor allies. “In Bihar, the mahagathbandhan would’ve done better if the Congress hadn’t been headstrong about fighting from 70 seats,” a Forward Bloc worker said. “They could win only 19. If they’re allowed to fight in 130 seats in Bengal, we’re doomed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-230
18-01-2021||Opinion||Spoiled Sport: Racism in sporting culture||Sport serves as the proverbial mirror for social prejudices. This sad truth was reaffirmed — twice — during the ongoing Test series between India and Australia. During the third Test in Sydney, play had to be halted briefly as two Indian players, Mohammed Siraj and Jasprit Bumrah, were subjected to racial slurs by a section of the spectators. Even though action was taken on the basis of Mr Siraj’s complaints — six spectators were ejected from the stadium — the ugliness spilled over into the final Test in Brisbane where Mr Siraj reportedly became the target of racially-motivated taunts, once again. Such incidents — they are a malignancy — have a long history in cricket. From the racial discrimination suffered by Krom Hendricks in South Africa in the 1890s to, in the more recent past, Dean Jones, the former Australian cricketer, referring to the South African cricketer, Hashim Amla, as a “terrorist”, the game’s multicultural roots have repeatedly been targeted by primitive sentiments. This is not to suggest that other sports are an embodiment of the spirit of inclusion. More than 150 incidents of racial abuse were reported in English football in 2020, a spike of over 50 per cent. Ironically, protest against such differentiation has been penalized too. A gesture of protest against police brutality against black people by the former National Football League player, Colin Kaepernick, not only earned him a public rebuke from the outgoing president of the United States of America but also cost him his career in the NFL. The implications of these events are troubling. They highlight the embedded nature of bias in an activity that is meant to foster a sense of fraternity and solidarity across social groups. The pushback against this divisiveness within the ecosystem of sport is encouraging. Calls of institutional accountability are no longer rare in cricket: a former Test umpire has demanded an enquiry into the absence of match officials from ethnic minorities in English cricket. English football has adopted affirmative action to provide equal opportunity to managers from the black community. Laws against racist behaviour are far more stringent. Yet, the enduring nature of racism points to the existence of a worrying chasm that separates the law of a game from its spirit. Racism is not the only manifestation of this gap in sporting culture. In cricket, sledging — it need not always adhere to the contours of sportsmanship — is widely accepted as evidence of fierce competitiveness that makes sporting contests alluring. Sports federations, spectators, advertisers, even the law — the stakeholders of sporting competitions — must be mindful of the gap. Otherwise, the principles of fairness and assimilation would be weakened in sport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Opinion||Second chance: Donald Trump impeached||Once may be an accident, but twice need not be a coincidence. Donald Trump now bears the double ignominy of being the first president of the United States of America to have faced impeachment proceedings twice, but there can be no doubt about the fact that he fully deserves to bear this burden of shame. In 2019, Mr Trump had faced impeachment over allegations of impropriety in his conduct with Ukraine as well as for attempting to obstruct the Congress’s enquiries into the matter. On that occasion, he had been saved by an acquittal in the Senate that was under a firmer grip of the Republicans. The fate of the second impeachment — the outgoing president’s shocking complicity in the mob insurrection that led to the vandalization of the Capitol is the cause — may turn out to be a different affair. The vote to initiate impeachment proceedings in the House of Representatives witnessed bipartisan unity — a rare occurrence in recent times — with as many as 10 members of the Republican Party demonstrating the courage to cross the line, as it were. This could create further momentum and embolden a larger number of Republicans to join Democrats in holding Mr Trump accountable for his misconduct. The growing consensus would certainly encourage Senate Democrats to press for not only Mr Trump’s conviction for his incendiary role in the recent disturbance but also an embargo preventing him from holding public office. There seems to be a view gaining ground across the political spectrum that unless Mr Trump and his dangerous vision are neutered, he may continue to pose a threat to the architecture of American democracy, its ethics and institutions. The anxiety is not unwarranted. Mr Trump enjoys considerable support in the US: his divisive political legacy was potent enough to attract 74 million votes in the last presidential election. The quandary for Republicans concerns their fidelity to morals vis-à-vis populism. But the choice, equally, is between constitutionalism, republicanism and probity in contest against anti-institutionalism, demagoguery and divisiveness — the hallmarks of Trumpism.  Making the right decision — it would lead to the effacement of Mr Trump the politician — could go a long way in eroding the public endorsement of Mr Trump. History has shown that a shift at the Centre can, at times, take the fringe — even a politically robust fringe — along with it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Opinion||Warning bells: discontent in Tripura BJP||The rumbles of discontent in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Tripura hold a drum roll of warnings for the electorate in Bengal. With assembly elections coming up, the Trinamul Congress in Bengal is pulling out all the stops, following a surge in defections and the BJP’s strident voice growing shriller. It would be worthwhile to take a look at what is happening in Tripura, where the BJP unceremoniously toppled a well-entrenched Left Front government in February 2018. In barely three years, schisms have surfaced in the ruling BJP government. Last month, party workers raised slogans against the chief minister, Biplab Kumar Deb, chanting “Biplab hatao, Tripura bachao” during the visit of the new state in-charge, Vinod Kumar Sonkar. The chief minister had called for “public opinion” at an event to decide whether he should stay, but this was subsequently called off on orders from a Central BJP leader. A veteran BJP leader told me from Agartala on January 14 that given the trend in Tripura, “voters in Bengal should be careful. We had sought change and were swayed by BJP promises. But known thieves are better than unknown dacoits. The Vajpayee-Advani ideology has been replaced by corporate-style politics that is unbearable for veterans like us. The people of Bengal should think twice. The BJP has no chief ministerial face, the leaders are inexperienced and those in Delhi lack knowledge of local culture. Let Bengal not make the same blunder.” Adding to this discordant view, Tripura Congress vice-president, Tapas Dey, said over the phone that the promises the BJP had made on jobs and of implementing the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations had remained unfulfilled. “The people are wary and across society, the feeling is that they were better off under CPI(M) rule,” he said. “Infighting has become rampant, because the BJP cobbled together a ministry with rebels from other parties. Former Congressmen, who are now BJP legislators, are proclaiming the BJP’s misdeeds! There is no semblance of law and order or democratic norms, the chief minister is holding on to 27 portfolios, including health, which is in a shambles,” he pointed out. According to Dey, the Tripura government now outsources work for which local skill is available. “The BJP launched a hugely publicized anti-drugs campaign. Now ganja is out but tablets are readily available. Suicides are on the rise, and like the farmers protesting in Delhi, 10,323 ad hoc teachers who lost their jobs (following a Supreme Court directive, but the BJP had promised to restore these) have been sitting on a dharna in Agartala for over 40 days. Bengal should not make the same mistake,” he stressed. When I visited Tripura for the 2018 polls, I had met Sunil Deodhar, the BJP national secretary considered instrumental in turning the tide of political opinion. Last week, he was ensconced in Tirupati, overseeing by-elections in Andhra Pradesh where he is the party’s co-in-charge. When I asked about the difference he saw in Bengal and Tripura, he said, “In Tripura, the major issue was anti-incumbency, in Bengal there is an additional factor: appeasement of Muslims. While the CPI(M) in Bengal also resorted to Muslim appeasement, they were never viewed by Hindu voters as blatantly pro-Muslim.” A disgruntled voter in Tripura rued that the CPI(M), especially former chief minister, Manik Sarkar, was not turning the current infighting in the BJP to the party’s advantage. “In a similar situation in 1977, erstwhile chief minister, Nripen Chakraborty (at the helm from 1978 to 1988), had been able to catapult the Left to power,” he said. With elections drawing near in Bengal, poll sops are the order of the day, while the lure of lucre will hold centre-stage. After all, this great Indian democracy is a pantomime every state customizes, invariably to its cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Opinion||Temporary grief||Convenience is addictive. But after transforming our lives, internet-based technologies are getting to the stage where we have to mind the repercussions of using them. Over the past several months, we’ve seen a convergence of concerns over free speech and privacy on the one hand and the monopolistic practices of communication technology providers on the other.  The communication technology giants, meanwhile, are up against both governments and more rabid users of their platforms. The confrontation promises to persist. Earlier this month, internet users in India were aflutter over what WhatsApp’s new privacy policy meant and what information it was seeking permission to share with Facebook.  It triggered a migration to other messaging services such as Signal and Telegram before people woke up to the realization that the messaging app had been sharing user information with Facebook since 2016. Right-wing Americans who had gravitated to the Parler platform because they thought it was a secure place to share extreme views first found its app abruptly banned from their app stores by Google and Apple and, then, found that their identities would become known after all because its technology allowed data from it to be scraped. And that made them vulnerable to law enforcement action. The rioters who stormed the Capitol in Washington this month had posted some of their plans on this network. In India, the Chinese fintech loan apps available on Google store were eagerly used by many loan seekers who were then driven to desperation and even death when the loan sharks behind them turned nasty. Last week, the Reserve Bank of India ordered Google to take them off the app store. Equally, the tech giants are getting to the stage where they have to watch their backs.  For much of last year, they have been under scrutiny from governments in the United States of America, Europe and Australia. In July, US lawmakers conducted extensive anti-trust hearings on their practices. Then came an October House Judiciary Committee report on the hearings and Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon were found guilty of alleged anti-competitive behaviour. The Justice Department and 11 Republican attorney-generals sued Google for this. On another front, governments in Australia, France and the United Kingdom have been considering ways to get search platforms to pay fair compensation for journalistic content siphoned off from news media.  In France, a competition regulator has ordered Google to pay a copyright fee to media groups. In December 2020, the Australian government introduced laws to force Facebook and Google to pay media companies for the content they use. Now other platforms have come under renewed scrutiny for their role in fomenting the attack on the Capitol.  The New York Times profiled some influencers on Facebook and showed that its algorithms coaxed many Americans into sharing more extreme views on the platform and rewarding them with likes and shares for their posts.  Whatever happened to Facebook’s much-vaunted oversight committee with names of a range of eminences  from around the world? We have been reading about it since 2018. Facebook responded to the attack on the Capitol by banning the US president from its platform.  He was also banned by Twitter. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, was disturbed enough by this to make a statement, saying lawmakers and not private technology companies should set the rules governing free speech. Twitter said it acted because of  evidence of new riots planned for January 17, while Facebook said it has, so far, taken down 600 militarized social groups and was banning posts from those saying they planned to take weapons to government buildings. The less charitable ascribed the banning of Donald Trump to his being a head of government who is on his way out.  A statement from the American Civil Liberties Union expressing concern at his being banned from Facebook and Twitter suggested that both were wielding unchecked power “especially when political realities make those decisions easier”. Stock market investors, too, are indignant enough to make their disapproval hurt: Twitter and Facebook paid the price for banning Trump: they ended up losing $51 billion in combined market cap in two days. Facebook saw $47.6 billion erased from its public valuation, while Twitter's market cap dropped by $3.5 billion.  The companies will doubtless rebound, but are discovering that their actions make them vulnerable. India’s response to the practices of internet giants operating here has been mixed. In November last year, the Competition Commission of India ordered an investigation against Google for abusing its market position to unfairly promote its own mobile payments app in this country by showcasing Google Pay more prominently inside its app store on android phones in India.  In 2019, the CCI had also ordered a probe against Google in an anti-trust case for its alleged abuse of the Android phone’s  dominant position to block rivals. Yet, on the issue of privacy practices of social media companies, the government seems sanguine. It was reported earlier this month that the labour ministry was planning to use social media such as WhatsApp for communicating details of salary remittances to workers once its new labour codes come into operation even as a more privileged class of WhatsApp users was creating a shindig about the app’s new privacy policy. Will this not put working class users at risk of data theft and financial profiling, critics are asking. As contentious issues persist and clashes with governments and users grow over such concerns as privacy and data management, last year’s anti-trust actions are leading to talk about breaking up the big companies. This is easier said than done. A report  by the Council on Foreign Relations points out that anti-trust actions have had little success in the past in directly curbing technology companies. Meanwhile, Google is reportedly seeking out new streams of revenue and its next big thing is likely to come from sectors such as cloud computing, transportation and healthcare. Each of these has a massive addressable market and plays well to the tech giant’s strength in AI, says a CBInsights report. Whichever way you look at it, companies such as the ones under scrutiny are too big and too smart to suffer lasting grief. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||CSIR director general lays foundation stone of Jharkhand building of Vijnana Bharti||Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s director general Shekhar C Mande, on the second day of his visit to Dhanbad laid the foundation stone of Jharkhand building of Vijnana Bharti at Bhelatand on Monday. The day also marked the signing of various licensing agreements for Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) in presence of Mande including the licensing agreement for commercialization of digital mine using the Internet of Things (IoT) signed with M/s Optimized Solutions Ahmedabad and agreement for use of Gramin eBazar Software with M/s Edgeforce Solutions Pvt Ltd. A memorandum of understanding was also signed in his presence between CIMFR and Department of Geology of Ranchi University. Mande also inaugurated a renovated HRD hostel beside the CIMFR director office at Barwa Road. Mande graced the foundation stone laying function as the chief guest. A host of dignitaries including the national organizational secretary of Vijnana Bharti Jayant Sahasrabudhe, the president of Vijnana Bharti Ashok Singh and Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research director PK Singh were also present. While speaking at the function Mande said, “It is only a beginning with the foundation stone being laid and Vijnana Bharti, Jharkhand will work to establish the relationship between science and society.” “The new building will provide strength to the Vijnana Bharti members who are working selflessly for the society and the common people,” said Mande. Director of CIMFR, Dhanbad PK Singh expressed hope that the new building of Vijnana Bharti would be ready by Vijayadashmi festival. During the day one of Mande’s visit he also inspected four different facilities of CIMFR of Dhanbad including the state-of-the-art coal washing plant of 400-tonne per hour capacity consisting of coal handling plant with different types of crushers working under the principle of compression, shear and attrition. He also inspected a hot stamping facility of CIMFR besides a 1.5 tonne per day capacity Oxy Blown Pressurized Fluidized Bed Gasification pilot plant for conversion of coal to syngas and a coal petrographic and coal characterization study facility at CIMFR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host leadership talk with Kiran Bedi on January 21||The PGDM(GM) placement committee at XLRI in its ‘XLRI Talk Series-2021’ is organising a leadership talk session with Kiran Bedi, the lieutenant governor of Puducherry on ‘Creative Leadership - Collaborative Governance’ on Thursday, January 21. The event will be organised on a virtual platform from 6 pm, said a B-school official here on Monday evening. XLRI Talk Series is designed to appreciate and learn from leaders' experiences from all walks of life. The talk series which kicked off in 2017 is an initiative driven by the placement committee of Post Graduate Diploma in Management – PGDM(GM) course to develop different perspectives while addressing challenges in this highly dynamic environment. “The audience would be an eclectic mix of MBA students across various fields viz. IT, manufacturing, banking, marketing, engineering, aviation, shipping, oil & gas, education, etc.," said a member of the placement committee. The placement committee of the B-school is the corporate interface. The members of the placement committee are equipped with a considerable amount of knowledge repository through the interface/research for the potential recruiters. Kiran Bedi is a politician, retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, social activist and former tennis player, who as of May 29, 2016, is the incumbent lieutenant governor of Puducherry. She was the first female IPS officer and started her service in the year 1972.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||‘MLA’ defends cyber criminals in viral video||A video clip purportedly showing BJP MLA Randhir Singh defending cyber criminals in Jamtara and blaming their victims for not being smart enough to deal with phishing calls has gone viral on social media, raising eyebrows within the political fraternity. In the video, which is claimed to have been shot on January 15, a man resembling the Sarath legislator is heard saying that police should not unnecessarily harass the people of his constituency over matters of cyber crime, and instead make the victims of cyber fraud smarter. “Nobody has ever been able to dupe any resident of my constituency. If illiterate people of our region are so smart that they can dupe people of other states then whose fault is it?” the man is shown asking while addressing a gathering. “Why do the literate people of other states provide their personal details to callers over phone? If police harass our people, then I will have no option but to gherao police stations,” he added. However, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo questioned the authenticity of the video and said that demeaning the MLA was not right until the authenticity of the video was established. “The video is not clear, and there is no way to match the audio of the clip with the lip movement of the former minister. In this era of doctored videos and editing techniques, I think the video clip needs to be examined before jumping to conclusions,” he said. Jamtara, which has gained the infamy of being the cyber crime capital of the country, is home to several gangs of “Panchvi Fail” cybercriminals, who have duped several rich and educated people living in metros, say police. Around 200km north of Ranchi, Jamtara is said to be the Indian equivalent of the Romanian town of Râmnicu Vâlcea, dubbed Scamville, which is the global capital for cyber criminals. Last year, Netflix released a web series on the cyber criminals of Jamtara and named it ‘Jamtara – Sabka Number Ayega’. According to police, cyber criminals in Jamtara are most depended on phishing, a procedure in which cyber frauds pose as trustworthy entities from banks and finance companies over phone calls and ask for personal details of their target. The BJP MLA’s remarks come at a time when governments at the Centre and state are running extensive awareness campaigns against cyber crime through various platforms. Sarath, from where Singh is two-time MLA, falls in Deoghar district and shares its borders with Jamtara. In the video, the man resembling the MLA is seen to be joking and saying that there was no harm if money from other states and countries came to Jharkhand through cyber fraud. MLA Randhir Singh did not respond to phone calls from The Telegraph Online on Monday. An SMS and a WhatsApp text, asking for his comments on the viral video has been sent to Singh. This report will be update once his response is in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Adityapur faces drinking water scarcity much before summer hits||Even though summer is about three months away, the underground water table has considerably depleted at Adityapur township in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, causing a majority of the bore-wells in the area to get defunct. As a result of the bore-wells turning useless due to the exhaustion of the underground water, a serious drinking water crisis has emerged in the tiny township which has a population of over three lakhs. Concerned with the untimely drinking water crisis in Adityapur, a local NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha (JKM) has urged the regional office, Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority (JIADA) Adityapur to provide a minimum of five water tankers under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme in the residential areas of the township. Om Prakash, president, JKM, has in a letter addressed to the secretary of JIADA (Adityapur) to provide water tanks to the households in Adityapur because it is due to the sprawling industrial estate adjoining the residential area that underground water table has depleted, causing the majority of the bore-wells getting defunct. "Large numbers of residential colonies have mushroomed in the recent past in Adityapur, increasing the consumption of resources of underground water through bore-wells. But the bulk of the underground water is being utilised by over 1,500 industrial units.  Hence as these industries have been set up under the command of JIADA (Adityapur), the latter has to bear the responsibility for doing something toward the redressal of the drinking water crisis," said Om Prakash while talking to The Telegraph Online. The JKM president stated that the Adityapur Municipal Corporation has started supplying drinking water through tankers, but given the population's volume in Adityapur, the civic body will not be able to meet the demand of all the households. "The JIADA (Adityapur) must, therefore, arrange at least five water-tankers having a capacity of 12,000 litres and start the drinking water supply in the parched area as early as possible," said the president. Of over 50,000 households in Adityapur, only 8,000 get the facility of tap water whereas the remaining 42,000 households have to depend largely on bore-wells. Though a mega drinking water project is going on, but that project is not likely to be completed before mid-2022. Meanwhile, mayor of Adityapur Municipal Corporation, Vinod Srivastava confirmed about the beginning of drinking water-crisis in Adityapur. "Drinking water crisis has started hitting Adityapur township even before the advent of summer. We are yet to ascertain the reason behind this phenomenon but we have to cope up the situation effectively," said Srivastava while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant govt failed to fulfill people's aspirations: Marandi||Former chief minister Babulal Marandi accused the Hemant Soren-led government of having failed the people of the state on development and law and order . Talking to the media at the house of Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh here on Monday during his two-day visit to the district, Marandi said, “Hemant made tall promises to the electorate during the election and also reiterated the same on the floor of the Assembly after the election. But, during the last one year no development work has taken place in the state.” “He blocked the release of payments in all departments for the entire tenure,” charged Marandi and added that though it was a fact that there were constraints and lack of liquidity in the market, he blocked payments in areas where payments could have been made easily. “Majority of the districts are rich in minerals like coal, iron and mica, etc. In such districts the funds of the Mineral Foundation Trust Fund are not being utilized which is affecting the developmental work there,” said Marandi adding that the developmental work has got totally derailed in the state. “The government has miserably failed on the law and order front as well. Incidents like theft, loot, burglary, dacoity, murder, abduction and ransom demand, extortion demand, threat calls have witnessed a sharp increase,” stated Marandi. To prove the deterioration of law in the state, Marandi said citing the example of Ranchi that the situation has returned to the era of undivided Bihar when markets used to be closed before 8 pm due to the fear of crimes. “During the undivided era, the incidents of extortion demand, threat calls and murder, etc. were quite usual in the state capital and almost similar situation of lawlessness has returned in the state during this Hemant Soren government,” claimed Marandi. “The situation is more or less similar in other parts of the state. In Dhanbad, extortion demands are being made by sending videos through social media and threat calls are being made to traders as well as coal company officers, private miners and even people’s representatives like MLAs,” charged Marandi. “In the prevailing situation, people have also lost faith in the police and they are desisting from lodging complaint. FIRs are being lodged in case of several incidents and only being lodged after some political or bureaucratic pressure,” said Marandi. “The maoist influence in the state has also started increasing ever since the Hemant Soren government came into power and some of the maoist leaders who left the state due to police pressure are now returning back,” charged Marnadi and added the situation is such that even the MLA of the ruling party is meeting with Naxal elements without any security. “Worst is the situation of tribal and oppressed people and particularly the tribal women as the incidents of rape, murder, etc. have increased against them,” claimed Marandi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Minor explosion at Tata Steel plant, two hurt||Two employees were hurt after a minor explosion at Tata Steel's Jamshedpur plant here on Monday afternoon. The blast occurred at 12.30 pm during slag pooling operations at the company's hot metal pooling pit near the Slag Road gate. Initial investigations by the company revealed that the blast occurred as hot slag was poured on to moisture on the ground. "There was spattering of fire in the vicinity of the blast which was immediately controlled as per established fire control and safety procedures," said Kulvin Suri, the company spokesperson. Unfortunately, an attending foreman and an employee on contract sustained burn injuries. Necessary first aid was administered to both the employees and they got back to work. "There has been no damage to any operating plant or equipment and normal operations have commenced. The incident will be further investigated to ensure such incidents do not recur," Suri said adding that the company was committed to the safety and security of its steel plant. This was the second mishap that took place inside the company's Jamshedpur plant within four months. A 27-year-old senior manager (operations) Sheeraz Zama Khan, posted at the cold rolling mill (CRM), had died in a mishap that took place inside the plant on September 22, last year. The senior manager was trapped in the galvanising line, probably while attending to a fault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur set to host Fifa U-17 Women's World Cup camp ||The steel city is all set to host the women’s national preparatory camp for the Fifa under-17 Women’s World Cup to be held next year. Sources claimed that the state sports department has once again initiated talks with the All India Football Federation (AIFF) and Sports Authority of India (Eastern Centre) regarding the camp in Jamshedpur. It is being said that chief minister Hemant Soren is keen to host the camp in Jharkhand, the expenses for which will be borne by the state government while AIFF and Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) will be lending the technical support. Ghulam Rabbani, secretary of JFA, confirmed Jamshedpur as the venue for the camp. “Jamshedpur is an apt venue for efficiently conducting the camp. The grounds in Jamshedpur are in good shape unlike Ranchi where the greens are not in the right condition,” he added. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on phone from Giridih, Rabbani said the AIFF was keen to organise the camp in the steel city and that only a formal acceptance was awaited. “There should not be any confusion about Jamshedpur hosting the camp. A formal green signal from the AIFF will be taken very shortly,” he added. Asken when the camp would be held, Rabbani said it would be conducted later this month or in February. Sources in the state football association said the camp will be conducted at JRD Tata Sports Complex, Flatlet ground (in Kadma) and the greens at Tata Football Academy. “Besides the under-17 national preparatory camp, plans are also afoot to host the under-20 women’s national camp in the steel city,” a source in the state sports department said on the condition of anonymity. A recce team led by the then state sports director Anil Kumar Singh had inspected the available facilities in Jamshedpur last year. The team also held a discussion with officials of Tata Steel sports wing. Besides going to the JRD Tata Sports Complex and the checking the ground at Flatlets in Kadma, the team also visited some hotels. The preparatory camp was scheduled in Jamshedpur in October last year. However, it had to be cancelled because of the pandemic. With the sports activities now opening up, the AIFF wants the camp to be conducted in the steel city without wasting further time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tourist flow to Jharkhand grew 60 times since 2000 ||The number of foreigners visiting Jharkhand has increased almost 60 times in the past two decades, according to the Union tourism ministry which said that while only 3,111 foreign travelers visited the state in 2000 their numbers were 1.76 lakh in 2019. Officials of the tourism department said that the number of foreign tourists coming to Jharkhand had increased gradually every year since 2000. As per the latest Indian Tourism Statistics released by the ministry, as many as 1,70,987 foreign travelers visited Jharkhand in 2017 and the number increased to 1,75,801 in year 2018. In 2019, as many as 1,76,043 foreign tourists visited Jharkhand. “The number of foreign tourists visiting Jharkhand has certainly increased, but we want the number to grow further,” said tourism director A Dodde. “If we look at the tourism map of India, then we can see that most of the popular tourist destinations attract a lot of foreign tourists. Foreign tourists also help popularise a spot,” he added. Dodde said that foreigners coming to Jharkhand visited locations across the state, and there was no one particular spot which was preferred over others. The government in Jharkhand has taken several initiatives in the recent past to boost tourism. Many tourist spots were developed and the state also opened its doors to the film industry during the former NDA-led government. Patratu valley in Ranchi, Netarhat in Latehar and many dams and waterfalls across Jharkhand were selected as sites for shooting of Bollywood films in the past years, which contributed to their popularity, said a highly placed source in the tourism department. Recently, the Hemant Soren-led government in Jharkhand announced a flat subsidy of either 30 per cent or Rs 10 crore -- whichever was less -- on capital investment for developing tourism facilities such as hotels, parks and resorts. The subsidy, as per the new tourism policy, will be 35 per cent for investments in tribal districts. The government is also working on a single-window-system for tourism, where tourists can find all information related to Jharkhand on one platform. In 2000, when Jharkhand came into being, only 4.53 lakh tourists visited the state and 3,111 of them were foreigners. In 2018-19, over 3.55 crore tourists visited the state and 1.76 lakh of them were foreigners. However, the tourism director admitted that the inflow of foreign tourists to Jharkhand reduced drastically in the year 2020 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and travel restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant meets Rahul in Delhi with Congress minder||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren met former All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Monday, triggering speculation that vacancies in the state cabinet and government-run boards and corporations were discussed. The meeting assumes importance as it took place in the backdrop of coming elections in Bengal where Hemant’s party, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), is planning to contest. JMM’s primary ally in Jharkhand, the Congress, has tied up with the Left in Bengal. Both Congress and JMM leaders, however, called the meeting a courtesy visit. Hemant, along with Congress party’s Jharkhand affairs in-charge R.P.N. Singh, flew to Delhi on Sunday night. Hemant, who is expected to meet Sonia Gandhi too, is likely to return to Ranchi on Tuesday. A JMM leader said, “The meeting was long overdue. Now that things are slowly improving (Covid-19), our leader wished to meet with the top brass of our alliance partner. Regular interactions and meetings help in maintaining better coordination. One shouldn’t read much into it.” A Congress source, however, said the idea of the meeting was to discuss various issues as the state government had completed a year in office.  “Two days back, R.P.N. Singh, during his visit to Ranchi, held a meeting with all Congress MLAs, district heads and other key members on vacant posts in boards and corporations in Jharkhand. This apart, the party has for long been staking claim to one more ministerial berth, considering the number of MLAs we have,” claimed the Congress leader. As of now, there are two vacancies in the 12-member cabinet. But speaking with reporters in Ranchi on Sunday, R.P.N. Singh maintained that their party wasn’t focusing immediately on filling vacant berths in the state cabinet. Instead, he said, the focus would now shift towards a by-election in Jharkhand necessitated after the Madhupur seat fell vacant last year following the death of JMM MLA and minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari. “Let us focus on the bypoll first. The rest will be discussed with our coalition partners later,” Singh had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Missing girl found dead, body recovered from pond||The body of a minor girl, missing since Tuesday, was recovered from a pond in Chatra on Sunday. A villager spotted the body in a pond near to the victim’s Gangpur village under Giddhore police station on Sunday late evening and informed the police after which it was fished out. About the missing of the girl named Supriya Kumari a.k.a Dolly, her father Ranjeet Gupta had lodged an FIR in this regard at Giddhore police station. According to this complaint, she went missing from the village on January 12. Chatra superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha also reached Gangpur village and investigated the matter. Ranjeet has accused one Rahul Yadav for abducting his daughter. Police had left Rahul after interrogating him. On Sunday evening, when a dead body of a young girl was spotted in Dantuwa pond near to Gangpur, officer-in-charge of Giddhore police station, Sanjay Kumar Singh reached there. The body was fished out and Ranjeet Gupta was informed. Ranjeet identified the body as his 14-year-old missing daughter Supriya. Singh said the dead body has been sent for post-mortem to Chatra Sadar Hospital. “We will wait for the report to know the actual reason behind her death. However, police have started the investigation and working on a various angle to know as what actually happened with Supriya,” he added. Meanwhile, Supriya’s relatives charged police for negligence in this case. They said Rahul was allowed to go from the police station even when he was harassing Supriya. With the recovery of the dead body, BJP’s Giddhore block president Kapil Kumar said it was a shocking incident and whoever was behind this should not be spared. “I demand immediate cracking of this case and arrest of the culprits,” added he. Simaria MLA Kishun Kumar Das also warned to sit on indefinite hunger strike if this case was not solved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Late night fire at Sakchi market, many bangle shops burnt||About half-a-dozen bangle shops at the Masala Patti Line at Sakchi were gutted in a fire which is suspected to be caused by short-circuit late on Sunday night. It took three fire tenders of Jharkhand Fire Service and Tata Steel over three hours to bring the blaze under control. The fire started around 11 pm. According to Sakchi market sources, the fire was first spotted by a security guard who raised an alarm. Later, a local shopkeeper called the Golmuri-based fire station informing about the fire. However, prompt action by the fire department minimised damages to a great extent given the fact that a large number of shops are packed next to each other in the congested Masala Patti Line, where the inferno took place. District fire service officials said they were informed about the fire around 11.15 pm, and the fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes. “Two fire tenders of our department along with another one from Tata Steel battled the flames which were finally brought under control around 2 am,” said Ravinder Thakur, the Golmuri-based fire station officer. The loss caused by the fire could not be immediately estimated. An affected bangle shop owner Md. Shamim said, “The fire was caused by a suspected short-circuit. Things are being probed.” Chaos prevailed at the market soon after the fire was detected. Most of the shopkeepers had left for their homes after closing their shops at 9 pm. But, some of them rushed to the spot after being informed. This was the second such fire that broke out at Sakchi which is a leading commercial hub. On December 19 a similar fire caused by a bonfire gutted around a dozen shops at the Jalebi Line close to the fish market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: health officials expect better turnout from Monday ||Health officials of Jharkhand expect a better turnout at vaccine centres from Monday when the inoculation drive is set to resume since there has been no case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) unlike a few that have been reported in states like Delhi and Maharashtra. Covid vaccine will henceforth be administered four days a week except on Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. While Sunday is a holiday, the health department is usually busy with other scheduled vaccination drives every Thursday and Saturday. Jharkhand launched the inoculation drive from 48 centres across 24 districts with a target of 4,800 on Day One on Saturday. Two centres were set up in each district with a target of administering the vaccine to 100 people at each. However, as per health department records, by the end of Day One, 1,600 out of 4,800 registered beneficiaries did not show up to take the shots. Many pulled out in the last moment due to apprehensions about the efficacy and possible side effects of the vaccine. Others failed to get an auto generated SMS on their registered phones, sources said. “But fears will gradually subside with no AEFI cases in the state. And whatever minor glitches were reported on the ground will get streamlined. The health department is satisfied with the turnout on Day One,” remarked a senior official at the state chapter of National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday. State health minister Banna Gupta sounded satisfied. “I have not received reports of AEFI or any other problems in anyone who has received the vaccine shots. From Monday, we expect a better turnout as the department is also working out on plans to counsel beneficiaries,” he said, adding that the number of vaccination centres would remain unchanged as of now. Initially, Jharkhand had planned to launch the vaccination drive at 129 centres. But days before the launch, it was trimmed to 48 following directives from the Centre for better mobilisation of resources and utilization of the vaccine. Mariam Guriya, a cleanliness worker at Sadar hospital, who got the first shot on Saturday, said that she was doing fine and maintained that she would motivate others to take the vaccine. “I didn’t face any problem yesterday (Saturday) after taking the vaccine. I am fine today (Sunday) too. I will encourage others to get the vaccine citing my example,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
18-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand objects to third rail track within Palamau Tiger Reserve ||The wildlife issues related to a proposal for laying a third railway track through a part of Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR) is unlikely to be resolved at a meeting scheduled to be held in New Delhi on Wednesday. The matter is listed for discussion at the meeting of the project monitoring group of the department of promotion of industries and internal trade under the Union ministry of commerce and industry that day. The railway took up construction of a 291-long third railway line between Patratu and Sonnagar 12km of which is to pass through PTR but the Jharkhand government objected to the construction, apprehending it would disturb the wildlife. A double-line railway track already exists in that stretch under control of Dhanbad division of South Central Railway but the railway authorities wants to construct a third line as they consider it essential for the operational point of view to facilitate faster transport of coal and also to act as a feeder route. But Jharkhand objected to the proposal of construction of the additional rail track through PTR and referred the matter to the National Tiger Conservation Authority that in turn formed a committee. The committee called for data related to elephant and tiger population in the reserve, location of elephant crossing zones/tracks, wildlife accidents etc for preparing a draft wildlife management issues and mitigation measures. Meanwhile, PTR authorities suggested that the proposed 12-km rail track within the tiger reserve be shifted to a new location, about 2km away, that the railway authorities considered not feasible. “Shifting the proposed 12-km track between Chhipadohar and Hehegara stations to about 2km away to another location just outside the PTR limits should help them move trains faster,” PTR deputy director Kumar Ashish argued when contacted by The Telegraph. “It being within a tiger reserve, the trains have to move with a speed of only 25 km per hour along that stretch now that can go up if the track is shifted to a location just 2 km away and will actually help faster movement of trains,” he explained, adding there were many fatal accidents when wildlife wanted to cross the existing rail tracks and came under moving trains. “I understand they thought the proposal of shifting track was not feasible as it would run alongside a river,” Ashish said when asked about the railway’s reluctance to accept their shifting proposal, adding many longer stretches of the same 291-km line runs beside some river or the other. Clearances for construction of a rail track within a tiger reserve have to be obtained from both the state and national wildlife boards and also others like a high powered committee, he further informed, indicating the construction proposal was unlikely to be passed in the meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-169
