19-01-2021||Calcutta||Will skip if it’s Covaxin: Calcutta doctors ||Many doctors in Calcutta who will not get the Covid jabs in the first round of vaccination said they would skip the second round if the “untested Indian vaccine” is given to them. In Bengal, Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, is being administered to health-care workers in the first round. State health department officials said there was no clarity on which vaccine the Centre will send in the next instalment — Covishield or Covaxin, the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Many doctors told Metro that they were not keen on receiving Covaxin, which is still undergoing phase-III trial and for which there is no efficacy data. “Although not peer-reviewed, there is efficacy data on Covishield. But there is no such data about Covaxin. A recipient cannot choose between the two and will have to take the one the government makes available. I will prefer to skip the second round if Covaxin is sent to our state in the hope that Covishield would be made available later,” said a senior physician, whose name does not figure in the first round of vaccination. “I will prefer Covishield because Oxford was involved in its development and there have been internationally accepted trials in the UK with efficacy data available. Compared with Covaxin, the data is more robust for Covishield,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay, who is waiting for his turn for a Covid shot. Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya said he had reservations about Covaxin, but not Covishield. “The government should not have authorised a vaccine without publishing proper efficacy data. Although at this moment it is impossible to gauge the long-term efficacy of any of the Covid-19 vaccines, we have to go by whatever data is available based on trials,” said Bhattacharya. “There is hardly any adverse effect of these vaccines, which trials have shown. However, if a vaccine is administered without proper efficacy data, it can indirectly cause harm because a recipient might think he is safe, though in reality the vaccine might not be effective,” the physician said. “I will take Covaxin if there is no other option,” Bhattacharya added. A state health department official said they were in the dark about which vaccine will come in the next rounds. “We are yet to receive any communication from the government,” said the official. In the first phase, Bengal received nearly seven lakh doses of Covishield, which was half the doses required to vaccinate a little over six lakh health-care workers in the state. The Telegraph had reported last week that chief minister Mamata Banerjee during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked whether “adequate scientific confirmation” was available in favour of the two Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) that have been approved for emergency use in India. During the meeting, Mamata had asked why the states were left with no option to choose one of the two vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC set to triple Covid vaccination sites||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will triple the number of Covid-19 vaccination sites from next week, civic officials said on Monday. Five ward health clinics located in as many boroughs of Calcutta have been running vaccination sites since Saturday, when Covid-19 vaccination began across the country. There are 16 boroughs in the Calcutta municipal area and civic officials feel at least one vaccination site in each will expedite the vaccination of healthcare workers. According to Covid-19 vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre, about 1 crore health-care workers across the country will be vaccinated first. They will be followed by 2 crore frontline workers, including police and defence services personnel. The CMC has about 5,300 health-care workers – doctors, nurses, accredited social health activists (ASHA) and honorary health workers who visit door to door – who are eligible for a Covid vaccine, said an official. The list of frontline workers under the CMC – such as waste collectors and cremation staff – is still being prepared. An official said the names of more than 30,000 CMC employees who would be eligible for Covid jabs had been included in the list and more names would be added. “We are preparing to start Covid-19 vaccination in 11 more ward health clinics starting next Monday. Inspections will be conducted over the next few days but that will be a formality because most clinics have enough space to administer the shots,” a CMC official said. Inoculation of health-care workers can gain speed if more vaccination sites are opened, the official said. Apart from that, more sites mean the sites will come closer home, making it easier for health-care workers to get vaccinated. Because of some glitches that affected the functioning of Co-Win, a digital app launched by the Centre for Covid vaccination across the country, many vaccination sites were reaching out to  recipients over the phone and asking them to turn up at the site. The advantage was that if a prospective recipient said he or she could not turn up, someone else was approached for vaccination. “Once everything is done through the Co-Win platform, this advantage will be lost. The system will send text messages to recipients and only they can receive the doses that particular day. Those who cannot turn up cannot be replaced by others,” an official said. “If we set up more centres, we will be able to vaccinate more people.” The guidelines issued by the Centre say a site must have three rooms – the recipients will wait in the first, get their jabs in the second and be observed in the third for 30 minutes for adverse effects, if any.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Crowd surge on first day minus Calcutta Metro e-passes||Metro Railway ferried around 1.92 lakh passengers on Monday, the most since the resumption of commercial services on September 14 and the first day without e-passes. For the past several weekdays, the count had been in the range of 1.7 lakh. The carrier had ferried around 1.82 lakh passengers on January 13, the highest before Monday. The number of trains also went up to 240 from Monday, up from 228, to ease the expected rise in the number of passengers. The office hours were busy but the non-rush hour trains ferried fewer passengers than they used to during pre-Covid times. Metro officials said the count was not expected to be much above 200,000 in the near future because schools and colleges were shut and tokens were still suspended. “Our average passenger load per train used to be above 2,000 before the pandemic. Now, it is not expected to go beyond 850. We are confident of being able to maintain social distancing norms with that count,” said an official. Before the pandemic, the carrier ran 288 trains and ferried around 6 lakh passengers every day. Since commercial services resumed on September 14, many entry/exit gates across the stations in the north-south corridor had been shut to ensure crowd control. Five of such gates were opened on Monday. “The abolition of e-passes is expected to lead to a gradual rise in the number of passengers. Following social distancing protocols is still imperative. We have opened some more gates on Monday for better crowd control and will open more in phases if needed,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The e-pass system had been effective in controlling the number of passengers, though some people accused it of being “discriminatory”. The carrier had been gradually narrowing the e-pass window before completely doing away with it from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Day Two turnout of vaccination lower than Day One||A little over 60 per cent of the people who were supposed to be vaccinated across Bengal took the Covid jab on Monday. In Calcutta, the figure was slightly better at 81 per cent. The health authorities have decided to draw up a longer list from now to ensure that more people are vaccinated each day. On Saturday, the day Covid-19 vaccination was launched across the nation, Bengal had witnessed around 75.9 per cent turnout. Calcutta’s figure was 93 per cent. Co-Win, the app developed by the Centre for Covid vaccination, had developed snags on Saturday, too, but health officials said the turnout was higher because of manual mobilisation of recipients. The authorities arranged for replacements for those who had either not received an intimation or couldn't make it to the designated site. On Monday, the entire vaccination programme was routed through Co-Win. Health officials said that since Sunday evening, the app functioned erratically. As a result, most of those who were selected for the jab started receiving text messages for Monday's programme a little after Sunday midnight. Most didn't see the messages in the early hours of the day and by the time some did, they realised it was well past their designated time. Since manual mobilisation was not allowed, there was no way others could be allowed to take the jab. As a result, the number of those receiving the shot came down on the second day. “We have decided to increase the number of prospective recipients from 100 to 200 for each site,” said a health department official. “The idea is to ensure that more people get text messages. This will hopefully push up the turnout.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta schools see increase in transfer certificate requests||Several schools have received applications from parents asking for transfer certificates of their children this academic year. During exit interviews or when they communicated with the parents, the schools found out that the parents had suffered financial loss during the pandemic and hence, wanted to shift their children to a school with lower fees or of vernacular medium, the heads of at least two schools said. The number of requests for pulling out children is not many but more than other years, school heads said. What is different this year is that the transfer certificates are needed mostly because parents are not shifting to other cities but to native places. A school head said they had come across instances of parents shifting to their “native places or districts”. “There are some parents who applied for transfer certificates around November when we asked parents to clear their fees (following the court order). During the exit interview, when we asked them the reason, they said they would put their children in a vernacular-medium school where the fees will be less,” said Richard Gasper, the principal of St Augustine’s Day School in Calcutta. Gasper said parents cited reasons like loss in business and salary-cuts for being unable to let their children continue in an English-medium school of their choice. The requests for transfer certificates have been mostly coming since December. But there were some before December, too. “The parents said they are going back to their native places and hence, they want transfer certificates,” said an official in a CBSE school in the city. “There are families who were living in Calcutta on rent and they have moved back to the places or districts where they came from. Some of them said they cannot afford and they will put their children in government schools nearby,” said Sucharita Roychowdhury, the headmistress at Silver Point School. Roychowdhury said parents of students in primary or middle school were at least seeking transfer certificates. The exodus is more at the pre-primary level, where parents are not even informing the authorities. “In nursery or kindergarten, parents are not even asking for transfer certificates. They are just pulling out their children and not coming back for readmission,” she said. he schools are letting go of those in pre-primary or junior classes without seeking much details but they are trying to deal more sympathetically with students in higher classes. “We don’t get such requests in other years. But this year while a few are choosing to move out, we are also trying to retain some by talking to the parents, especially whose children are in senior classes,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal at Loreto Convent Entally. At Saifee Golden Jubilee School, a couple of parents requested to pull out their children citing financial difficulties. One of the students is in Class X and the father, who runs a small shop, said he was finding it difficult to continue with the business, which had suffered a huge blow because of the pandemic. “The school counselled him and dissuaded him from withdrawing his child as it would have ruined the child's career. The school gave him a generous extension of the fee deadline. Finally, he agreed not to pull out his child,” said Huzaifa Motiwala, a committee member of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||More smart eyes to enforce road rules in Calcutta ||Calcutta police are installing automatic number plate recognition cameras and red light-violation detection cameras at 120 sites as part of their efforts to strengthen prosecutions using cameras, instead of manual citations that could be erroneous. At present, only 15 locations are covered by these cameras, which can automatically detect a vehicle’s movement if it violates a traffic signal and also capture the picture of its number plate as evidence. As Cyclone Amphan had left more than half of the regular CCTV cameras defunct in the city, citations through cameras had taken a backseat, police said. The pandemic only aggravated the problem, preventing the police from carrying out manual citations, traffic cops said. However, with the installation of over 320 new “intelligent” cameras at 120 locations, officers said they were hoping to again start a prosecution drive against traffic violations in the city. In the past few years, Calcutta police had reduced manual citation and started using CCTV cameras for citations. At present, there are over 1,600 regular CCTV cameras located at more than 600 intersections. Earlier, traffic cops used to note down the registration numbers of the vehicles that violated the traffic rules. The lists of vehicles used to be updated by all 25 traffic guards on an internal server that was linked to the traffic computer cell at Lalbazar, from where challans were issued to the owners of offending vehicles. The process, which completely depended on manual interventions, often allegedly led to erroneous citations. Often motorists would complain that they had received a challan citing that their vehicle had violated a traffic signal at a particular time, though the vehicle was actually somewhere else then. The onus would be on motorists to prove that the citations by the police were wrong. “Initially, the police would scan the footage of regular CCTV cameras at the traffic building to detect violations. Once the smart cameras came, the work became more accurate with less human interface,” said an officer in the traffic department. However, as there were only a few intelligent cameras in the city and the pandemic had shifted the police’s focus from prosecuting traffic violators to those without masks, the prosecution rate of traffic violations had reduced considerably over the past few months, officers said. Installation of intelligent cameras at 320 locations would also mean motorists would have to remain alert against violating traffic rules. The integrated system of intelligent cameras not just detects violations and recognises the vehicle number but also initiates the process of sending an e-challan to the mobile number registered against a vehicle number. Police said details of violations are also uploaded on the website of the Calcutta traffic police and can be assessed by the vehicle owners by entering their vehicle details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Suvendu Adhikari vows to defeat Mamata Banerjee||Suvendu Adhikari, who had joined the BJP last month, on Monday vowed to ensure Mamata Banerjee’s defeat in the Nandigram constituency by a margin of 50,000 votes. “She has decided to fight from Nandigram. Whoever our party decides to field against her, I promise that if I don’t defeat her by half a lakh votes, I’ll quit politics,” Suvendu said at a public meeting at the Rashbehari crossing. Banerjee had earlier in the day sprung a surprise by announcing her wish to contest the Assembly polls from Nandigram, a seat Suvendu had won in 2016. He had quit as the MLA before joining the BJP. The BJP had decided to hold a road show from Tollygunge to Rashbehari on the day Mamata travelled to Nandigram and addressed a rally in the aftermath of Suvendu switching over to the saffron camp. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh led the rally, in which Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri and other party leaders participated. The BJP leaders claimed 10,000 people took part in the rally that concluded with a public gathering. Both Ghosh and Chaudhuri tried to present Mamata’s decision to “shift to Nandigram” as a result of her fear that she might lose in her traditional seat, Bhowanipore in Calcutta. “She is trying to find some ground in Nandigram and we will sweep Bhowanipore,” Ghosh said at the meeting. “She is afraid that she will lose in Bhowanipore,” Ghosh added. The road show, however, reflected the acrimony between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP with Suvendu and Ghosh accusing their rivals of attacking their rally at three points between Tollygunge and Rashbehari. While the rally was crossing Mudiali, bricks were allegedly hurled at it from a nearby building. BJP supporters retaliated by throwing the bricks back at the building. They also allegedly vandalised a few motorbikes that were parked nearby. “I salute the members of our youth wing for giving a fitting reply to them (the attackers),” Suvendu said in his speech. Although senior police officers refused to say if any lapse in security arrangements had led to the violence, a cop with Tollygunge police station said that police were preparing to initiate a case against unknown persons for the attack on the BJP’s road show. The BJP has submitted a police complaint against Trinamul supporters for carrying out an attack on their rally. Around 27km away from Suvendu’s road show in south Calcutta, two other Trinamul turncoats, Sovan Chattopadhyay and Baisakhi Banerjee, led a rally at Bishnupur in South 24-Parganas on Monday. Speaking at a rally at the end of the road show, Chattopadhyay attacked Mamata for refusing to recognise the role of Contai’s Adhikari family in the Nandigram movement. He also referred to Mamata’s comments where she had compared the BJP to a washing machine that “purified” tainted leaders. “Don’t forget that you had gone into an alliance with the BJP several times in the past,” he said. While Suvendu is scheduled to hold a rally at Khejuria’s Heria in East Midnapore on Tuesday, he announced on Monday that he would hold another rally soon in Calcutta along with Ghosh. “The next rally will be from Garia crossing to Hazra crossing,” he said. “We won’t take any police permission, but will hold a public meeting at Hazra itself,” he added. Mamata lives near Hazra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Unidentified body on Bypass service road||A man was found dead on a service road adjoining EM Bypass, near Salt Lake stadium Metro station and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, early on Monday. The man, in his 30s, identified as Sanjeev Das, a resident of Duttabad, had injuries on his head and at the back of one of his ears. Police said the post-mortem report was “inconclusive” as it could not be ascertained whether the injuries were homicidal or accidental in nature. The stretch along the Bypass is frequented by walkers, motorists and pedestrians throughout the day. At night, however, the area turns deserted. The police said a passer-by had alerted them about a person lying on the road with bleeding injuries early in the morning. A team from Phoolbagan police station took the man to a hospital, where he was declared dead. “We are waiting for the final post-mortem report. We are not ruling out any possibility at this moment,” said a senior police officer of the eastern suburban division. Many vehicles ply down the service road along the EM Bypass and could have caused the accident, police said. At the same time, cops were unable to rule out whether someone killed the victim and dumped his body on the stretch at night. Cops are trying to extract footage from the closest CCTV cameras. However, a large number of CCTV cameras were damaged by Cyclone Amphan, which had struck the city in May last year, and are yet to be repaired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal panel issues refund order to 3 Kolkata hospitals||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked Belle Vue Clinic and Ruby General Hospital to refund to the families of two persons treated by them the amounts not covered by the state and central government health schemes. The commission also asked Horizon Life Line Multispeciality Hospital in Entally to refund Rs 2.5 lakh to one person and Rs 1.34 lakh to another. The hospital overcharged the two, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. Glocal Hospital in Midnapore was asked to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to a patient’s family. The family of a sub-inspector of the state police complained to the commission that Belle Vue Clinic refused to offer cashless admission to the cop, though he had a medical insurance cover under the state government health scheme, which provides for cashless admission. “During the hearing, Belle Vue Clinic said it was difficult for them to admit the patient under cashless facility since the policeman was not diagnosed with any disease and was not even suggested hospitalisation by a doctor from outside,” said Banerjee. “Belle Vue did not refuse the patient but said there were some technical difficulties in extending a cashless admission facility to him. The patient tested positive for Covid-19 subsequently and he was then allowed the cashless facility.” In the process, the patient had to pay Rs 56,000 of the total bill of Rs 1.56 lakh. The hospital got Rs 1 lakh reimbursed under the state government scheme. “We have asked the hospital to give all documents to the patient’s family so they can claim reimbursement under the health scheme. The hospital must reimburse the patient any amount that will not be reimbursed by the health scheme,” he said. A similar complaint was lodged against Ruby hospital by the family of an ex-employee of Damodar Valley Corporation. The 76-year-old man passed away at the hospital in December. The hospital had refused the patient the benefits of the central government health scheme on the ground that they had ceased to have any agreement with the DVC for treating its employees, said Banerjee. “But the agreement is supposed to continue till February 2021. We have asked the hospital to prepare a separate bill according to the rates of the health scheme and give it to the patient’s family,” said Banerjee. The family will claim reimbursement under the scheme. “If there is any amount the claim for which is rejected on the ground of extra charge or on any other merit, the hospital has to refund the patient’s family that amount,” said Banerjee. “We have also asked Horizon Life Line to return Rs 2.5 lakh to a patient’s family, who had complained about overcharging,” he said. “Horizon must also offer a discount of Rs 1.34 lakh on the total bill amount to a patient’s family,” Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta records 'very poor' air quality||Calcutta is literally in the “red” when it comes to air pollution, according to the state pollution control board data on Monday. Around 7.30pm on Monday, the entire stretch of Calcutta along with Howrah and the fringes of the two 24-Parganas was found to have “very poor” air quality with all 11 automatic air pollution measuring stations in the region recording air quality index (AQI) values in excess of 300; according to the app maintained by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. A rough calculation shows that the stations cover nearly 375sqkm and a population of about 8.5 million. The air pollution station within Rabindra Bharati University recorded the highest AQI value of 380; the station at BITM in Ballygunge area showed 359 followed by 355 at the Jadavpur station. While Padmapukur in Howrah was found to have an AQI of 341; Ghusuri and Belur in the same district recorded 339 and 322 respectively. Victoria Memorial, Fort William and Rabindra Sarobar - where the measuring stations are located within green verge and hence expect to show less pollution — showed AQI values of 308, 317 and 316 respectively. Budge Budge on the city's southern fringe recorded AQI value of 318 and Salt Lake on the northern fringe recorded 323, showing the pollution spread is all over the wider city. In all the stations, PM2.5, the most toxic ultrafine particulate, was the dominant pollutant. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, prolonged exposure to AQI value in excess of 300, considered “very poor” air pollution, may trigger respiratory illness within common people. “Both known sources of air pollution as well as meteorological factors combine to create poor quality of air. However, without a detailed study, it is difficult to conclude which one contributes how much in the city's air pollution mix,” said Professor Sagnik Dey, an air pollution expert with IIT Delhi and presently working on the city's air pollution. Dey opined that post-unlocking, the city has gone back to the path of usual pollution peril. Earlier, a study by environment think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) showed that Calcutta had experienced an extremely polluted December, even worse than last year, as the level of ultrafine PM2.5 in the city had jumped 13 times compared to August which was found to be the cleanest on the aftermath of the Covid-triggered lock down. “Poor commercial vehicles are mainly responsible for the city's heightened pollution level. The PCB, the state environment department and the government need to act on that front,” said environmentalist Subhas Datta, who has moved the court demanding introduction of environment friendly CNG in the city replacing highly toxic diesel. According to a recent study carried out by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), about 28 per cent of toxic PM2.5 pollution in the city is caused by households, closely followed by road dust and vehicular pollution (both around 25 per cent).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta protester: Why not Mann ki Baat at Singhu border? ||Narendra Modi should have held Mann ki Baat at Singhu border if farmers’ concerns were genuinely on his mind, a protester at a south Calcutta demonstration against the contentious farm laws said on Monday. “Modiji nu kisana di agar aini chinta si, taa mann di baat Singhu border jaake karni chahidi si,” said Jagtar Singh, standing behind a makeshift stage near the intersection of Sarat Bose Road and Chakraberia Road. The president of Gurdwara Guru Nanak Satsang in Howrah’s Andul, Jagtar Singh, led a team that visited the Sarat Bose Road demonstration. The other members of the huddle echoed him vigorously. “Singhu border is barely a few kilometres from his home in Delhi. What is stopping him from going there,” asked Manjit Singh, one of the organisers of the demonstration that entered its sixteenth day on Monday. A relay hunger strike from 10am to 5.30pm, led by women, is part of the demonstration, apart from speeches, songs and skits. Monday was dedicated to women, in keeping to a call given by the Jai Kisan Andolan to celebrate the role of women farmers in the country. “They are wondering why women are protesting at Singhu, at Tikri and other places. Women are protesting because they are an integral part of farming — right from sowing the seeds to harvesting the crop,” said Ramanprit Kaur Sodhi, a social worker who lives in Bhowanipore and has been a part of the Sarat Bose Road protest from the start. Items like potato and cereals were removed from the list of essential commodities to allow big companies to hoard and then sell them at a higher price, said Nausheen Baba Khan, another organiser. Cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes were removed from the list of essential commodities in The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, that was passed by Parliament on September 22. “The law will increase the price of everyday items in the kitchen. People are still reeling under the financial burden of the lockdown. The wounds of demonetisation are not forgotten. The government has now come up with other tools of harassment,” Khan told the audience. A group of women staged a short play on Monday. It began with one of them working on a farmland. She is seen waiting for “acchhe din” and “Rs 15 lakh”. Her path crosses with that of two other women who are headed to the Singhu border to take part in the farmers’ protest. At the end of the play, the first woman joins the other two in heading towards Singhu. “All the government sees in the protesters in Khalistanis. Only BJP supporters are patriots. The rest are all branded traitors. Some of the protesters are called Pakistanis. Some are called Khalistanis,” said Manpreet Singh, another organiser of the demonstration. The protesters have occupied a slice of a narrow lane off Sarat Bose Road. On Monday, the site comprised a small stage, carved out of a pavement and a series of plastic chairs on the lane. Posters and banners surround the place. A large banner that contains the names of people who have died at the siege at Delhi border hung at the site. The list contained 57 names. The number has since gone up. Sarat Bose Road is one of the busiest roads in south Calcutta. A heavy flow of buses, cabs, private cars and two-wheelers went about their business as usual as the protest continued. eads turned towards the venue occasionally, when a bus of a cab was stuck in a signal. A tea stall right next to the stage, the destination of scores of people for their evening cuppa, brought in some more listeners. Members of the Sikh community from Dunlop and Barrackpore also visited the Sarat Bose Road venue on Monday. “The government is scared because we are nearing victory. We cannot let our guard down now. The government will have to repeal the laws,” Sukhvinder Pal Singh, who had come from Dunlop, told the audience amid a loud cheer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Calcutta||Digital gateway to festivity||Tulipians Academy Tulipians Pre and Primary schools recently planned a virtual fun camp where kids got to enjoy with their favourite characters such as Chhota Bheem, Peppa and Doraemon. At the same time, they learnt baking cakes, singing carols and other creative activities. The school also organised a Santa visit to most of their students’ homes, giving them Santa meals of pasta or burgers, gifts and personalised letter from Santa Claus. “What we brought to so many families was boundless joy, surprise and the belief that even Covid-19 couldn’t take away from us. Christmas, indeed, is a reminder of hope and love. And the happiness is all about togetherness and kindness. Together we can, together we will,” said founder director and chairman Nirmal Verma. Vivekananda Mission School, Joka Students from pre-primary to Class XII of Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, recently organised its annual function on a virtual platform. A PowerPoint presentation celebrated the academic and co-curricular achievements of the prize winners for the academic session 2019-20. Around 25 children from the lower primary section came together to present A Vision of Paradise that depicted how people can build a better future and make this planet a paradise to live in, putting aside all the differences and bitterness. The primary students took the viewers on A Stroll Down the Memory Lane that showcased the idea of life as an endless interplay of joys and sorrows. The students also paid a tribute to the community helpers. Students of the day section reflected on the present challenges the world is dealing with and their presentation focused on how the human mind could not be restricted from travelling even when the situation did not permit them to do so. “It was a challenge for us to organise the function on a digital platform. But we made it possible thanks to our teamwork. The message for all is — Build yourself in such a manner that come what may, you are sure to succeed,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee. Class IX student Sreejato Pramanik said: “I have always taken part in all the annual functions of my school years. That this is not happening this year like the previous occasions simply added to my misery. I, therefore, could not be happier to see it held online — a different and great experience. Our school proved that situations have changed but not the mindset.” Abhinav Bharati High School Abhinav Bharati High School recently organised online winter carnival for two consecutive days to surprise its students, who missed being in school physically. The students of classes I to V were divided according to their class and each class was provided with tutorial videos in which the teachers demonstrated interesting games and the children performed them virtually. After the games, the students took part in music and dance shows. A virtual picnic, too, was organised on the second day owing to which the students were asked to bring in their favourite food and wear casual clothes. The teachers encouraged the students’ potentialities as they had decorated the background walls of their rooms. “This was a new experience for us, so we were worried about how everything would be done. I am glad that the students took part in it with so much enthusiasm. The parents’ co-operation is worth mentioning,” said headmistress Moumita Rakshit. Principal Sraboni Samanta said: “This is an event which the whole school looks forward to. And the kind of response we got from both the students and parents was overwhelming.” Shri Shikshayatan School Shri Shikshayatan School recently organised its annual science exhibition and art and craft show for the junior section on a virtual platform. The exhibitions together were a part of the STEAM education pedagogy, an integral to the CBSE curriculum. The science exhibition was based on the theme of Science in Nature, where students of classes III and V representing the four houses — Anushuya, Arundhati, Satavisha and Vishakha — demonstrated experiments on topics such as The Earth and its natural environment, Aqua lab, Air and Pressure-PRIZED. The art and craft exhibition, on the other hand, was organised as a motif to develop love for one’s roots by mixing education with culture. Students of classes I and II displayed their drawing and craft skills based on the theme Seasons and Best out of waste with things easily available at home. The exhibition commenced with the students of the NGO Bhantuali Ekal Vidyalaya displaying their contribution to the occasion. It is one of the many schools who receive charity contributions from Shri Shikshayatan School. “This year cannot be considered as a gap year. Children are growing and so should their knowledge,” said principal Sangeeta Tandon. Headmistress Poushali Mukherjee said: “It gives me pleasure to see how much enthusiasm and hard work have gone behind this exhibition. There is science everywhere around us, keep your eyes open and develop that passion and you will chance upon a wonderful world. With best of wishes for a happy and safe life, we will meet again but this does not stop us for the search of science and art and craft as part of our co-curricular activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-169
19-01-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 834 points to finish at almost 2 per cent higher||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 834 points on Tuesday, tracking strong gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid an upbeat trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 834.02 points or 1.72 per cent higher at 49,398.29. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 239.85 points or 1.68 per cent to 14,521.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC, L&T, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and NTPC. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, ITC and M&M were the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, having seen massive pullbacks in last two trading days, domestic equities witnessed sharp rebound mainly led by strong cues from global markets. "Positive statement from Janet Yellen about possibility of acting big to support economy bolstered confidence among investors globally," he said. US President-elect Joe Biden's nominee for treasury secretary, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen is calling on Congress to do more to fight the recession to avoid an even worse downturn. In the testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Yellen said more aid is needed to get coronavirus vaccines distributed -- key to ending outbreaks -- to reopen schools and help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stocks exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.22 per cent higher at USD 55.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
19-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies nearly 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied nearly 500 points in early trade on Tuesday tracking strong gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 485.97 points or 1 per cent higher at 49,050.24. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 134.05 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,415.35. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by SBI, ONGC, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, HDFC and Axis Bank. On the other hand, ITC and HDFC Bank were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 470.40 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48,564.27, while Nifty tumbled 152.40 points or 1.06 per cent to 14,281.30. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 650.60 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good at the moment. A sharp pullback for the last two trading days clearly indicates profit booking by the investors ahead of key events including the Union Budget. "However, we still believe that any meaningful correction will be bought out as underlying fundamentals of the market remain intact," he said. Huge fiscal stimulus in the US, persistently soft monetary policies of global bankers, weak dollar and better-than-expected earnings growth by corporate should continue to ensure favourable FPI flow into domestic markets, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 54.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
19-01-2021||Business||Delhi high court judge tunes out on privacy rule||The Delhi high court on Monday said accepting the new privacy policy of social messaging app WhatsApp was a “voluntary” thing and one can choose not to use or join that platform if one did not agree with its terms and conditions. “It is a private app. Don’t join it. It is a voluntary thing, don’t accept it. Use some other app,” Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said to the petitioner, a lawyer, who has challenged WhatsApp’s new privacy policy which was slated to come into effect in February but has been deferred till May. The court also said that if the terms and conditions of most mobile apps are read, “you would be surprised as to what all you are consenting to”. “Even Google Map captures all your data and stores it,” the court said. The court further said it could not understand what data would be leaked according to the petitioner and as the issue requires consideration, it will be listed on January 25 because of paucity of time on Monday. The central government also agreed with the court that the issue needs to be analysed. WhatsApp and Facebook, represented by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Mukul Rohatgi, told the court that the plea was not maintainable and many of the issues raised in it were without any foundation. They further told the court that private chat messages between family and friends would remain encrypted and cannot be stored by WhatsApp and this position would not change under the new policy. The change in policy would only affect the business chats on WhatsApp, they said. The petition, by a lawyer, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users right to privacy under the Constitution. The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user’s online activity without there being any supervision by the government. Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The lawyer appearing for the petitioner claimed that the option not to agree with the new policy was given to users in European nations, but not in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
19-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Centre advised to be realistic on fiscal gap ||Analysts want the government to give a realistic fiscal deficit target for 2021-22 as the coronavirus has dealt a severe blow to its finances this year. The pandemic  has caused the fiscal deficit to surge to Rs 10.75 lakh crore at the end of November, which is equivalent to 135.1 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimates (BE). The budget had originally pegged fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore. Fiscal deficit is the difference between the total income of the government and its total expenditure. The government had invoked the “escape clause” provided in the amended Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act to allow the deficit to rise to 3.8 per cent of GDP in the revised estimates (RE) for 2019-20 from 3.3 per cent of GDP budgeted for the year. Subsequently, it had expected the fiscal deficit to decline to 3.5 per cent of GDP in the budget estimates (BE) for 2021-22 and 3.3 per cent of GDP in the rolling target for 2022-23. However, the calculations turned awry after the economy was hit by Covid-19. “According to the first advance estimates of GDP, real GDP will contract 7.7 per cent in 2020-21 and nominal GDP growth is expected at (-) 4.2 per cent. Accordingly, the nominal GDP for 2021-22 would grow 15 per cent to Rs 224.04 lakh crore. Current trends in the GDP for 2020-21 will translate into a net revenue shortfall of Rs 3.2 lakh crore for the Centre this fiscal, while expenditure will be higher by around Rs 3.3 lakh crore, taking the fiscal deficit to Rs 14.46 lakh crore. Industry chamber CII said the government should look at “deficit management from a three-year perspective and ensure greater transparency in deficit numbers by giving realistic revenue projections, avoiding off-budget borrowings and... announcing a realistic fiscal deficit target for FY22”. Former CEA Shankar Acharya said the  government should not go too much on the defensive but set a more realistic fiscal deficit target of 4.75-5.25 per cent for 2021-22. “Since we are talking about a much larger GDP base, this automatically means more fiscal deficit in rupee terms. A 5 per cent deficit should address the issues,” he said. FY22 (2021-22 will also need additional outlays for vaccine rollout, managing the logistics and prioritising health expenditure... 5 per cent  fiscal deficit target for 2021-22, should address the revenue buoyancy, lag effect spending and the COVID outlays,” he said. It said “for FY22, assuming the government keeps the expenditure growth at 6 per cent over FY21 estimates and overall receipts, excluding borrowing and other liabilities, expected at 25 percent, it would result in a fiscal deficit of around Rs 11.67 lakh crore or 5.2 per cent of GDP.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings said “the first advance estimate of GDP for FY21 and our expectations on the finances of the Central Government, we project Centre’s fiscal deficit at 7.8% of GDP during FY21. On adding the amount borrowed for GST compensation to the states, the fiscal deficit could widen to 8.4% of GDP.” The government did announce a series of measures to support the pandemic hit economy but the finances remained constrained on the revenue front owing to which they had to resort to borrowings. The Government announced an increase in its gross market borrowings programme by Rs 4.2 lakh crore, taking the total gross borrowings to Rs 12 lakh crore during the year. Additionally, as part of the GST compensation shortfall faced by the states, the Central Government planned to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crs under a special window and transfer the same to the states. Though the government announced stimulus measures worth Rs 29.87 lakh crore, the fiscal component of these measures was low since it largely consisted of liquidity provided by the Reserve Bank of India and credit guarantees. “The revised FY21 budgetary numbers will serve as the basis for fixing the targets for the coming fiscal year. The revised numbers for FY21 will hinge on how much the nation-wide lockdown has weighed on the revenues of the Government, whether the apparent recovery seen in the latter half of the fiscal could materially off-set the loss of revenue in the first half, reorientation of expenditure towards relief, health, capital expenditure in FY21 and cost savings in non-priority departments,” Sabnavis added. The country’s track record on fiscal consolidation has been rather poor. Though the original aim as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act was to reduce the fiscal deficit to 3.0% of GDP by March 2008, it has been postponed multiple times. As per the fiscal consolidation roadmap, the government was supposed to bring down the fiscal deficit to 3.1% of GDP by 2022-23. For the fiscal roadmap, one will have to wait for the Budget to know the answer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021-22: Import duty on phones may go up||India is considering hiking import duties by 5-10 per cent on more than 50 items, including smartphones, electronic components and appliances, in the upcoming budget, three government sources privy to the discussions said on Monday. The move to increase import duties is part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s self-reliant India campaign that aims to promote and support domestic manufacturing, said the sources. One of the sources said the government was seeking to target additional revenue of about $2.7 billion to $2.8 billion from the moves, as it looks to shore up revenue amidst the pandemic-driven slowdown that has stung the economy. Two of the sources also said the duty hikes could impact furniture and electric vehicles, potentially hurting the likes of Swedish furniture maker Ikea and Tesla, which is planning to launch its cars in India this year. Both Ikea and Tesla executives have previously expressed concerns about the steep duty structure their products already face in India. The officials, however, did not specify how much of a hike was planned on furniture and electric vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Delay in Vijay Mallya extradition||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it was making all efforts to extradite fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, from the UK but the process was being delayed because of some legal issues involved in the matter. A bench of Justices U. U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing on March 15, after solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought some time to file report on the status of extradition of Mallya. The solicitor general stated that the ministry of external affairs (MEA) has raised the issue of extradition with the UK government and the Centre is making all serious efforts to extradite Mallya. He said that government was trying its best but the status remained the same and from the political executive level to administrative level the matter is being looked into repeatedly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter rolls out new Grazia||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) Pvt Ltd on Friday rolled out a new edition of its urban 125cc scooter Grazia called the Grazia Sports Edition, priced at Rs 82,564 (ex-showroom Gurgaon, Haryana). Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director-sales and marketing, HMSI Pvt Ltd, said, “Honda Grazia is an urban scooter for the young. As educational institutes start opening, Grazia Sports Edition will be the  choice for many looking for personal mobility.” Bosch Automotive Aftermarket inaugurated one of the largest Bosch Car Service (BCS) facilities at Panchkula, Haryana, as part of a workshop chain network expansion drive. The multi-brand car service concept from Bosch has about 250 service touchpoints across India. Partnered with Speed Links, this multi-brand service concept joins the world’s largest workshop network with a global footprint of more than 15000 workshops across 150 countries. BCS facilities address the need created by increasing customer demands for quality service and genuine parts for mass brands and premium segment cars, technologically advanced products, growing pre-owned car sales and the number of cars running on Indian roads out of the OE warranty. Bosch Automotive Aftermarket Division, after adding 100 workshops to its network, further plans to expand its network count by targeting significant growth in 2021 and beyond. The range of services include periodic maintenance, ECU diagnostics, brake service, clutch overhaul, suspension system, AC diagnostics and service, aggregate repairs, body repairs and painting, wheel balancing, tyre service, car wash and car detailing. There are also value-added services such as road-side assistance, pick, and drop services, cashless insurance repair in a body shop and renewal of insurance, annual service maintenance plan. The sources said the proposals may still be tweaked further before they are finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to increase prices of its models by up to Rs 34,000||Maruti Suzuki India (MSI), the country’s largest car maker, on Monday said it would increase the prices of its models by up to Rs 34,000 (ex-showroom-Delhi). The new prices are effective from January 18, 2021. “The company is raising the price for select models owing to an increase in various input costs. The price change varies across models and ranges up to Rs 34,000 (ex-showroom-Delhi),” the auto maker told bourses. Last month, the company had announced that it will be raising prices across its model range from January 2021. The auto maker had said that cost of vehicles have been severely impacted due to various input costs and it’s “necessary to pass on some of the impact to customers”. Before the hike, Maruti’s  range of vehicles were priced from Rs 2.95 lakh for the entry-level small car Alto to up to Rs 11.52 lakh for the multi-purpose vehicle XL6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Yes Bank ready to raise funds||Private sector lender Yes Bank on Monday said its board will meet on January 22 to discuss a fund raising proposal. The bank’s board will also discuss results for the December quarter at the meeting. “We wish to inform you that the board of directors of Yes Bank at its meeting scheduled on January 22, will discuss and consider: raising of funds by issue of equity shares or through depository receipts, convertible bonds, debentures, warrants or any other equity linked securities, through permissible modes,’’ the lender said in a regulatory filing to the bourses. This fund raising round comes after the bank raised Rs 15,000 crore through a follow-on public offering in 2020. For the September quarter, Yes Bank’s capital adequacy ratio stood at 19.9 per cent, up from 8.6 per cent in the preceding three months. During the period, it had reported a net profit of Rs 129 crore against a loss of Rs 600 crore in the year ago period. Yes Bank was rescued by a consortium led by State Bank of India (SBI) last year. For the quarter ended December 31, 2020, SBI held 30 per cent in the bank while the holding of ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, IDFC First Bank and Bandhan Bank stood at 3.99 per cent, 2.39 per cent, 1.15 per cent and 1.20 per cent, respectively. Since the past few months, banks have been shoring up their capital base for on-lending as the economy shows signs of recovery and also to provide for a possible rise in bad loans. The RBI too has been asking them to strengthen their capital. Building buffers and raising capital by banks – both in the public and private sector – will be crucial not only to ensure credit flow but also to build resilience in the financial system,’’ RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das had said at an event last Saturday. Shares of Yes Bank on Monday settled with marginal gains of 0.28 per cent at Rs 17.70 on the BSE. “Going ahead, financial institutions in India have to walk a tightrope in nurturing the economic recovery within the overarching objective of preserving long-term stability of the financial system. The current COVID-19 pandemic related shock will place greater pressure on the balance sheets of banks in terms of non-performing assets, leading to erosion of capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Citi India rejigs top brass||Citi India has elevated Arjun Chowdhry as the head of its consumer banking business where he will manage domestic retail banking, wealth management, credit cards, loans and mortgages. The appointment is effective January 8, the foreign bank said in a statement on Monday. Chowdhry will join the Asia consumer leadership team, ensuring alignment with global and regional priorities. He will report to Citi India chief executive officer Ashu Khullar and the banking major’s head (APAC and EMEA retail ranking) Fabio Fontainha, the bank added. Chowdhry joined Citi as a management associate and has held diverse roles, starting with consumer operations, moving to wealth management, NRI and deposit products, credit cards, loans and payments. Private sector lender RBL Bank on Monday said its board of directors has approved the re-appointment of Vishwavir Ahuja as the managing director and chief executive officer of the bank for a period of three years, with effect from June 30, 2021 to June 29, 2024. This is based on the recommendation of the nomination and remuneration committee, the bank said in a notification to exchanges. Citi India leads among foreign banks in wealth management in terms of assets under management. Amost 75 per cent of its consumer banking customers access their accounts online or through mobile app even as over 96 per cent transactions are done through self-service. Citi added that it follows a segment-led strategy with a clear focus on digitization of the entire banking life cycle, from acquisition through transactions and servicing, resulting in strong growth in new-to-bank clients, volume and wallet share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Group sells 20% stake in Adani Green Energy to Total of France for $2.5 billion||Adani Group on Monday said it has sold a 20 per cent equity stake in Adani Green Energy to global energy major Total of France for $2.5 billion. The purchase of 20 per cent minority interest by Total was done “via the acquisition of shares held by the Adani Promoter Group in Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL)”, a statement by Adani said. Global energy majors such as Total and BP have increased their focus on green energy and lowered their stakes in fossil fuel with growing consciousness about climate change and the adverse impact of greenhouse gas. International Energy Agency in its report said “the oil and gas industry is facing increasing demands to clarify the implications of energy transitions for their operations and business models, and to explain the contributions that they can make to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement”. “The increasing social and environmental pressures on many oil and gas companies raise complex questions about the role of these fuels in a changing energy economy, and the position of these companies in the societies in which they operate,” it said. Total CEO Patrick Pouyanne said “our entry into AGEL is a major milestone in our strategy in the renewable energy business in India put in place by both parties, which began with our first joint venture 2.3GW of renewable capacity. He said “given the size of the market, India is the right place to put into action/to deploy our energy transition strategy based on two pillars: renewables and natural gas”. The investment in Adani Green is another step in the strategic alliance between Adani Group and Total across various businesses and companies of the group covering investments in LNG terminals, gas utility business and renewable assets across India. In 2018, Total and Adani embarked on the energy partnership with investment by Total in Adani Gas Ltd which has a presence in the city gas distribution business, associated LNG terminal business and gas marketing business. The French giant had acquired a 37.4 per cent stake in Adani Gas Limited and a 50 per cent stake in Dhamra LNG project. “We have a shared vision of developing renewable power at affordable prices to enable a sustainable energy transformation in India. We look forward to working together towards delivering India’s vision for 450GW renewable energy by 2030,” Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani said. Adani Green started in 2015 with the world's largest single location solar power project at Kamuthi, Tamil Nadu with 648MW capacity. It has over 14.6GW of contracted renewable capacity, with an operating capacity of 3GW and another 3GW under construction and 8.6GW under development. The company aims to achieve 25GW of renewable power generation by 2025, and is committed to contribute meaningfully to India's COP21 goals and to the wider UNFCC (UN Framework Convention on Climate Change) goals of sustainability. India has set a policy target of setting up 450GW of renewable power capacity by 2030.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||Business||Large NBFCs face tough reserve rules||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is expected to release a discussion paper on NBFCs (nonbanking finance companies) this week that will suggest large shadow banks should hold a share of their deposits or funds in cash, gold and government securities, mimicking asset sequestration regulations that apply to scheduled commercial banks.  Fears of such tighter regulations on the sector had its impact on the stock markets with the Sensex slumping over 470 points and the Nifty ending below the 14300 mark. While there have been concerns over expensive valuations, comments by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das pinned NBFC stocks down on Monday. Investors fear the RBI will subject larger shadow banks to tighter rules that will be on a par with banks, draining their cash and  impacting their bottomlines. Such proposed norms are, however, some months away as the RBI will engage in consultations with the sector before taking any major steps. The banking regulator does not want a repeat of the IL&FS and DHFL fiascos. A Reuters report said that the shadow banks would be asked to maintain statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and cash reserve ratio (CRR). SLR is that portion of deposits which must be maintained in liquid cash or government securities. In the case of banks, this stands at 18 per cent. CRR is that portion of deposits which must be maintained with the central bank. It is now at 3 per cent for banks. After the monetary policy in December 2020, the RBI governor had said a review of the way NBFCs were functioning was needed because of their growing significance and rising inter-linkages with other segments in the financial system. He had said the central bank was looking at a graded approach when it came to regulation, an indication that larger ones will be subject to tighter rules. “There is, therefore, a need to review the regulatory framework in line with the changing risk profile of NBFCs. It is felt that a scale-based regulatory approach linked to the systemic risk contribution of NBFCs could be the way forward,” the RBI had said. Last Saturday, while addressing the Nani Palkhivala Memorial Lecture, Das had said that a discussion paper on this subject was likely to be released this week. He pointed out that the focus of the new guidelines would be to ensure that both big and small NBFCs have sufficient flexibility to grow. Among the Sensex players on Monday, Bajaj Finance fell 3.44 per cent to Rs 4,713.60, Bajaj Finserv lost 3.21 per cent to close at Rs 8,354.40, while HDFC declined 2.49 per cent to Rs 2,566.40. In Monday’s trading, the 30-share BSE index ended 470.40 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48564.27. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 152.40 points or 1.06 per cent to 14281.30. Other NBFC stocks too witnessed selling pressure. L&T Finance Holdings which announced good results last week, settled with losses of 5.33 per cent. Counters such as Muthoot Finance, M&M Financial Services, Manappuram Finance, Shriram Transport Finance, Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Company also slumped up to 6 per cent. Market circles said that had it not been for Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank, the benchmark indices would have seen larger cuts. Shares of HDFC Bank on Monday hit a new 52-week high of Rs 1,503 and closed with gains of 1.15 per cent as its third quarter results came in better than Street estimates. The 30-share Sensex has now lost over 1000 points since last Friday and this comes even though the results season has got off to a good start with heavyweights such as  TCS and Infosys reporting better than expected numbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-166
19-01-2021||India||‘Tandav’ makers apologise, agree to implement changes||Facing backlash after its release, the cast and crew of Amazon Prime Video web series Tandav said on Tuesday that they have decided to implement changes to the political thriller to address concerns of protesters. A nine-episode political drama, Tandav found itself at the centre of a huge controversy over its depiction of Hindu deities, after it started streaming last week. The show stars Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub. At the centre of the row is a scene with Zeeshan Ayyub, in the role of college student Shiva, playing the Hindu god Mahadev in a theatre production. In an official statement, the team reiterated that they had no intention to hurt anyone’s sentiments. “We did not intend to hurt or offend the sentiments of any individual, caste, community, race, religion or religious beliefs or insult or outrage any institution, political party or person, living or dead... We once again apologise if the series has unintentionally hurt anybody's sentiments,,” the statement read. “The cast and crew of Tandav have made the decision to implement changes to the web series to address the concerns raised towards the same,” the statement read. The team also thanked the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for the guidance and support in the matter. As the controversy escalated for the third day, the makers tried to defuse the situation by announcing their decision to remove the controversial portion from the show, which balances intrigue in Delhi's corridors of power with hot button issues such as student unrest and farmer protests. Tandav , which literally translates to ‘dance of destruction’, is the focus of multiple FIRs, three in Uttar Pradesh and another in Madhya Pradesh. There have been calls for its boycott on social media and from politicians of different states for allegedly hurting the religious sentiments with its depiction of Hindu deities. In their statement on Monday, the makers had said their show is a work of fiction. “The cast and crew of Tandav take cognisance of the concerns expressed by the people and unconditionally apologize if it has unintentionally hurt anybody's sentiments,” it said. Despite their apology, the storm over the web series refused to die down on Tuesday with an FIR being lodged against the makers in Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. The FIR names as accused series' director Zafar, Amazon Prime's India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Kishan Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and actors Saif, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Constitutional right to voice demands, agitators say ahead of R-day march||Preparations are in full gear among farmers to hold their tractor rally on Republic Day, the protesting unions said amid looming uncertainties, adding that authorities should facilitate the “peaceful march”, instead of stopping it. After the Delhi Police sought an injunction on the tractor rally, the Supreme Court on Monday said the decision on it has to be taken by the Centre and the police, and the official permission is yet to be worked out. Protesting unions, which plan to hold the rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on January 26, have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the parade and said more farmers will be heading to the national capital in batches later this week. “There is a great enthusiasm among people in Punjab to become part of the tractor parade. Our batches will start moving towards Delhi from January 23 and 24,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said 20,000-25,000 tractors would come to Delhi from Punjab alone for the planned parade. “We want the government to give us permission for our rally. This is our country and it is our constitutional right to voice our needs and demands,” said Amarjeet Singh Rarra, general secretary, Deaba Kisan Committee, said on Delhi's Singhu border. “We will march with our farmer unions’ flags and the national flag. So if they fight us, they will be fighting the tiranga,” he said. He added that instead of preventing the farmers from taking out the march, the Centre and the police should provide a safe corridor for the rally . While the final plan for the rally is yet to be formulated, volunteers from among the protestors have been roped in to ensure discipline during the march, farmers said. “We met the police today to tell them that our rally will be completely non-violent, and they said they will scrutinise the route details and get back to us tomorrow,” said Lakhbir Singh, All India Kisan Sabha, State Vice President (Punjab). “We also want to see what the government has to say tomorrow at the talks. We will then finalise the plan in 1-2 days,” he added. The tractor rally, protesters said, was happening because the government had failed to meet their demands in the last two months, and would be a way to display the farmers’ unity . “Our farmer union leaders have provided the government the road map of the parade in advance, so there shouldn't be any reason to not allow us. We have been protesting peacefully till now, and our rally will also be non-violent. It is our constitutional right to be able to enter Delhi,” said Kurlal Singh from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. “Rehearsals for the rally are going on back home in our villages. The volunteers here are being told how to maintain decorum during the march,” said Sukhjit Singh Sidhu, a protesting farmer from Patiala who has been camping at the Delhi-Haryana border since November 26. Lakhs of people will turn up here from Thursday, after gurupurab (Guru Gobind Singh's birth anniversary) tomorrow, he said. Meanwhile, the next round of talks with the government is scheduled for Wednesday. The talks have failed to yield any concrete result as the agitating unions have stuck to their main demand for repealing the agri laws and the government has ruled out any such step. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday hoped that protesting farmer unions will discuss alternatives other than the repeal of the laws in the tenth round of talks and appealed to them not to go ahead with their tractor rally. “I want to appeal to farmers that January 26 is our Republic Day and the country has got independence after much sacrifice. Ensuring that the dignity of the Republic day is not affected is the responsibility of farmers also. I hope they will reconsider their decision,” he had said.Farmers protest: Constitutional right to voice demands, agitators say ahead of R-day march||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Food in Parliament canteen to become costlier||Food served in Parliament canteens for MPs and others will become costlier as a subsidy given for it has been stopped, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Tuesday. While Birla did not specify the financial implications of the move, sources said the Lok Sabha Secretariat can annually save more than Rs 8 crore with the subsidy coming to an end. Talking to reporters about preparations for the next Parliament session, beginning January 29, Birla also said the Parliament canteens will now be run by ITDC in place of Northern Railways. Birla said all Members of Parliament will be requested to undergo the COVID-19 test before the start of the Budget session. While Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 am to 2 pm, Lok Sabha will function in the second half from 4-8 pm. The Question Hour will be allowed during the session for an already fixed time of one hour. He said all arrangements have also been made for RTPCR COVID-19 tests of MPs near their residence. In Parliament premises, the RTPCR tests will be conducted on January 27-28, while arrangements have also been made for these tests of families and staff members of MPs. Birla said the vaccination drive policy finalised by the Centre and states will apply to parliamentarians as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||People vaccinated so far more than double the amount of India's active caseload||A total of 4,54,049 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country which is more than double the number of coronavirus active cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. In a span of 24 hours, 2,23,669 people were vaccinated for Covid-19 across 3,930 sessions taking the cumulative total of people vaccinated to 4,54,049 (across 7,860 sessions conducted so far) in the country, the ministry said. India's total COVID-19 active caseload has dropped to 2 lakh (2,00,528) as on date which consists of just 1.90 per cent of the total cases, while the daily new cases have touched a new low on Tuesday with 10,064 daily new infections being added to the national tally after seven months. The daily new cases were 10,956 on June 12, 2020, the ministry said. "The fall in the number of daily new cases is accompanied by a fast rising number of people getting vaccinated against COVID-19 across all states and UTs," it said. "The total number of people vaccinated is more than double the number of active cases," the ministry highlighted. The COVID-19 positivity rate has also seen a deep dip with the increase in number of testing infrastructure. India's weekly positivity rate is 1.97 per cent, the ministry said underlining 22 states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate less than the national average. Thirteen states and UTs have weekly positivity rate more than the national average, it stated. The country has recorded less than 140 fatalities (137 fatalities) in a span of 24 hours after approximately 8 months, it said. The total number of recoveries has touched 1,02,28,753, while the number of active cases in the country stands at 2,08,012. A total of 17,411 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country. The ministry said that 80.41 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed from ten states and UTs. Kerala has reported the highest number of recoveries with 3,921 newly recovered cases in single day. A total of 3,854 people have been recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 1,301 in Chhattisgarh. Over 71 per cent of the new cases are from six states and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest number of daily new cases at 3,346. It is followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 1,924 and 551 new cases, respectively. Eight states and UTs have reported 72.99 per cent of the total fatalities happened in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported 35 deaths. Kerala also saw a fatality count of 17 while West Bengal reported 10 new deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Covaxin not safe for pregnant or breastfeeding women, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech's fact sheet on Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has advised pregnant or breastfeeding women, besides people with high fever or bleeding disorders, not to take the antidote. The vaccine maker in the fact sheet on Covaxin, posted in its website, said the clinical efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be established and is being studied in Phase 3 clinical trial and hence it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean other precautions related to Covid- 19 need not be followed. "You should not get Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin if you have any history of allergies. Or any other serious health-related issues, as determined by the vaccinator/ Officer supervising vaccination," the fact sheet said. The fact sheet also asked people to inform the vaccinator or a supervising official about their medical condition before taking the vaccine. Bharat Biotech said in an ongoing clinical trial Covaxin has been shown to generate immunity following two doses given four weeks apart. Covaxin is a vaccine with approval for restricted use in emergency situations that may prevent Covid-19. The Central Licensing Authority has granted permission for the sale or distribution of the antidote for restricted use in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, the fact sheet said. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses, the company had said. Covaxin is India's totally indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Withdraw new privacy policy: India’s letter to WhatsApp CEO||Amid a huge backlash by users, the Indian government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw its latest changes in privacy policy, saying unilateral changes are not fair and acceptable. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in a letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, said India has the largest user base of the messaging platform and is one the biggest markets for its services. The proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy “raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens,” it wrote. The ministry asked WhatsApp to withdraw the proposed changes and reconsider its approach to information privacy, freedom of choice and data security. Stating that Indians should be properly respected, it said, “any unilateral changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy would not be fair and acceptable.” Communications, Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also noted on Tuesday that national security will be central with regard to exposure of international companies, including those from China, in the country. “This is an issue that my department is (working) on, and being the final authority, it will not be proper for me to make comments. But except to flag one thing very clearly. Be it WhatsApp, be it Facebook, be it any digital platform. You are free to do business in India but do it in a manner without impinging upon the rights of Indians who operate there,” he said while addressing  the 15th India Digital Summit. He added that the sanctity of personal communications needs to be maintained. “I've only spoken on principles, given that my department is working. I have to await that,” he said. Earlier this month, WhatsApp had informed users of an update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. Users had till February 8, to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. However, WhatsApp drew flak from users across the globe, including India that ranks among the biggest markets for WhatsApp with over 400 million users. Following this, WhatsApp has now decided to delay the rollout of its new policy update to May 15, and said it will “do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp”. WhatsApp had also stated that it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and that it remains committed to the privacy and security of users across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||New laws ‘designed to destroy’ agriculture sector, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the Centre of designing the new farm laws to “destroy” the agriculture sector, while asserting that repealing them is the only way to solve the farmers’ issue. Addressing a press conference, the former Congress president said, “I support the protesting farmers 100 per cent and every single person in the country should support them as they are fighting for us.” "He also released a booklet highlighting the “plight” of farmers in the wake of the Centre’s three farm laws. He alleged that the laws will put the entire agriculture sector in the hands of “three to four crony capitalists”. The Centre's new farm laws are “designed to destroy” the agriculture sector, he further said. When asked about the impasse in talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers, Gandhi said repealing the legislations is the only way to end the deadlock. Hitting back at BJP president J.P. Nadda for his tweets earlier in the day criticising him, the Congress leader said it was an “attempted distraction”. “The farmers know that it was Rahul Gandhi who stood up in Bhatta Parsaul and over the land acquisition issue, not BJP leader Nadda,” he said. “I am not afraid of anyone, neither of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi nor of anyone else. I am a clean person, they can’t touch me. They can shoot me, but can't touch me. I am a patriot and I protect my country, and I will keep doing it,” he added. He further hit back at Nadda, who had in a series of tweets targeted him for attacking the government over a report saying that China had built a village in Arunachal Pradesh on the Indian side of the border. “Now that Mr Rahul Gandhi has returned from his monthly vacation, I would like to ask him some questions. I hope he will answer them in today's Press Conference,” Nadda had said. “Who is he that I have to answer to him? Is he my professor? I will answer to the country,” Gandhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||SC panel to meet farmers, stakeholders on January 21||Anil Ghanwat, a key member of the Supreme Court appointed panel on the three contentious farm laws, said on Tuesday that the board will not let their personal views on these Acts come in the way of their deliberations with various stakeholders. He further asserted that they are not on the side of any party or the government. The panel met for the first time on Tuesday at the Pusa campus in New Delhi. Ghanwat revealed that the first round of consultations with farmers and other stakeholders has been scheduled for Thursday. On January 11, the top court had set up a four-member panel on the laws, but one of them, Bhupinder Singh Mann, recused himself later after questions were raised by the agitating farmer unions about the views expressed by all members in the past in support of the Acts. Separately, nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and agitating unions without any concrete resolution. Ghanwat, the  president of the Shetkari Sanghatana, said the panel will hold its first round of talks with farmers and other stakeholders on January 21. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” he said. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court,” he said. The committee has been appointed by the Supreme Court and it is up to the apex court whom to appoint, he said on whether any replacement would be made for Mann. “We have been given a responsibility and we will fulfill it properly,” Ghanwat said. “We want to request those farmers who don't want to come before us that we are neither from any party nor from the government side. We are from the Supreme Court side,” he said on allegations by the agitating unions and opposition parties that all the members were pro-government. “Come and talk to us. We will listen to you and present your views before the court. We request them to come and speak to us,” Ghanwat said. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three farm laws on Delhi borders for almost two months now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Centre places order for 45 lakh more doses of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech has secured a fresh Letter of Comfort from the Centre for another 45 lakh doses of its COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, sources said. Out of the 45 lakh doses, the city-based vaccine maker will be supplying over eight lakh to some of the friendly countries such as Mauritius, Philippines and Myanmar, free of cost as goodwill gesture, sources added. "The company was given a fresh letter of comfort recently for supplying another 45 lakh doses of Covaxin. The doses will be dispatched as when the Ministry places orders with the company," sources told PTI. After having received the government purchase order for 55lakh doses, BharatBiotechshipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow, it said. Bharat Biotech said it has also donated 16.5 lakh doses to the Government of India. Sources further said the supplies from the company depend on the orders being placed by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Good news: in Covid recovered patients, antibodies last six months  ||A nationwide survey involving testing the blood of people to check for the presence of Covid-19 antibodies has turned up good news for those who’ve recovered from the coronavirus. Antibodies to protect against catching the virus again remain active for at least six months, the study by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) suggests. “Even after six months, antibodies and neutralising antibodies, although they decreased from the initial values, were much above the (protection) threshold in most of the cases,” says Shantanu Sengupta who’s the senior principal scientist at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and one of the study’s co-authors. The landmark study, the first of its kind to be conducted in India, also suggests that smokers and vegetarians enjoy a lower risk of catching the virus. Those with the O and A group blood types may be less likely, too, to get infected while those in the B and AB blood groups are at most risk from Covid, the report says. The CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, known better as IGIB, surveyed staff and their family members at the CSIR’s more than 40 laboratories and institutes in 24 cities across India. It found that 10.14 per cent of 10,427 individuals surveyed had antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. “Use of private transport, lower (public) exposure occupations, smoking, vegetarianism, and ‘A’ or ‘O’ blood groups appeared to be protective (against Covid) using seropositivity as a surrogate for infection,” the report says. Seropositivity simply means showing a positive result in a blood test for a particular antibody. Antibodies are substances in the blood that fight disease. Seroprevalence was highest for blood group type AB (10.19 per cent) followed by group B (9·94 per cent), group O (7.09 per cent) and the lowest for group A (6.97 per cent). A follow-up survey carried out on 346 seropositive individuals after three months found “stable” to “higher” antibody levels against SARS-CoV-2, while there was a fall in Covid virus-neutralizing plasma activity. A repeat check on 35 participants at six months showed declining antibody levels but the neutralising plasma antibodies remained steady compared with the level recorded three months earlier. Even so -- and this is the crucial takeaway -- both the normal antibody levels as well as the neutralizing plasma antibodies were still above the level required to fight off infection. “Even after six months, antibodies and neutralising antibodies, although they decreased from the initial values, they were much above the (protection) threshold in most of the cases,” Sengupta says. “This is an important finding that means people who are already infected and seropositive, their antibodies will remain intact at least for six months,” he says. The study found that 95 per cent of the seropositive individuals also had "significant plasma virus-neutralising activity." “The antibodies are much higher than the threshold. That’s very heartening to know,” adds Sengupta. The institute plans to continue following the same people “for a long time so see how many are getting infected and how stable the antibodies are,” he says. It’s the first time in India that researchers have tracked individuals for six months to check for Covid-19 antibodies. And the institute plans to keep on following the same people “for a long time so see how many are getting infected and how stable the antibodies are,” Sengupta says. The institute chose to study its staff because of the large number of employees and students that it could survey as well as its geographic reach with centres in 24 cities across India. The staff and students represented a socio-economic snapshot of India.  “The CSIR is present in all parts of the country and CSIR individuals represent the urban middle-class as well as contractual staff and the low socio-economic class. That’s why we say we captured the entire nation,” Sengupta says. “About 15-16 per cent of the people who were of lower socio-economic status were seropositive while for the others it was 5-6 per cent,” he notes. The aggregate seropositivity of 10.14 per cent suggests that more than 100 million Indians were infected by last September, primarily in larger cities but the illness was rapidly spreading all over the nation at that time. Most seropositive individuals had occupational exposure risk such as being in public-facing jobs working as security guards. Significant symptoms were recalled by only 25 per cent of those surveyed, with 75 per cent recalling no symptoms at all. At the same time, the paper says that “herd immunity does not seem to be in sight and an effective vaccine may be necessary to control this pandemic. Large cities have high seropositivity rates, “but the majority of India continues to have low-to-moderate seropositivity,” the researchers said. The study also sought to determine whether seropositivity could be an indicator of future virus outbreaks. Researchers plotted on a graph the rate of new cases before and after the date of taking blood samples. The researchers found that “higher seropositivity predicted declining new cases, while the largest increases were seen exclusively in areas of low seropositivity. This is “a very important message we wanted to give from this study. This way (through seropositivity) you’ll be actually able to predict which are the places which will have more prevalence of the disease,” Sengupta says. The study’s observation that smokers are less likely to be Covid seropositive is the first such finding involving the Indian population. Non-smokers recorded a higher seroprevalence of 10.11 per cent, as opposed to smokers (6.88 per cent). The finding contributes to a growing body of evidence which suggests that despite COVID being a respiratory disease, smoking may be protective. Two studies from France and similar reports from Italy, New York and China have also found lower Covid infection rates among smokers. “That smokers have a lower seropositivity rate has been found in various countries but they were all hospital-based studies. This is the first population study to suggest that,” says Sengupta.  “But in no way are we supporting the idea that smoking is good,” he adds, laughing. The French study carried out at the Pitie-Salpetriere hospital suggested that a substance in tobacco – possibly nicotine – might be stopping patients who smoke from catching Covid-19. Clinical trials of nicotine patches are awaiting the approval of the country’s health authorities. However, the French researchers said that while nicotine may protect smokers from the virus, those who have caught Covid often develop more serious symptoms because of the harmful effect of tobacco smoke on the lungs. The Italian study showed that smokers were five times less likely to end up in the hospital with Covid but -- and this is key -- nearly twice as likely to die if they were admitted. Non-vegetarians, meanwhile, had a seroprevalence rate of 11 per cent, while seropositivity among vegetarians was 6·86 per cent.  One possible reason scientists put forward for the lower infection rate among vegetarians is that they consume a plant-based fibre-rich diet that promotes gut health which in turn can enhance immunity. Occupation also figures importantly in infection risk. The researchers clubbed the individuals surveyed into two broad categories: CSIR staff and so-called “outsourced staff.” The staff consisted of faculty, students, office staff and family members. The outsourced staff worked in such areas as security, housekeeping and grounds maintenance. The CSIR staff had a positivity of 7.98 per cent, while positivity for the outsourced staff, who have more interaction with the general public and often travel by public travel, was more than double that rate at 16.22 per cent. Interestingly, the presence or absence of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease were not found to have a significant effect on seropositivity. The highest virus positivity rate was found in Hyderabad at 18 per cent of the 2,073 people whose blood was tested for Covid antibodies (eight percentage points higher than the national virus positivity rate). The second-highest positivity rate was detected in Chennai at 16 per cent, followed by Delhi at 14 per cent. Large cities have high seropositivity rates, but the majority of India continues to have low-to-moderate seropositivity, the study says. The study provides an important “snapshot across multiple geographies” and it confirms that by last September “there was a wide but uneven spread of the pandemic with the epidemic subsequently growing more rapidly in regions with low seropositivity,” the researchers conclude. On the bright side, Covid cases now are “constantly falling,” says Sengupta, outlining two potential reasons.  “It’s possible a lot of people have already been infected. Secondly, people have understood and are taking more precautions,” he says. "And if enough people have already obtained immunity, that’s definitely good.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||India's logs 10,064 fresh Covid cases, the lowest in seven months||India reported the lowest number of daily coronavirus infections in over seven months with 10,064 new cases, which took the caseload to 1,05,81,837, while recoveries have surged to 1,02,28,753, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,556 as 137 fatalities, the lowest in around eight months, were recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,28,753, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.66 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,00,528 active COVID-19 cases in the country which comprise 1.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 18,78,02,827 samples have been tested up to January 18 with 7,09,791 samples being tested on Monday. The 137 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 10 from West Bengal, nine from Karnataka, and eight each from Delhi and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,52,556 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,473 from Maharashtra followed by 12,272 from Tamil Nadu, 12,175 from Karnataka, 10,754 from Delhi, 10,063 from West Bengal, 8,580 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,141 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,509 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Very dense fog lowers visibility to zero in parts of Delhi ||Very dense fog blanketed parts of Delhi on Tuesday, reducing visibility to zero metres and affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius as northwesterly winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, an IMD official said. On Monday, Delhi's minimum temperature stood at 9 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal, due to party cloudy weather and easterly winds which are not as cold as northwesterly winds. The IMD said that very dense fog lowered visibility to zero metres at Palam at 8:30 am. Visibility level was 300 metres at Safdarjung. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Centre guarded on China village report in India-claimed territory in Arunachal Pradesh||The external affairs ministry was on Monday guarded in its response to a news report about a new Chinese village coming up on India-claimed territory in Arunachal Pradesh that has been under Chinese control for years. The ministry did not deny the report outright, underlining that China had in the past too undertaken such construction. “In response, our government too has stepped up border infrastructure, including the construction of roads, bridges, etc, which has provided much-needed connectivity to the local population along the border,” the ministry said. “(The) government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.” According to an NDTV report, the new Chinese village consists of some 101 homes. Satellite images dated November 1, 2020, show the settlement is about 4.5km within India-claimed territory. The village, located on the banks of the Tsari Chu river, lies in the Upper Subansiri district, which has long been disputed territory. Satellite imagery of the same place from August 2019 suggests that the village, made up of a neat row of houses, has come up within 15 months. Arunachal East MP Tapir Gao had in November 2019 warned the Lok Sabha about such constructions. Gao told The Telegraph on Monday that the village had come up since he had flagged the issue in the Lok Sabha but added that such construction had been going on in the area since 1984. He said border development had picked up pace under the Narendra Modi government but conceded that this had not deterred China from carrying out its own construction projects. “They have constructed a two-lane road and a mini-hydel project,” Gao said. He urged the media to use the term “McMahon Line” for the border in Arunachal Pradesh and not “the Line of Actual Control”. “In Arunachal Pradesh, it is not LAC but McMahon Line,” he said, arguing that calling it anything else is to push the Chinese narrative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: ‘misunderstood’ SC keeps hands off tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Monday said it was for the government to decide whether to allow the farmers’ proposed tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, handing a snub to the Centre that had wanted the court to decide the tricky issue. The court decision to stay out of the matter comes amid mounting criticism of the way it had earlier intervened in the government-farmer dispute by forming a committee of mediators and staying the implementation of the three laws the farmers are protesting against. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, appeared mindful of that controversy on Monday, saying its intervention had been “misunderstood”. On the proposed January 26 “Kisan Parade” by the farmers, who are now massed on Delhi’s borders, it said “who can be allowed and who cannot be allowed” has to be decided by the police. “Mr Attorney-General, you must understand that intervention of this court has unfortunately been misunderstood. Who will come to the city and who will be allowed is not something for us to see,” Justice Bobde told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a brief hearing. “Invoke all your powers to see whether farmers can be allowed in the city. Who can be allowed and who cannot be allowed are matters of law and order which is to be dealt by police.” The oral observation came on an application from the Centre for a court direction to prevent the tractor rally on the ground that Khalistanis had infiltrated the farmers’ protest and could disturb peace if the parade was allowed to enter Delhi. With the farmers’ protest turning into a politically sensitive issue, the Centre has increasingly been keen on firing from the court’s shoulders. A couple of the apex court’s recent decisions have prompted some legal experts to accuse it of overstepping its limits to provide the Centre with just that option. The court’s move to stay the three contentious laws’ implementation rather than examine their constitutionality has attracted the charge of straying into the legislature’s domain. Its constitution of a four-member mediation committee has been rejected by the farmers who say they want to talk to the government directly. The choice of the panel’s four members — all of whom had earlier supported the new farm laws — has fuelled further controversy, which deepened when one of the four resigned “so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country”. On Monday, when Venugopal insisted that the court pass an order, Justice Bobde remarked: “We said this last time that entry to Delhi has to be seen by Delhi police…. We cannot be the first authority. Does Union of India need Supreme Court to tell what powers it has under the Police Act?” “This is an extraordinary situation,” Venugopal persisted, prompting the Chief Justice to say: “But why do you want us to tell what powers you have?” The court, however, adjourned the matter for further hearing on Wednesday since Justice A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, who had been part of the bench that had passed the earlier orders on the matter, were absent on Monday. Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran were filling in for them. Justice Bobde said the regular bench would hear the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Profit-making companies can set up medical colleges attached to profit-making hospitals ||Profit-making companies can now set up medical colleges that may be attached to profit-making hospitals under changed rules that academics have cited as another example of the “commercialisation of education” under the Narendra Modi government. The critics have underlined that the changes contradict the government’s own National Education Policy (NEP), which reaffirmed that education was a not-for-profit sector. The ball had been set rolling in May 2019 with the Board of Governors in Supersession of Medical Council of India Amendment Notification, which allowed consortiums comprising “society, trust or company” to set up medical colleges. Earlier, only registered trusts or societies or companies registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act — which are not-for profit entities — were allowed to set up educational institutions. The new notification mentioned “company” but not Section 8. However, the May 2019 notification wasn’t enough by itself for a profit-making company to set up a medical college — a similar relaxation was needed for the university to which the college would be affiliated. This came in the form of the UGC (Deemed to be Universities) Amendment Regulations, notified in November 2020, which allowed a college (not just a medical college) to be established as a collaboration between a deemed university and a company. In a clear allusion to medical colleges, these regulations say that a college can enter into an agreement with a hospital for practical training. The regulations add that the college should be a not-for-profit institution but make no such stipulation for the hospital. Entities that set up medical colleges have always had to establish the attached hospital too. These hospitals therefore shared the founding entities’ not-for-profit character. Abha Dev Habib, former member of Delhi University’s executive council, said hospitals attached to medical colleges served society by remaining not-for-profit entities. Now the hospitals to be set up by consortiums that include profit-making companies will be free to earn profits, which will deprive the poor of their service. “This is another example of the commercialisation of higher education in general, and health education in particular,” she said. “The orientation of medical students who are trained at private hospitals that charge high fees will be different. They will be influenced by the commercial model of treatment that demands the payment of high fees. The idea of service will be defeated.” She added: “This violates the NEP, which reiterates that education is a not-for-profit sector. This means the government has no regard for its own policy.” So far, profit-earning companies had to set up trusts or societies or Section 8 companies to be able to establish educational institutions. Any surplus money that the trust, society or company earned had to go towards expansion of the institution or subsidies for the students. Dr Vaibhav, a Gwalior-based medical practitioner, said that getting trained at profit-making hospitals could hamper the medical students’ education in many ways. The well-off patients going to such hospitals would demand that only senior and experienced doctors treat them, he said. They are also likely to refuse to let the students examine them for their own education — unlike patients at, say, government hospitals who have to endure such attention from morning till evening. “Mostly VIPs go to private hospitals. They would not want any student to touch them,” Dr Vaibhav said. “Many private hospitals now run DNB (a postgraduate diploma) courses. The students clear the exam and get the diploma without the confidence to practise independently. They train with some or other government hospital later. The same thing will happen at these colleges.”Further, hospitals that cater only to the well-off are likely to have a smaller pool of patients, which means the students may not witness as wide a variety of medical cases as their peers from non-profit-making hospitals. Agreeing with Habib, Dr Vaibhav said that while the new arrangement would help create more hospitals in the short term, it would also institutionalise “profiteering in medical education”. “This step will lead to more hospitals and more doctors, which will be good for the patients within the short term of a decade. But in the long term, it will increase the cost of medical education and produce young doctors who will jump into the market to make money.” Dr Vaibhav said that 65 per cent of medical colleges in India were private colleges attached to private hospitals that were required to plough their surplus money back into expansion and student subsidies. Allegations have always been there, however, about some private colleges, including medical colleges, making huge profits by illegally charging exorbitant capitation fees. Separate emails were sent to the education ministry and the UGC seeking their replies to the charge that the changing nature of medical education was contrary to the NEP. The mails elicited no response. The May 2019 notification defined a “consortium” as a group of not less than two – or more than four -- organisations such as a society or trust or company or university or deemed university. The consortium leader must have had an annual turnover not less than Rs 500 crore in the preceding financial year. It will have to apply to the government for permission to set up a medical college. One member of the consortium is to run the attached hospital. The medical college set up by the consortium will be treated as an off-campus arm of the deemed university that will award the degree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Delhi police meets farmers on tractor rally||Delhi police on Monday held preliminary discussions with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has announced plans to hold a farmers’ parade in New Delhi on Republic Day after the official parade ends. Joint commissioner of Delhi police Surinder Yadav held the meeting with the farmer leaders at Singhu border after the Supreme Court said it was up to the police to decide whether or not to allow the tractor parade. According to farmer union leaders, the main concern of the police was that security personnel are already stretched on Republic Day because of the main parade and other related events. “He will hold more discussions with us and put up a report to his seniors to take a final call,’’ said Hannan Mollah of All India Kisan Sabha, a constituent of the Morcha. The union leaders told the police officer that farmers are invested in ensuring that the Kisan Parade goes off peacefully as the success of their movement lies in the fact that it has been peaceful. “Our own credibility will go if it is not peaceful, we told him,’’ the AIKS general secretary told The Telegraph. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, also part of the Morcha, said: “We gave them details of our route plan and assured the police that we do not intend to leave the Outer Ring of Delhi. Also, that our parade will in no manner disrupt the Republic Day Parade. The Joint CP was non-committal, saying ‘we will see’.” Preparations for the parade are in full flow even as the union leaders prepare for their 10th meeting with government interlocutors. The meeting was scheduled for Tuesday, but on Monday night the government postponed it to Wednesday afternoon, citing unavoidable reasons. Farmer leaders intend to again raise the issue of the government using the National Investigation Agency to browbeat people backing the protest into withdrawing their support. Over 40 farmer unions and collectives are agitating under the Morcha banner for repeal of the three new farm laws and for a legally guaranteed minimum support price. Tens of thousands of farmers have been gathered at Delhi’s borders since the last week of November to press the government to accept their demands. The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the farm laws is scheduled to meet for the first time on Tuesday. Women took the reins at the protest sites as they marked the day as “Women Farmers’ Day”, adds PTI. “The stage at the Singhu border was managed by only women and all the speakers were women. In different places across India, women farmers organised rallies, dharnas, and meetings,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Congress steps up campaign against Balakot chats||A Youth Congress protest against the leak of sensitive national security secrets was foiled by Delhi police as the Opposition party stepped up its campaign against the explosive details in the WhatsApp chat of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami with Partho Dasgupta, ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC. The Congress, which has yet to hold a formal news conference on the matter, issued a tweet to dispel any doubts about its stand: “BJP+Arnab — Axis of betrayal. The Maharashtra unit of the party has decided to approach the state home minister Anil Deshmukh to order a separate enquiry into the revelations, as the central government hasn’t indicated its stance so far.” Deshmukh said in a statement: “We have called a meeting tomorrow (Tuesday) to decide our next course of action. The state government is also gathering information about the leaked chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. Some highly sensitive things, including the Balakot airstrike and the Pulwama attack, have been mentioned in the chats.” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik also demanded a joint parliamentary committee to examine the controversy. Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said: “The voluminous transcript of Goswami’s chats released by Mumbai police is deeply disturbing. Who gave access to such sensitive information, from national security to constitutional amendments and political appointments? The Government of India must launch a thorough probe. Also, the parliamentary standing committee on defence must take this matter with utmost priority.” The police detained the Youth Congress workers, along with their president B.V. Srinivas, to prevent the march from moving ahead from the party office. They shouted slogans accusing the government of treason and betrayal and burnt three effigies together — of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Goswami. The Youth Congress workers also chanted the infamous slogan — Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro salon ko (Gun down the traitors) — which the BJP had used against anti-CAA protesters. Srinivas said: “It is a very serious matter. The Prime Minister must tell the nation who was leaking the sensitive information and act against him. The government is protecting Arnab who should have been behind bars. He has run away from Mumbai. Why are the central ministers and BJP leaders not speaking on the subject? The Congress is not going to spare these traitors in this matter.” The Congress ran a social media campaign, tweeting on several aspects of the chats. It asked: “Can you call an accused who talks of buying the judge a journalist?” Another post said: “Nationalist for BJP — Shares national security information with friends on WhatsApp, celebrates Pulwama attack, uses death of 40 jawans to increase TRP, spreads government propaganda. Anti-national for BJP — Feeds the nation, his children protect our nation at the border, toils in harshest weather and demands basic rights in peaceful protest.” One tweet said: “Nothing is sacred anymore, not the martyrdom of our brave jawans, not even national security secrets — the BJP has sold their soul to win elections. The BJP-Arnab nexus has been exposed & the true anti-nationals are out in the open now.” The Congress, which has decided to upgrade its attack step by step, has asked former Union ministers of defence and home to examine the issue in detail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||BJP Yuva Morcha leader held over attack||Keonjhar Town police on Monday detained Sanjay Mohanty, a senior BJP Yuva Morcha leader of the district, in connection with the attack bid on Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik. The issue has triggered a political storm with the Congress threatening to start a statewide agitation if the police fail to arrest all the culprits involved in the incident in the next 24 hours. Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mahapatra said four other accused had been identified and efforts were on to arrest them. An FIR had been lodged in connection with the incident with Keonjhar Town police. Patnaik’s vehicle was attacked by miscreants near Kashipur on Sunday evening when he was returning from the Keonjhar district Congress office after attending a programme. A Bolero intercepted Patnaik’s car near Kashipur around 8pm. As the leader’s personal security officer (PSO) tried to find out what was happening, three youths got down from the SUV and started beating the PSO. The attackers then turned their attention to the driver. In the meantime, an ambulance approached the spot and some Congress activists also reached there. The miscreants heard the siren of the ambulance and fled thinking that it was a police vehicle. Patnaik expressed shock at the incident in a series of tweets. “I was shocked to know that the miscreants were members of BJP’s Youth Wing. This is a clear case of political vendetta and desperation of BJP... Congress is the biggest hurdle for them,” he tweeted. “I am shaken by this incident! Not because it happened to me or because of the trauma it has caused me. I am shaken because if it can happen to me, how safe are our mothers and daughters in Odisha?” he added. Senior Congress MLA and former minister Suresh Kumar Routray said the party would launch a statewide agitation unless all the culprits involved in the incident were arrested. On the other hand, senior BJP legislator Mohan Charan Majhi, who hails from Keonjhar, dismissed the Congress’s allegations against his party as baseless. “The accused are not in the party. Sanjay Mohanty, detained by police, was earlier a BJP supporter. But he does not hold any post now,” Majhi told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Accounts of victimisation by Maoists and State’s agencies in Chhattisgarh tumble out||Thousands of accounts of victimisation by Maoists and the State’s agencies in Chhattisgarh have tumbled out in days thanks to an NGO’s initiative of recording the victims’ testimonies. Three slum dwellers from Bijapur have said they pay the municipality Rs 300 to Rs 900 annually for the public land they have been squatting on since being evicted from their village by the erstwhile Salwa Judum, a state-backed anti-Maoist militia, in 2005. One of the three men, Ashok Minz, said the Maoists had killed his father that year. Malti Ursa of Bijapur’s Schoolpara village said the police had in June arrested her brother Ganesh, a farmer, on suspicion of being a Maoist, claiming he did not sleep at his own home. His wife Neelu now works as a wage labourer to provide for their two children. Bhime Markam, wife of slain National Minerals Development Corporation employee Mittu Markam, claims a local Maoist had him killed in 2015 out of jealousy at his prosperity. Bhime said the Maoist leadership later admitted the killing was a mistake. She told the Victim’s Register, an initiative by Bastar-based NGO New Peace Process, she was struggling to retain her quarters in Kirandul until both her children finished school. The Register, started this month, has already recorded over 5,000 testimonies. In response to posters, people are giving a missed call to the NGO, and are then being contacted by volunteers and journalists to have their testimonies recorded. Shubhranshu Choudhary, convener of the New Peace Process, told The Telegraph the NGO planned a 343km march by these victims from Danteshwari Temple in Dantewada to the secretariat in Raipur to demand rehabilitation and resettlement. The march will take place from March 12 to April 5 — coinciding with the dates Mahatma Gandhi started and ended his Dandi Salt Satyagraha in 1930. Danteshwari is a deity revered by both tribal and non -tribal communities. Choudhary said the idea stemmed from the Colombia government’s Single Registry of Victims, which has registered almost 9.1 million victims since being launched in 2012 and helped in virtually ending the Left-wing insurgency in the South American country. “In October, we hosted an online meeting of experts from countries that have been affected by Maoist insurgencies such as Colombia, Nepal, the Philippines and Cambodia,” Choudhary said. He added: “We want to get victims of both sides together. Most of the survivors are women, in need of mutual support. There are also displaced families in Chhattisgarh and outside, in Telangana and other states, who want to come back. “We are trying to raise their problems with the authorities and draw support from employment-generation activities like the production of bamboo-based fabrics and sanitary napkins.... This march will be their message to the Maoists and the government that enough is enough.” At the moment, Choudhary said, the testimonies are being taken at face value as the NGO lacks the resources to verify the claims — a task he hopes the state government will take up. Another Colombia-inspired initiative by the NGO — the distribution of menstrual cups and sanitary napkins among women, Maoists included, in rebel-held areas — has not found much success because of resistance from the rebels who have accused Choudhary of trying to undermine their movement. The state’s additional chief secretary (home), Subrat Sahoo, gave a cautious reaction to the initiative. “If there is an attempt at mitigating someone’s issues or reducing the burden of Naxalites on people, it is welcome.... This is not an endorsement of Mr Shubhranshu Choudhary’s work,” he said. Choudhary explained how the Colombia initiative had worked. “Colombia’s experience of the register, which identified people who needed government assistance and reparation, led to a division within the guerrillas. The majority signed a peace deal with then President Juan Manuel Santos in 2016,” he said. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize the same year for effectively ending the 52-year-old communist insurgency that had claimed more than 200,000 lives. The Maoist insurgency in Chhattisgarh dates back to the 1980s. However, many tribal people see the genesis of the conflict in the 1966 murder of erstwhile ruler Pravir Chandra Bhanj Deo, who had led a movement against the fraudulent transfer of land from tribals to non-tribals. The South Asia Terrorism Portal lists 3,003 fatalities in the state from 2005 to 2019. Choudhary conservatively estimates the number of the displaced at more than 50,000 -- over two per cent of the population of the Bastar Division. Undivided Andhra Pradesh had attempted talks with the Maoists between 2001 and 2005, as did the Centre in 2009. These failed over the key condition that the Maoists must abjure violence. Hopes for talks have been low since the chief of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army, M. Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, was killed by the police in Bengal in 2011. After being elected in 2018, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had said that “talks, not bullets” would end the insurgency. Sahoo said he was not at liberty to discuss the state’s attempts at bringing about a cessation of hostilities with the Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Abhaya murder convict goes to Kerala High Court||A Catholic priest convicted in the Sister Abhaya murder case moved Kerala High Court on Monday, challenging the verdict by the Special CBI court, Thiruvananthapuram, awarding him double life sentence. Father Thomas Kottoor, currently in jail, alleged that the order of the conviction and sentence passed by the Special CBI Court was “absolutely improper and incorrect”. He submitted that it was “opposed to law and contrary to the facts, circumstances and evidence and hence it is unsustainable”. The priest alleged that the trial and conviction by the court in “all respects are vitiated by very grave illegalities and irregularities, like recording the evidence of witnesses, examination of the accused and permitting the prosecution to produce fresh documents and evidence even at the time of final arguments”. In its December 23 judgment, the CBI special court had awarded double life sentence to Father Kottoor and imposed a fine of Rs 6.5 lakh. The other accused, Sister Sephy, was sentenced to life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5.5 lakh was slapped on her. The court had found them guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya in 1992.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India|| ‘60% proof’ against slain three with Kashmir police||The police have “60 per cent” evidence that the three youths killed in an alleged gunfight in Srinagar last month were militants, Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said on Monday, adding that their bodies would not be handed over to their families. The December 30 killing of the three youths, including 17-year-old Class XI student Athar Mushtaq, has inflamed tensions across the Valley, with their families denying the boys had militant links. The families and senior politicians have sought the return of their bodies. The army and the police have been saying they have evidence that the three were militants. But Kumar’s latest claim about “60 per cent” evidence suggests the forces are still struggling to prove the charge. The authorities have stopped returning the bodies of militants to their families to try and avert emotionally charged funerals, which they believe provide recruits to the militants. The families of the three slain youths, who say they were killed in a staged gunfight, have been demanding the bodies so they can hold proper funerals and bury them in local graveyards. Athar’s father Mushtaq Ahmad has dug an empty grave in his village graveyard and said he would continue to fight for his body all his life. “There is no question of returning (their bodies). Their 60 per cent involvement is proven,” Kumar told reporters in Srinagar. “We are deliberately not sharing the details because it’s a very sensitive issue. The data collected by us so far shows all the three had an involvement (with militancy). We want 10 more days. We will get all the evidence, show it to their parents and convince them about their sons’ involvement.” Kumar said the reason the bodies would not be returned is that militants’ funerals attract thousands. He said that following an ordinary citizen’s natural death, their acquaintances follow the Covid protocol. But if a militant or an associate dies, “people become emotional and come out and stopping them becomes difficult”, he said. “If we use bullets, tear gas or pellets, you will criticise.” Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti recently claimed that one reason she fell out with former ruling ally BJP was her opposition to the Centre’s demand that militants’ bodies not be returned to their families. Mehbooba and other senior politicians have spoken to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and sought a probe into the Srinagar killings and the return of the bodies. The bodies of three men killed in Shopian in July were returned to their families in Rajouri after the forces concluded they were innocents slain in a fake encounter. A chargesheet has been filed accusing Captain Bhoopender Singh of 62 Rashtriya Rifles of staging the gunfight to bag the Rs 20-lakh reward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||‘Edited tape’ scan on Congress leader accuser ||Kerala High Court on Monday asked a magistrate’s court to consider a lawyer-activist’s petition to act against a bar owner accused of using an edited audiotape to implicate senior Opposition leaders in a bribery case. It said the judicial magistrate’s court, which had rejected the petitioner’s original plea to act against Biju Ramesh citing jurisdiction, did have the jurisdiction to dispose of the petition. The high court order does not comment on the merit of the allegation of furnishing doctored evidence against Ramesh. Sources close to leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, whom Ramesh has been implicating publicly, claimed vindication. Ramesh has alleged that several ministers from the state’s previous Congress-led UDF government, headed by Oommen Chandy, as well as then state Congress president Chennithala had taken bribes from bar owners promising to revoke a ban on standalone private bars. (The ban was revoked only after the Left came to power in 2016.) Chandy’s government had in 2014 cancelled the licences of standalone private bars, allowing liquor sales only at star hotels or state-owned outlets. The same year, CPM veteran and then leader of the Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan accused then finance minister K.M. Mani — leader of the Kerala Congress (Mani) — and Congress ministers K. Babu and V.S. Shivakumar of accepting bribes with the promise to revoke the ban. This prompted state police’s vigilance and anti-corruption bureau to file a case in a vigilance court, presided over by a district judge, in 2014. The following year, Ramesh approached the judicial magistrate’s court and furnished an audio CD that purportedly contained discussions about the alleged bribes at a meeting of bar owners. He later explained he had not placed the material before the vigilance court because he didn’t want it to fall into the hands of the vigilance bureau, which he did not trust. However, the Forensic Science Laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram said the audio had been edited, which means it was inadmissible as evidence. After the Left came to power, the CD was sent to the National Forensic Science Laboratory in Ahmedabad, which too said the audio had been edited. The case then stagnated. Last November, Ramesh brought the controversy back to life by repeating his charges at a series of media interactions. He had earlier accused only the former ministers but this time implicated Chennithala as well. Lawyer-activist Sreejith Premachandran then petitioned the magistrate’s court to act against Ramesh. When the court rejected his plea saying the petition should be filed before the vigilance court, he approached the high court. The exact contents of the 80-minute CD have never been made public. K.R. Subash Chandran, a Kerala-based lawyer who is not connected with the case, said the high court order means the allegation against Ramesh will be handled by the magistrate’s court. “The main bar bribery case will continue with the vigilance court,” he said. Ramesh claims to have recorded the entire proceedings of a core committee meeting of the Kerala Bar Hotel Association on December 31, 2014, using his mobile phone. After the high court order, an unfazed Ramesh told a news conference he was ready to face any inquiry and denied having edited the tapes. “The vigilance (and anti-corruption bureau) can proceed with the case since the names of all those involved are clearly audible in the recording,” he said. “I had given the device (mobile phone) and the recording to the magistrate since I suspected that vigilance would destroy the evidence.” Chennithala was busy at a meeting in Delhi. A source close to him said the high court order had vindicated what the UDF leaders had all along maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Two deaths probed, not linked to vaccine: Govt||Health authorities have investigated two deaths among over 381,000 people who have received Covid-19 vaccines over the past three days, but the health ministry said there have been no serious or severe adverse effects attributable to the vaccines. The health ministry said on Monday it had recorded a total of 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs), including seven hospitalisations, and two deaths, one in Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh), the other in Bellary (Karnataka). A 52-year old hospital worker in Moradabad died on Sunday evening after receiving the vaccine on Saturday. The health ministry said a post-mortem examination by a panel of three doctors had “revealed death due to cardiopulmonary disease (pockets of pus in lungs, enlarged heart) — not related to the vaccination.” In the other case, a 43-year old man in Bellary died on Monday after receiving the vaccine on Saturday. “The cause of death was anterior wall infarct with cardiopulmonary failure,” the ministry said, adding that a post-mortem was being done on Monday at a Bellary hospital. Medical experts say unprecedented surveillance for AEFIs is likely to detect adverse events, particularly in a mass immunisation campaign for adults in which some individuals who have underlying, undiagnosed health disorders may also receive the vaccinations. The health ministry did not specify which of the two vaccines used in the immunisation campaign — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech — had been received by the two persons who died. The Karnataka health department said none of the other healthcare workers who took the vaccine from the same vial had any adverse events. “The conclusion is that the death was due to cardiorespiratory arrest” resulting from a heart attack, the department said. A set of instructions circulated by the health ministry to all states last week had said a history of chronic diseases or underlying disorders such as cardiac, neurological, pulmonary, renal or malignancies are “not contraindications” for Covid-19 vaccines — in other words, people with such health disorders can receive the vaccines. In Moradabad, Vishal Singh, the son of the deceased said his father had no history of heart or pulmonary disorder. “My father had reached hospital by motorcycle on Saturday. He called me in the afternoon and said he was unable to move on his own. I rushed to the hospital and brought him home in an autorickshaw. His condition aggravated in the night as he became breathless and complained of chest pain. He also had fever.” “We somehow took him to the district hospital on Sunday late afternoon but there was no doctor willing to attend to him. We used a stretcher and took him to the emergency room. There also, nobody started his treatment for about two hours,” Vishal said. Rajendra Kumar, medical superintendent at the hospital said: “Mahipal was administered the corona vaccine. He complained of chest pain and breathlessness thereafter. A physician had attended to him at that time. A doctor checked him soon after he was brought to the hospital the next day but he had already died of a heart attack.” The district’s chief medical officer M.C. Garg met the family members on Monday and told them he was inquiring into the case. “His post-mortem report confirmed that he died of a heart attack. His death had nothing to do with the vaccine,” Garg said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Delay in JNU VC selection ||The tenure of JNU vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar, whose style of functioning has repeatedly set up clashes with teachers and students, ends on January 26 but the process of appointing his successor is set to be delayed. University officials said it now seemed likely that Kumar would continue in his post a while longer till a new vice-chancellor was appointed. The President, who is the Visitor of the university, had appointed a three-member search panel for a new vice-chancellor but it has not met even once. Kumar is seen as ideologically close to the ruling dispensation. The appointments of the heads of many central educational institutions have been in limbo in recent years, with officials suggesting the delays resulted from the government’s failure to find ideologically pliant candidates. The search panel is learnt to have shortlisted about 15 candidates and called them for an interaction on January 7. But the meeting was postponed without any reason being cited, JNU officials said. Yogendra Narain, former defence secretary and Uttar Pradesh-cadre officer, heads the panel in keeping with a recent trend of bureaucrats being appointed heads of search panels. “The appointment of a regular vice-chancellor does not look possible by January 26. Most likely, the current vice-chancellor will hold office till a successor is appointed,” a JNU official said. The JNU teachers’ association had earlier repeatedly urged the Centre and the President to remove Kumar. “Given the damage he has done to the university, he should have been removed earlier. In any case, the new VC should be appointed at the earliest for smooth functioning of the institution,” Surajit Mazumdar, a JNU professor, said. During Kumar’s tenure, JNU has witnessed alleged violations of the laid-down recruitment process for teachers, abolition of the deprivation points that were awarded to students from backward districts during admission, and showcause notices and inquiries against teachers who opposed his way of functioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Mystery of missing Covaxin doses||Eleven of the 12 states earmarked to receive the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin have got 20,000 doses or less each, although the Centre ordered 55 lakh doses and expected the entire consignment to be delivered before January 16. Health officials in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have told The Telegraph that each state had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin and larger supplies of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called Covishield. Telangana received 16,000 Covaxin doses and around 3.44 lakh Covishield doses, a state official said. The volume of Covaxin doses received by Delhi could not be ascertained immediately. If the 12 states received an average of 20,000 doses of Covaxin each, the total would come to 2.4 lakh – just 4.4 per cent of the 55 lakh doses ordered. The Union health ministry had said last week it had ordered 1.1 crore doses of Covishield, produced in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. A top health official had said that “100 per cent doses (are) to be received by 14th January”. The health official had added that the vaccine orders would be staggered, implying that more orders for, and supplies of, both vaccines would emerge in the coming weeks as the campaign to immunise around 1 crore healthcare workers and 2 crore frontline workers progresses. But the relatively small numbers of Covaxin doses supplied to each state, in contrast to Covishield doses, remains unexplained and, as one state official said, “surprising” because Bharat Biotech had earlier this month indicated it had 1 crore doses ready to go. On January 4, a day after India’s drug regulatory authority had approved the restricted emergency use of Covishield and Covaxin, Krishna Ella, a scientist turned entrepreneur and head of Bharat Biotech, had said that 1 crore Covaxin doses were “readily available”. Multiple queries sent by this newspaper to Bharat Biotech and to the health ministry asking about the uniform 20,000-dose supplies to the states have remained unanswered. Two state officials who requested not to be named said the sizes of the supplies were determined by the Centre. “One possible explanation is that the company isn’t prepared to ship out all 55 lakh doses,” said a medical expert who is advising a state government. "Another possible explanation is that the government has for some reason initially released only the limited 20,000 doses to each state," the expert said. “But if the company indeed has 1 crore doses, why aren’t we seeing much more supplies of Covaxin?” If both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech had delivered 100 per cent of the initial orders of 1.1 crore and 55 lakh doses, the campaign rollout would have seen a 2:1 ratio of Covishield and Covaxin. But the actual ratios are much higher, given the much larger supplies of Covishield. The 12 states have received 2 lakh to 10 lakh doses of Covishield each. Maharashtra, for instance, has received 9.6 lakh Covishield doses, Uttar Pradesh has received 10.55 lakh, Karnataka over 7 lakh and Bihar 5.5 lakh. While health officials have asserted that both vaccines are safe and generate strong immune responses against the novel coronavirus, many medical experts and doctors have expressed concern that the efficacy of Covaxin is yet to be proven. Some experts have speculated that India’s accelerated approval to Covaxin without efficacy data reflects a political desire to launch a home-grown vaccine alongside the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Modi to visit Calcutta on Netaji's 125th birth anniversary||The government has decided to observe January 23 as 'Parakram Diwas' to commemorate the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the first 'Parakram Diwas' programme in Calcutta on January 23 on Bose's 125th birth anniversary and inaugurate an exhibition on the grounds of National Library to mark the occasion, Patel said. Patel said PM Modi will also felicitate prominent members of the Indian National Army formed by Bose and their family members in Kolkata on Saturday. He said 200 Patua artists from West Bengal will make a painting on a 400-metre-long canvas depicting Bose's life. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will participate in a programme in Cuttack, Odisha, where Bose was born. Another programme will be held in Haripura village in Gujarat's Surat district where Bose was elected as president of the Indian National Congress in 1938. The culture ministry is also considering building a memorial in the honour of around 26,000 martyred members of the INA, Patel said. An 85-member high-level committee helmed by PM Modi has been formed to plan year-round programmes to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||My soul connected to Nandigram: CM||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she would not take any lesson from anyone on who all were behind the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram in an indirect snub of Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s claim that he was the one who had led the 2007 agitation. The movement was launched after the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government had announced its plan to acquire land for a chemical hub in Nandigram, East Midnapore. “I will not take any lesson from anyone on who all were behind the Nandigram movement,” the chief minister said at a Trinamul rally in Nandigram. Over the last few months — both in the run up to his formal switch to the BJP and then after taking the plunge on December 19 — Suvendu held several programmes in which he pitched himself as the main force behind the struggle that catapulted Mamata into power in the 2011 Assembly elections. The former Trinamul minister has also asked questions at public meetings on why everyone forgot Nandigram whereas he continued standing by those who fought the movement. Even on Monday, Suvendu said she visited Nandigram after five years, since December 21, 2015, just because of the ensuing polls. “We didn’t forget anyone... I know the entire Nandigram. My soul was connected with this place and this connection will always stay,” said Mamata, swatting away Suvendu’s claim that only he had stood by the families of the martyrs or those who had gone missing during the land-related strife. In an attempt to prove that she cared for the victims’ families, the chief minister said during her speech that she would soon announce a monthly pension scheme for the victims’ families. Earlier in the day, Mamata had presided over a short programme in which family members of 10 people, who had gone missing after the alleged recapture of Nandigram by CPM goons on November 10, 2007, were given Rs 10 lakh each by the state government. During her 45-minute address — longer than the usual duration of her speech — Mamata dwelt extensively on how closely she was involved with the movement. “I still remember March 14, the day 14 people were killed... I was on my way to Nandigram and they (the then administration and CPM goons) tried their best to prevent me from going. The then governor, Gopal Krishna Gandhi, had called me and urged me to return to Calcutta saying that I might be killed,” the chief minister recounted the heady days of the Nandigram movement. “Listening to him, I went to a guest house in Kolaghat, but they put buses on the way to prevent us from going,” she added, before explaining how she rode pillion on a party leader’s motorbike to reach Tamluk Hospital to meet the injured. Mamata also rolled out a chronology of how the land acquisition movement had shaped up in Bengal under he leadership as she recounted her stir in Singur, followed by a 26-day hunger strike at Esplanade in Calcutta and then the Nandigram movement. She drew parallels between the Nandigram movement and the ongoing farmers’ movement in the national capital region before attacking the BJP. “In Nandigram, the attempt was to take away the land of farmers. In Punjab, Haryana, the BJP is trying to take away the produce of the farmers... We are firmly with the farmers and supporting their movement,” she said before adding that the movement would force the Centre to repeal the contentious farm bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate 97%||Bengal on Monday reached the recovery rate of 97 per cent in the Covid-19 pandemic and recorded less than 7,000 active patients. The recovery rate of 97 per cent was achieved following a rise over 88 consecutive days from 87.44 on October 22 last year. On Monday, the state logged 10 deaths from Covid-19, the lowest daily toll in 204 days, since the 10 reported on June 28 last year. The state also reported 569 recoveries and 389 infections on Monday. Bengal now has over 5.65 lakh Covid-19 cases — since the first was reported on March 17, 2020 — but they include nearly 5.49 lakh recoveries and 10,063 deaths. The total active cases on Monday were 6,893. “Now, we have 97 per cent in recoveries, the daily death toll is down to 10, and we had 84 consecutive days (since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year) of a drop in the total of active cases…. The story of our triumph over the pandemic has been the stuff of fairy tales,” said a minister. On October 26, the total of active cases was 37,190. “Next targets? More than 98 per cent in our recovery rate, single-digit daily death toll and total of active cases less than 6,000,” he added. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.38 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 59 days ago. Bengal’s total test count — including 18,875 tests on Monday — is over 76.66 lakh now, at 85,180 tests per million people. The 10 deaths reported on Monday included just one from the city. “Even in December, the state was reporting around 60 deaths daily, with 20-plus from Calcutta alone,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,443 (83.9 per cent) of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Turnout ‘surpasses’ leaders’ expectation||Trinamul Congress leaders have said the turnout at Mamata Banerjee’s rally at Tekhali near here on Monday afternoon outdid their expectations. While police sources pegged the estimated attendance at 2.5 lakh, Trinamul Congress district leaders claimed a “3 lakh-plus” show-of-strength and quoted the chief minister’s words of it echoing a “Brigade rally”, a reference to Calcutta’s Brigade Parade Grounds, the benchmark of mega rallies. The rally was organised in the wake of former Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari’s switch to the BJP. “The chief minister was pleasantly shocked when she emerged from the helicopter and greeted the sea of people awaiting her,” said Nandigram panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher. “She asked me whether the turnout had trumped her 2015 rally, and I said ‘indeed’. It probably even pipped the mega events of the 2007 anti-land acquisition agitation in terms of turnout,” he added. Sources said most attendees hailed from East Midnapore, and a substantial number from West Midnapore. Eyewitnesses said both inroads via Khejuri and Chandipur were intermittently clogged from 8am by vans, trucks and tempos. The vehicles were all carrying attendees “eager to gain closure over Suvendu’s defection”. “This rally was notable because for once we did not have to goad people with free lunches or transportation to attend. They truly wanted to know what the word was,” Panskura municipality chairman Nandakumar Mitra, referring to the rally where Mamata eventually pitted herself as the party’s nominee from Nandigram for the Assembly polls. When correspondents from this newspaper set out from Tamluk around 10.30am, they faced over 100 traffic knots before reaching Tekhali, barely 50km away, shortly before 1pm. On the way back, the situation was similar, with the 3km stretch from Tekhali to Makeshpur alone taking over an hour. “We could not hire enough vehicles for supporters this time. Nonetheless, they paid out of their own pockets and clung to vehicle rooftops to attend,” said Trinamul labour arm’s district president Dibyendu Ray. The Calcutta-Digha NH116B was reportedly clogged all day on Monday, causing severe backlogs to tourist traffic in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Survey sees Mamata back at helm||The CVoter opinion poll for ABP Ananda for January 2021 has indicated that Mamata Banerjee will be able to retain power in Bengal, albeit with a reduced majority. The BJP, despite considerable gains since 2016, will not be able get close to the majority mark of 148 in the 294-seat Assembly, shows the survey. The poll conducted for four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry came out with several interesting takeaways for Trinamul and the BJP in Bengal, where the game-is-already-over-for-Mamata perception being peddled by the saffron ecosystem might not be true on the ground yet. A key factor in the polls, according to the survey, might be the Left and the Congress contesting in an alliance this time, thereby largely raining on the BJP’s parade. The Left and the Congress had contested separately in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and secured a marginally larger vote share. Their coming together could make a difference of 20-odd seats, which the alliance seems to be taking away from the BJP — thereby helping Mamata (see chart). “We always knew this. This is far from over. As the game progresses, our position will only keep improving further. Don’t be surprised if, in the end, Trinamul sweeps with 200-plus seats,” said a senior Trinamul MP. The MP refused to go on record on the matter till Mamata herself does -- asserting that more Left-Congress votes will swing in favour of his party, going forward. “Even if this is the result, after the polls, there will be an avalanche of ghar wapsi (homecoming) of Trinamul defectors from the BJP, worsening their numbers further,” he added. Another takeaway is the 7.7 per cent vote share secured by “Others” — which would include the likes of the Asaduddin Owaisi-Abbasuddin Siddiqui truck. The “others” might drag the BJP back by nearly 3 per cent of the votes (in comparison to 2019). In an election this close, and with Trinamul more or less holding on to the 43-odd per cent votes it secured in 2019, it is the BJP’s possible fall from 40.7 to 37.5 — from 121 to 102 seats, instead of a rise — that could be the clincher for Mamata. “We simply don’t believe this at all. We are coming to power with 200-plus seats, and these predictions will be proved wrong, like in the case of Bihar last year,” said a BJP leader. Some key takeaways from the other questions that were part of the opinion poll follow: ⦿ Asked who the Left-Congress alliance would benefit: 36.8 per cent of the respondents said Trinamul, 33.1 said the BJP, 13.2 said the alliance itself, and 17 responded with DN/CS (Don’t know/Can’t say) ⦿ Asked if they thought Suvendu Adhikari joining the BJP would deal a heavy blow to Trinamul: 45.9 per cent of the respondents said yes, 35.4 said no, 18.6 said DN/CS ⦿ Asked if the BJP would get extra mileage if Sourav Ganguly was its chief ministerial candidate: 48.1 per cent said yes, 33 said no, while 18.9 went with DN/CS ⦿ Asked if the BJP’s image would get tarnished for inclusion of the accused in the likes of the Saradha and Narada cases: 41.6 per cent said yes, 34.2 said no, 24.3 said DN/CS ⦿ Asked if the Mamata Banerjee’s government’s Duare Sarkar programme would benefit her party: 45.5 per cent said yes, 36.6 per cent said no, and 17.8 said DN/CS ⦿ Asked if Trinamul managed to blunt its own “outsider” weapon against the BJP by bringing poll consultant Prashant Kishor on board: 38.5 per cent said yes, 24.2 said no, 37.3 replied with DN/CS ⦿ Asked who between Amit Shah (200-plus seats for the BJP) and Kishor (less than 100 for the BJP) was more likely to be correct: 41.2 per cent went with Shah, 35.9 responded in favour of Kishor and 22.9 were unsure with DN/CS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||CM to contest from Nandigram for the 2021 Assembly polls||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced the name of the first candidate for the 2021 Assembly polls in Bengal. The name is Mamata Banerjee and the seat Nandigram, which once pitch-forked her into the political stratosphere and which now symbolises the threat to her continuation at the top. Never known for shying away from a good fight, the chief minister worked the huge crowd on the Tekhali ground in Nandigram: “I am not naming anyone as the candidate from Nandigram right now.… But I will give a good candidate, who will be working hard for the people.” Mamata was probably in two minds. But any doubt she may have had appeared to have drowned in the eruption of applause from the audience. After a brief pause, she asked: “What if I contest from Nandigram?” The applause went on for a minute or so. Mamata’s candidature willy-nilly throws the gauntlet at Suvendu Adhikari, who represented the constituency as a Trinamul legislator until he resigned as an MLA and joined the BJP last month. Till now, Suvendu has been silent on whether he would contest the polls but after Mamata’s challenge, he has little option but to bite the bullet. Suvendu told a rally in Calcutta he would ensure the defeat of Mamata in Nandigram by 50,000 votes. (See Metro) Mamata later said she would contest as usual from her home turf, Bhowanipore. “Bhowanipore is like the elder sister while Nandigram is the younger sister.… I will contest from both seats,” she said. More than 2 lakh people had turned up at Mamata’s show of strength on the ground, prompting her to equate it with Calcutta’s sprawling Brigade. “My conscience tells me that I should contest from Nandigram.... It’s a rural area. My wish is that my name should be there as the candidate from Nandigram,” Mamata said, stealing a glance at Subrata Bakshi, the Trinamul state president who is officially in charge of the party’s candidate list. “Nandigram is lucky for me. In the 2016 elections, I had started the campaign from here. We won that election. We will win again in 2021,” the chief minister said. On December 21, 2015, Mamata had launched her poll campaign for the following year’s Assembly polls from the same Tekhali ground by naming Suvendu, who was an MP then, as the candidate from Nandigram. Bengal politics has, however, changed a lot since then. The BJP, which won only three seats in the last Assembly polls, has emerged as the main Opposition party and has publicly set the goal of coming to power in Bengal with more than 200 seats. With Suvendu joining the saffron camp, the narrative has started commanding higher traction in several parts of the state. When Mamata strode towards the dais, the expectation was she would contest that narrative and downplay Suvendu’s crossover to the BJP. Several Trinamul insiders said that hardly anyone in the party had expected her to end up nominating herself as the Trinamul candidate from Nandigram. Mamata appears to have made up her mind after seeing the turnout and after an attempt to strike a chord with the people. “In case there has been any mistake, slap me, but don’t turn your face away,” she said. The candidature was announced after Mamata explained her connect with Nandigram and the anti-land-acquisition movement she had led in 2007. A West Midnapore Trinamul MLA told this correspondent after the meeting: “This is a masterstroke.… Suvendu can’t be seen as running away from the challenge as that will erode his credibility. And if he contests, he will have to work round the clock to put up a fight against Didi. That will rob him of the opportunity to campaign across Bengal.” According to the MLA, some leaders in the party had proposed Mamata as the candidate at internal party meetings chaired by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee and poll consultant Prashant Kishor. “But we were told that Suvendu wasn’t a big enough leader for Didi to have to contest against him. Now that she has decided to contest from Nandigram, nothing can be better for the party,” the MLA said. Over the past month or so, almost all senior Trinamul leaders have publicly tried to downplay the possible electoral impact of Suvendu’s defection to the BJP, but there have been concerns as well. On Suvendu’s home turf, Mamata started her speech by allaying such concerns. Without naming anyone, she said the attempts by a few to go “idhar-udhar (here and there)” would not have any effect on the polls. She added that those leaving the party and joining the BJP were doing so to save their ill-gotten wealth. “You people can leave and go anywhere you want to. That’s your right.… I wish you the best so that in future you can become the Prime Minister or the President of the country. You can even become world leaders, but I will not allow the BJP to sell Bengal as long as I’m alive,” she said. Unlike several other Trinamul leaders, Mamata didn’t name Suvendu or anyone from his family during her address. Suvendu’s father Sisir and brother Dibyendu still remain Trinamul MPs. Both were absent from the day’s programme. The chief minister made it clear that she had tried her best to give the Adhikari clan their due share of importance. “Once, they were with us…. I tried to give them whatever I could. Let them be happy, I wish them 100 years of life,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader hacked to death, BJP blamed||A Trinamul Congress leader was hacked to death outside his home in the Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district on Sunday night. Police have arrested four persons in connection with the murder. District Trinamul leaders have accused the BJP of orchestrating the attack. Sources said Ranjit Adhikari had been dropped at his home in Saptibari around 10pm by Trinamul workers after attending a party meeting. While he was about to enter the home, a group of miscreants attacked him with sharp weapons. They hacked him on the head and face. As Ranjit raised an alert, Nilima, his wife, came out. The miscreants fled while the Trinamul leader collapsed on the spot. The neighbours also came out and he was rushed to a local health centre in Churabhandar where doctors pronounced him dead. “There were six of them who were hacking my husband. Local BJP supporters have time and again threatened my husband. We want exemplary punishment for all those who were involved in the incident,” said the bereaved wife. Ranjit, party sources said, is survived by his wife and four children. He was a small trader. On Monday, a number of district leaders reached his home. Also, a police team led by senior officers was deployed at the spot. “Ranjit was a popular face of our party in Maynaguri. The BJP has killed him in a planned manner,” said Chandan Bhowmik, a coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri district. He said another Trinamul leader had been murdered in the same locality around 10 months back. The BJP denied the charges. “It is an unfortunate incident but is a fallout of inner differences in Trinamul over sharing of cut money collected from beneficiaries of different social welfare schemes. None from our party was involved in the attack,” said Chanchal Sarkar, a district secretary of the BJP. Vikramjit Lama, the deputy superintendent of police (crime) of Jalpaiguri, said: “Four persons have been arrested. We are in search of some more people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Amartya Sen asks VC to withdraw false charges||Economist Amartya Sen has described as “a crude attempt at harassment — or worse” the sudden abuse of his family’s property documents and asked the Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor to withdraw the false allegations against him. The following are excerpts from a letter the Nobel laureate has sent to the vice-chancellor: “You have heard from my lawyer…, asking you to withdraw immediately your false allegation made to the news agencies that a plot of land owned by Visva-Bharati is unlawfully occupied by me. “While you have not been able to provide any justification for this astonishing allegation, you now say that you are requesting the West Bengal government to measure the area of our homestead, Pratichi, to compare with the long-term lease of land taken by my father in 1940 from Visva-Bharati. “Your officiating Registrar, Mr Mahato, has threatened that ‘if there is any additional land occupied by him (Sen), legal action will be taken’. This sudden abuse of an 80-year-old document is clearly a crude attempt at harassment — or worse. Among other errors it ignores the big fact, which I have stated many times (even in the context of this dispute), that a substantial amount of free-hold land was purchased by my father (in the market — not from Visva-Bharati) to add to our homestead (with records of purchase registered under Mouza-Surul), on which khajna and Panchayat taxes are paid by me yearly. “The Registrar’s threat of ‘legal action’ if he discovers ‘any additional land’ beyond the leased land seems hugely mischievous. “I don’t know how the Vice-Chancellor treats his colleagues, but I have to confess I am getting quite tired of the deceptions. For example, the V.C. insisted that I called him by telephone from Santiniketan in June 2019 (he even gave two alternative June dates for this alleged conversation -- June 2 and June 14) and said that I introduced myself as Bharat Ratna, which is entirely implausible. “On being informed that I was abroad for the entire month of June 2019 and came back to India only in July, the story was promptly altered by the V.C.’s office to assert that I had called in ‘June or July’ but said the same things. “Rather than inventing new falsities and adding to their culpability, Visva-Bharati should withdraw the false allegations made by them, as my lawyer has asked.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Plan for rail talks on refugee land||The Mamata Banerjee government will hold discussions with the railways in a bid to convince the central utility that giving free-hold land rights to the residents in refugee colonies set up on its land will not hurt its interest. The decision has been taken in view of the railways’ reservations about the Bengal government issuing free-hold land rights to the residents of the refugee colonies on its plots. The move, sources in Nabanna said, has been initiated after the state government decided to go all out to issue free-hold land rights to nearly 1.5 lakh families residing in 330-odd refugee colonies by April this year. Of these, 200-odd colonies are on central government land, primarily on the plots owned by the railways. “We have already issued free-hold land rights to 20,000 families living in refugee colonies. Most of these families were residing in 94 colonies set up on state government land. We have started issuing land rights to the families living in the colonies set up on central government land. As some questions were raised, we are ready to hold discussions with the railways on the issue,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) had recently written a letter to the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, pointing out that some pattas (long term settlement rights) had been issued to some local people on railway land. The NFR had asked the DM to intervene and “nullify” the pattas and allow the railways to take possession of the land. The railways had threatened to move to court if the district authorities failed to do the needful. “This has left the state government in an awkward situation. It is now being apprehended that if the railways move court and secure a stay on such activity, the plan to give free-hold rights to the colony residents would hit a roadblock ahead of the Assembly polls,” said an official. According to sources, the state government would try to make the railways understand that it is better to regularise the refugee colonies set up on its land as evicting the residents is almost impossible as they have been residing there for about 40-50 years. “We will offer the railways that the state would help the utility guard its land which was not encroached upon so far. We can earmark their land which is free from encumbrances and we will help them erect fencing to guard their plots,” said an official. Furthermore, the state will convey to the railways that it would give free-hold rights to the land on which the structures have been erected. “The remaining portion of the plots can be used by the railways,” the official added. The state government is banking heavily on its initiatives of giving free-hold land rights to the residents of refugee colonies to counter the BJP’s campaign related to the Citizenship Amendment Act. “As majority of the refugee colonies are on central government land, we have to find a solution outside the court. We want the refugees to get land-related documents ahead of the Assembly polls as people who crossed over to West Bengal from Bangladesh in the past 40-50 years hold the key to electoral success in at least 20-22 Assembly seats,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Plea in HC for CBI probe||Malati Roy, the wife of Ulen Roy, the BJP supporter who had died from pellet injuries during a protest march organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha here last month, has filed a writ petition at the Jalpaiguri Circuit Bench of Calcutta High Court, seeking CBI investigation into her husband’s death. “Malati Roy filed the petition on Monday for a CBI investigation. Her husband was shot by the state police and lost his life, she has mentioned in her petition,” said Avrojyoti Das, Malati’s lawyer. On December 7, the BJYM had held a protest march to Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state located on the southern end of Siliguri. As the rallyists breached barricades and attacked the police, the latter had to react to resist them. Ulen, who was with BJP supporters near Fulbari in southern parts of Siliguri, was hit by pellets. He was rushed to a private hospital nearby where doctors pronounced him dead. After the incident, the state government had assigned the investigation to the CID. Also, the state police had claimed that the pellets had been fired from a shotgun, a firearm that the police don’t use. The BJP accused the state government of concealing facts and demanded the CBI investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Glare on hill response to treaty review||The Indo-Nepal treaty of peace and friendship of 1950 has come to the fore once again both at the foreign ministry level and also at the local level in Darjeeling but a chain of events over the past few years suggests both the BJP-led Centre and Darjeeling-based political leaders and civil society have only been indulging in lip service. During his visit to Kathmandu in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had agreed to review the entire spectrum of bilateral relations between India and Nepal. This included review of the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty. The demand for the review of the treaty has been an integral part of hill politics. On July 27, 1986, 13 people were killed in a police firing in Kalimpong when Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) supporters were on their way to burn copies of the treaty. Hill politicians believe that the clause that allows for free movement of citizens between India and Nepal and conducting business in each other’s territory has blurred the identity of Indian Gorkhas. Since then, July 27 is marked as Gorkhaland Martyrs’ Day. Following Modi’s Kathmandu visit, Eminent Persons Group for Nepal-India Relations (EPG-NIR) was formed in 2016 to look into all bilateral issues, including the treaty. The group consisted of eight members — four each from both the countries — and was co-chaired by former Uttarkhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari and former Nepal foreign minister Bhekh Bahadur Thapa . Nine meetings, six in Nepal and three in India, were held and the report was readied in 2018. Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali during his visit to Delhi last week raised the treaty issue once again. “We have agreed to revise, adjust and update the treaty to better reflect the current reality and to further consolidate and expand our friendship. We need to do it sooner than later,” the Nepalese foreign minister said. A source who is in the know of things said that the PMO “has not even received the report prepared by the committee”. “It is astonishing that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed to form the committee, he has not provided time to the committee even to receive the report in more than two years now, not to talk about accepting the recommendation of the committee,” a source said. At the Darjeeling level, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang had recently raised the issue and written to the Centre to review the treaty. Tamang is not the first person to raise this issue from the hills. Almost all political and civil society leaders have flagged this demand in the past four decades. “What is the use of flagging the issue at the wrong time?” asked the source. “When the committee was working on the issue, there was not a single written representation to the committee from the hills,” the source added. The source added that only Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh — an apolitical platform formed by Gorkhas in India — had submitted a memorandum to the committee “that, too, at the fag end of the committee’s tenure” along with one Gorkha organisation from Dehradun, Uttarakhand. “The ignorance of politicians from the hills and their sense of timing is baffling at times,” said the source. Leader quits Tilak Chand Roka, coordinator of Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Darjeeling subdivision), on Monday announced his resignation from the party. Roka was a senior and important leader of the Gurung camp, who had been jailed for nine months following the Gorkhaland agitation. Roka said that he resigned from the party because of “ideological difference” over Gurung’s recent political stand to support Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||Vaccination invite count increased to 200||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to invite 200 health workers to each of the 207 vaccination centres across the state from Tuesday to achieve the target of administering Covid-19 vaccines to 100 persons at each centre. While only 74 per cent of the health workers had received the jabs on the first day on Saturday, the target came down to around 63 per cent on the second day of the vaccination on Monday. “On Saturday, 15,349 people had turned up for vaccination while the target was to administer vaccines to 20,700 people. On Monday, a total of 14,810 people could be given the first dose of vaccine even though 150 people were invited to get the vaccine at each camp,” said a senior state government official. The state government has also asked the district officials to call up the beneficiaries a day before the vaccination to encourage them to come to the vaccination centres. Senior officials pointed out that the health workers, who are enlisted for vaccination, need to be encouraged to come to the vaccination centres as the turnout was getting thinner. Sources said around 23,570 health workers were invited for vaccination on Monday at 207 camps across Bengal where the target was to meet 20,700 persons. “In the evening, we found that 14,810 persons were administered vaccines out of a target of administering vaccines to 20,700 people. It means 74 per cent could be administered vaccines on Saturday. But the figure came down to 63 per cent on Monday. This is why more people are being invited to get the vaccines,” said an official. At a few places, the district officials had invited candidates beyond the enlisted persons to meet the target. For example, in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur, only 50 persons could be given vaccines initially from the list prepared by the government. Later, 25 more persons were called to the camp who were not in the initial list and were administered vaccines. “We will enrol their names in the government portal later,” said a health official. A section of the health officials, however, said the process to invite persons beyond the list could create trouble and the districts had been asked to be careful in this regard. “We have asked health officials in the districts not to administer vaccines to people outside the list as it would create a problem to manage the system and stock of vaccination,” an official said. “To get rid of the problem, we have decided to invite 200 persons officially from Tuesday for the vaccination in a bid to meet the target. We are planning to increase the number of camps too,” he added. Officials felt that there could be two reasons behind the thin attendance in the camps. First, people are apprehending adverse side effects and second, many of the enlisted persons could not appear in the camps as all of them are engaged in emergency duties like treatment of Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||3 workers die as bike rams into truck||Three youths were crushed to death when their motorbike rammed into a truck at high speed apparently because of poor visibility caused by dense fog at Chapra in Nadia district on Monday morning. The three construction workers were on their way to work in Chapra. The truck was laden with sand. The accident occurred about 7.30am on the Chapra-Ranabandh state road that extends till the Indo-Bangladesh Border. The deceased were Imadul Halsana, 30, Sekim Ali Mondal, 24, and Ekbal Mondal, 20, all residents of Hatkhola village. Imadul was riding the motorcycle with Sekim and Ekbal as pillion riders. Police said there was heavy fog and the biker could have missed seeing the truck because of low visibility. Local residents, however, blamed construction materials like sand and stone chips dumped on the roadside for the accident. The villagers took the trio to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, where they were declared dead. Hospital sources said all the three victims had suffered head injuries as none of them was wearing helmets. A local resident and an eyewitness said: “It is true that there was low visibility because of dense fog but the motorcyclist tried to slam the brakes at the last moment when he saw the truck coming towards him. He couldn’t avoid the truck as the two-wheeler skidded on stone chips dumped on the roadside.” However, till Monday afternoon, no complaint had been lodged against the villagers who had allegedly dumped building materials on the road. A member of the local Pipragachi gram panchayat said: “On a number of occasions we have issued notices to people against dumping construction materials on the roadside. However, none paid heed to the notices and they are in a way responsible for the deaths of the three youths.” In another incident, Souvik Mondal, 17, died at Khulna village in North 24-Parganas’s Sandeshkhali when his motorcycle rammed into a roadside lamp post while returning home from a picnic on Sunday night. The accident left pillion riders Rupam Mondal and Preetam Biswas, both aged 19, critically injured. The trio were taken to Khulna rural hospital, where Souvik was declared dead. Rupam and Preetam were later transferred to NRS hospital in Calcutta. An officer of Sandeshkhali police station said: “The victim was riding the motorcycle at high speed despite foggy weather and none was wearing helmets.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||West Bengal||BSF cycle trip to mark birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman||A bicycle expedition flagged off by the Border Security Force to commemorate the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation of Bangladesh, reached Laxminarayanpur in the Tapan block South Dinajpur district on Monday. The expedition was flagged off from the Panitar BSF camp in North 24-Parganas on January 10. The expedition, sources said, will move through six states and will culminate in Mizoram on March 17, the birthday of Bongobondhu Rahman. “Thirteen BSF personnel are participating in the cycle rally. They will in total cover a distance of 4,666km,” said a BSF officer. The cyclists were felicitated by officials of the BSF and the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) on the border at Laxminarayanpur on Monday. “From here, the cyclists will head for Hilli border and then move further to north Bengal. The event has been organised to observe the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. It would strengthen the relationship between the two countries,” said R.R. Sharma, the deputy inspector general of the NB frontier of the BSF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-229
19-01-2021||North East||Assam gears up for pre-poll alliances ||Two recently floated regional outfits — Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal — are inching towards a pre-poll alliance in their effort to oust the ruling BJP in the Assembly polls to save the “Assamese society and language”. Both the parties, formed late last year, have been making overtures to work together to check communal and anti-Assam forces following sustained demands from several quarters for a united regional front to check the ruling BJP coalition. This was more than evident when AJP’s secretary Chittaranjan Basumatary attended the Raijor Dal’s first convention held in Moran early this month and AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi told a public meeting in Nagaon district on Saturday about being open to an alliance with Raijor Dal and other non-communal parties. However, these moves acquired a formal shape on Sunday with Raijor Dal working president Bhasco De Saikia revealing that a proposal has been sent to the AJP president and they are hopeful of a joint meeting to discuss the alliance issue to save the state from communal forces. “We have sent a formal alliance proposal to the AJP president since our common objective is to defeat the communal BJP and save Assam, Assamese society and Assamese language. This is the need of the hour. We are hopeful of positive feedback soon. We are also in talks with the BPF (Bodoland People’s Front) and the ASDC (Autonomous State Demand Committee),” Saikia said. He also said they are against “communal” forces such as the BJP and the AIUDF and parties having anything to do with them. The Congress is trying to stitch an alliance with the AIUDF but there is opposition from within the party against any such move. Saikia also said that Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi is likely to contest from two constituencies — Sivasagar and Teok — in Upper Assam. Akhil is in jail since his arrest on December 12, 2019, during the peak of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest in Assam but Saikia was hopeful of his release by February. “He is an inspiration. He will continue to lead from jail. He will contest from behind bars if he is not released. Everybody protested against the CAA but they targeted only Akhil Gogoi! He is being kept in jail because the ruling party is afraid of him,” he said. Saikia said apart from committing an inclusive, safe and developed Assam, they will also make the detention of Akhil a poll plank. AJP president Lurinjyoti on Sunday reiterated that he supported alliances with non-communal and regional forces, including Raijor Dal. He ruled out any tie-up with the Congress which is trying to woo both the regional outfits. Many believe the two parties could hurt the prospects of the BJP, the AGP and the Congress in Upper Assam. “Proposal or no proposal, we are working towards an alliance with Raijor Dal,” Lurinjyoti said on the sidelines of a function. Reacting to the development, BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said the real regional force, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), is with the ruling party. The AGP is a constituent of the BJP-led state government. “All these developments have vindicated what the BJP has been saying all this while that the anti-CAA movement was a political movement to sway the people. But they are with us. Raijor Dal is an offshoot of the KMSS (Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti) and their leader Akhil Gogoi believes in Leftist ideology,” Goswami said. The KMSS, the AASU (All Assam Students Union) and the AJYCP (Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad) were at the forefront of the anti-CAA movement. While the KMSS is backing the Raijor Dal, the AASU backed the formation of the AJP. The Congress is looking to ally with all anti-BJP forces. Referring to Saturday evening’s high tea hosted by Opposition leader Debabrata Saikia of the Congress, where leaders of the AIUDF, the Left parties and the Anchalik Gana Morcha participated, Goswami said: “What message are they trying to send? The Congress-Communist-communal forces have all got together while the AJP is also getting close to them despite its public denial.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
19-01-2021||Opinion||Two faces: Big Tech companies||Facebook’s claim of being the prized jewel in the Big Tech crown is increasingly being undermined by strident criticisms of the social media giant’s conduct around the world. These concerns are not new. Over the years, Facebook has faced criticism on such issues as complicity in data manipulation — the Cambridge Analytica scandal is still fresh in public memory — encroachments on privacy, tacit endorsement of objectionable content and, occasionally, alleged political chicanery. The censure — it is sustained and global in character — should have brought about a change of conduct. Unfortunately, Facebook is yet to come out squeaky clean and its spots, evidence suggests, have to do with selective application of standard protocols and, not to put too fine a point on it, conscience. It has been found that the company stubbornly refused to get rid of inflammatory remarks and comments — some of which were made by the occupants of the highest pulpit of the land — in countries like India, Sri Lanka and Ethiopia in spite of repeated requests by activists and members of civil society to act against these. One of the reasons being attributed to the leeway given to offenders by Facebook is its fidelity to the principle of free speech. Ironically, Mark Zuckerberg’s company did find the courage to stop incitement in the land of the free — it booted out Donald Trump from its platform for his role in abetting the violence in Capitol Hill. Facebook’s obvious hypocrisy in the application of policy has, understandably, caused massive outrage. It is entirely possible that Mr Zuckerberg — he pledged to rid hate speeches from advertisement last year — remains unwilling to rub heads of state in profitable markets — India is Facebook’s gold mine — the wrong way. But the political-corporation nexus is only a partial explanation for Facebook’s inertia against toxic posts. The deepening of democracy in some of the markets that Facebook operates in has not been accompanied by the flowering of a robust culture of accountability. Summons by a parliamentary standing committee — the next meeting is on Thursday — would not be enough for Facebook to mend its way as long as Indian consumers and advertisers remain unconcerned with its duplicity. Institutional scrutiny, an ethical pushback from patrons and demands of accountability by users — all three are necessary — can force Facebook to correct the imbalances in its global policy against hate speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||No chance to touch the skies: health of India's children||Earlier this month, in Maharashtra’s Bhandara, 10 infants died when the hospital they were in caught fire. Hospital attendants safely rescued seven infants. The horrific incident occurred in the Special Neonatal Care Unit of the district hospital in the middle of the night. The infants, between a week and three months old, were either premature or of low weight. They were failed by a divided and bigoted society whose priority has been anything but social and economic equality; a rotten public health system dented further by the burden of the Covid-19 pandemic; an apathetic, self-serving polity for whom infants carry no weight. A self-proclaimed nationalist organization propagating cultural nationalism has begun a campaign to raise donations for a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. Among the proud donors are those ensconced in constitutional positions — including the president of India. The prime minister has launched the Covid-19 vaccination campaign — yet another photo-op — while the country still does not know the details about one vaccine’s efficacy from the trials. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are into the second month of their protests while those from all over the country steadily join them against the three contentious agriculture laws passed without a debate in Parliament. In the months to come, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry would likely see communal violence until the assembly elections get over. Predictably, new claims and promises would be unleashed. Yet, grieving mothers of rural Bhandara — and countless other young mothers losing their newborns and infants — beg for an answer to a simple question: would this country ever wake up to the horrors of structural inequality and poverty that bring them such pain every day? Earlier, it was Gorakhpur. Today, it is Bhandara. It will be some other place tomorrow. The previous Devendra Fadnavis government in Maharashtra inaugurated the newly built SNCU at Bhandara without conducting a mandatory fire and safety audit in 2015 — because the district council elections were due that year. The present three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government has been lax too, because the district civil surgeon sought emergency funds in May 2020 for installing the fire safe equipment in SNCU, but higher authorities reportedly sat over the file without a shred of remorse. Look at the irony: data show that in two fiscal years of 2018 and 2019, Maharashtra spent, from its treasury, about Rs 400 crore on the healthcare bills of its employees, public representatives and ministers, but failed to sanction a mere Rs 2 crore for fire safety equipment at the SNCU. Such neglect is ubiquitous in India. Close to eight lakh babies die on account of wilful neglect. It is down from 1.8 million average infant deaths in the early 2000s, but our neonatal and infant mortality rates are still far from global standards. That is not all: while the IMR has dropped, India saw a surge in malnutrition among children under the age of five, according to the fifth National Family Health Survey released in December 2020. Millions of children are underweight and severely wasted, indications that their immunity is compromised and their comprehension levels low. The wilful neglect goes on: a new digital India saw millions of rural children drop out of schools in 2020 since they had no access to the internet or gadgets to be in virtual classrooms. How might the seven infants who survived the Bhandara tragedy fare, given their parents’ rural and poor backgrounds? In all probability, they would soon add to the number of stunted and malnourished children and struggle for a decent education. India will make sure they do not get a chance to find their skies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||Traditional and modern medicine: a case for integration||A paradigm for research into traditional medicine called ‘whole systems research’ started to catch on around the new millennium. Its aim was to surmount the difficulties arising out of traditional systems not fitting in with the modern medical research paradigm. It endeavoured to study traditional medical interventions as ones that embraced the complex ‘context’ in which they operated. The potential of traditional systems has often been severely underplayed in the very countries where they originated. India is no exception. Our model of integrating modern and traditional medicine has been one that led to the subjugation of the latter in favour of the former, thereby worsening the existing institutional conflict between them. The goal of integration of the two streams remains distant. The decision to allow ayurvedic postgraduates to perform certain surgeries and the resultant clamour are a case in point. A policy of ‘one nation, one health system’ has, however, been announced. Under this initiative, the government aims to integrate modern and traditional medicine in such relevant aspects as education, research and practice, fostering a two-way exchange. While this is a commendable step, the challenges are colossal. A notable example of integration from the East is China. China went about integrating Western medicine and Traditional Chinese Medicine in the 1950s. Doctors trained in either stream would learn a fair deal about the other as part of the curriculum; clinic practices would include a substantial share of doctors practising the two systems together; nearly every hospital would provide care in both systems in varying proportions. The failure of India’s early attempts at integrating traditional and modern medicine is worth examining. After Independence, some states did initiate integrated courses inspired by the recommendations of the Sokhey, Chopra and Dave Committees, but these attempts were thwarted by partisan and purist interests. The biggest roadblock is likely to be the demand for ‘evidence’ by the modern medicine lobby. However, the demand for evidence should not undermine the considerations of public welfare. The need for evidence should be balanced against other factors, such as the prevailing public satisfaction with traditional systems, cost-effectiveness, and the long-established empirical efficacy and safety of certain interventions. It shouldn’t be forgotten that evidence-based medicine is a recent accretion. Modern medicine has not achieved scientific perfection; nor is all modern medicine backed up by evidence. Then, there are technical challenges. Given that instruction and practice of traditional medicine have increasingly embraced the principles of modern medicine, practitioners of this system are reasonably acclimatized with the latter. But the same cannot be said about their modern medical counterparts. An integrated model would need to educate modern medical doctors about holistic, non-reductionist approaches that are typical of traditional systems. Such a holistic approach endorses interaction between patient and physician. They would also have to be taught about the need to strike the right balance between the disparate approaches. Conceptual incompatibilities between modern and traditional medicine present yet another formidable challenge. Medical education will need to embrace a pluralist paradigm of understanding. This is easier said than done. But successful examples do exist. Evidence from Korea indicates that integrated teaching and practice of both systems by the same individual can overcome problems arising out of such incompatibilities. Needless to say, an integrative model would need a greater share of public funds for traditional medicine as it becomes a significant component of the healthcare agenda. But the rise in investment would need to be justified against the limited evidence of traditional medicine. Financing disparate medicine systems under a universal insurance plan would lead to complexities, particularly in deciding the terms of reimbursement, when both systems are practised together. The task at hand is Herculean; but it could pay off fairly well in several ways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||Positive signs||The year 2021 brings positivity and optimism. There is a lot to look forward to even though the battle against the virus is not yet over. Countries are still challenged by recurrent infections. But effective vaccines discovered late last year have transformed into advancing inoculations in 2021. This heralds the end of the pandemic and a corresponding restoration of economic lives ahead. Backing this are bouncebacks that have mostly surprised by their speed and strength everywhere. These are solid reasons for the positive turn expected in 2021 in spite of the risks and occasional setbacks that may arise. Positive developments in recent months impart a cheerful start. Dominating are the vaccination drives that commenced last December in many countries and in India last week. Inoculating large populations is overwhelming, especially for a big country like ours. The assurance is that the task, once begun, will expand and improve with time in spite of hurdles. The majority population in advanced countries, for example, the United States of America, is expected to be covered by the second half of 2021, and possibly by the third quarter in India. The prospective release of people from their safe barricades to streets, movies, restaurants, travel places and so on has charged the environment. Business and governments can now see suppressed consumer demand un-bottling and revenues restoring ahead. The enthusiasm is layered over mostly good economic news. Post-lockdown recoveries have proved better than expected; growth forecasts have mostly been upgraded with few exceptions. China grew 2.3 per cent in 2020, giving a strong global boost. Then, the US election outcome signalled smoother governance last November. Vaccine and second-round US stimulus hopes are driving up investor sentiments, rallying markets to dizzying heights since, and have spilled over into the new year. With the US now intending to inject more fuel with a $1.9 billion fiscal push, and the growth forecast for China being 7.9 per cent in 2021, the two nations may provide a significant global thrust with their economic heft. The upbeat global factors have been mirrored in Indian markets and asset prices as well. The sentiments are reinforced by genuine economic improvement and a satisfying decline in infections. 2021 begins with a backdrop of a steady upward trend in lead economic and mobility indicators; a much lesser contraction in aggregate output, -7.7 per cent, is now foreseen in FY20 than the double-digit expected before. In synchronization with the rest of the world, India’s return to normalcy is also expected to be continuously spurred on by increasing inoculation coverage, which could free a critical mass of consumers from virus fears. Of special import here is the positive thrust this will give to the services economy, a large portion of which has been pressured by Covid-19, depressing consumption and employment. For all these positives, it is not as if all is hunky-dory. This year does come with risks, pressures and challenges. For example, new Covid-19 variants could resist the currently workable vaccines, require modification and delay progress; present inoculations could stumble; while containing severe, current outbreaks, for example, in the US and Europe, could be tough. Economic risks, too, are several and complex. Rebounding economies could falter, for example, in a double-dip recession, as is feared for the Eurozone this month itself. A major macroeconomic risk has surfaced in the fear of a surprise inflation outburst in response to pent-up demand pressures, triggering 2013 taper tantrum repeat fears in case the inflation forces a monetary retreat by the US Federal Reserve. For emerging economies such as India, this risks a sudden reversal of foreign capital flows with feedbacks to stocks, bonds and the exchange rate. Policies could go wrong; for instance, support can be withdrawn too soon. The pressures are intense because of the risk that the nascent post-pandemic upturns could falter, slow down or even reverse. An oft-observed pattern in usual recessions is that the V-shaped recovery does not immediately return to the former peak; or growth fails to lift further from the peak, either flattening or falling below the former trend. The policy challenges exist, therefore, not only for 2021 but beyond, for the world as whole. This is also the stage when deeper wounds surface, such as permanent damages to the supply side with business closures, job losses and lowered individual incomes from the resulting backward spiral. For India, the policy challenge and pressures are similar but compounded for two reasons. One, unlike most other countries, an adverse public financial position and rating agencies’ fears limited fiscal policy aid at the outset. The post-pandemic recovery context is nebulous at present: real economic betterment is yet to be backed by a matching pick-up on the financial side; the post-pandemic state of bad assets is still to be recognized and exactly known; economic conditions in the large informal economy, which has not been accurately represented in national accounts for a long time, are unidentified; while clear evidence that employments have recovered is to the contrary — unemployed numbers were estimated at 15 million more last December than one year ago. Two, the economy was poor and deteriorating on the eve of Covid-19 last year. The gross domestic product growth then dropped to 4.2 per cent in FY20, the third year in a row. The causes and nature of that prolonged slowdown, if structural or cyclical, remain undiagnosed. Covid-19 overshadowed that decline and discourse. But the problem has not gone away, and has to be dealt with in addition to the challenge posed by the post-pandemic recovery. This is a very demanding task, for it requires abundant policy room that India simply does not have on the fiscal front; the monetary policy side could also encounter constraints from the acceleration of the global rise ahead. These complex objectives will have to be confronted, to start with, by the imminent budget that, hopefully, has them on the drawing board to draft fiscal responses for the next two years at the least. The pressures apart, the positive portents that the new year brings with it are a big cause for optimism and celebration. Let us hope that the two — inoculations against the coronavirus and the emergence from its devastation in 2020 — jointly move only in one direction, which is upwards, this year. It is a lot worth looking forward to. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||Trust first: President donates for Ram Mandir||Asking for contributions to build a temple is not prohibited. The response to the request depends on personal choice and faith. But when the president of a secular country donates over five lakh rupees at the beginning of a drive to raise funds to build the Ram temple in Ayodhya, choice and faith cannot remain personal or private. That the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had its affiliates launch a nationwide quest for contributions with a donation from the “first citizen” was an exhibition of the drive’s legitimacy, an entitlement above question. Contributions in the cause of faith lose their constitutional innocence — the right to freedom of religion — in certain historical contexts. The Ram temple — the Supreme Court having decided the land dispute — cannot yet be thought of without remembering the demolition of Babri Masjid and its aftermath. While the Trust has been formed by the government, the drive to raise funds is being spearheaded by leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, whose goal is a Hindu rashtra. That the president of India contributed to it — it must have been a carefully judged decision — is a serious blow to secular ideals. Secularism requires that political leaders, public service officials and foremost government personages maintain a distance from religious spaces and rituals in public. This principle had been violated earlier, but now, under the aegis of the Bharatiya Janata Party, fidelity to the majority religion is becoming the marker for loyalty to the country. While other secular countries are striving to separate not just the State but also public institutions from religion — many schools have dropped morning prayers and good wishes for Christmas have changed to wishes for happy holidays — Narendra Modi’s India is bent on identifying the State with the majority religion. The president’s contribution to the Trust comes after the prime minister laid the foundation of the Ram temple at a time when people were dying in the pandemic. It is no surprise, therefore, that the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh should call this a ‘national’ temple. As in West Bengal, where elections are imminent, so elsewhere, contributing to the trust may be seen as loyalty to the BJP and Hindutva. Secularism can be gradually dismantled by actions of the ruling government while its principles remain untouched on paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Absentee beneficiaries dampen vaccine drive||Low turnout continued to mar the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the third consecutive day on Tuesday in the state owing to concerns over safety of the vaccine and apprehensions of side effects among beneficiaries. As per figures received from officials of the state chapter of National Health Mission (NHM) at 8.00pm, 2,735 people took the vaccine in 48 centres across the state on Tuesday against a target of 4,800. “The number may go up slightly as updates are still underway,” remarked an official in the know of things. State NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla admitted there was no trend to indicate that more people were turning up at vaccine centres, but that he was hopeful of a better turnout in the coming days. “Absenteeism was there today (Tuesday) and the turnout can be estimated to be anything between 60 per cent to 65 per cent of the overall target,” he said. On Saturday, 3,200 out of 4,800 registered beneficiaries took the jab. The number fell by about 200 on Monday. Tuesday’s drop was more. The only encouraging sign was that there were no major cases of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) as yet. An official of Sadar hospital said that there was a need for a fresh impetus to build confidence. “I am surprised to witness that even some doctors are pulling out at the last moment. If they tend to do this, how can we encourage others to get vaccinated,” he said, adding that after tackling the pandemic through 2020, it’s time for people to come forward and take the vaccine. The Jharkhand government is administering Covishield doses to over 1.25 lakh identified beneficiaries in the first phase, a majority of who comprise health and cleanliness workers. Across the state, as many as 99.89 lakh people have been selected under different priority categories for administration of the vaccine. Vaccination is being conducted four days a week —Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday—at earmarked vaccination centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad businessmen protest civic body tax squeeze||Traders in Dhanbad are raising their voices against the ways in which the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is realising their holding taxes. While businessmen in the coal town circle are protesting over the integrating of holding tax with the trade license renewal, those in Jharia are agitating over dual-realisation of holding tax by both DMC as well as Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA). Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, president of Bank More Chamber Commerce, Prabhat Surolia said, “The traders are soft targets of the reverence mopping exercise by tax realisation measure of the DMC. We are being squeezed with all kinds of taxes.” “The DMC has made holding tax payment receipt submission mandatory for renewal of trade license, which is totally illogical. A shop  operating from a rented accommodation can’t get its trade license renewed,” explained Surolia. Mohammed Sohrab, president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, said, “It is totally unjustified to demand holding tax receipt as prerequisite for getting trade license renewal. A large number of shopkeepers, operating from rented accommodations, are finding it difficult to get the license due to non-submission of holding tax by their landlords.” “If the rented shop operators pay the holding tax and get their own holding numbers, they will be caught in  a legal dispute with the landlords. This may result in a sour relation with the landlords as after paying holding tax in their name they can stake ownership claim over the land” explained Sohrab. He said that the situation was not like this in other places like Ranchi. President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce Amit Sahu said, “We are the worst-affected by this policy of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation as we are already paying the holding tax to the JMADA. We are waiting for the renewal of the trade license as we don’t have the receipt of the DMC for holding tax payment, which is a prerequisite for renewal of trade license under the new rule.” “We are fighting the issue of holding tax demand by the DMC for several years now as we are already paying it to the JMADA. Nowhere in the country the same tax is realised by two different bodies,” said Sahu. He added that in the time of pandemic, where business activity has been affected for an entire year, imposition of such taxes is totally unjustified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Wild tuskers kill domesticated elephant in Betla National Park||A 25-year-old domesticated elephant of the Betla National Park named Kaal Bhairav was killed by two wild tuskers of the same park late Monday night, Deputy Director of the North division of Palamau Tiger Reserve Kumar Ashish said. The fight, which broke out at 9:30 pm on Monday, was fierce and lasted for half an hour where the wild elephants used their tusks to puncture holes on Kaal Bhairav’s stomach. The severity of the attack resulted in the domesticated elephant’s intestines falling out, and he succumbed to the injuries and profuse bleeding. The domesticated elephant was in chains at the elephants’ shed in the Palamu Quila. Asked if any human help could reach Kaal Bhairav, Ashish said there were eight people of the elephant contingent readying their food in the two watch towers close to the Palamu Quila. He said that these men as well as the elephant’s mahout Lal Bihari Singh also cried for his help. The men also exploded crackers to chase the wild elephants away but that had no impact, and after killing Kaal Bhairav, they went on their way. The tusks of the elephants are intact, Ashish said. They have been removed from the corpse and preserved in the Nature Interpretation Centre, Betla. Sources said internecine war among the wild life is common but said such a fight between elephants had never taken place in the national park in forty years. Betla national park has five captive elephants. Kaal Bhairav was one of them, brought in from Karnataka for patrol. Government veterinary surgeon Chandon De conducted his post mortem on Tuesday and viscera has been preserved for forensic examination. The elephant was bui=ried where he died, as per the standard procedure. Sources said had Kaal Bhairav not been in the chains then he too would have fought to save himself. Ashish said the elephant was fit and healthy but the attack was sudden and fierce, which resulted in his death. D.S Srivastava, an expert, said they fought to establish supremacy. “Had there been a trench along the elephant shed these marauders would not have reached Bhairav,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Signature campaign for animal shelter in steel city ||A steel city group dedicated to the wellbeing of animals, particularly strays, has launched a signature campaign for establishing a shelter for animals. Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation has set a target to collect 1,000 signatures to bolster its campaign. So far, over 800 animal lovers, including some from abroad, have supported the campaign launched a couple of days back. Once the target of 1,000 signatures is achieved, the foundation will send them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, animal rights activist and environmentalist Maneka Gandhi and former Tata Sons chairman Ratan Tata. Aniz Patel, founder of the foundation, said “We will send a request letter to these personalities once our target is achieved. We’ll send the signatures to the personalities for soliciting their support.” The signature campaign has been launched on facebook, twitter, instagram  and WhatsApp. According to Patel, they want to establish a shelter for animals who cannot be adopted due to medical conditions or age. “We are dedicated to animal welfare and preventing cruelty to strays, abandoned or abused dogs, cats and cows. A shelter would be of huge help for such animals,” he added. He said there is no such shelter in Jamshedpur and hence many animals are being abused on a daily basis. “We also find it hard to provide them with proper treatment,” Patel said. Patel said they need a 15,000sq ft X  20,000 sq ft space, preferably with a boundary wall and a vet ambulance for the shelter. “We are hopeful. We are optimistic of achieving our signature target in a day or two,” he added. According to a foundation member, they will be providing water, food and necessary medical care and rehabilitation of animals in need once the shelter is in place. “Medical care will be taken up by local veterinarians. The medical care will not be limited to sterilisation, vaccination and disease test,” he said. The Red Paws foundation is active in Jamshedpur for over years. It has conducted drives, including vaccination, feeding and adoption camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Story of women: rapes, deaths and missing girls||Crimes against women are on the rise in Jharkhand as over the past few days, two rape FIRs were lodged against relatives of victims in Koderma and Chatra, a dead body of a girl was found in Chatra and another went missing in the same district. An 18-year-old girl of Sayal village in Meral panchayat lodged a complaint on Monday with the Pathalgadda police station against her maternal uncle maternal uncle Sukhram Munda for raping her. She said he had first raped her  when she took her cattle for grazing to a forest area on July 18, 2020, threatening her of dire consequences if she opened her mouth. “He kept raping me on assurance of marriage,” the girl said, adding that he even forced her to have an abortion nursing home in Nawabgunj locality of the neighbouring Hazaribagh district on January 11. Upon her return, the girl told about the incident to her parents and lodged the FIR. However, the accused is absconding. Officer-in-charge of Pathalgadda police station Avinash Kumar said they had registered an FIR-4/21 against Munda and searches are on to nab him. In Koderma, another FIR was lodged by the mother of a seven-year-old girl against her neighbour Ramvilas Paswan (30). She said that Paswan took the minor to her house where he raped her, after which the girl came back to her home crying and revealing about the incident. Koderma police station officer-in-charge Dwarika Ram said an FIR was lodged and the girl was sent for medical tests. “We will arrest Paswan soon,” he added. On Sunday evening, Giddhore police in Chatra found the dead body of 14-year-old Supriya Kumari a.k.a. Dolly from a pond. Her uncle Sonu Gupta said Dolly was supposed to appear in the matriculation exam this year. He alleged that the suspect Rahul Yadav was released by the police, who did not take her case seriously when she went missing. Superintendent of Police Rishav Kumar Jha said they will solve this case in the next two days. In another incident, Basanti Devi of Bakchuma village under Kanhachatti block registered an FIR at the Rajpur police station requesting officials to find her 22-year-old daughter Mamta Kumari. She said her daughter went out of the house on January 2 but did not come back since then. Officer-in-charge of the police station Anil Kumar a search operation was launched to find Mamta. A family hailing from Bihar’s Aurangabad had a narrow escape on Tuesday when their car suddenly caught fire on Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH-33) in Massipiddi under Muffasil police station of Hazaribagh. The driver of the car made a wise decision of stopping the car as soon as he spotted smoke coming from the engine. However, it completely got gutted before firefighters could reach the location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Doctored video a plot against me, says BJP MLA, warns of legal action||BJP MLA Randhir Singh claimed on Tuesday that the video clip in which a man purported to be him is seen defending cyber criminals was doctored and released online by his political opponents wanting to defame him. “My opponents have released that doctored video to tarnish my image as a part of a conspiracy against me. I have spoken to my lawyers and decided to take strict legal action against the people behind this conspiracy,” Singh said, adding that the video clip too should be thoroughly examined by concerned agencies. A video clip, in which a man purported to be Singh is seen defending cyber criminals and threatening to gherao police stations if the people of Jamtara (in his constituency) are harassed unnecessarily, went viral on social media platforms recently. In the video, the man purported to be Singh is addressing a public gathering and openly lauding the people of his constituency for being smart enough to dupe educated people of other states through cyber fraud. “Nobody has ever been able to dupe any resident of my constituency. If illiterate people of our region are so smart that they can dupe people of other states then whose fault is it?” the man in the video asks. “Why do the literate people of other states provide their personal details to callers over phone? If police harass our people, then I will have no option but to gherao police stations,” he adds. Singh is a two-time MLA from Sarath, a constituency that shares its borders with Jamtara that has gained infamy for being the cyber crime capital of the country. It is home to several gangs of “Panchvi Fail” cybercriminals, who have duped several people living in the metros, say police. On Tuesday, a visibly infuriated Singh said he would not stop at taking legal actions against the people who have allegedly doctored the video to tarnish his image, but also sue the new channels that have run the video clip without establishing its authenticity. BJP has stood by the party MLA during the controversy. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that the video was shot from an angle which makes it impossible to match the lip movement of the person with the words he speaks. “The video is not clear, and there is no way to match the audio of the clip with the lip movement of the man in it. In this era of doctored videos and editing techniques, I think the video clip needs to be examined before jumping to conclusions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad starts using sprinklers to curb air pollution||The coal capital of India, one of the most polluted towns of the country, has finally started using truck mounted sprinklers that sends out atomized (tiny droplets) water up to a height of 50 meter to create an artificial mist which sticks with pollutants that ultimately settles to the ground. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) bought these vehicles at a total cost of Rs 50 lakh after the town was included in the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme under which pollution is to be curbed by 50 per cent in three years in 100 cities and towns of the country. Assistant engineer cum transport department in-charge of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Uday Kachhap said on Tuesday, “We received the two sprinklers on January 15 and started using them from the next day after training drivers. The vehicles are being used in the town on a pilot basis,” he said, adding that their services would be extended to other towns under DMC, including Jharia, Katras, Sindri and Chhatatand. Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 10 crore in 2019 for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to buy mechanical dust sweepers, water sprinklers and other gear. Of this, Rs 3 was provided to DMC in January last year. DMC sanitary inspector Arjun Ram said, “We are operating sprinkler vehicles during morning hours when there is less rush of vehicles and commuters. Additionally, we are also operating all five mechanized dust sweepers purchased by DMC in 2019 on a regular basis.” JSPCB member Rajiv Sharma, however, termed the DMC’s anti-pollution measures inadequate. He suggested the corporation adopt more proactive steps to control air pollution so that more funds could be provided by JSPCB for buying more equipment. “Until and unless the utilisation certificate for Rs 3 core provided by JSPCB during the last year is not submitted by DMC more funds cannot be released,” said Sharma, who is also general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: marginal fall in number of recipients on Day Two ||The number of people taking the vaccine fell by about 200 on the second day of the immunisation exercise on Monday, figures from the state chapter of National Health Mission indicated. Health department officials, however, did not sound concerned about the marginal fall in turnout stating the numbers would improve gradually with the passage of time and a sustained status quo of no adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). As per the figures released at 8 pm on Monday, close to 3,000 took Covishield shots against a target of 4800 across 48 vaccination centres. On the inaugural day of the vaccination drive on Saturday, 3,200 people took the jabs. No immunisation exercise was carried out on Sunday. State NHM director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the intention was to increase the vaccine administration rate to about 90 per cent. But he agreed that would happen gradually. “We witnessed a marginal fall in turnout compared to Day One. Against 3,200 on the first day, only close to 3000 came for vaccination. There could be many reasons as people may not still be very confident about taking it, preferring to wait and watch for some more time. We will step up counselling but zero AEFI cases will be the key for a better turnout,” he said. Shukla said they would conduct a review of the situation soon and then plan corrective steps. Like on the first day, there were no reports of adverse events on Monday in Jharkhand. In Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad, a 46-year-old health worker died a day after receiving the vaccine on Monday, PTI reported but clarified that it wasn’t vaccine-related. The Jharkhand government is administering Covishield doses to over 1.25 lakh identified beneficiaries in the first phase. Most of these comprise health and cleanliness workers. Across the state, as many as 99.89 lakh people have been selected under different priority categories for the administration of the vaccine. From now, the vaccination drive will be held on four days a week, namely, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in Jharkhand||As many as four Covid-19 patients, including two from Bokaro, died during treatment on Monday in Jharkhand, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1054, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi and Dhanbad reported one Covid casualty each, taking the Covid toll in Ranchi to 225 and that in Dhanbad to 110, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. With 356 deaths, East Singhbhum has reported the most number of Covid fatalities among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection on the day, bringing the count of active cases below 1200. The state reported 100 cases against 131 recoveries on the day, which brought the number of Covid-19 patients in the state down to 1090, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi accounted for 44 of the 100 fresh cases on the day, but the number of active cases here dropped to 608 as at least 56 patients recovered here in the past 24 hours. Among other districts, East Singhbhum reported 17 cases and the same number of recoveries, while Dhanbad reported eight cases against four recoveries. Only two people were found infected in Bokaro and eight patients recovered there. After Monday's findings, less than 10 people were battling the infection in at least seven of 24 districts in Jharkhand, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 10,484 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 50.65 lakh people in Jharkhand and tested 50.57 lakh of them. As per government data, as many as 1,17,786 people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.09 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 0.08 per cent against the national average of 0.13 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 816 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 550.60 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
19-01-2021||Jharkhand||Five-year integrated MBA programme at IIM Ranchi ||The Indian Institute of Management, Ranchi, will offer a five-year integrated programme in management (IPM) from this year. The IPM programme will be a full-time blended course of business studies for undergraduate to postgraduate level or an integrated BBA-MBA programme and the students will be offered an MBA degree on successful completion of the course, the institute said. Asked about the eligibility criteria of students, institute director Shailendra Singh said: “Admission to the programme will be based on the SAT (Scholastic Aptitude Test) exam scores.” Besides, a written ability test would also be taken and personal interviews conducted after considering overall academic performances of the students at the secondary and higher secondary levels, he added. Students admitted to the integrated programme will get a larger duration of training at the institute to develop practical leadership and managerial skills, IIM Ranchi said in a release issued on Monday afternoon. “The curriculum has been deliberately prepared to balance cognitive development with cultural growth by engaging the students both in and outside the classroom,” it added. The programme will comprehensively cover subjects from management, marketing, accounting, finance, economics, information system, data sciences and strategic management, aimed at holistic development of the students, the release said. The course fee will be Rs 14 lakh for the first three years of the programme, while for the last two years, the selected students will have to pay the same fee as would be payable by the MBA students at that time, the institute’s website said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-168
