20-01-2021||Calcutta||More smart eyes to enforce road rules||Calcutta police are installing automatic number plate recognition cameras and red light-violation detection cameras at 120 sites as part of their efforts to strengthen prosecutions using cameras, instead of manual citations that could be erroneous. At present, only 15 locations are covered by these cameras, which can automatically detect a vehicle’s movement if it violates a traffic signal and also capture the picture of its number plate as evidence. As Cyclone Amphan had left more than half of the regular CCTV cameras defunct in the city, citations through cameras had taken a backseat, police said. The pandemic only aggravated the problem, preventing the police from carrying out manual citations, traffic cops said However, with the installation of over 320 new “intelligent” cameras at 120 locations, officers said they were hoping to again start a prosecution drive against traffic violations in the city. In the past few years, Calcutta police had reduced manual citation and started using CCTV cameras for citations. At present, there are over 1,600 regular CCTV cameras located at more than 600 intersections. Earlier, traffic cops used to note down the registration numbers of the vehicles that violated the traffic rules. The lists of vehicles used to be updated by all 25 traffic guards on an internal server that was linked to the traffic computer cell at Lalbazar, from where challans were issued to the owners of offending vehicles. The process, which completely depended on manual interventions, often allegedly led to erroneous citations. Often motorists would complain that they had received a challan citing that their vehicle had violated a traffic signal at a particular time, though the vehicle was actually somewhere else then. The onus would be on motorists to prove that the citations by the police were wrong. “Initially, the police would scan the footage of regular CCTV cameras at the traffic building to detect violations. Once the smart cameras came, the work became more accurate with less human interface,” said an officer in the traffic department. However, as there were only a few intelligent cameras in the city and the pandemic had shifted the police’s focus from prosecuting traffic violators to those without masks, the prosecution rate of traffic violations had reduced considerably over the past few months, officers said. Installation of intelligent cameras at 320 locations would also mean motorists would have to remain alert against violating traffic rules. The integrated system of intelligent cameras not just detects violations and recognises the vehicle number but also initiates the process of sending an e-challan to the mobile number registered against a vehicle number. Police said details of violations are also uploaded on the website of the Calcutta traffic police and can be assessed by the vehicle owners by entering their vehicle details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta|| Call for 3-day bus strike from January 28||Five private bus and minibus unions have called a three-day strike from January 28 to protest the rising price of diesel which, union members said, had further intensified their struggle for existence amid the Covid pandemic. The decision was taken on Tuesday after members of the five unions held a meeting and discussed the fallout of the rising price of diesel on business. On Tuesday, diesel sold at Rs 78.72 a litre in Calcutta. A month back, the price was around Rs 68.14 a litre in the city. “The price of diesel has been rising regularly since June and we have not been getting enough passengers to see any profit during this period,” said Pradip Narayan Bose of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “How do we survive? We have decided to go for this strike. We understand commuters would face problems but we request them to understand our plight as well.” On Tuesday, the association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting the Centre to reduce taxes on diesel and enhance the interest-free moratorium period for transport vehicle owners. Copies of the letter have been sent to Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union minister of petroleum and natural gas, and to Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways. “Bus owners are unable to pay their EMIs and the price of diesel is continuing to rise. This was affecting the CIBIL score of the borrowers. Next time, several bus owners would not even qualify for a loan. What do we do?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. There are around 21,000 private bus operators in Bengal. In Calcutta and its surrounding areas, the count stands at 7,000. Almost all of them have been reeling from financial distress since the diesel price started rising.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Glare on loud music in Sunderbans||Patrol teams of the forest department will remove sound systems and loudspeakers from launches and motor boats hired by tourists in the Sunderbans, an official of the department said. Hundreds of launches and motor boats take tourists inside the Sunderbans and most are fitted with music systems and loudspeakers, inflicting torture on animals and birds living in the mangroves. The National Green Tribunal had three years ago ordered the state government to prevent sound pollution in the Sunderbans and dumping of untreated waste in the rivers and creeks there. Most launch and boat owners, however, flout norms and instal sound systems and loudspeakers on their launches and boats to entertain tourists. “We have found that most boats have sound systems installed on them. Loud music leads to a spike in sound pollution levels and is bad for animals and birds. Our patrol teams will remove such sound systems and loudspeakers,” said another forest department official. Officials will also keep watch on dumping of plastic bags, glasses and items made of styrofoam such as plates from boats, the official said. “In case any boat is found carrying plastic items or things made of thermocol, we will issue hefty fines on the spot and seize these items. Most boats serve lunch on board and utensils made of plastic and styrofoam are frequently used,” official said. Tourism in the Sunderbans, which was suspended following the outbreak of Covid-19, has resumed and on an average around 300 boats and launches are taking tourists into the mangroves every day. “We will not allow any boat to flout norms and will send notices to all boat owners as well as those who conduct tours. We will check every boat before they leave and monitor the waterways and impose heavy fines on violators,” said Milan Mondal, the divisional forest officer of the South 24-Parganas range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||More Covid vaccine sites on anvil||The state government is planning to set up more Covid-19 vaccination sites following a confirmation from the Centre that the second lot of Covishield doses will arrive in Calcutta on Wednesday. In the second round, 6.99 lakh doses are expected to arrive in the city, state government officials said.  Some of the doses will be for other eastern and northeastern states. “The additional doses will help expedite the vaccination process,” a health department official said. Twenty more private hospitals in and around Calcutta are likely to open Covid-19 vaccination sites next week, a state government official who is managing Covid-19 sites in the city has said. Only three private hospitals in the city have so far been allowed to run vaccination sites. Some of the hospitals where sites could be opened are Belle Vue Clinic, Woodlands Hospital, CMRI, AMRI Mukundapur, Charnock Hospital and Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Howrah. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation also issued an order on Tuesday announcing that Covid-19 vaccination sites will be set up at 11 more ward health clinics from Monday. “We had a meeting with private hospitals on Tuesday. We will conduct inspections soon to see if they are prepared to run vaccination sites on their campuses. They are expected to begin vaccination on their campuses from early next week,” said the state government official. Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue, said three representatives of each of the 20 hospitals attended Tuesday’s meeting. “The nodal officer chosen for Covid-19 vaccination in each of these hospitals, the system manager and a vaccinator were called to the meeting. They were informed about the Co-Win application and other necessary details,” said Tondon. “All the selected hospitals have to vaccinate healthcare workers of other healthcare institutions in the vicinity that do not have a Covid-19 vaccination site on their campus,” he said. On Tuesday, 13,693 healthcare workers were vaccinated across the state. The number of those vaccinated was 13,661 on Monday and 15,707 on Saturday, the first day of Covid vaccination. “Eleven adverse events were reported on Tuesday but those were mostly minor issues like pain at the injection site,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of health services of the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Injured civet cat takes shelter, rescued||An injured civet cat took refuge in the compound of a house in Chandernagore late on Monday after it was chased by dogs. Swapan Pal and his family members came out of their house near the Nadua temple complex in Chandernagore when they heard loud noises at night to find a civet cat. It looked scared and kept snarling at them. Alerted by the sounds, Pal’s neighbours also came to check. When they saw the animal, they asked Pal to drive it away. But Pal refused and let the animal stay in their compound. He then contacted animal rights activists and wildlife lovers on Facebook seeking their help. “The animal was bleeding and snarling. Our neighbours were afraid and asked us to drive it out of the house. But I realised that if we did that, it might get killed,” said Pal. He managed to contact Soumyodip Mukherjee, who runs Bonyo, an NGO that helps rescue injured birds and animals. Mukherjee advised Pal to give the civet cat some food and water and requested him not to drive the animal out. “We got in touch with the wildlife rescue centre in Salt Lake,” said Mukherjee. An official of the wildlife rescue centre alerted the Hooghly beat office of the forest department about the animal. A team from the Hooghly beat office reached the spot and rescued the animal on Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||GI-tagged Joynagar Moa fly to Bahrain||The first consignment of GI-tagged Joynagar Moa will leave Calcutta on Wednesday. Thirty kilos of moa will land in Bahrain after flying out of Calcutta in specially created packages. Along with it will travel a little over 100 kilos of patali gur (date palm jaggery), another winter delicacy from Bengal. “This is the first time GI-tagged Joynagar Moa will be exported from Bengal,” said Sandeep Saha of the Agricultural and Process Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), under the Union ministry of commerce and industry. “We have also received enquiries from Italy and Canada. We will wait for feedback about the first consignment and then take our next step.” The origin of Joynagar Moa dates back more than a century. Ashutosh Das, a resident of Das Para of Sreepur village in Joynagar, had started the moa industry in Bengal in 1904. But it was only in November 2014 that this delicate sweet made of khoi (popped rice) bagged a geographical indication tag for its uniqueness that would be only found across two blocks of Joynagar in South 24-Parganas. “When APEDA officials reached us with the proposal, the challenge was to maintain the freshness of the product with right moisture content according to GI specifications,” said Ashok Kumar Kayal of Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society. “We finally found a way and the moa has been sent in log box packets with a shelf life of five to six days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Engineering course at Jadavpur University loses sheen||A Jadavpur University engineering course that is usually pursued by working professionals has had only 40 per cent takers this year, possibly because the hope that the degree will bring promotions has faded among potential applicants. After the university conducted counselling independently, of the 50 seats each in the evening courses of electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, 33 and 34 seats have remained vacant, respectively. The university is holding a fresh round of counselling. The current job situation does not suggest that the course would be rewarding for working professionals, several teachers said. Those who have completed their diploma in engineering pursue the five-year BTech (evening) programme while working during the day, in the hope that a degree from JU will help them land a plum promotion, officials of JU’s engineering faculty said. A candidate has to have at least a year’s job experience to apply for JU’s evening engineering programme. The applicant has to submit a no-objection certificate from the employer to enrol. But after the university held counselling among 379 applicants in December, a staggering number of seats remained vacant in the two coveted streams. Three seats have remained vacant in the civil engineering department, which is among the three evening engineering programmes JU offers. For HR departments, an additional degree by a working professional does not trigger much of a response anymore. According to them, retaining a job should be the sole concern of an employee. A professor of IIM Calcutta said that he wasn’t surprised by what was happening at JU. At IIM, six working professionals had quit the executive MBA programme because hope faded that the degree would bring a promotion. Candidates would sometimes quit their jobs to pursue the course. “Under normal circumstances, candidates feel the course will land them a plum job so they don’t hesitate to quit their current job. But Covid has changed everything,” an IIM-C teacher said. Working professionals might find it more prudent to work longer hours now instead of taking time off to pursue an evening course, another IIM-C teacher said. “They are focussed on retaining the job they have.” “We have to find out why so many seats remained vacant,” said JU pro vice-chancellor Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, who is also the former dean of engineering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||ICSE content on Covid protocol||The ICSE council has asked schools to spread awareness on how to wear masks, wash hands and maintain distance among each other as a precaution against Covid-19. The Union education ministry has created an online link containing posters, wall paintings and social media creatives on the subject and sent it to all school heads, asking them to share the link with students, parents and teachers. Several school heads said the move was aimed at familiarising students with Covid-safety norms ahead of possible resumption of in-person classes. Students have to be prepared well in advance on how to conduct themselves in the presence of friends, whom they will meet almost after a year, once campuses reopen. “This is in reference to the IEC (Information, Education and Communication) material for mainstream Corona Responsive Behaviour (CRB) circulated by the ministry of education…. The link will give you access to posters, wall paintings and social media creatives. You are requested to share the... link with all teachers, staff, parents, students of your school,” reads a notice issued by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, which conducts ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. The posters include visual images with messages such as “Corona spreads when you share/Keep to yourself to show you care” and “Meet your friends and say hello/But remember touching is a strict no-no” and “4 golden rules when you are eating: Use a spoon, wash your hands, eat from your own plate or tiffin, maintain 6ft of distance from each other”. The wall paintings demonstrate the distance to be maintained among each other outside toilets or on playgrounds, places where students are not usually under the supervision of an adult. “We need to prepare students for classes on campus and they will have to maintain distance while they are writing examinations or attending classes because online classes cannot be a permanent thing,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Some of the heads plan to circulate the information through online classes. “We will have a dedicated time during online classes to tell students about the safety protocol (to be maintained on the campus). They need to know they will have to abide by them for their own sake,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Ram Mohan Mission High School. “The children will meet after a long time and they will tend to drop guard. Hence, the training is important to make them more responsible. The fear is they will want to get close to one another during lunch break…. There should be no assembly and entry and exit should be staggered,” said Manish Dalmia, a parent whose daughter is in Class XI and son in Class VI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Cinema owners worried over occupancy||Ten days after Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that cinemas in Bengal can operate with 100 per cent capacity, the state government has yet to come up with a formal notification. Several hall owners, however, said they were struggling to get even 10 per cent of the audience and in the absence of new films, a government notification will just be another piece of paper. “It does not matter what capacity is allowed by the government. The capacity of one of my halls is around 800. I am not seeing even eight people in a show,” said the owner of two halls in south Calcutta. He said the fixed establishment costs like power bills and staff salary were bleeding him, a common concern for hall owners across the state. “I have been paying 50 per cent of the staff salary. In the coming days, I am unlikely to continue doing that,” said another hall owner. The absence of new big-ticket films is the big problem, hall owners said. “It is a classic chicken or egg first syndrome. Producers do not want to release big films unless occupancy is increased. Unless big films arrive, people are not going to go to cinemas,” said a distributor in Bengal. “Halls are operating with 50 per cent capacity because of the pandemic. I will ask chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to issue a notification allowing halls to run with 100 per cent capacity,” Mamata had said on January 8, at the inauguration of the Kolkata International Film Festival, drawing loud applause from the audience. The Tamil Nadu government had on January 4 passed a similar order, withdrawing the 50 per cent cap on cinema hall occupancy. But following an objection from the Union home ministry and legal challenges, the government revoked the order. The Centre had greenlighted the reopening of cinemas from October 15, the seating capacity curtailed to 50 per cent of the total capacity. The Covid-19 pandemic had sounded a possible death knell for many single-screen theatres. Hundreds of people who worked in the halls have lost their jobs, many more have been forced to take pay cuts. Out of around 225 halls registered with the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), some 75 are closed, said sources in the association. “We had written a letter to the Union home secretary, seeking a virtual or physical meeting. Unless the occupancy is increased, we will not see big releases. But there has been no response so far,” said a Calcutta-based exhibitor, who is a member of the All India Exhibitors’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
20-01-2021||Calcutta||Survey data delinked from vaccine list||The data from a survey in the city to identify people with comorbidities is not good enough and will not be used to prepare a list of people who will get Covid-19 jabs on a priority basis, sources said on Tuesday. The survey was conducted by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation from September 7 to 30 and data of more than seven lakh households in the city have been uploaded. The data was to be used to monitor people with comorbidities so that timely treatment could be arranged if they contracted Covid and to make a list of those who would need vaccines on a priority basis. “The data from the comorbidity survey will not be used to prepare the list of people. It could be used for other purposes,” a health department official said on Tuesday. Health department sources said the quality of the data was not good enough to be used to prepare the list of people with comorbidities who should be in priority groups for a Covid vaccine. CMC officials, however, denied the data was not up to the mark. “There were flaws in the collection of data at the ground level and also in data uploading. Sample checks have revealed that in many cases names, addresses and contact numbers of the respondents did not match. The quality of the data was far from desirable,” said a state government official involved in Bengal’s Covid response. Several residents across Calcutta told Metro that CMC workers had not visited their homes to collect data about co-morbidities. The CMC was helped by the state health department and Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, health officials and Covid survivors, in conducting the survey. The health department and the network provided technical knowhow, while CMC workers and officials collected and uploaded the data. The exercise was undertaken because people with comorbidities — such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiac diseases, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease — are more vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. Health department data reveals that 83.9 per cent of the people in Bengal who died after contracting Covid had comorbidities. Till Tuesday, the Covid death toll in the state stood at 10,074. The government had planned to use the data from the survey to monitor these people. If any person with comorbidities had Covid, the health department and the CMC would monitor his or her condition closely and arrange for prompt hospitalisation, if needed. In the initial days, many people with comorbidities had turned critical because they got admitted to hospital late. Around six lakh health workers will get Covid vaccine jabs in the state in the ongoing first phase of vaccination. Health department officials said frontline workers such as cops and civic workers would be vaccinated in the second phase, to be followed by people above 50 or those below 50 but suffering from co-mor-bidities. State government officials said the schedule of subsequent rounds of vaccination would depend on availability of doses from the Centre. “We will have to prepare a guideline to identify people with comorbidities. It will be done soon,” said a senior official of the health department. The department had received the comorbidity data from the CMC a few weeks back, following which officials started an analysis. The CMC had first decided to upload the entire set of data by Durga Puja last year. The deadline was later extended to October 31, but even that was missed. The data was finally uploaded towards the end of November, after which the analysis started. The survey’s initial target was to cover 10 lakh households in Calcutta but that could not be achieved. At several stages, CMC employees had expressed their reluctance to continue with the exercise, sources said. CMC officials denied that the quality of data was not good. “We held several meetings with the health department and Covid Care Network. The process and format of data uploading was prepared by the health department. We implemented it and to the best of our capacity,” said an official of the civic body. “There are lakhs and lakhs of names and addresses. In such a huge exercise, there could be a few lapses but the health department has not told us that the quality of data is not good,” he said. According to the official, in many cases reluctance of residents in providing data proved to be a hindrance. He said there was a possibility that some people did not want to reveal contact numbers or other details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
20-01-2021||Calcutta||When Gabba felt like Eden Gardens||Among the Indian supporters at the Gabba savouring from up close one of Indian cricket’s biggest days were Sagnik Guha, 24, and Arka Basu, 25. While Sagnik’s mother is from Sinthee, he was born in South Africa and migrated to Australia at the age of eight. Arka, born and raised Down Under, has roots in Ballygunge through his parents. But when it comes to cricket, both bleed Blue. The two friends share with Metro the action and the celebration. Sagnik Guha There were seven of us — four Bengalis, one Tamilian and two Australians. And all of us were supporting India! We decided to go for the match at the end of Day 4. This was to be my first international match at the Gabba. Since I did not have an India shirt, I wore my South Africa jersey instead. We could sit next to each other but the rows before and after us were blocked to ensure social distancing. Rohit Sharma was already out when I reached. But given how Shardul Thakur and Washington Sundar had held ground in the first innings, we were not worried about a batting collapse. Truth be told, it was a draw that we were expecting. At the Gabba, you don’t expect a touring team to chase down a full strength Australian side’s score on the last day. The Indians were chanting Bharat mata ki jai with such vigour that one of our Australian friends said he felt like he was at Eden Gardens! Yet, the crowd was so sporting that both good shots and good fielding got applauded. We could spot the Bharat Army seated square of the wicket with a huge banner. They got increasingly noisy as Rishav Pant and his partners wore down the Aussie lead. With three to get, the crowd simply went crazy. A guy possibly had a beer too many and kept jumping. And when the victory lap was happening, many had tears in their eyes. Arka Basu I have been to the Gabba several times before but this is the first time that I saw India play a Test. And what a beautiful day it turned out to be! While the first four days have price tickets, the last day is usually a gold coin donation day. This means one simply donates a one or two-dollar coin at the gate. They are the only two coins coloured gold in Australian currency. With me were two Australian friends with whom I play indoor cricket. We reached the stadium early. The souvenir stalls that sell flags, team shirts, bucket hats or scarves were missing this time. But I had my India shirt on. There were dholaks playing outside and people were dancing to the beat. It was a magical atmosphere. We had an unbelievably good time. And when we were walking out for a celebration dinner, many Australians driving by rolled down their car windows to shout “Well done” to us. That felt nice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-168
20-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty soar to record highs amid global rally||Benchmark BSE Sensex rose by 393 points on Wednesday following gains in IT, energy and auto stocks amid strong global cues on hopes of fresh stimulus measures by the incoming US administration. The 30-share Sensex advanced by 393.83 or 0.80 per cent to close at its fresh record of 49,792.12. The broader NSE Nifty jumped 123.55 points or 0.85 per cent to settle at a lifetime high of 14,644.70. World stocks advanced on Wednesday after US Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen called for a hefty stimulus to protect the US economy. President-elect Joe Biden, who will be sworn into office on Wednesday. has laid out a USD 1.9 trillion stimulus package proposal to boost the economy. Among Sensex stocks, Maruti rose the most by 2.75 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra (2.67 per cent), Mahindra & Mahindra (1.98 per cent) and Asian Paints (1.98 per cent). Gains in Reliance, TCS, Infosys, HCL Tech, HDFC and ICICI Bank also helped the barometer extend its rally for a second day. Among losers, Power Grid dropped 1.75 per cent and NTPC by 1.35 per cent. Asian shares were mostly higher ahead of Joe Biden's inauguration as US president. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 rose 0.4 per cent and South Korea's Kospi by 0.6 per cent while Hong Kong's Hang Seng added 0.7 per cent. Japanese market, however, dropped 0.4 per cent due to fresh COVID-19 concerns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 170 points in early trade||Benchmark BSE Sensex rose by over 170 points in early trade on Wednesday as IT, energy and pharma stocks advanced amid gains in global equities on hopes of fresh US stimulus measures. The 30-share index opened higher at 49,508.79, against the previous close of 49,398.29 and rose further to hit a high of 49,595.64 points in early trade. Of the 30 Sensex stocks, 17 were trading in green led by IT and pharma stocks. In a similar tandem, the broader NSE Nifty advanced by 52.25 points or 0.36 per cent to 14,573.40 with 26 of its constituents trading in the green territory. Analysts said Indian stocks took cues from global equities which rose to record highs after US Treasury Secretary nominee Janet Yellen called for a hefty fiscal relief package to help the economy hit by the COVID-19 crisis. Among Sensex stocks, ONGC was up by 1.33 per cent while Reliance rose by 0.42 per cent in early trade. Leading IT stocks also advanced in morning trade on hopes of fresh US stimulus measures. HCL Tech rose by 1.15 per cent, Tech Mahindra by 1.14 per cent, TCS by 0.85 per cent and Infosys by 0.74 per cent. FMCG stocks were down with HUL dropping by 0.48 per cent and ITC by 0.39 per cent. HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, and Bharti Airtel were also down in early trade. FIIs were net purchasers of Indian equities on Tuesday, putting in Rs 257.55 crore on a net basis while domestic investors sold shares worth Rs 199 crore on a net basis. Asian shares were trading mostly higher on Wednesday, ahead of Joe Biden's inauguration as US president. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 rose by 0.6 per cent while South Korea's Kospi gained 0.5 per cent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng by 0.9 per cent. The Shanghai Composite rose by 0.4 per cent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225, however, lost 0.4 per cent due to worries about the surge in coronavirus cases. On Wall Street, the S&P 500 rose 0.8 per cent, the Dow Jones Industrial Average added 0.4 per cent and the Nasdaq composite gained 1.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Sensex roars before Union budget 2021||Benchmark indices on Tuesday erased most of their losses over the past two trading sessions as positive global cues, stoked by expectations of a larger US economic stimulus, sent the Sensex soaring 834 points. The index had taken a knock of more than 1000 points weighed down by expensive valuations and the likelihood of tougher RBI rules for the larger shadow banks. However, stocks on Tuesday staged a rebound largely because of strong cues from global markets amid reports of nominee US treasury secretary Janet Yellen — a former Federal Reserve chairman — seeking more support from Congress to fight the ravages of the pandemic. In her testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Yellen said more aid was needed to get coronavirus vaccines distributed, to reopen schools and help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed. In Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains, while Shanghai was in the red. Stocks exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in early deals. Market circles added the sentiment remained positive as global liquidity was abundant with various central banks continuing to support their economies. While this is likely to see strong inflows from FPIs, strong corporate results could see buying momentum persist. Though the focus is now expected to shift to the Union budget, experts warned the markets could see a correction once the key event was over. “The results season has started well and sent out encouraging signs. The vaccination drive is progressing well. Also, the global cues have been positive with expectation of a large fiscal push in the US. The overall sentiment is quite bullish. We expect that the market will now take its next major cue from the Budget. The multiple expansion driven returns will ease out and returns will be linked more to growth from here on,’’ Mohit Ralhan, managing partner & CIO, TIW Private Equity said. The BSE Sensex opened strong at 48900.31 and hit an intra-day high of 49499.86 after which it settled at 49398.25 — a gain of 834.02 points or 1.72 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 239.85 points or 1.68 per cent to 14521.15. In the Sensex pack, 27 stocks ended in the green and the list was led by Bajaj Finserv which rallied around 7 per cent. It was followed by Bajaj Finance, HDFC, L&T, ICICI Bank and Sun Pharma . The rally in the stock markets had a positive rub-off on the domestic currency which gained 11 paise to settle at 73.17 against the dollar. At the forex market, the unit opened at 73.16 and hit an intra-day high of 73.14 and a low of 73.31. It finished at 73.17, higher by 11 paise over its last close amid weakness in the greenback. The dollar index, which gauges its strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.22 per cent to 90.52.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Infrastructure sector to get significant push||The infrastructure sector is expected to get a significant push as it is pivotal to put the economy back on a growth trajectory. In the last budget, the government had launched National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) that envisaged completing 7,300 projects valued at Rs 111 lakh crore by 2025. However, raising Rs 20 lakh crore every year for these projects will be an enormously challenging exercise. Analysts expect finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to announce a development finance institution (DFI) to fund infrastructure projects in segments such as housing and construction that will have high multiplier effects and a major employment generator. The institution is expected to be created by merging some existing financial institutions to meet the long-term  needs of new, stalled, and work-in-progress projects. Sources said a DFI could be partially owned by the government and would finance projects that banks and other lenders are wary of because of long gestation periods. It is a possibility that the India Infrastructure Finance Company could be merged with the new DFI, they said. Industry chamber CII has suggested the setting up of development finance institutions by infusing equity in existing entities — Nabard for financing agriculture and rural development, Sidbi for financing MSMEs and IIFCL for infrastructure. The development financial institutions should be run by domain experts and professionals. The Union cabinet has approved a Rs 6,000cr capital infusion in National Investment and Infrastructure Fund, a government-backed entity created to provide long-term capital. The government has also set up Rs 25,000cr Special Window for Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Fund to help stalled projects in the real estate sector. Apart from setting up a development financial institution, the government could reduce its stake in state owned units including banks and the proceeds from disinvestment should be used for creating health infrastructure and other physical infrastructure both in urban and rural areas. At present, about 57 PSUs that are not banks and financial entities have an average government holding of about 71 per cent with average market capitalisation of more than Rs 10 lakh crore. The Centre can raise as much as Rs 2 lakh crore over the next two years from 30 per cent of these holdings which could be channelised in infrastructure. The surplus land assets of railways and defence should also be monetised and reinvested in rail and defence infrastructure. Even assets such as ports and airports should continue to be put up for strategic sale either through the stock market or through transparent auctions. The amount received could be used to fund infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||India to revise its foreign investment rules for e-commerce||India is considering revising its foreign investment rules for e-commerce, three sources and a government spokesman told Reuters, a move that could compel players, including Amazon.com Inc, to restructure their ties with some major sellers. The government discussions coincide with a growing number of complaints from India’s bricks-and-mortar retailers, which have for years accused Amazon and Walmart Inc-controlled Flipkart of creating complex structures to bypass federal rules, allegations the US companies deny. India only allows foreign e-commerce players to operate as a marketplace to connect buyers and sellers. It prohibits them from holding inventories of goods and directly selling them on their platforms. Amazon and Walmart’s Flipkart were last hit in December 2018 by investment rule changes that barred foreign e-commerce players from offering products from sellers in which they have an equity stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
20-01-2021||Business||Google bets on hyperlocal delivery Dunzo||Google on Tuesday said it would take part in the latest funding round worth $40 million of hyperlocal delivery start-up Dunzo, which is based in Bangalore. Google had set up a $10 billion fund to invest in start-ups in the country. Dunzo had been previously backed by Google. Five-year-old Dunzo said Google, Lightbox, Evolvence, Hana Financial Investment, LGT Lightstone Aspada, and Alteria among others participated in its Series E financing round, which brings its to-date raise to $121 million. Dunzo on Tuesday said it has raised a fresh round of $40 million (about Rs 292.7 crore) in capital. “This capital stems from a year of robust growth amidst the pandemic. “In the coming year, the local commerce platform will focus on deploying its playbook for sustainable growth across its fastest-growing cities such as Mumbai, Chennai and Pune,” it added. With a gross merchandise value (GMV) growth of 2X over the past year, Dunzo is now about $100 million annualised GMV business, the statement said. DeHaat raises $30m Agritech firm DeHaat on Tuesday said it has raised $30 million (Rs 220 crore) from various investors to fund its expansion plan and strengthen technology platform. The company raised $30 million in Series C funding, led by Prosus Ventures (formerly Naspers Ventures). RTP Global co-invested in the round with participation from existing investors, Sequoia India, FMO, Omnivore & AgFunder. “The recent investment from marquee investors is a validation of our goal to become the world’s largest farmer aggregator and will help us scale up in size and scope,” Shashank Kumar, co-founder & CEO, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Home First Finance Company fixes price band for IPO||Mortgage financier Home First Finance Company (HFFC) has fixed a price band of Rs 517-518 per share for its initial public offering (IPO) which will open for subscription on January 21 and close on January 25. The offer aggregating up to Rs 1,153.71 crore comprises a fresh issue of up to Rs 265 crore and an offer-for-sale of up to Rs 888.71 crore by promoters and existing shareholders. The offer-for-sale consists of shares worth Rs 435.61 crore by True North Fund V LLP, Rs 291.28 worth crore shares by promoter Aether (Mauritius) Ltd, Rs 120.46 crore by investor Bessemer India Capital Holdings II Ltd and up to Rs 41.3 crore by two individual shareholders — P.S. Jayakumar and Manoj Viswanathan. The company has reduced the fresh issue size following the allotment of shares in an pre-IPO placement worth Rs 75 crore and Rs 4.84 crore to Orange Clove Investments BV, an affiliate of Warburg Pincus, and to its certain employees, respectively, by way of preferential issue. Axis Capital, Credit Suisse Securities (India) Pvt Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd and Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd are the book running lead managers to the offer. This would be the third initial public offer (IPO) this year after Indian Railway Finance Corporation (IRFC) and Indigo Paints. HFFC intends to utilise the net proceeds towards augmenting its capital base to meet its future capital requirements. Around 50 per cent of the issue is reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 35 per cent for retail investors and 15 per cent for non-institutional buyers. The company is a technology driven affordable housing finance firm that targets first time home buyers in low and middle income groups. It offers customers, housing loans for the purchase or construction of homes, which comprised 92.1 per cent of the gross loan assets, as of September 30, 2020. Its gross loan assets have grown at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 63.4 per cent between 2017-18 and 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Steel firms, ore miners bicker||The squabble between the miners and steel producers have reached the doors of the Prime Minister’s Office with both the parties shooting off letters to the PMO blaming each other for the price rise in steel that threatens to scupper the country’s ambitions in infrastructure which will be a key theme in the budget on February 1. Steel producers have pointed out to the ore shortage for the spike in prices and have demanded a ban on iron ore export; miners have pitched for the withdrawal of import duty on steel saying ore is available in abundance. The Indian Steel Association has informed the PMO that the surge in prices was because of rising raw material costs and demanded a ban on iron ore export for six months “We would like to highlight some of the very serious and compelling reasons which have left the steel industry with no recourse, but to raise prices of steel from time to time,” the ISA said in its letter to the PMO. The steelmakers’ body demanded a temporary ban on iron ore exports till the supply side stabilises for the key raw material. Hot-rolled coil prices have increased 46 per cent to Rs 52,000 per tonne in November  compared with Rs 37,400 per tonne in July this year. Rebar TMT, which is used in the housing and construction sectors, had touched Rs 50,000 a tonne. Countering these charges, Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI) in its letter to the PMO has called for the withdrawal of import and other duties meant to shield the domestic steel industry which, they believe, has indulged in “profiteering” taking undue advantage of the current market situation. “This Federation would therefore request the Government of India to withdraw import duty 15 per cent and other undue protective support provided to Indian steel industry,” FIMI secretary general R K Sharma said in the letter. The steel industry is well protected from international competition because of the 15-per-cent import duty on steel. In addition steel benefits from minimum import price, anti-dumping and countervailing duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Ramesh Nair quits JLL, Radha Dhir new CEO||Global property consultant JLL on Tuesday said its India CEO and country head Ramesh Nair has quit the company and announced the appointment of Radha Dhir as the new CEO. “India CEO Ramesh Nair is leaving JLL to pursue opportunities outside the firm. He is succeeded by Radha Dhir, an experienced financial services executive, who has held senior leadership positions in Deutsche Bank India and Yes Bank,” JLL said. Dhir was previously group president at Yes Bank, where she was head of multinational corporate banking. Prior to that, she was managing director, head of global subsidiary coverage group, Deutsche Bank India, and a member of the Deutsche Bank India executive committee. Nair, who joined JLL as an analyst in 1999, became CEO of the India business in 2017. Anthony Couse, CEO, JLL Asia Pacific, said: “Ramesh Nair has been a great asset to JLL in his two decades with the firm.” Welcoming Dhir, Couse said: “I am confident that by bringing in a leader from outside of real estate, whose skills complement our existing team, we will be able to take the business to the next level.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Supreme Court upholds realty norms ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the constitutional validity of certain amendments carried out in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act 2020, which mandated 100 home buyers or 10 per cent of allottees of a housing project will be needed to initiate an insolvency resolution process against defaulting real estate firms. Prior to the amendment, made last year to the 2016 IBC code, even a single person could set the law into motion. The amendment, along with certain other amended provisions, were challenged before the apex court in a batch of petitions on the ground that it violated fundamental rights of the home buyers as there was no such requirement for others such as a financial creditor who can even individually trigger the insolvency proceedings also known as the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. However, rejecting the plea of the petitioners, Justice K.M. Joseph, who authored the judgment, said: “In the case of the allottees of a real estate project, it is the approach of the Legislature that in a real estate project there would be a large number of allottees. There can be hundreds or even thousands of allottees in a project. “If a single allottee, as a financial creditor, is allowed to move an application under Section 7, the interests of all the other allottees may be put in peril.” The bench also comprised Justices R.F. Nariman and Navin Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Adani Enterprises signs concession agreement with Airports Authority of India ||Gautam Adani-led Adani Enterprises on Tuesday said it has signed a concession agreement with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to operate the airports at Jaipur, Guwahati, and Thiruvananthapuram. The concession period is 50 years . “We are pleased to inform you that Adani Jaipur International Airport Limited, Adani Guwahati International Airport Limited and Adani Thiruvananthapuram International Airport Limited, wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company, have signed the Concession Agreement on 19th January, 2021 with Airports Authority of India for the Operations,” the company said in a regulatory filing. The Airports Authority of India in a tweet said: “The concession fee that AAI will receive after leasing out six airports will be used to maintain and develop other brownfield airports and to also develop the regional connectivity scheme and greenfield airports throughout the country.” Adani Enterprises had won the rights to run six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangalore, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati — through the PPP model after a global competitive bidding process in February 2019. The privatisation of the three airports had been challenged in the courts in Assam and Kerala. Although the courts have not decided on the matter, they have not stayed the privatisation. The concession agreement, officials said, would be subject to the court order. In November 2020, the Kerala government approached the Supreme Court against the handing over of the airport to Adani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||Business||Modi govt asks WhatsApp to withdraw  privacy policy changes||The Modi government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw the unilateral changes to its privacy policy as they take away choice from Indian users and are invasive, unfair and unacceptable. “The proposed changes raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens… Therefore, you are called upon to withdraw the proposed changes,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) wrote to WhatsApp boss Will Cathcart on Monday. The MeitY letter was issued a day after the Delhi High Court responded to a petition by saying that WhatsApp’s new privacy policy was a “voluntary” thing that people can choose not to accept, though they would not be able to avail themselves of the services. “Even Google Maps captures all your data and stores it,” the court said. The ministry said India is home to the largest user base of WhatsApp globally and is one of its biggest markets. The proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, “raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens,” it wrote. The ministry asked WhatsApp to reconsider its approach to information privacy, freedom of choice and data security.  It is of “great concern” that Indian users have not been given the choice to opt out of this data sharing with Facebook companies and are being given less choice compared to the app’s European users, the letter said. “This differential and discriminatory treatment of Indian and European users is attracting serious criticism and betrays a lack of respect for the rights and interest of Indian citizens who form a substantial portion of WhatsApp’s user base,” it said. The ministry asked WhatsApp to respond to 14 questions including on the categories of user data it collected, whether it profiled customers based on usage and cross-border data flows. WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy after user backlash over the sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc. Several WhatsApp users had also switched to rival messengers such as Signal and Telegram . Last year, the California-based Facebook had invested $5.7 billion in Reliance Jio as part of a plan to draw tens of millions of traditional shop owners to use digital payments via WhatsApp. With 400 million users in the country, WhatsApp has big plans for India’s growing digital payments space, including selling health insurance via partners. Stating that Indians should be properly respected, the ministry said “any unilateral changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy would not be fair and acceptable”. It asked WhatsApp to provide details of the services provided by it in India, categories of data collected and permissions and consents sought.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-165
20-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Farmers refuse to attend meetings of court-appointed committee||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that they would not participate in meetings and deliberations to be held by the court-appointed committee to address their grievances and maintained they wanted the new farm laws repealed. The top court told the lawyers appearing for farmers unions that all it wanted is a resolution of the impasse and peace, while the clarifying committee has not been given adjudicatory powers and it will only submit its report to it. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian was informed by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the farmer unions, who have been made a party in the case that they had a firm belief that farm laws are against their interest. Bhushan said, “We have instructions from our clients to tell that they have taken a stand that they will not participate in the meetings and deliberations to be held by the committee.” During the hearing conducted through video conferencing on a plea of Kisan Mahapanchayat' a farmers body from Rajasthan, the bench said, “You don't want to appear before the committee is understandable, but casting aspersions on someone because he expressed his view is not done. You don't need to brand anybody like this.” It expressed strong displeasure over the aspersions cast by some farmers' unions on members of the committee. The bench told Bhushan to see what solution can be found and all it wants is a resolution of the impasse and peace and just saying that they will not appear before the committee, will not help and he has to counsel his clients to bring peace. It observed, “In a democracy other than repeal, the court can set aside law and court is seized of this. The law is not in force at the moment but suppose if we uphold the Farm laws then you can start the agitation. But the only rider is to ensure that the people of Delhi are in peace.” Bhushan replied that he has advised his clients (protesting farmers unions) that there should be peace and said that farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on the outer ring road of Delhi and there will be no attempt to destroy peace. He said that farmers unions have stated that they don't want any amendments in the new farm laws and they just want it to be repealed as there were no discussions in Rajya Sabha on the bills. Bhushan added that protesting farmers are just trying to put democratic pressure on the government and they fear that if they get up and go away since laws are not in force then later if courts come to the conclusion that laws are constitutional and interim orders are withdrawn then what would happen. That's why they are apprehensive, he said. The bench said that farmers have democratic rights to protest but the only rider is that people of Delhi should be in peace and as a court, it is only expressing its anxiety. Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for Centre said that if 5,000 tractors are allowed into the city, then they will be all over the streets. The bench said that these issues are in executive domain and the authorities can meet Bhushan's clients and record their statement that there shall be complete peace. The bench also pulled up Dave for not appearing for the farmers' unions on January 12, when it had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted the four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. "Dave, you had disappeared that day when the committee was formed. You yourself had said in the previous hearing to not pass orders and we will take instruction and appear the next day. You were expected to appear before the court on that day. This is not proper and do not aggravate the situation," the bench said. It added that if Dave wanted to appear he could have appeared before the court and said, This is something new that when the order is being dictated, the party is not there. Normally you are happy to appear in the matter but that day you chose not to. Dave said that on January 12, the matter was kept for orders and the court had not given him any time to seek directions. We did not appear because we were under the bonafide impression that the matter was kept for orders and not for hearing. I didn't even get a link to the video conferencing, he said. The bench told Dave that normally he is happy to appear but on the day of the order he was unhappy and chose not to appear before the court. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Govt offers to freeze farm laws for 18 months||The government on Wednesday proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for one-and-a-half years and set up a joint committee to discuss the Acts to end the stalemate, but farmer leaders did not immediately accept the proposal and said they will revert after their internal consultations. The next meeting has been scheduled for Friday, January 22, a day after the farmer unions hold their internal discussions (on Thursday), farmer leaders said after the 10th round of talks ended at Vigyan Bhawan here after nearly five hours of discussions, including two breaks. Briefing media after a nearly five-hour-long meeting that included two breaks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has proposed to suspend implementation of the three laws for 1-1.5 years, during which period a joint committee of representatives from the government and farmers' sides can continue their talks and those protesting on Delhi borders in extremely cold weather return to their homes. "The government proposed to suspend the farm laws for one-and-a-half years. We rejected the proposal but since it has come from the government, we will meet tomorrow and deliberate over it," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said. Another farmer leader Kavitha Kuruganti said the government also proposed to submit an affidavit in Supreme Court for suspending the three farm laws for a mutually-agreed period and set up a committee. The leaders said unions are firm on their demand for a complete repeal of the laws, but they will still discuss the government's proposal and give their final decision during the next meeting. During the meeting, the government also offered to amend the three laws but farmer leaders stuck to their demand and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP. Farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first two sessions as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round. Farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first two sessions as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and it was clear from the very beginning that there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round. Tomar, however, said the government was keen to reach a final decision in today's meeting on the auspicious day of Gurupurab and therefore it started with greetings for the occasion. "The government was ready to discuss provisions of the laws with an open mind and a big heart," he said. The minister said the talks were held in a cordial atmosphere despite some 'naram-garam' moments (softening and hardening of the stand) and farmers remained adamant on their demand for the repeal of the laws. He, however, asserted that some headway was made towards reaching a solution in the next meeting to end the agitation. "It will be victory for Indian democracy the day farmers' agitation ends and they return to their homes," he said in reply to a question whether it would be a victory for the farmers or the government. Asked whether the January 22 meeting at 12 pm could be the last one, Tomar said he is hopeful of reaching an amicable solution in the next round of talks. The minister said the new proposal has been made to allay farmers' apprehensions and instill confidence that the government is ready for discussion with an open heart. "The Supreme Court has stayed the agri-reform laws for a short duration. Their implementation will not happen for some time. But, we have been telling the unions that it will require more time to consider the laws and to discuss other aspects related to the agitation. The required time maybe six months, one year or one and half years," he said. "Therefore, we told the unions that the government is ready to put on hold the implementation of the laws for 1-1.5 years. I am happy that the farmer unions took this proposal seriously on the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh," he said. Asked whether the proposed committee will continue alongside the SC-appointed expert panel, Tomar said, "The government is committed to the Supreme Court and will remain so. The committee appointed by the apex court is doing its job, but the government also has direct accountability towards farmers and the situation arising out of the protest. Therefore, we are taking forward this discussion while discharging our responsibility." The modalities of the proposed panel, including the number of members, can be finalised after the two sides reach an in-principle agreement on this proposal, the minister said. Sources said the government proposed to keep the three farm laws suspended and form a committee comprising of farmer union leaders and government representatives. The ministers proposed that the laws would remain suspended till the committee gives its report and urged farmer unions to suspend their agitation too till that time, sources added. The laws have already been stayed till further orders by the Supreme Court, which has formed a committee to resolve the deadlock. The committee, which had its first meeting on Tuesday and will begin its consultations with various stakeholders on Thursday, has been asked to give its report in two months. Farmer leaders also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to some farmers, alleging it was being done just to harass those supporting the agitation, to which the government representatives said they will look into the matter. The two sides took a break after around one hour of discussions when farmer leaders had langar food. The meeting began at around 2.45 pm with the three ministers greeting farmer leaders on the occasion of Gurupurab. The meeting resumed at around 5.15 pm after a lunch break, but the two sides took another break at around 6pm during which the farmer leaders discussed the government proposal for suspending the laws for a fixed period of time. Kuruganti said the meeting began with the NIA issue, followed by unions' demand for a repeal of the laws. The farmer leaders presented multiple Parliament replies given by the agriculture minister where he had stated that agriculture was a state subject, while one reply mentioned even agri-marketing as a state subject. She said the discussion did not appear progressing anywhere. "The government offered to carry out some amendments, but farmer leaders maintained they do not want anything less than a complete repeal of the laws," Tikait said. Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, represented the government during the talk with representatives of around 40 farmer unions. Before the meeting, the three ministers also met senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Govt ready to amend farm laws, but farmers insist on repeal    ||The government on Wednesday offered to amend the three contentious farm laws at their 10th round of talks with protesting unions but farmer leaders stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the Acts and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP. Farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first session as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round. Farmer leaders also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to some farmers, alleging it was being done just to harass those supporting the agitation, to which the government representatives said they will look into the matter. As the two sides took a break, where farmer leaders had langar food, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) general secretary Yudhvir Singh told PTI, "The stalemate is continuing over the three laws and I don't think any solution will emerge from today's meeting. Both sides are adamant on their position." He said the government is insisting on first discussing the three laws and wants to take up the MSP (Minimum Support Price) matter later. "We will insist on a discussion on MSP after the tea break and also try to seek the next date for meeting before January 26," Singh said. Another farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said, "The government is not ready to repeal the three laws and farmers are not ready for amendments. The government doesn't want to discuss MSP." "No solution will emerge from today's meeting. We will meet again on the next date," he said. Tikait also said the union leaders raised the NIA (National Investigation Agency) issue in the meeting, to which the ministers said they will look into it. The meeting began at around 2.45 pm with the three ministers greeting farmer leaders on the occasion of Gurupurab. "The government offered to carry out some amendments, but farmer leaders maintained they do not want anything less than a complete repeal of the laws," Tikait said. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Before the meeting, the three ministers also met senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Farmers raise NIA summons at 10th round of talks ||The government on Wednesday offered to amend the three contentious farm laws at their 10th round of talks with protesting unions but farmer leaders stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the Acts and also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to farmers. As the two sides took a break, where farmer leaders had langar food, unions also alleged that the government was avoiding any discussion on their other key demand for a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement. The meeting began with the three ministers greeting farmer leaders on the occasion of Gurupurab. During the break, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said there was no breakthrough during the first session and union leaders raised the issue of some farmers being harassed with NIA (National Investigation Agency) notices. The ministers apparently told the unions they will look into the matter. "The government offered to carry out some amendments, but farmer leaders maintained they do not want anything less than a complete repeal of the laws," Tikait said. He also said the government appeared to be avoiding any discussion on the issue of MSP. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Before the meeting, the three ministers also met senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Alternate route not an option for farmers for R-day march||Protesting farmers’ unions on Wednesday rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their proposed January 26 tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi’s busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Union leaders and officers of the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police forces had met at the Vigyan Bhawan here to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on Republic Day. The sources said that the farmer leaders were suggested by the police officers to take out their rally on the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway, but they did not agree. The Outer Ring Road passes through several areas of Delhi such as Vikaspuri, Janakpuri, Uttam Nagar, Burari, Peeragarhi and Pitampura. “There might be another round of talks with the police officers on Thursday,” a farmer leader, who attended the meeting, said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the laws for the last 56 days and unions representing them have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. During the meeting, “we discussed several points with police officers on our tractor rally on January 26”, a senior farmer leader said. Joint Commissioner of Police, (Northern Range), S.S. Yadav coordinated the meeting from the Delhi Police, according to the sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were also present at the meeting, they said. The meeting comes on a day the Centre withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 after the Supreme Court said "it is a police matter". The police have the ‘authority’ to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Leaders of all 40 farm unions, which are taking part in the protest, also met three Union ministers for the 10th round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse over the agri laws. Farmer unions agitating against the laws have said their preparations are in full gear and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it. The protests and the proposed tractor rally are against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||10th round of Centre-farmers talks underway||In a bid to solve an over-a-month-long impasse over three contentious agri laws, protesting farmers and three central ministers commenced their tenth round of talks at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on Wednesday. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their “pro-government” public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Ghanwat, said the panel will hold its first round of talks with farmers and other stakeholders on January 21. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” he said. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court,” he said. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. “A group of farm union leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and others will meet top officials of Delhi Police to discuss the route and other arrangements for their protest march on Republic Day against the three farm laws,” Jamuri Kisan Union leader, Kalwant Singh Sandhu, told PTI. The Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) SS Yadav will coordinate the meeting from Delhi Police, according to sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also be present at the meeting, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Centre withdraws plea in SC against farmers' tractor rally||The Centre Wednesday withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 by farmers protesting against the new farms laws after the Supreme Court said "it is a police matter". The police has the "authority" to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on the Republic Day, said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. "We have told you that we will not issue any direction. It is a police matter. We will allow you to withdraw. You are the authority and you have to deal with it. You have the powers to pass orders, you do it. It is not for the court to pass orders..," the bench said in the hearing conducted via video conferencing. After the observation of the apex court, the Centre withdrew the plea filed through Delhi Police seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day. The hearing in the matter is still continuing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Farm leaders to meet Delhi police officials regarding tractor rally||A group of farm union leaders will meet top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws, a union leader said. Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the last 56 days on the borders of the national capital. Leaders of all 40 farm unions, which are taking part in the protest, will meet three cabinet ministers for the 10th round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse. "A group of farm union leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and others will meet top officials of Delhi Police to discuss the route and other arrangements for their protest march on Republic Day against the three farm laws," Jamuri Kisan Union leader, Kalwant Singh Sandhu, told PTI. The Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) SS Yadav will coordinate the meeting from Delhi Police, according to sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also be present at the meeting, sources said. Farmer unions agitating against the new agri laws have said their preparations are in full gear and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it. After the Delhi Police sought an injunction on the tractor rally, the Supreme Court on Monday said the decision on it has to be taken by the Centre and the police, and the official permission is yet to be worked out. Protesting unions, which plan to hold the rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on January 26, have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the parade and said more farmers will be heading to the national capital in batches later this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||India's Covid recovery rate stands at 96.7 per cent||With 13,823 infections reported in a day, India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 1,05,95,660, while the recoveries surged to 1,02,45,741, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll due to the disease increased to 1,52,718 in the country as 162 new fatalities were recorded, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,45,741, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.70 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, it said. There are 1,97,201 active coronavirus infections in the country, which comprises 1.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,85,66,947 samples have been tested till January 19, with 7,64,120 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 162 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 26 from Kerala, 11 from West Bengal, nine from Karnataka, and 10 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Out of the total 1,52,718 deaths in the country, 50,523 deaths were reported from Maharashtra followed by 12,281 from Tamil Nadu, 12,181 from Karnataka, 10,764 from Delhi, 10,074 from West Bengal, 8,584 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 deaths from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature at 7.8 degrees Celsius, air quality improves||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the mercury is likely to drop to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, an IMD official said. The city's air quality improved slightly on Wednesday morning on the back of strong surface winds. The AQI stood at 308 at 9 am. Delhi's air quality had turned severe on Tuesday, the sixth time this month, due to low wind speed and high moisture levels. The city's 24-hour AQI was 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday. Before that, Delhi's air quality remained in the severe zone for three consecutive days. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Modi to chair all-party meeting on January 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on January 30 during which the government will put forth its legislative agenda for the Budget session of Parliament, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday. He said the meeting will be held virtually and an invitation has been extended to floor leaders of all parties. An all-party meeting is a customary procedure before the beginning of every session of Parliament to ensure its smooth functioning. However, this time it is being held a day after the session starts on January 29. "The all-party meeting will be held on January 30, where the government will put forth its legislative business for the Parliament session and would also listen to the opposition's suggestions," Joshi told PTI. The Budget session of Parliament is starting from January 29 and will be held in two parts. The first part will conclude on February 15 and the second part will be held from March 8 to April 8. Parliament will sit in two shifts with Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting of top government officials for holding the Budget session amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Nation wants to know: who leaked info on Pak strike? ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had echoed in almost “exact words” after the Balakot bombing the sentiment attributed to the government before the strike in a purported chat by Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami with a rating agency boss, a video clip from the 2019 campaign trail shows. “Bigger than a normal strike…. On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used,” the chat attributed to Goswami (and so far not denied by him) on February 23, 2019, says. Three days later, the Balakot bombing was launched. Less than two months later on the campaign trail, Modi told a cheering crowd in Gujarat’s Amreli: “Tamey khush, desh khush (You are happy, the country is happy)….” The use of similar words does not prove anything. Besides, Modi might have merely echoed the mood he had gauged in the country after the Balakot bombing. But the sentiment attributed to the government before the strike and picked up by Modi after it raises inescapable questions. ⚫ On Tuesday, Goswami made light of the chats without questioning their authenticity. The crux of his argument was he had shared only information available in the public domain. Now, imagine that the same chat was found on the phone of a human rights activist or an anti-CAA protester just three days before the Balakot bombing. Imagine the witch-hunt he or she would have had to face, imagine the verbal lynching he or she would have been subjected to in India’s sanctimonious, super-patriotic television studios. Imagine the first law that would have been invoked then, the dreaded UAPA or the all-season favourite that deals with treason? ⚫ Was making the people elated just before the elections the strategic objective of the Balakot strike? If not, why did an unnamed but seemingly well-informed source or sources in the government make it a point to tell that to Goswami? Why did Goswami underscore that “people will be elated” were the “exact words”? Was it because he got the impression that making people elated was the overriding objective of the impending retaliation? On Tuesday night, Goswami tried to defend himself by saying “two things were made public at that time, officially — 1. That there will be an extremely tough military retaliation by India. 2. That the time and place of the retaliation will be chosen by India.” He did not mention the “exact words” that he was so proud to share in the chat: “The government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated.” ⚫ Cross-border missions always involve high risk. No nation, including Israel and the US, can claim beforehand with certainty that the mission objective would be accomplished. Yet, the government purportedly told Goswami that the people would be elated. Does it mean that the government had only a modest tactical objective from the raid, which it was sure of accomplishing? It is pertinent to recall that one Union minister later said the purpose was not to cause human casualty. ⚫ Few political parties will raise this but the fact remains that it has not been conclusively established till now that “a very large number” of terrorists were killed as the Modi government had said then. In fact, the toll attributed to unnamed Indian “sources” fluctuated wildly from 400 to 350 to over 300 to 250. Later, a military officer said such kills were not counted. The Pakistan government had said only trees were damaged. Reuters, the news agency, reported that during a conducted tour to the Balakot site after a six-week delay, journalists and diplomats didn’t get enough time from the Pakistan Army to make any kind of informed assessment. On the trek up to the compound, the visitors were shown craters that the allegedly wayward missiles had created on the surrounding hillsides. The toll assumes significance because in military operations nothing can be left to chance. If information was available on a messaging service that the Indian government was preparing for “something bigger than a normal strike”, questions must be asked whether that message was forwarded to others and whether it did help Pakistan to take the terrorists to a safer place before the strike. Many Indians have been vilified as Pakistani agents and told to migrate to Pakistan for saying far less in public. Goswami claimed on Tuesday night that he was merely passing on to Partho Dasgupta, the then BARC chief executive, “publicly available information and thousands of journalists reported, wrote, broadcast and analysed in the same direction after Pulwama”. That may be so but Goswami did not name anyone else who quoted the “exact words” of the government in any report. Besides, Goswami has been known to be extremely close to the Modi government. His unsolicited and unqualified assertion about national security affairs — if it reached more ears — would have had graver consequences than a speculative report by a journalist. Again, whether the information reached more people can only be established by a formal probe. ⚫ On Tuesday night, Goswami sought to pass the buck to the Modi government, too. “There are thousands of articles from that time suggesting a hard and tough response from the Indian forces. The government stated the same in interviews to our network and elsewhere, which were broadcast across the world,” he said. In that case, Dasgupta, Goswami’s purported chat-mate and fellow member of the mutual admiration club, does not appear to be an avid follower of Goswami’s network — at least that is what the chats suggest. On February 23 at 10.31pm, when Goswami warmed up to make the big boast, Dasgupta appeared clueless. “On another note something big will happen,” says the chat attributed to Goswami. “Dawood?” asks Dasgupta. The then BARC boss could not have been more off the mark. “No sir Pakistan. Something major will be done this time,” Goswami replies, according to a supplementary chargesheet filed by Mumbai police in an alleged TRP-fixing case. So, in spite of the “thousands of articles”, what Goswami allegedly passed on was indeed news to at least one Indian, that too one who was paid to track television. Which is reason enough to launch a formal probe, especially when Modi likes to project himself as the foremost champion of national security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Could have waited for efficacy results from Covaxin trials: Doctor||Dr Urmila Thatte, professor and former head of clinical pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial College, Mumbai, is among the 631,471 healthcare workers across India who have received one of two Covid-19 vaccines used in the nationwide campaign until Tuesday evening. Dr Thatte, who has been on an expert advisory panel on drug evaluation for the World Health Organisation and a former secretary of the Forum for Ethics Review Committees in India, on Tuesday took the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield. But she told The Telegraph that she wishes she and all other beneficiaries had a choice. I wish I had a choice. I wish all who get vaccinated have the option to choose between vaccines. Even in a pandemic, when there is an option to choose, we should get a choice. I received Covishield, but I heard doctors in JJ Hospital (another public hospital in Mumbai) received Covaxin (the second vaccine India is using in the campaign). I wonder whether I might have taken Covaxin — I’ve seen the data, we don’t know whether it has protective efficacy yet, but its immunogenicity is promising. Both vaccines have been released under restricted emergency use, but Covaxin is under a clinical trial mode, requiring informed consent. But those asked to give informed consent have to have a choice. Informed consent has to be voluntary. But when there is no choice, when the choice is between taking the vaccine you’re offered or not receiving a vaccine at all, it is not voluntary. There is an element of coercion there. Vaccine acceptance has to come through conviction. The haste with which Covaxin was approved has not been clearly explained. Some of us wonder — was it a political decision to show a ‘made-in-India’ vaccine? But India already has so much to be proud of on the vaccine front. We’re the world’s largest producer of vaccines. Over the years, we have established the organisation machinery needed to roll out vaccines — we’ve done that very well for measles, for polio, and other childhood infections. I think we could have waited a few more weeks for the efficacy results from the Covaxin trials to emerge. However, when we have two vaccines approved, why not offer a choice to beneficiaries?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Prime Minister himself might have given the information, says Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked who had leaked “top secret” information about the Balakot air strike to Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, underlining that this was a “criminal act” that had put Indian Air Force pilots conducting the raid inside Pakistan at risk. “This was top secret information. This was not provided to anybody else. There were four or five people who knew this,” the Congress leader said at a news conference in New Delhi, listing the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the home minister, the air chief and the national security adviser as those who would know about such an operation. “I want to know whether it was the Prime Minister of India who told Arnab Goswami. Or it was the defence minister or the home minister. Or it was the NSA. I want to know which one of those people told this man,” Rahul said. Three days before the Balakot strike on February 26, 2019, Goswami purportedly said in a WhatsApp message that “something big will happen” and that “on Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used.” Giving official secret information to a journalist is a criminal act, Rahul said, both on the part of the person who accepted it as well as the person who gave it. “These people call themselves patriots. There is nothing patriotic about putting our air force at risk. There is nothing patriotic about taking political advantage so that our aircraft gets shot down. So that the Pakistanis know that our air force is coming. If Mr Arnab Goswami knows, if it’s on his WhatsApp, I assume the Pakistanis also know it. It’s not a very big jump,” Rahul said. An Indian Air Force fighter had got shot down in the operation. Asked if he was blaming the Prime Minister for the leak, Rahul said: “I am saying only five people could have done that. It is clear-cut. I want to know who among these five did it.” An investigation should be held, he added.  “The question is who should be booked in this case. Both — the person who gave the sensitive information and the journalist who accepted it,” Rahul said. “The process should have started by now. But that won’t happen. Why? Because the Prime Minister himself might have given the information.” The Congress leader also described as “distressing” and “anti-national” Goswami’s purported comment, “This attack we have won like crazy”, less than three hours after the Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF men were killed. Goswami was purportedly gloating about his channel’s coverage of the tragedy. “To say that we will now win an election as 40 CRPF jawans have been killed is a reflection of the Prime Minister’s mindset,” Rahul said. The Congress will discuss the WhatsApp revelations at a media conference on Wednesday to be held by former defence minister A.K. Antony, former home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde, former external affairs minister Salman Khurshid and leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad. Rahul also attacked the Prime Minister for lack of strategic thinking on foreign affairs, particularly on China. Responding to a question about the BJP’s criticism of his understanding, he said: “When I warned them about corona and the economic damage that it will cause, they made fun of me. The economy is destroyed. Today, I am saying China is seeing India’s weakness. China has a clear strategic vision. They want to dominate; they want to reshape the world. India doesn’t have strategic vision.” He continued: “China has tested India twice, in Doklam and in Ladakh. If we don’t send out a clear message to China — military, geopolitical and strategic — they will exploit our weakness. I am raising the red flag for the government. If the government thinks it can tackle the problem by event management and tu-tu-main-main (blame game), they are nurturing a misconception. The BJP can say anything about me but their job is to protect India. They are not doing it.” Asked about the Prime Minister’s decision to express concern at rioting on the Capitol Hill in the US but not on the deaths of 70 protesting farmers in India, Rahul said: “I heard him say ‘Iss baar, Trump sarkar’. As the Prime Minister of a country, you don’t do something like that. You are disrespecting the people of the United States, that’s their choice, not yours. This is clearly a lack of understanding of fundamentals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||South Asians wary of vaccine ||My 80-year-old mother received the first dose of her Covid vaccine last week despite advice from her predominantly South Asian friends and peers not to go as the vaccine is “dodgy”. She became one of the three million people in the UK to be vaccinated for the coronavirus till date who are in the priority group of healthcare workers and the elderly over80s. My mother’s friends who advised her against the vaccine were convinced that it contained beef, pork or alcohol and in some cases all three — haram for Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs — and therefore it compromised their religious beliefs. The source of their knowledge was social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp. Some of the fake news on social media is so farfetched that it suggests the vaccine will change “your DNA” or contains poison as part of the white population’s plan to kill off ethnic minorities. The National Health Service (NHS), which is responsible for administering the free vaccine to the UK’s 67 million population, is so worried about South Asian communities rejecting the Covid vaccine that they have begun a drive to counter the fake news. They are appealing to role models, influencers, commu¬nity leaders and most importantly religious leaders to help them in their antidisinformation drive to debunk the myths. “We need to be clear and make people realise there is no meat in the vaccine, there is no beef or pork in the vaccine and it has been accepted and endorsed by all the religious leaders and councils and faith communities,” said Dr Harpreet Sood, a doctor with NHS England who is leading the NHS antidisinformation drive. Temples, gurdwaras and mosques that are still open for private prayers but with social distancing protocols during the country’s third lockdown have been asked to help in dispelling the myths created by fake news. Some gurdwaras have allowed the NHS to convert their premises into vaccination centres so as to instill faith among Sikhs that the vaccine is pure. As of now vaccines are being administered in local sports and leisure centres which are closed in the lockdown. More than a hundred mosques across the country have been pressed into service and Friday sermons that are currently going out online tell Muslims that the vaccine is halal. “There should be no hesitation in taking the vaccine from a moral perspective. It is our ethical duty to protect ourselves and others from harm,” said Qari Asim, chair of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board that has organised the campaign. Worried that the slow uptake of the vaccine by the Muslim communities could “fan the flames of Islamophobia” again, Asim has urged leaders to take the jab on camera to instill faith among the community. During the first lockdown when mosques were closed, the far Right spread rumours using old footage to say that mosques were open and scapegoated Muslims as superspreaders. “No community should be scapegoated during this pandemic,” Asim said. It is the older generations who are falling prey to the barrage of fake news appearing on their smart phones on which they have become heavily reliant to keep in touch with family and friends during the pandemic. “I have been giving lectures on Hindu community websites urging elderly members to get the vaccines as they are vegetarian and totally safe,” Dr Jyoti Shah, senior consultant with the NHS, told The Telegraph. Many Indian-origin medical professionals are doing the same in various Indian languages. Ironically while the South Asian communities have been among the worst affected by Covid19 in the UK, it is the same communities that are the most reticent about the vaccine. According to Dr Sood, language and cultural barriers play a large part in the false information. Indian communities are also more prone to superstition and stigma, which is also partly at play. A recent survey by the Royal Society of Public Health showed that just under half of the black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) people did not agree to take the vaccine. It found that only 57 per cent of BAME said they would take the vaccine, which is much lower than the 79 per cent of white people who are willing to take the jabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Lone out of J&K alliance||The Sajad Lone led People’s Conference on Tuesday walked out of the sevenparty alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370, dealing the first major blow to the efforts of proIndia groups to present a united front for the shared goal of getting back Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The alliance has been simmering with discontent since it contested last month’s maiden District Development Council elections, whereparties are believed to have fielded proxy candidates against the official candidates. The alliance won the highest 110 out of 280 seats and it could have fared better but for the proxies. Lone on Tuesday shot off a letter to Farooq Abdullah, who heads the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, alleging “breach of trust” between the alliance partners in the elections. He, however, swore to continue fighting for the restoration of Article 370. “It is difficult for us to stay on and pretend as if nothing has happened. There has been a breach of trust between partners which we believe is beyond remedy,” Lone, who was also the spokesperson of the alliance, said. “The majoritarian view in our party is that we should pull out of the alliance in an amicable manner rather than waiting for things to get messier. “And I am confirming that we will no longer be a part of the PAGD alliance.” Lone’s People’s Conference was the third biggest group in the alliance after the National Conference and People’s Democratic Party. The coalition is now left with six members, including the CPM. Lone, formerly a separatist who became the main reason for the split of the Hurriyat Conference in mid2000s into moderate and hardline factions, said they were divorcing from the alliance and not its objectives. “We will continue to adhere to the objectives that we set out when this alliance was made. And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives,” Lone said. “We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against the PAGD alliance or its leaders.” During the 2002 Assembly elections, Lone was accused by Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani of fielding proxy candidates in some constituencies, a charge he then denied. A few years later, Lone formally joined electoral politics and emerged as a key ally of the BJP after the 2014 elections. He was accommodated in the cabinet at the BJP’s bidding but they fell apart in 2019 after he fiercely criticised the Centre’s plan to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Lone and some other colleagues were jailed for months, along with thousands others, for opposing the abrogation of Article 370. He appeared a changed man after he was released and played a key role in forging a formal alliance to fight for its restoration. When the alliance surprisingly chose to contest the DDC elections, many people in the Valley had voiced concern that they were falling in Delhi’s trap. Though their demand for restoration of Article 370 is close to the heart of many people, the elections saw a modest turnout of 33 per cent in the Valley, a reflection of how many people were unwilling to trust them and accused them of strengthening the roots of India in J&K in the past. Lone’s decision to part ways is likely to raise more apprehensions about these parties and it could lead to more disunity in the camp. A leader of the alliance admitted Lone’s decision was a setback but hoped the rest of the parties will work for strengthening the grouping. The letter to Farooq said the decision to walk out was taken during an intraparty meeting in Srinagar where the “predominant feeling” was that the sentiment of the alliance at the top “was not emulated on the ground”. “It was felt that the results of a sincere alliance should have meant that ‘the whole is greater than the sum of its parts’,” Lone said. “Instead the whole was not greater than the sum of parts, sadly not even equal to the sum of parts, but much lesser and equal to just one part of the many parts.” Lone said at the majority of places, the party fielding the candidate on behalf of the alliance was left “to fend for itself”. He said other parties were “silent bystanders” or “worse, compounded the problem by fielding proxy candidates”. Trouble has been brewing in the alliance after two PC leaders Imran Ansari and Abdul Gani Vakil publicly questioned the alliance leadership over the question of “proxy” candidates in the DDC polls and also after some National Conference and CPM leaders chose to meet the lieutenantgovernor. “This alliance needed sacrifice. Every party had to sacrifice on the ground in terms of giving space to fellow allies. No party is willing to cede space, no party is willing to sacrifice,” Lone wrote. “We fought against each other in Kashmir province not against the perpetrators of 5 August (2019, the day when Article 370 was scrapped). And those who perpetrated 5 August and their minions are now vocally gleeful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Vaccines are safe, safe, safe: Officials ||Two senior health officials on Tuesday urged healthcare workers to abandon hesitancy and accept the Covid-19 vaccines offered to them amid concerns that many potential beneficiaries have declined the jabs since the vaccination campaign started on January 16. The campaign, currently covering healthcare workers, has vaccinated over 631,000 people across the country but vaccine uptake has ranged from over 80 per cent in Telangana and 72 per cent in Uttar Pradesh to 34 per cent in Tamil Nadu and 27 per cent in Punjab. Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and the chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccination strategy, said those who were “fortunate” to be listed to receive vaccines in the early days or weeks of the campaign should “not refuse”. The two vaccines used in the campaign — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield, made in India by the Serum Institute of India and the homegrown Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech — are both very good, safe, and capable of generating strong immune responses, he said. The Union health ministry said India had documented only 18 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) per 100,000 people vaccinated and only nine AEFIs have required hospitalisation among the 631,417 vaccinated until 6pm on Tuesday. “We have an extremely robust system for AEFI reporting and AEFI management,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary, outlining the mechanisms the campaign has put in place at the district, state and national level to track AEFIs among vaccine recipients. “When you receive a vaccine which is assigned to you, you protect yourself, and you can perform your functions without fear of contracting the infection. You can protect your family,” Paul said. “And once an individual is protected, the virus cannot cross that individual.” An individual person who could have been protected but does not take the vaccine remains susceptible to the infection and may continue to spread the virus. “We’re not fulfilling our societal responsibility if a vaccine assigned to you is not being taken,” Paul said. Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research and member of the national task force on Covid-19, also issued a similar appeal. “It is very clear that both these Covid-19 vaccines are very safe. The time to take the vaccine is now.” The appeals come against the backdrop of concerns among sections of doctors and medical experts that India has approved the homegrown Covaxin with only safety and immunogenicity data, while efficacy data is still awaited. Some doctors have said they’ll take Covaxin only after efficacy is proven. Paul, however, said it would be “sad” if healthcare workers decline vaccines. “In the next few days to weeks, we hope to cover all our healthcare workers, they’ll be Covid-proof,” he said. “Why doubt, I have taken Covaxin and I have zero side effects. Look at the data — both vaccines are safe, safe, safe.” But other medical experts underlined that while safety has been established, there is no data yet on the efficacy of Covaxin. “The problem is that with one vaccine, we don’t know for sure yet whether we’ll be protected — this is the worry,” said a senior researcher who requested not to be named. “Would it not be a disservice to healthcare workers to use something with unproven efficacy when you had the option of only deploying something with proven efficacy?” the researcher said. “They’ll think they’re protected, but they may or may not be — that’s the worry.” Another senior clinical-researcher in a leading medical institution and college said: “On what basis is the claim being made about protection? And there is no such thing as Covid-proof. Reduced risk, yes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Sasikala nears jail term end||V.K. Sasikala,close associate of former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa, is nearing the completion of her fouryear jail term in a disproportionate assets case. Sasikala has been serving the sentence with her sisterinlaw J. Ilavarasi and nephew V.N. Sudhakaran, who too would complete their fouryear jail terms around the same time. Although there is no offi¬cial confirmation on the date of her release, sources said Sasikala was expected to com¬plete her term on January 27. But it is not known if Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran would also walk free on the same day. The authorities of Banga¬lore central jail have not been forthcoming with any infor¬mation after Sasikala raised objections. Sasikala has broken away from the All India Anna Dravi¬da Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) when her nephew T.T.V. Dinakaran floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam in March 2018. Her onetime associate who played a pivotal role dur¬ing the case, Va Pugazhendi, said everyone was waiting in anticipation for Sasikala to walk out of prison. “We all know she will be released very soon but have no idea about the exact date,” Pugazhendi, now an AIADMK spokesman, told this newspa¬per on Tuesday. He said there were great expectations from Sasikala’s return to Tamil Nadu, al¬though she would not be able to contest any election for six years from the date of her re¬lease as per provisions of the Peoples Representation Act that lays down the law for peo¬ple who have served at least two years of prison time. In Tamil Nadu, efforts are on to convince Sasikala to merge or join her fledgling party with the ruling AIADMKBJP alliance ahead of the state polls this summer and put up a united front against the challenge from the DMK led by M.K. Stalin. “I have been trying to get the exact date of her release since there is a lot of interest among the people of Tamil Nadu. But the prison officials have refused to give out any information after she raised objections,” RTI activist T. Narasimha Murthy told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Murthy said he had last filed an RTI application about two weeks ago. But the prison has not released any updated information on her release. A special court in Bangalore had in September 2014 convicted Jayalalithaa, Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran in the disproportionate assets case. The court had also slapped a penalty of Rs 100 crore on Jayalalithaa, who passed away in December 2016, and Rs 10 crore each on the others. While the Supreme Court had granted them bail after they had served 22 days in Bangalore central prison, Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran returned to jail in February 2017 to complete the rest of their terms. Sasikala and her kin eventually paid the fines in November 2020 to pave the way for their timely release from jail. According to RTI information Murthy had received from the prison authorities in August 2020, Sasikala had served 13 days in judicial custody when she was first arrested in the case in 1997, and another 22 days as a convicted prisoner when all four were sentenced by the special court in 2014. She has been serving the rest of her term from February 2017. According to another RTI response secured by him in October 2020, Sasikala had opted for parole twice, for five days in October 2017 and 12 days in March 2018 when her husband M. Natarajan passed away in Chennai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Jamia retirement rule fuels suspicion ||Jamia Millia Islamia has adopted a controversial government rule that allows forcing employees to take early retirement based on a performance review, causing resentment among university teachers. Jamia registrar Nazim Husain Al-Jafri issued an office order last week under the subject heading “Periodic review of Jamia’s employees for strengthening of administration under Fundamental Rule (FR) 56(j) and Rule 48 of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972”. “It is to inform that there is a provision under Fundamental Rule 56(j) to undertake periodic review of performance of government servants from time to time with a view to ascertain whether the government servant should be retained in service or retired from service prematurely, in public interest, as per Fundamental Provisions/Rules as referred above,” the order said. “The government has issued instructions from time to time in this regard and recently the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, government of India, Department of Personnel and Training has issued an OM (office memorandum) … dated 28th August 2020 and reiterated the said provisions. The above referred DoPT OM dated 28.08.2020 has been ordered to be circulated in the university for information and adoption of all concerned,” added the order, which has been circulated among all deans of faculties, heads of departments and finance officers. The DoPT order, which has been attached to the notice of the registrar, says the appropriate authority shall have the right to retire a government servant on a notice of less than three months if the employee is in the Group A and B categories and has attained the age of 50. For employees in other categories, premature retirement can be ordered if they have attained the age of 55. JMI Teachers’ Association (JTA) secretary Prof. Majid Jamil said the university’s teachers were not governed by Central Civil Services (CCS) rules of the government and that they would oppose the move. “We have our own ordinance on service conditions. We will not allow the government’s service rules to be applied to us. These rules have the potential to be misuse,” Jamil said. He said the Jamia ordinance on service conditions had been adopted long ago after proper discussions in the academic and executive councils. “These government rules (on premature retirement) have been circulated for implementation without any discussion in the academic council or the executive council,” Jamil said. A senior administrative staff member of another central university said the University Grants Commission (UGC) had issued the government rules to all central universities, requesting implementation. “The UGC has sent these rules. But it has not issued any reminder. We have not implemented them yet,” the official said. Delhi University Executive Council member Rajesh Jha called the rules a tool to silence the government’s critics among academics. “Teaching and research cannot be equated with the work of government officials. Teachers inculcate critical thinking among students. They do research and arrive at findings, which may not be to the liking of the government. And academic performance cannot be subjected to any standardised assessment. So, it can be misused to please those in political power,” Jha said. According to him, the possibility of misuse is high, given the targeting and victimisation of academics who have criticised the current regime. Rajib Ray, the president of the Federation of Central Universities Teachers Association (FedCUTA), the outfit representing the teachers of all central universities, said they would oppose the rules. An email this newspaper sent to Jamia vice-chancellor Prof. Najma Akhtar for comment on the university’s decision went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Pulwama deaths: Celebration ‘logic’||Retired Major General G.D. Bakshi, known to spew ultranationalist vitriol on primetime news television, on Tuesday defended Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami’s purported whoop of joy after the deaths of 40 Indian soldiers in Pulwama. The veteran, a regular on Republic TV, was asked what he thought of Goswami’s purported WhatsApp message less than three hours after the tragedy: “This attack we have won like crazy.” Goswami was elated his channel had been ahead of rivals on the attack coverage. Gen. Bakshi at first questioned the authenticity of the chat, saying it needed to be verified before you can “hang” anyone for it. Then, when pointed out that Goswami himself had not denied it, he said India had been thirsting for revenge against Pakistan for 30 years and the deaths of 40 soldiers had given it a reason to hit back at that country. “What was being celebrated was the fact that they are sure to be hit hard,” Gen. Bakshi said. The veteran also defended Goswami on purportedly getting advance access to information about the Balakot strike. “If you accuse Arnab of divulging a national security secret that the Indian Air Force is going to attack Pakistan — that is counterfactual.… India’s declaratory policy was to retaliate strongly to such masscasualty terror strikes,” he said.. India had so retaliated postUri with a surgical strike inside Pakistan to eliminate terror launch pads. I do not buy the line that he (Goswami) leaked national secrets because everybody knew that India would strike back unlike (after) 26/11 when we did sweet nothing apart from sending dossiers to Pakistani court, which they refused to take as evidence.” Bakshi had tweeted on Monday: “Just who authorised the Mahrashtra police to tap the phones and WhatsAap messages of the Prime Minister of India? Some seems to have gone of his rocker there completely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||‘Unbiased’ promise: SC-appointed committee assure farmers about their neutrality||The Supreme Courtappointed committee on the contentious farm laws met for the first time on Tuesday and sought to assure all farmers of an unbiased hearing, the personal opinions of the three members overseeing the process notwithstanding. “The Supreme Court has nominated us for this job not to share our views but to carry out consultations with all stakeholders and make recommendations based on these interactions,” Pramod Joshi, an agricultural economist who is one of the three remaining members of the committee, told The Telegraph. The Supreme Court had appointed four members for the committee, but one of those nominated — Bhupinder Singh Mann, the chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, was quoted by his outfit as having recused himself, purportedly in deference to the prevailing sentiments of the farmers. The choice of committee nominees had drawn flak as all four are in favour of the three contentious farm laws, raising questions about their neutrality. At Tuesday’s meeting, the three members essentially drew up a road map for the next two months to hold deliberations and receive opinions from all stakeholders, includ¬ing those opposed to the farm laws. Admitting that it would take some convincing to get the protesting farmers to participate in the process after they had rejected it outright, Joshi said the committee planned to set up a portal to allow everyone to submit their views to ensure transparency in the exercise. In creating a portal and inviting all stakeholders, including the state governments, to submit their opinions, the committee will essentially be doing what the Narendra Modi government did not do while enacting the three laws — hold prelegislative consultations when the bills are supposed to be placed in the public domain to generate a debate and draw in all viewpoints. “We will write to the protesting farmers and request them to participate, pointing out that we have not been tasked by the government but by the Supreme Court,” Joshi said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which had decided not to approach the courts against the laws, have been of the view that the Supreme Court has no role to play in a political decision taken by the executive. Another member, Anil Ghanwat of the Shetkari Sanghatana, said the committee would also discuss with state marketing boards, farmer producer organisations and cooperatives. The Centre plans to submit before the committee and it remains to be seen if the state governments that have passed resolutions against the three farm laws also join. For state governments which have mandis, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act results in loss of revenue as the new law allows farmers to sell their harvest outside the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis without paying state taxes or fees. This would mean further loss of revenue for states, already cashstrapped due to GST. While ordering the setting up of the committee, the Supreme Court had said it was being constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws, the views of the government and to make recommendations. As the movement prolongs, the SKM has had to deal with rumblings within its own leadership; particularly over the politicisation of the movement. After one section of the leadership took a grim view of Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a farm leader of Haryana, participating in an allparty meeting on the farm laws, another veteran, Shiv Kumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, was censured for making uncharitable remarks against Chaduni. Both leaders explained their actions, and the matter was considered closed for the “wellbeing of the movement” and a general call was given on Tuesday to all protesters to avoid making allegations against each other, urging them not to lose sight of the task at hand at this critical juncture of the struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
20-01-2021||India||Shah at police HQ ahead of R-Day ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday visited the Delhi police headquarters and held a meeting with the top brass of the force to review security arrangements a week before the Republic Day. Shah’s visit also came amid the ongoing protest by farmers at Delhi’s borders and their planned tractor rally on January 26. The Centre had earlier moved an application in the Supreme Court for its direction to prevent the tractor rally on the ground that Khalistanis had infiltrated the farmers’ protest and could disturb peace if the parade was allowed to enter Delhi. On Monday the apex court had said it was for the government to decide whether to allow the farmers’ proposed tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. Senior Delhi police officers again held discussions on Tuesday with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has announced plans to hold a farmers’ parade in New Delhi on Republic Day after the official parade ends. “We held a discussion with them on Monday and again today on the route they plan to take for the tractor rally. We are constantly keeping the home minister posted about the development on the issue,” said a Delhi police officer. Delhi police reports directly to Shah. The home minister also lauded the force for its exemplary services to the people during his visit to the police headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
20-01-2021||India||Opinions can change, says CJI ||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Tuesday said that a person expressing views on an issue does not disqualify him from being selected for a committee on that matter, at a time the Supreme Court’s choices for a committee to broker peace between protesting farmers and the government have come in for criticism. CJI Bobde did not refer to a specific panel, neither was he hearing a case related to the farm protests, but his comments were seen in the light of the anger at the Supreme Court nominating people who have supported the government’s contentious agriculture laws to the committee for talks. “There is some confusion in understanding the law. One person may have an opinion before being a part of the committee but his opinion can change. There is no way that such a member cannot be part of a committee,” Justice Bobde remarked during the hearing of cases related to cheque bounce offences. The CJI made it clear that the observations were general in nature and not confined to the matter before the court on Tuesday. “We are taking of a general misunderstanding. Committee members are not judges. They can always change their views,” Justice Bobde said. The committee on the farm laws, set up on January 12, has Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Parmod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist and director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana. In a letter attributed to him and which he has not dissociated himself from, Mann has purportedly recused himself from the panel, citing his commitment to Punjab and farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
20-01-2021||India||Veterans seek CBI or NIA probe against Arnab Goswami ||The Confederation of Ex-Parliamentary Forces Welfare Association on Tuesday shot off letters to the President and the Delhi police commissioner demanding “immediate arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act for committing treason”. In his letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, association president Ranbir Singh highlighted that Goswami’s purported WhatsApp chats suggested that he was celebrating the deaths of 40 CRPF personnel in the Pulwama terror attack and also talking about milking the massacre to increase his channel’s viewership ratings. The letter pointed out that the purported chats also suggested that Goswami had revealed national security secrets as he had advance information of the Balakot air strike. “Goswami who has sown the seeds of poison in the society and tried to destroy the social fabric is celebrating the deaths of our jawans. How has he been getting information related to national security? How did he know that something big was going to happen? In his purported chats that have gone viral he has even mentioned the Prime Minister’s Office.” “It is our humble request that a probe by CBI/NIA should be ordered against Goswami for celebrating the deaths of our jawans for his channel’s TRP and also disclosing highly sensitive information relating to national security and he be tried for treason,” the letter said. In its letter to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava, the association demanded that an FIR be registered against Goswami on charges of treason and also called for his immediate arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
20-01-2021||India||Farmers last bastion ‘against PM cronies’: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was working to create “monopolies” of four-five people and the new farm laws were part of that project but lamented that the country had not yet understood the enormity of this tragedy. Rahul said: “A huge tragedy is unfolding and it is not only about farmers. This is about the country’s future, about the country’s ability to be strong, to stand tall among other nations. What we are seeing is industry after industry — airports, infrastructure, power, telecom, retail — across the board, three-four-five people now own this country.” Addressing the media after releasing a booklet on the farm crisis at the party headquarters, the former Congress president said: “This small group, the crony capitalists, who have close relations with the Prime Minister, own the country. Agriculture, the biggest business in India — involving 60 per cent of the population — was protected from monopolies so far. Now we are witnessing this last bastion being overrun. The three farm laws are designed to destroy farmers and hand over agriculture to these four-five people.” Arguing that people’s independence was being snatched and youngsters will not get job under such monopolistic control, Rahul said: “It is a tragedy that the entire country is watching this ridiculous show. It is a tragedy that shows the country itself is not able to understand the depth of what is happening.” He said the people cannot imagine the price they will have to pay for foodgrain if these four-five business houses are allowed to store millions and millions tones of wheat, rice and other essential commodities. “Farmers are not fighting their own battle. They are patriots and they are fighting to prevent this country from falling into the hands of three-four people. I support them fully and every Indian should.” Asked about BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s allegation that he was misleading the farmers with his poor understanding, Rahul burst out. “Farmers know who is Rahul Gandhi and what he does. They know where were Narendra Modi and Nadda when Rahul was fighting for farmers in Bhatta Parsaul, Land Acquisition Act and loan waiver. This is my character. I am not scared of Modi and these people. Mujhe koi fark nahin padta. Main saaf-suthra aadmi hun. Mujhe ye chhoo nahin sakte. Haan goli maar sakte hain, woh alag baat hai (I am not affected by what they say. I am clean person. They can’t touch me. Yes, they can shoot me but that’s a different matter).” He went on: “Main deshbhakt hun. Desh ki raksha karta jaaonga. Ye mera dharm hai. Main unse jyada fanatic hun (I am a patriot. I will continue protecting the country. This is my religion. I am more fanatic than them). Even if the entire country stands with them, I will fight these forces alone. The country fought for freedom 70-80 years ago and the similar situation is developing. Don’t trust me now. But remember what I said after you lose freedom.” Dismissing Nadda as inconsequential, he countered the BJP’s charge by saying: “When did the Congress make laws which abolished the mandis, allowed storage without stock limit and prevented farmers from going to court in case of dispute?” He argued that Modi’s intention was to weaken the farmers so as to rule out the possibility of a fightback and hence nothing short of repeal of these laws should be acceptable. Asked whether a weak Opposition was the reason for such a bulldozing government, he said: “The Opposition fights through the institutional framework. They have captured every institution — courts, media… they don’t allow us to speak in Parliament. There is an atmosphere of fear… bologe toh maarenge (if you speak, they will beat you up). Anybody speaking against them is branded an anti-national, projected as an enemy.” Asked how will justice happen then, he said: “I believe in the spirit of this country; I don’t believe you can impose slavery on this country. I don’t believe this country will accept five-six people owning it. Resistance will come from the people. We don’t have thousands of crores that Modi has to control the media. But that forces us to be honest, to be good. There are millions and millions of people in this country who don’t accept the nonsense that is going on. They see the massive failure; the best-performing economy has become the worst. The world is seeing lakhs of farmers sitting in the cold. Modi should be ashamed of it... he is tearing apart what was built slowly, from Mahatma onwards.” Asked if the Prime Minister should talk directly to the farmers, he said: “But that’s not his style. Why should we suggest if he won’t listen. They don’t. They have been trained by the RSS not to think, not to learn. They only speak.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Tug of war over Netaji events||The Trinamul-led state and BJP-led central governments are lining up their own events to observe Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary on January 23, intensifying the tug of war over one of Bengal’s foremost icons. Sources close to Mamata Banerjee said she would try and steal a march over the Prime Minister by hosting the state’s events before those of the Centre begin, on Saturday in Calcutta. On Tuesday, the Centre declared January 23 as Parakram Diwas (Valour Day). The railway ministry also decided to rename the Howrah-Kalka Mail as Netaji Express. Mamata professed displeasure over the word parakram, asserting deshprem (patriotism) or deshnayak (national hero) would have been better. On January 4, Mamata declared that January 23 would be observed as Deshnayak Diwas with a mega rally from Netaji’s statue at Shyambazar to that on Red Road, which she would lead. At 12.15pm, his birth time, sirens would be sounded across Bengal. “What the Centre has announced is their prerogative...But we are not happy. The word (Parakram, with connotations of chest-thumping aggression) they have chosen…I am told that even some members of the Bose family are not happy,” said Mamata. “Where is the national holiday? Has that been declared yet?” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh defended the name. “Parakram is absolutely the right word. Whoever is against it doesn’t know the meaning of it. The word is derived from Sanskrit and has been used in several Bengali texts. Netaji was parakrami and hence the word parakram.” Mamata’s event on Saturday would almost certainly be over by the time Modi participates in the inaugural Parakram Diwas in Calcutta, to inaugurate an exhibition on the grounds of the National Library in Calcutta and felicitate prominent members of Netaji’s Indian National Army. “Parakram” did not sit well with the CPM and Netaji’s own Forward Bloc leaders. “Mahatma Gandhi called Netaji Deshpremikottam (the greatest of patriots). Rabindranath Tagore called him Deshnayak. Is Modi bigger than Gandhiji and Tagore? We refuse to celebrate January 23 as Parakram Diwas,” said Bloc state secretary Naren Chatterjee. CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty said the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government had officially declared January 23 as Deshprem Diwas. “Parakram has an aggressive, imperialist connotation, which does not match Netaji’s legacy,” he said. Asked about Modi’s plans this Saturday, Mamata said: “Well, he (Modi) didn’t even know his (Netaji’s) name...” “When elections approach, Bengal is foremost on their minds. When elections are over, they conveniently forget Bengal. They cannot even pronounce the name of Bengal correctly, they call it Bangaal,” said Mamata. “It is an election year, so they can come…. No problem. Bengal welcomes everyone. Except, of course, goons and the rioters.” Mamata has been reminding the saffron camp that major Bengal icons it has been trying to appropriate in order to shed its “outsider” tag, such as Netaji, Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar were opposed to the idea of pitting one religion against another, especially in politics and nation-building. Trinamul has, so far, been enjoying an apparent edge in this duel over Bengal icons, as the BJP has often been found wanting, with avoidable gaffes that have suggested a relative lack of understanding in those areas. Mamata has been planning Netaji celebrations with her elite committee, comprising eminent civil society members from Bengal. She was made part of a central committee, announced months after her committee, but she is unlikely to participate in the Centre’s plans enthusiastically. “The state’s committee is all about highlighting Netaji’s uncompromisingly inclusive, secular worldview, which we know is a thorn in this Centre’s side,” said a senior Trinamul MP. He said Mamata will use the occasion to lambaste the saffron camp’s attempts at deifying “controversial” figures that the saffron ecosystem considers iconic, such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya, sometimes at the cost of more “worthy” icons with inclusive, secular philosophies such as Netaji. Modi has often lauded Netaji, but according to critics it was always with the intent to undermine Jawaharlal Nehru. “Modi and his party are ideological descendants of Syama Prasad Mookerjee…. It is no secret that Netaji was a fierce critic and ideological rival of Mookerjee and the Hindu Mahasabha. This will be highlighted,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||EC to verify caste papers of legislators||The Election Commission has asked the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Bengal to find out whether 14 persons, including three sitting MLAs and a sitting MP, are in possession of original Scheduled Caste certificates. The directive was in response to a complaint that Asim Kumar Hazra, the chairman of the Bangiya Scheduled Caste Welfare Association, had filed with the office of the chief election commissioner on December 16. Hazra complained that people like Burdwan East MP Sunil Kumar Mondal, and MLAs Asim Kumar Majhi and Seuli Saha of Trinamul and Dipali Biswas do not belong to the SC community. Mondal had defected from Trinamul to the BJP last month. Biswas had won on CPM ticket from Gazole in Malda district, later he joined Trinamul but recently walked into the BJP. Sources said in the instruction sent by an under-secretary of the EC to the CEO, it had been asked to submit a factual report on the issue by January 25. MP Mondal brushed aside the allegation. “It is nothing but a false allegation as I had obtained scholarships as a student in my school and college level. All my relatives have SC certificates and head of the 2019 Parliament elections, my certificate was verified,” he said. Majhi also spoke in similar terms. “I have no problem and anyone can probe my caste certificate. There is no doubt regarding my SC certificate as my father obtained the same back in 1978,” he said. Biswas said: “I belong to the Namashudra community. I am ready to face any probe.” Saha couldn’t be contacted. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records 6,781 active cases now ||Bengal on Tuesday logged 513 Covid-19 recoveries, 412 new cases and 11 deaths, with one from Calcutta. The state has 6,781 active cases. Total active cases fell for the 85th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. Over these 85 days since October 26, the total active cases fell from 37,190 to 6,781, an improvement of 82 per cent. Bengal now has around 3.4 per cent of India’s active cases. The total is now back almost to where it was 198 days ago, on July 5 last year. Recovery rate rising for 88 days straight from 87.44 per cent on October 22 last year, it is now 97.02 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 96.67. “We are looking to speed up recovery rate over the next few weeks. We aim to cross 98 this month and 99 by midFebruary,” said a minister. Since Dashami, the state recorded over 2.39 lakh recoveries, compared to the 2.12 new infections detected. The state now has over 5.66 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first reported on March 17, 2020, which includes over 5.49 lakh recoveries and 10,074 deaths. The state attributed 8,452 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. Calcutta High Court's intervention with instructions against crowding over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and then over New Year revelry, helped rein in the infections, the state believes. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.36 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 60 days ago. Bengal’s total test count – including 30,034 tests on Tuesday – is over 76.96 lakh now, at 85,514 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea planters want action on jumbo intrusions||The Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) has expressed concern over frequent elephant depredations in tea gardens of the Dooars and sought the intervention of the state government for improvement of some of the roads which lead to the estates. I.S. Chauhan, the DBITA chairman, pointed out these issues at the 143rd annual general meeting of the body held in its office at Binnaguri in Jalpaiguri district on Saturday. The AGM was held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic, said sources. In his speech, Chauhan said intrusion of elephants into tea gardens across the Dooars caused loss of lives and property. “The worst affected were the tea estates near Banarhat. We feel it is time that a long-lasting solution to address the issue is pondered over. The government should take some effective measures.” The DBITA chairman said a number of roads connecting tea estates in blocks like Dhupguri and Matialli in Jalpaiguri and in some parts of Alipurduar district were in worst condition. “The condition of these roads is a serious concern not only for the tea estates in the vicinity but also for local people. The state departments and agencies concerned should repair the roads immediately. If tourism is to flourish in tea plantations as the state desires, these need to be refurbished at the earliest,” he said. Chauhan underscored that tea prices had gone up in 2020, the first rise in the past two decades. According to him, tea prices have experienced a rise of around 40.60 per cent compared to 2019 while there has been a loss of around 12.50 per cent in production in 2020. “It is not really time to rejoice as there had been a downward trend in prices at the end of the season. We hope the sudden spurt in prices and consequent notional prosperity will not bring in an array of new impositions on the industry,” the DBITA chairman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Morcha backing won’t help TMC win: Dilip||BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday made an attempt to downplay the support base of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha factions — the strongest political force in the hills — and said that even the support of both Morcha camps can’t make Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul win the three hill Assembly seats. At a public meeting at Baghajatin Park here, Ghosh said: “People of Darjeeling hills have been repeatedly cheated and in the Assembly polls, they will give a fitting reply to Trinamul. (Bimal) Gurung or Binay Tamang won’t be able to help Mamata Banerjee win. Many prominent faces in the hills have joined BJP and residents will support us.” Ghosh’s assertion comes when Trinamul has the support of both Morcha camps. Long-time BJP ally Gurung ditched the party in October 2020 over “unfulfilled promises” to join hands with Trinamul. The Tamang faction is a Trinamul ally since 2017. The BJP has the support of GNLF, CPRM, ABGL and some other regional forces. “Gurung had once threatened the chief minister and was forced to stay away from the hills for over three years. Now he has joined hands with Trinamul….” said Ghosh. The BJP forged ties with the Morcha in 2009 and won three back-to-back Lok Sabha polls in Darjeeling. Gurung’s support was said to be crucial for the 2019 Darjeeling Assembly bypoll win of Neeraj Zimba, the GNLF leader who contested on a BJP ticket. “Now that Gurung has cut ties with the saffron brigade, BJP leaders who had piggybacked on the Morcha are fuming at him,” said an observer. On Wednesday, the BJP has planned a protest in front of the Alipurduar district magistrate’s office on issues related to tea workers. Shiv Sena in fray The Shiv Sena will field candidates in at least 100 of 294 Assembly seats in Bengal polls, Ashok Sarkar, Sena state secretary said on Tuesday. On January 23, they would observe birth anniversaries of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Sena founder Bal Thackeray in Calcutta and Asansol, he said. “Prominent leaders of our party will be in Bengal to campaign for our candidates ahead of the elections,” added Sarkar. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar & Cooch Behar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Bhaichung to launch a soccer academy in Siliguri||Bhaichung Bhutia, one of India’s first football superstars, will start an academy in Siliguri, a move that could be a game changer for the football crazy region. The ace Indian striker had been looking at the state government for land for the project but with things failing to fall in place he decided to take personal initiative. On his investment, Bhutia told The Telegraph: “I have just bought my own property in Siliguri to set up an academy. Earlier we were looking at the government to give land, so enough of it now.” Bhutia’s disclosure comes close on the heels of his decision to revive the United Sikkim Football Club (UFSC). The club, formed by Bhutia and two of his friends Sherpa Lepcha and Arjun Rai back in 2004, was among the top 10 clubs of India in its heydays. Bhutia decided to wind it up in 2019. A couple of weeks back, he reversed the decision. The Siliguri football academy could be a major boon for budding players from north Bengal. Expected to come up in the next few years, the academy is likely to be a training centre for the Sikkim club. Topographically, it is challenging to get an open space for football training in Sikkim’s hilly terrain, so Siliguri is a better choice. Bhutia admitted “space is going to be very challenging in Sikkim”. The former skipper of the Indian football team said United Sikkim’s training ground might be shifted to Siliguri. “If we qualify for I-League or ISL (Indian Super League, the highest professional football league in India), than obviously while most matches will be played in Sikkim, we can look at having some matches in Siliguri as well, if the stadium does qualify for ISL standards,” said Bhutia. A few decades back, Siliguri would host international matches but not of late. Bhutia was in Darjeeling as a chief guest at the finals of a football tournament started by Darjeeling police. A total of 221 teams, including 25 women’s teams, registered for the tournament, a figure that surprised Bhutia. “It is a great initiative of Darjeeling police...I am surprised as you don’t get these numbers even in big states. There were quite a lot of talented girls,” said Bhutia. Darjeeling police started the tourney as a part of its police-public outreach under the Khel Utsav initiative. Darjeeling police won both the men and women category to take home Rs 1 lakh each. Runners-up were men’s URFC Rangbull (Jorebunlow) and women’s TIIEDI’s WE FC (Sadar), who received Rs 50,000 each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Two die as rival TMC groups clash over land||The chief of a Trinamul-run panchayat samiti and an alleged party worker died in South Dinajpur district on Tuesday after two rival groups of Trinamul supporters clashed over a piece of land at Uttar Narayanpur village under Gangarampur police station area. The deceased were identified as Kalipada Sarkar, 54, the sabhapati of Gangarampur panchayat samiti, who had been injured in the clash but died of cardiac arrest, and Sanjit Sarkar, 27, who died of bullet wounds. The incident has led to loss of face for district Trinamul leaders who have been of late trying to present a unified image of the party in South Dinajpur, a district where the BJP has been gaining in strength these past couple of years. A large police contingent, along with RAF, reached the village, and arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the violence. “We have arrested four persons and have seized crude bombs and a firearm. Search is on to nab more people,” said Debarshi Dutta, the South Dinajpur district police chief. Sources said on Tuesday, an altercation among the groups over the ownership of a plot sparked violence. Soon, both sides attacked each other with firearms and crude bombs. Sanjit, who was hit by a bullet on his head, collapsed on the spot. His aides rushed him to the local hospital in Gangarampur from where he was referred to Malda Medical College and Hospital. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to Malda. Sanjit, sources said, was a supporter of Gautam Das, the district Trinamul president. Seeing Sanjit’s collapse, his co-workers got agitated and gathered around the house of Suman Das, a party worker from a rival group. Alleging that Das has fired at Sanjit, they ransacked and torched his house. Seeing Kalipada on the spot, the agitated workers attacked him too. An injured Kalipada was taken to the hospital in Gangarampur, where the doctors pronounced him dead. It was later learnt that the cause of his death was cardiac arrest. Kalipada, party insiders said, was an associate of veteran party leader Biplab Mitra, a former MLA and former district chief of the party who defected to the BJP earlier, but returned to Trinamul last year and it was only a couple of days back that he was made the chairman of the district committee. Gautam Das, the district Trinamul chief, confirmed that Sanjit had been an active party worker. Mitra, on the other hand, claimed that Sanjit was a BJP worker. “He was an active party worker,” the Trinamul district chief said. “During the past few days, we have received information that some people are trying to foment tension in the district. We want the police to take stern steps against all those who perpetrated the violence, irrespective of their political affiliation. The other person is suspected to have died of a heart attack,” Gautam Das said. Mitra however called it a “local issue”. “The person who died of bullet injury is a BJP worker. He has no connection with Trinamul,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC minister bid to woo Cong voters in Malda||State minister and Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim on Tuesday tried to reach out to Congress supporters from the minority community in Malda ahead of the Bengal polls. Hakim, who reached here on Tuesday, said at a party meeting: “Congress supporters should vote for us because their party leaders have joined hands with the CPM, the party responsible for the deaths of hundreds of Congress supporters in Malda.” He took the name of Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, still considered the party’s tallest leader in the district. “Barkatda (as Khan Choudhury is known) has always said that the Congress will have to struggle against CPM till the last day. To fulfil his dream, it is time that those who have voted Congress for years now stand by us. It is only Trinamul that can thwart the BJP,” Hakim said. Since Trinamul’s emergence, Mamata has always focussed on the minority vote bank of the state and her strategy has helped her to win in a number of elections. However, unlike most other minority-dominated belts of Bengal, Trinamul has failed to draw support from a bulk of the minority population of Malda, a district with around 55 per cent minority population. Thousands of them are still believed to be with the Congress. In all, Malda has 12 Assembly seats. In the 2016 polls, Trinamul had failed to win even one seat in the district.  Trinamul could not bag either of the two Lok Sabha seats, Malda north and south, in 2019. “It seems that Trinamul now wants to erode the support base of Congress in minority belts. There are at least eight Assembly seats in Malda where support of minorities decides the results,” said an observer, adding that the Trinamul leadership might have thought that was easier than trying to erode BJP’s Malda vote bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s rally pulls massive crowd in Purulia||The turnout of over two lakh people at Mamata Banerjee’s rally in Purulia on Tuesday came as a pleasant surprise for Trinamul leadership as the party has been on the backfoot in this western district since 2018 panchayat elections in which the BJP showed signs of significant gains. “It was our challenge to fill up such a big ground... We were worried about the turnout even half an hour before the chief minister’s chopper took off from Kolaghat as some parts of the field were vacant. But finally, people did turn up in droves and filled the ground,” said Gurupada Tudu, the Purulia Trinamul president. Tudu claimed that around 2.5 lakh people attended Tuesday’s rally of the chief minister and surpassed their target. The fact that the organisers were worried about the turnout became clear when Mamata rose to deliver her address. “I heard that few people were trying to take photographs of vacant ground around 10.30am or 11am despite the meeting being scheduled to start at 1.30pm. Please come on the dais to take a photograph of the ground. Anybody can come and anyone is welcome on the stage. Anyone can come and see the sea of crowd from the dais,” said the chief minister. As Trinamul is the party in power and has complete control over the administration and the police, one cannot draw conclusion about the party’s support base only on the basis of turnout, but Trinamul insiders said the gathering gave them hope of a turnaround in the district that has become a BJP stronghold in the last couple of years. “During the CM’s campaign rally before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, we had struggled to bring even 25,000 people... Against that backdrop, today’s rally is indeed a success,” said a senior Trinamul leader in the district. Trinamul leaders said excitement over Duare Sarkar and groundwork helped in getting people to the venue. Trinamul leaders said the chief minister was so happy with the crowd count that she started sketching while sitting on the dais. “It was a sketch of state minister Sandhyarani Tudu and a party MLA sitting on the dais... She gifted the sketch to our MLA and minister with a smiling face,” said a Trinamul leader. Fatal fall Benjamin Sandil, 45, who had come to attend the rally, died after falling from the roof of a bus at the parking lot near the venue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee defends Tollywood actor||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday tore into a section of BJP leaders for attacking a Tollywood actor. “How do you dare rebuke Bengal? I dare you to touch Tollywood. I dare you to touch the cultural arena,” Mamata said at a massive rally in Purulia. The chief minister was referring to a recent event where Tollywood actor Saayoni Ghosh was attacked by BJP leader Tathagata Roy on social media for daring to criticise Hindutva forces. Without naming Roy, Mamata said the septuagenarian had lost his mind. “She (Saayoni) is of his granddaughter’s age. Why is he giving her daily threats? Can’t she speak her mind?” Mamata asked. Roy engaged in a Twitter war with Saayoni recently after she spoke on BJP’s “Jai Shri Ram” slogan during a TV show. “Jai Shri Ram is the Lord’s name. Say it with love. Why do you need to make it a war cry?” Saayoni had said. This led to a tussle on Twitter between her and Roy. Roy filed a police complaint against Saayoni with Rabindra Sarovar police referring to an old tweet posted from her handle in February 2015 that had hurt religious sentiments. Saayoni tweeted an apology and clarified her Twitter handle had been hacked and it wasn’t her post. “Didi’s immense love and assurance has lifted my spirits and she has proven once again that her fight for a peaceful and democratic Bengal continues in full might,” Saayoni told The Telegraph. Actor Debalina Dutta is also being trolled for saying people should have the liberty to eat or cook what they want. Tarunjyoti Tewari, a vice-president of the BJP's state youth wing, said on Facebook that Dutta’s comments hurt his religious sentiments. “She can cook and eat whatever she wants...but there’s a limit to what she says,” Tewari, who filed a complaint against Dutta with Baguiati police on Tuesday, told journalists. Dutta said Tewari’s Facebook post led to rape threats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
20-01-2021||West Bengal||Clash precedes Suvendu rally||Supporters of the BJP and the Trinamul Congress clashed in East Midnapore’s Khejuri on Tuesday afternoon leaving at least 12 from both the sides injured. The violence occurred a few hours before Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari was to lead a BJP rally at Heria. Eyewitnesses said the incident occurred when hordes of unidentified youths appeared to block the path of vehicles headed for the BJP’s Heria rally, prompting a retaliation from occupants of the vehicles and a lathi-charge led by district police and Rapid Action Force. The incident took place on roads adjoining Khejuri’s Tetultala, Baratala and Gholabar areas. “Today supporters coming to our rally were stymied and attacked by Trinamul workers. Two mandal presidents had to be hospitalised,” Suvendu said while speaking later at the 4pm rally. Suvendu’s rally was held in the wake of a mega rally that chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed at Nandigram in the neighbouring East Midnapore district on Monday. In his speech, Suvendu brought up the issue of Mamata’s decision to contest from Nandigram. “She cannot contest from both Nandigram and Bhowanipore. She must stick to Nandigram,” said Suvendu. Referring to the violence that preceded his rally on Tuesday, Suvendu said he was giving district police time “till Sunday” to arrest those behind the attack, otherwise he would lead a dharna — accompanied by BJP Tamluk district president Nabarun Nayak and Contai district president Anup Chakraborty — in front of the office of the superintendent of police, Tamluk, from Monday. “Workers were mercilessly pulled out of their vehicles by Trinamul workers and stoned. Crude bombs were also thrown,” said a BJP worker. Trinamul district core committee member Mahmood Hossain said the claims that Trinamul workers had attacked first were false. “Our supporters were heading for Madan Mitra’s rally at Vidyapeeth, which is 15km away from Heria. It was BJP workers who attacked us first when our processions had veered close to each other in our respective ways. So, we retaliated,” he said. Earlier, 10 homes of BJP workers were reportedly ransacked late on Monday in the wake of Mamata’s mega rally. “Several Trinamul inductees into our party refused to attend the CM’s rally yesterday (Monday). So, the party attacked them in retaliation,” said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
20-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP more dangerous than Maoists: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sounded a warning at a rally near here that voting in favour of the BJP would lead to the return of Maoists and disruptions in normal life in the Jungle Mahal. The chief minister’s message was aimed at reminding the residents of violence unleashed by the Left extremists in the Jungle Mahal between 2008 and 2011 and how the Trinamul Congress government had brought peace to the region. “Purulia will not be Purulia or today’s Rupasi Bangla if the BJP comes here. You will see that the Maoists will come again (if the BJP comes to power). The BJP is more dangerous than the Maoists,” Mamata told over two lakh people at Hatmura football ground, 12km from Purulia town. The chief minister did not explain why she said the BJP was more dangerous than the Maoists, but sources close to her said that she was obliquely referring to the spread of RSS network in tribal-dominated areas in the Jungle Mahal. The Trinamul chief made her success in bringing peace to the Jungle Mahal — which includes Purulia, Bankura, West Midnapore and now Jhargram — the theme of her address. “Earlier, the people of the Jungle Mahal could not walk freely on roads because of the fear of Maoists. The same Maoists later surrendered and joined the mainstream of the society. We offered many of them jobs of home guards and they started serving the nation... I promise that those who haven’t got jobs till now would get them soon,” she said. The focus on peace, several Trinamul leaders said, was a potent theme to take on the BJP, which has been steadily growing in the region. The saffron party bagged five out of the six Lok Sabha seats and was ahead in 31 of the 40 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Where was the BJP when Baghmundi or Balarampur were bleeding? Ask the BJP leaders, where were they when the Ajodhya hills (in Purulia) were soaked in blood? Today, the BJP leaders are coming from Jharkhand because of the vote. But there was no one during the unrest in the Jungle Mahal,” said the chief minister as she highlighted her achievements in bringing peace to the region. Mamata also referred to how the development took place in Purulia and adjoining areas after the Maoist problem was solved as the region’s tourism potential was realised with the return of peace. “People are coming here for tourism, even film shoots are taking place... Several new hotels are being set up. I want more hotels here so that local youths get jobs,” she added. Ujjwal Kumar, the deputy chief of the Trinamul-run Purulia’s Arsha panchayat samity, said the chief minister did the right thing by reminding people of the dark days of Maoist domination in the region. “So many youths go distracted... Even I was attached to the banned outfit. I am back in the mainstream only because of the chief minister,” he said. The Maoists held sway in large parts of the Jungle Mahal and hundreds of political activists and ordinary people were killed between 2008 and 2011. The situation changed remarkably since Mamata came to power and the police launched an offensive on the banned outfit and its main leader, Mallojula Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, was killed in 2011. Her focus on delivering on development and attempts to bring the Maoist foot soldiers back to the mainstream helped in return of peace in the region. Local BJP leaders said her attempt at drawing parallels between the BJP and the Maoists captured her fear of losing to the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls. “The Trinamul leaders indulged in corruption in the name of development... We will expose all these after we come to power. She is scared and that’s why she is saying all these ridiculous things,” said BJP’s Purulia president Bidyasagar Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-228
20-01-2021||North East||Cong targets  BJP on crime against women ||Senior Congress women leaders from Assam on Monday said the growing crime against women only reflected the “failure” of the BJP-led Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign in the state. Citing the recent National Crime Records Bureau and recent incidents of rape and murder of women, a press meet jointly addressed by PCC media department chairman Bobbeeta Sharma, Assam Mahila Congress president and MLA Nandita Das, general secretary Bismita Gogoi and secretary Juri Bordoloi highlighted how the “alarming increase” of crime against women in the past few years has made the situation unsafe for its women citizens. They said that the BJP-led government keeps on harping on the beti padhao beti bachao campaign, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015, but then NCRB statistics suggest it has not yielded the desired result. The BBBP is a scheme aimed at ensuring overall welfare and safety of the girl-child. “Assam has topped the states where crime against women is the highest. A girl is dragged out of her home, raped and killed; her aunt killed inside their home in Tingkhang constituency under Dibrugarh district on January 12. The culprits have not yet been apprehended. A house is considered to be the safest place for everyone. But what did we see? That today under this government even the four walls of one’s house is not safe for a woman in Assam. This is not a isolated case. What happened to the beti padhao beti bachao campaign, its efficacy?” Sharma asked. She also highlighted the gang-rape and murder of a minor school girl in Gohpur under Biswanath district in February 2020 where all the accused were let off on bail. The women leaders said the NCRB statistics reveal that crime against women in Assam is constantly rising, almost three times the national average. Incidents of registered violence against women was 20,869 in 2016 which increased to 23,082 in 2017 and to 27,728 in 2018. Assam also recorded 66 instances of rape and murder — the highest joint figure for the two categories in the country in 2018. Assam also topped the list for cyber crimes against women in 2018 with 295 cases. In 2019 Assam again reported the highest rate of crime against women at 177.8 per lakh population, thus being top of the chart for three consecutive years, they said. Das said rise in crime against women proves the government and its agencies have failed to instil fear among the perpetrators of such crimes. “There is thus an urgent need to take quick action and to keep the public updated on the follow up actions of the incidents so that women feel secure that they are being protected by the state and have confidence in the protectors of law,” she said. Das, Gogoi and Bordoloi also raised the failure of the campaign in the state. Sharma asked: “How did the situation change after 2016 so drastically? Obviously because the people of Assam trusted the BJP to safeguard and protect their dignity by voting them to power but they have failed miserably to give this protection as the statistics reveal.” Das said that they will increase the number of women police personnel, deploy more women police personnel at every police station. “This will be in our poll manifesto.. We will also ensure chargesheet are properly filed so justice is delivered to the victims and their families,” Das said. When contacted, BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami, “Rise in crime is a reflection of the society we live in. It is unfair to blame the government for everything. The government is doing everything to empower our women folk. The Orunodoi monthly financial scheme and scootys for girl-student are part of this process. We will do everything possible to nab the culprits but we all have to contribute our mite as a society.” Assam goes to the polls later this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
20-01-2021||North East||Congress ties up with 5 parties in Assam||The Congress on Tuesday evening announced the formation of a six-party grand alliance in an attempt to oust the “divisive” ruling BJP in the Assam Assembly elections this year. The announcement of the Congress-led alliance comprising the AIUDF, CPM, CPI, CPI(M-L) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha was made in the presence of senior AICC leaders tasked to oversee and guide the state unit in what is going to be a challenging electoral contest. The Congress (20) and AIUDF (14)are the only parties with legislators in the 126-member House. The Congress had won 26 seats in 2016. The development was along expected lines because the Congress had started work on stitching a grand alliance last year, triggered by the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December 2019, which is considered anti-Assam. The alliance announcement was made by PCC chief Ripun Bora at a hotel here where representatives of all the parties, senior AICC leaders and the media were present. Hours earlier, an Election Commission team led by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora met political parties at the same venue in connection with the Assembly polls. Bora said the doors are open to include more secular parties in the alliance so that the Opposition votes do not get divided. Those backing the grand alliance assert it could prove to be a tougher nut for the BJP to crack. The BJP-AGP-BPF alliance had a vote share of 41.9 per cent in 2016, while the Congress and the AIUDF garnered vote shares of 31 and 13 per cent respectively. “Together (Cong and AIUDF), we have over 44 per cent vote share and now the Left votes will also get added. The margin of defeat was very less in over 30 seats last time when we had no alliance and at the peak of the Modi wave. Mathematically there are good reasons to be hopeful. We won seven seats in Upper Assam last time. It cannot get worse than that. But now the faction-ridden state leadership has to play its part and select winnable candidates with a good image,” a Congress insider said. Opposition from within the Assam PCC, especially leaders from Upper Assam, against any direct pre-poll tie-up with the AIUDF, had delayed the announcement of the grand alliance by about three months. This section fears an adverse impact of an alliance with the AIUDF on the Congress’s prospects in Upper Assam where the AIUDF is seen as a party supporting the cause of illegal Bangladeshi migrants. There was so much opposition that the state leadership left the issue to be decided by the central leadership. Congress insiders said before the announcement, AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, and four secretaries had not only taken the views of state leaders on the pre-poll alliance with the AIUDF and other organisational issues but also toured the state extensively to gather feedback from the ground. While there was reservation about a direct alliance with the AIUDF, most were in favour of a grand alliance. The decision took a formal shape after the arrival of AICC appointed observers — Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Mukul Wasnik and Shakeel Ahmed Khan — on Monday. All of them were present during the announcement. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma told The Telegraph that the Congress-led alliance of the six parties has taken a formal shape and a common minimum programme will be worked out in due course. Asked whether there is still reservation about an alliance with the AIUDF, she said it was a grand alliance and not with one single party. “All of them have decided to come together with one common goal, that is to oust the divisive and anti-Assam BJP. There is no pre-condition. This is something the people of Assam also want,” Sharma said. The ruling BJP-led alliance said there was nothing to be surprised or worry about the grand alliance because the Congress and the AIUDF always had a tacit understanding. “In the 2014 general elections, they had a secret understanding but we got seven of the 14 seats. In 2019, they had an half-open alliance but we got nine seats. Going by past results, in 2021 Assembly polls, we will surely achieve our target of 100-plus seats, because of this unholy alliance between the Congress and the AIUDF,” BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said. The BJP has been attacking the proposed alliance between the two parties even though the Congress has been insisting that it was a grand alliance to unite the anti-BJP votes. Political observers say that if the grand alliance chooses its candidates properly and comes up with an appealing electoral narrative it can give a good fight. However, it is still going to be a tough ask against a well-entrenched BJP and after factoring in the proposed alliance between the two newly floated regional outfits — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad. Poll panel visit Earlier, a full-fledged Election Commission team met representatives of political parties here in connection with the Assembly polls. Aminul Islam of the AIUDF said they have sought a two-three phase polls but before Bihu in April, allow doubtful voters to exercise their franchise since they are not pronounced guilty and proper CCTV surveillance at polling centres. The BJP has sought three-phase polls, two before Bihu, besides announcement of the Covid-19 protocol to be followed and new polling stations since 5.5 lakh new voters will be added this time. Niran Borah of the Congress said that they have requested for free and fair polls, appointment of senior, strict and neutral observers, adequate security and proper surveillance in remote polling centres and in counting centres to check malpractices. The announcement of the grand alliance is set to add to the political heat which will soar further with the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah on January 23 and 24 respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
20-01-2021||North East||Sedition charge on portal editors off ||Two editors of a web portal, The Frontier Manipur, booked on charges of charges of sedition and helping unlawful organisation on Sunday were not only released on Monday but all charges against them were also dropped. Singjamei police in Manipur’s Imphal West district had registered a suo motu case against the portal’s editor-in-chief, Sadokpam Dhiren, executive editor Aribam Paojel Chaoba, and M. Joy Luwang for an article, “Revolutionary Journey in a Mess”. The article, written by Luwang and published on the portal on January 8, was a criticism of the state’s armed groups and had also issued a call to “work with togetherness” to streamline the “revolution”. The police said the article “openly endorsed revolutionary ideologies and activities and expressed shock and dismay at the deteriorating character of the armed revolutionary leaders of Manipur” and lead to the registration of the case against the editors who have admitted to publishing it but denied knowledge about the author. The FIR says the accused attempted to bring hatred/contempt/disaffection against the government and of hatching a criminal conspiracy and being a sympathiser of unlawful organisation. The were booked under Sections 124A (sedition), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 505(b) (incitement) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC, and Section 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which deals with furthering the activity of a terrorist organisation. Dhiren and Chaoba’s lawyer, Chongtham Victor, had on Sunday night said they have been arrested and were to be produced in court on Monday. But he refused to comment on the matter on Monday. Sources familiar with the case told The Telegraph that the “intervention” of the All Manipur Working Journalists Union seeking the release of the duo, the “leniency” shown by chief minister N. Biren Singh and a “clarification” issued by the editors resulted in their release. by noon.  The Editors Guild Of India too had issued a statement seeking their release and withdrawal of the cases that pose a threat to free expression, and to democracy itself. “Senior journalists approached the chief minister. Both sides explained their positions and concerns and the chief minister ordered their unconditional release. The editors too offered a formal clarification admitting that publishing the article without verifying the source was an oversight on their part and such mistakes will not pass their scrutiny in the future,” a source said. Imphal West superintendent of police K. Meghachandra Singh told this newspaper that all charges against the duo have been dropped but the investigation against Luwang will continue. “They were released around noon on PR (personal recognizance) bond. The matter was amicably resolved after the intervention of senior journalists and the government,” he said. Asked whether the police can release persons arrested on charges like sedition and under the UAPA, Singh said: “ We had filed the FIR on our own. It was not reported by anyone. Sometimes prima facie there may be many things but on close examination we find something different. They were detained for 24 hours. Our investigation against Luwang, the author of the article, will continue.” According to Singh, the case was registered against the editors and Luwang because the article was alarming. “It has the potential to create unrest, pose a serious threat to rebels who have joined the mainstream, was against the state and had urged the civil society to help, correct and streamline the movement led by the revolutionaries,” Singh said. Associate editor Kishorechandra Wangkhem is also a part of the portal’s editorial team but was not questioned. He was earlier booked for sedition and was released on bail last month. The web portal was launched last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-26
20-01-2021||Opinion||Dark secret: Partho-Arnab WhatsApp chats||Sir — The incriminating WhatsApp conversations that allegedly took place between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and the former chief of Broadcast Audience Research Council, Partho Dasgupta, prima facie point to an unholy nexus between a news channel and those in power and smack of influence peddling (“Chats expose true face of ‘nationalist”, Jan 17). From the transcripts, it seems clear that the television anchor was in possession of classified information and tried to use it to further his commercial interests. Now someone has to accept responsibility for leaking military secrets and compromising national security. The government seems to have been in cahoots with the TV anchor to manipulate public opinion right before the 2019 general election. The remarks attributed to Goswami with regard to the Pulwama attack as well as the retaliatory air strikes are unworthy of a true patriot — the deaths of 40 jawans appears to have been something to capitalize on. The truth has an uncanny knack of coming out in unexpected ways. For instance, these disclosures have revived the debate over how the Balakot air strike had catapulted the Bharatiya Janata Party to power in 2019. There are, of course, no prizes for guessing who the abbreviations, “NM” and “AS”, referred to in the messages in the context of getting things done stand for. Interestingly, rivalry between TV channels makes no difference to the support received by the BJP and the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. TV channels and anchors, with a few honourable exceptions, support the Hindutva-oriented ruling dispensation blindly, albeit without being as rabid as some. It is not clear how all this advances the cause of Indian democracy. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Three days before the Indian air force conducted the Balakot air strike, the TV anchor, Arnab Goswami, allegedly told the former BARC chief, Partho Dasgupta, that ‘something big will happen’, indicating that he knew of the Narendra Modi-led government’s plan about the confidential military action. This was revealed by the transcript of WhatsApp messages — it is part of the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Mumbai police investigating the television rating point tampering case — reportedly exchanged between the two. But here is the big question: how did such highly confidential military intelligence information get leaked to a TV anchor? Such details are entrusted to people who have taken the solemn oath to protect the nation. Should the Official Secrets Act not be invoked against the persons concerned? Is not disclosing secret military information a valid ground for prosecution as it endangers the security and integrity of the nation? This serious breach of national security deserves a thorough investigation, and the arrest of the culprits. Privileged information concerning national security cannot be allowed to be treated as a marketable commodity for the sake of gathering TRPs. It is high time that the ministry of defence issues a statement to clear this ominous cloud and assuage the concerns of citizens. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Safety first Sir — Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, obtained clearance for India’s inoculation programme to eradicate the coronavirus. But the government’s silence on the publication of the efficacy data of the Phase-III trials of Covaxin remains frightening (“Other viruses”, Jan 17). Without completing the entire trial process, the vaccine itself may prove to be fatal for the people whose lives it is supposed to save. The insatiable greed for power pushes political leaders to use any event to advance their electoral gains. The prime minister is no exception. He had earlier used the Pulwama attack and the surgical strikes in Balakot to win the 2019 general elections. Now he is not hesitating to use even public health as a weapon to keep his political interests intact. He seems eager to take credit for unleashing the nationwide vaccination programme — the impending elections in some states must have been the reason why scientists were not allowed to complete the trials. Independent scientific research cannot take place on account of interference from the world of politics. Clearly, for governments, power is more important than the lives of the people. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Grave danger Sir — It is shocking that the standing committee of the National Board of Wildlife has empowered gram panchayats to deal with wild animals deemed problematic as they see fit, even sambhars, hyena, porcupine and nilgai — all protected under the law. It is true that wildlife often poses a threat to human life and property, but this is not a solution to the man-animal conflict. This move will give a free rein to the people to harm wildlife without consequences and abet unregulated killing of wild animals. This would create long-lasting ecological imbalances. The decision should be overturned at once. Sebanti Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||Boys to men: India retains Border-Gavaskar Trophy||India retaining the Border-Gavaskar Trophy — this was India’s second consecutive Test series win Down Under — can be compared to the fable of the phoenix. Having been humiliated in the opening Test where Virat Kohli’s men were bundled out for 36 in the second innings, India, under the able leadership of Ajinkya Rahane, the stand-in skipper, have risen from the ashes of shame, much like the proverbial phoenix, to create cricketing history. Facts will suggest that this is a history to be proud of. India has become the first country to beat Australia in Brisbane since 1988; India’s successful run chase also smashed an older record at the same ground. Yet, these feats are not enough to capture the courage and resilience shown by India’s young cricketers. Taken together, the total number of Tests played by India’s rookie bowlers at the Gabba was — astonishingly — four. Their inexperience was a direct fallout of injuries sustained by multiple regular players. But the young men turned adversity into an opportunity, playing as a unit — the triumph was possible on account of contributions from several cricketers — to beat the Australians in their own den. The unity, grit, skills and morale shown by this young league of extraordinary gentlemen makes this one of the finest moments in Indian cricket. History, however, is not made in one day. It is a cumulative process. India’s formidable bench strength — a second-string side took the field in Brisbane — is the result of the foresight of the Board of Control for Cricket in India that has invested heavily not only in infrastructure, coaching, tournaments — the Indian Premier League has yielded riches — but also in the raw potential of youth. There is a lesson here for leadership in other fields: belief in and imparting of skill to the youth can have a transformative impact on the nation as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||Baton passed: Biden becomes US president||With Joseph R. Biden taking over the mantle of the presidentship of the United States of America, there is hope — within and outside the US — that America would reclaim its seat at the global high table, once again, under its new president. Indeed, if the executive orders of Mr Biden and his administration are an indication, the days of the pursuit of a contentious protectionist policy that was the hallmark of Donald Trump, Mr Biden’s predecessor, are well and truly over. Rescinding the ban on travel from some Muslim-dominated nations, rejoining the Paris pact, extension of pandemic-induced limits on evictions and student loan payments and so on — each element of Mr Biden’s policy agenda is an unambiguous rejection of the toxic insularity that had been institutionalized by Mr Trump. There are, of course, formidable challenges, principal among which is the economy. Mr Biden has announced a substantial relief package to mitigate some of the pain inflicted on the economy and employment. It is hoped that such a spirited and humane intervention would also be witnessed in healthcare — the other area of concern in the US — that is reeling under Covid-19. What cannot be denied is that Mr Biden has inherited a deeply sullen and divided US; racial and ethnic fires, allegedly stoked by the previous dispensation, need to be doused. Mr Biden’s substantial political and administrative experience — he is truly a product of the Capitol Hill culture — could be useful in neutering these challenges. The unprecedented crises — economic, social and medical — may have prompted Mr Biden’s team to resort to the executive route. But he must not refrain from attempting to revive the famed — but now fraying — bipartisan spirit to confront the hurdles and heal divisions. Mr Biden’s desire for representativeness has led to the inclusion of a number of Indians in ‘Team Biden’. New Delhi, too, would be hoping to benefit from this spirit of inclusion at the diplomatic level, thereby augmenting a partnership that has shown a remarkable resilience to rebound even after occasional hiccups: Narendra Modi’s personal investment in Mr Trump would count among these. In Mr Biden, New Delhi may well find a seasoned, reliable ally to chart the choppy waters marked by global economic decline, a lingering pandemic and — most notably — the implications of an assertive China. Defence technology, security, trade — a bone of contention between Mr Trump and New Delhi — and climate could well be the fulcrum of the new Indo-US relationship. But there is also a case for India to emulate the US’s robust institutions — the judiciary and the media — to serve as checks and balances for its own democracy which, at the moment, lacks a credible Opposition. One possible source of tension could be India’s worsening performance in human rights and religious intolerance — issues on which Mr Biden may demand greater accountability. New Delhi must be mindful of this blip on the radar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||New Year tragedy in Pakistan||The year, 2021, started on a tragic note for the Shia Hazara community in Pakistan. Eleven coal miners belonging to the Hazara community were killed in a gruesome attack on January 3 in Mach, Balochistan. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack. The Hazaras are a peaceful people but also one of the most vulnerable communities in Pakistan. They are routinely targeted and killed by sectarian outfits on account of being Shia. In 2014, the Human Rights Watch published a report about the Hazaras titled, “We are the Walking Dead”. The title sums up their helplessness. After the latest attack, the Hazaras protested with the bodies of the deceased for a week in the freezing cold of Quetta. All they wanted was for the prime minister to visit them and give them some sort of assurance. Imran Khan, on the other hand, said he wanted them to bury their dead first and he would visit them only then. He said the prime minister of a country cannot be blackmailed like this. Khan faced a backlash for his statement but he didn’t budge. Eventually, the beleaguered Hazaras had to bury their dead. And only then did Khan visit them. He told the families of the slain Hazaras that they need to understand that things are different for a prime minister. “When I was a regular citizen I came to visit you. No one can guarantee that an incident doesn’t happen in the country. So that’s why I sent messages to bury the deceased and said that I will come to offer my condolences. But when you make it a condition, it will set a precedent.” He told them that the government and the entire nation stand with the Hazaras. We have heard so many the world over give the example of New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, when she consoled the local Muslim community after the Christchurch mosque attack. She was praised for her compassion, her humanity. This is how a community that has seen a terrible tragedy should be consoled. Unfortunately, the Hazaras couldn’t even get a comforting response from their government. An agreement was reached between the Hazara community and the government but we don’t know how much of it will be implemented. The only thing we know is that the Hazaras don’t feel safe even now. Hopefully, some day, they will be safe. A persecuted community that has buried hundreds of its loved ones who have been killed in terrorist attacks, a people that has families which have lost all their male members, a community that is ghettoized and is constantly living in fear, can hardly blackmail anyone, let alone the prime minister of Pakistan. Victims cannot blackmail anyone, nor do they want to. All the Hazaras wanted was empathy. All they were asking for was solidarity and a message that the State will look after them. But all they got was a label of being blackmailers. Many justifications were given by members of the government for this statement but no justification can be given because there is none. Let’s hope the Hazaras can some day live in peace and without any fear. Talking about hope, the year, 2021, will see a roll-out of the coronavirus vaccine in many countries around the world. Pakistan is yet to procure the vaccine although the special assistant to the prime minister on health, Faisal Sultan, told Dawn that Pakistan’s target is to procure it in the first quarter of the current year. Being a developing country with a struggling economy, it is understandable that there are financial strains when it comes to vaccinating the entire populace. Last year was a tough one for people around the globe. Travel restrictions, economic downturn, mental health issues and much more followed as a result of the pandemic. But what is needed now is an investment in the future — a future that we must secure by investing in scientific research and technology. There are many lessons here to be learnt. Given how a pandemic led to a worldwide emergency, we must now focus our energies on healthcare, research and science. So far, we lag behind many countries around the world. It will take decades for results to materialize but start we must. We hope that this year will be different. That humanity has learnt some important lessons about how the healthcare sector around the world needs a boost and more investment. We hope that 2021 will be a year of peace and not war. The only war we need is a war against poverty. Is it too much to hope for? The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||The WhatsApp nation||In an era of relentless privatization, nationalization has become a bad word. It is synonymous with populism — Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalization drive — economic failure — the continuing misery of Air India — and the spectre of totalitarianism — the impending takeover of Alibaba by the Chinese State. But instances of nationalizing successful private companies for extraneous, often political, ends have meant that the original logic of nationalization has been lost. Certain companies performing critical public functions must work for the benefit of the public — if they don’t, then governments must step in to the breach. However, as I argue in this piece, this need not necessarily be by taking over ownership and control of the company. In India, WhatsApp is a public utility. Messaging friends, calling family, reviewing work documents, buying milk and vegetables — everything takes place on this single app downloaded by over 400 million Indians. Moreover, it’s free. This has meant that Indians consider the app an intrinsic part of their daily lives. This is why WhatsApp’s change in its privacy policy that states that all users would have to accept certain terms and conditions or would have to stop using the service came as a rude shock to many. It highlighted in one fell swoop salient facts that every user knew but often preferred to overlook — that WhatsApp was a private corporation and was owned by Facebook, a company whose recent record of safeguarding user data is questionable. The changes to the privacy policy themselves are of three kinds. First, WhatsApp will collect greater amounts of data, including time, frequency and duration of interactions. Second, chats with business accounts can be read by third parties to provide targeted advertisements. Third, data collected by WhatsApp will be shared with Facebook and other Facebook companies to design their products and improve services. Earlier users could opt out of such sharing, an option which appears to have been taken away. None of these changes affect end-to-end encryption on all personal messages, which continues as before. WhatsApp has now confirmed that these changes have been deferred by three months. This deferral is on account of misinformation that has spread in the wake of the changes. In the company’s view, the changes solely pertain to communicating with business accounts. It will use the three months to better communicate their meaning and implication for users. In May, however, once the three months are up, the new policy will still remain a take-it-or-leave-it for users. As far as the changes themselves are concerned, they appear to be pretty mundane and, ordinarily, should not have set alarm bells ringing. Communications with businesses online, typically all online purchases, involve personal data of the user being shared with the company. A cursory look at an Amazon account, for example, will not only show previous orders but also suggestions made by Amazon on the basis of user search history. Saving searches to improve targeting is no different in substance from processing messages sent by individuals to WhatsApp business accounts. But to say that this is all that the privacy policy update is about, as WhatsApp has done, is misleading. There are significant changes to the information that WhatsApp will collect, how it will share such information, and what these changes signify. It’s another matter that the information that is collected by WhatsApp in terms of metadata, such as frequency of calls, or group names and profile photos, is no more or less than the industry norm. The Faustian bargain that everyone enters into while transacting on the internet and paying through one’s data is not unique to WhatsApp. This is a larger question on whether a supposedly ‘free’ internet, where payment is disguised as harvesting of personal data, is a business model that works for the benefit of the user. WhatsApp is merely following this norm and it cannot be singled out for this. Neither can it be singled out for its intention of sharing information with other Facebook companies. The very purpose of Facebook acquiring WhatsApp for a whopping $19 billion was to ensure greater integration with its suite of products. It can hardly be faulted for seeking user permission for data sharing that will make such integration successful. Despite the mundane nature of the changes, that they have created such a storm can only be explained by the fact that WhatsApp is perceived as performing a public function, even though it is a private corporation. And when such a corporation privileges commercial gain, a combination of dismay and shock is understandable. At its core, WhatsApp provides a service that has become essential to life as we know it. Typically, such services have come to be regulated as public utilities over time. This entails rules that ensure that the corporation works in the interest of its real stakeholders, the people, and not just its shareholders. For a long time, it was thought that the optimal way of ensuring this was by nationalizing it — the State taking over ownership and control of the corporation. But State ownership of WhatsApp is neither necessary nor sufficient to tether the corporation to public benefit. In fact, this would be a remedy that is worse than the disease. However, the undesirability of State control should not detract from the need for State regulation. In fact, in the context of private corporations that perform essential public functions, nationalization must be redefined to mean three fundamental tenets of regulation. First, WhatsApp must be subject to a statutorily prescribed privacy policy. This privacy policy should prevent harvesting of data for any purpose other than the purpose for which the individual is signing up. So when an individual provides his/her personal data to WhatsApp, he/she does it for being able to send and receive messages and phone calls, not for Facebook to provide recommendations on what she should watch. Data processing should be limited to this purpose. Second, WhatsApp should be subject to a principle of non-discrimination — it should not provide premium and non-premium versions based on the users’ ability to pay, failing which they are compelled to allow greater harvesting of data. The service must be equally available to all, without conditions. Third, all data of Indians, whether metadata or otherwise, must remain in India. This will ensure a basis for jurisdiction of Indian law enforcement and courts were things to go wrong. This list isn’t necessarily exhaustive but only the starting point of a wider conversation on nationalizing WhatsApp in the modern era of privatization. The noise around WhatsApp’s privacy policy is not only about what it means for user privacy — most users will be happy to accept the changes, whether willingly or otherwise, as they do with a range of other applications. It is primarily a testament to the centrality of WhatsApp in our lives and a call for a democratically elected State to respond wisely. To not do so would signal the rise of the nations of Silicon Valley supplanting the nation states of today. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Mission India: 25-year-old aims cycle record||On a mission to make a world record to visit every Indian capital, 25-year-old mountaineer Uma Singh had started his journey on November 30 from Lucknow, and is currently in Jharkhand to achieve his goal. Talking to The Telegraph Online in Hazaribagh, Singh said he had so far covered 9,000 kilometers in these 55 days. He has covered several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and the southern states. “From there I entered Chhattisgarh and reached Hazaribagh via Ranchi,” he said. “No one has ever taken up a journey like this before. I want to make a record,” Singh said. The M.Com degree-holder said he starts his journey every morning with a target to cover 150 kilometers per day. Other than making the record, Singh is trying to give out a message of clean and green India, he said. Singh has completed his rock climbing course from Swami Vivekanand Mountaineering Institute in Mount Abu. “I had climbed Pir Panjal range in Himachal Pradesh and now aiming for Mount Everest,” he said. In Hazaribagh, Singh was welcomed by enthusiasts Rohit Raz and Keshav Verma. “I am so happy to meet people from different states and to see the rich culture of the country,” he added. Before leaving for Patna, he said his journey will end in Arunachal Pradesh’s capital Itanagar. “I will end my journey in 75 days,” Singh said, before leaving with his cycle on the Ranchi-Patna Highway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covid test for 200 R-Day participants in steel city||The participants of this year's Republic Day celebration underwent Covid-19 test (rapid antigen test) conducted by district health department at Gopal Maidan in Bistupur on Wednesday. Health department officials who were present at the venue said around 200 participants underwent rapid antigen test on Wednesday. “The rest of them would undergo the test tomorrow,” said the official. Those who underwent the Covid-19 test participated in rehearsals of the parade on the first day. Wednesday was the first day of rehearsals for the Republic Day function slated to be organised at Gopal Maidan on Tuesday, January 26. The participants who underwent rapid antigen test included NCC cadets, Scouts & Guides, Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), home guards and jawans of paramilitary forces. District public relations officer Rohit Kumar said the rehearsals would continue till January 24. Full dress rehearsal will be conducted on January 24. The district administration has made it mandatory for everyone to wear a face mask while entering Gopal Maidan. Moreover, schools and other organisations have been banned to take out procession or tableau as part of the celebrations. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar recently held a meeting taking stock of the Republic Day preparations. During the meeting, he had said that everyone should adhere to the Covid-19 protocols. Instructions were issued that those attending the ceremony will inevitably use masks and ensure compliance with social distancing. The deputy commissioner directed the concerned officers to make sanitisers available at the main gate of the Gopal Maidan and to keep sanitisers at various places in the ground as well. All the contingents participating in the parade were instructed by the senior SP - Tamil Vanan to attend and rehearse for the parade complying with the necessary Covid-19 protocols. Various sub-committees have been formed which will take the stock of preparations for the Republic Day celebration in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||DGP scanner on opium trade, LWE menace, rumour-mongering||Director General of Police (DGP) MV Rao on Wednesday directed police personnel across Jharkhand to tighten the noose around opium cultivators, identify drug peddlers and bust rackets involved in selling illegal narcotics and liquor in the state. Chairing a closed- door meeting with police officers from all the 24 districts via video conferencing, Rao also asked them to intensify anti-Maoist operations across the state. Rao’s focus on busting rackets of drug peddlers and opium traders assumes significance as several investigations in the past have revealed the involvement of Left Wing Extremist (LWE) groups in cultivation and supply of opium in the far flung villages of Jharkhand, officials present in the meeting said. “All opium plantations across the state should be destroyed. People involved in selling illegal narcotics should be identified and put behind the bars,” said Rao. Besides directing his men to intensify operations against drug traffickers and LWE rebels, the DGP asked them to identify and nab criminals who were roaming free despite arrest warrants issued against them, sources who attended the meeting said, claiming that Rao wanted to launch an all round campaign against offenders in cities as well as villages in order to put a check on the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. A press communiqué released by the police headquarters later in the day stated that Rao spoke to the police personnel about the challenges in implementation of weekly off days for policemen deployed in various police stations. The DGP had earlier said that the weekly off for policemen deployed at police stations will be implemented from January 1, 2021. The same provisions could be extended to other police offices later, he added. During the meeting on Wednesday, Rao asked cops to maintain a strict vigil on social media activities and nab people involved in spreading rumours on various social media platforms. Even people unknowingly spreading misinformation on social media should be dealt with sternly, he told the cops. While incidents of crime against women have hogged the attention of the Opposition in Jharkhand lately, no concrete directives related to prevention of crime against women were given during the meeting, sources said. In the past one month, several incidents of LWE rebels killing innocent villagers have been reported in Jharkhand. Security forces had last month neutralized two dreaded Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI) rebels, and the combing operations were ongoing, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nights to get colder as temperatures set to plummet||Nights are going to get colder in the next three days with the weather office warning of plummeting night readings with most parts of the state recording sub-10 temperatures. On Wednesday, IMD's Ranchi Meteoroligical Centre said it expected minimum readings to fall by 3-5 degree Celsius during the next 72 hours. The weather office predicted fog and mist in most parts of the state. "The sub-10 chill will come back in most districts of Jharkhand due to restoration of north-westerly winds. For the last two days, easterly winds were prevailing over Jharkhand resulting in a rise in minimum readings in most parts of the state," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Met Centre, adding that dry weather and mainly clear sky will result in a drop in night readings. Due to dominating easterly winds the minimum reading in Ranchi was 14.6 degree Celsius, five notches above normal, on Wednesday. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 15 degree Celsius, four notches above normal. Palamau headquarters Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 14 degree Celsius, five points above normal. Bokaro, which had recorded the season's lowest of 6 degree Celsius a couple of days ago, notched 13.1 degrees _ two notches above normal _ on Wednesday. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Pakur, Dumka and several other districts recorded over 13 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Met data revealed that minimum readings in Giridih, Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Deoghar, Koderma, Simdega, Jamtara also witnessed an abrupt rise during the past 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||BJP FIR against ‘Tandav’ makers in Ranchi||Jharkhand BJP’s youth wing lodged an FIR at Ranchi's Argora police station against the makers of Tandav, a newly released web-series on Amazon Prime, accusing them of hurting Hindu sentiments, Wednesday’s move following similar complaints by right wing activists in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. BJP youth wing president Surya Prabhat, in his formal complaint to police, named director Ali Abbas Zafar, the producer, the writer and cast members, including Saif Ali Khan and Md Zeeshan Ayub, seeking action against them under various sections of IPC. Prabhat said they would stage protests across the state to demand a ban on the web-series if action wasn’t taken against its makers. “There is a scene where Hindu gods are depicted in an inappropriate manner and dialogues attributed to them hurt everybody’s sentiments. If that is called creativity and artistic liberty then it has to be stopped,” Prabhat said. “It is high time we draw a line to define ‘artistic liberty’. There is already a widespread anger among Hindus against this episode. We demand a ban on this series till the makers mend their ways as it is aimed at testing one’s religious tolerance,” he added. Tandav, is a political drama in nine parts about the power struggle after the death of a Prime Minister. The scene being cited by many Hindu outfits is the one in the 17th minute of the first episode where the actor is playing Lord Shiva dressed in western attire during a play. The narrator tells Shiva that his popularity on social media is on wane vis-à-vis that of Lord Ram's. Then, Shiva asks if he needs to change his profile picture. In the same scene, Narad Muni advises him to do something sensational to get more followers. Even though Tandav director has apologised and agreed to change a few scenes, the controversy refuses to end. Many BJP leaders are still demanding action against the makers of the web-series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Agriculture University scientist cultivates oranges worth Rs 5 lakh in district||Palamau district has now joined the orange cultivator group of India as this season, it sold Rs 5 lakh worth of the citrus fruit, at Rs 30 per kilogram. The credit for this goes to horticulture scientist of Chianki-based zonal research station of the Birsa Agricultural University -- Abdul Majid Ansari and his team, in Palamau. Ansari said that the oranges grown in the research centre alone were sold at the amount, that too not commercially, adding that efforts are on to increase the yield further on the 10-acre land where these oranges were cultivated. Palamau’s soil and climate are favourable for orange cultivation but farmers show apprehensions in cultivating them as it takes almost five years for an orange tree to yield full-sized fruits, Ansari explained. He said that they have to be made aware of the market value of oranges. However, orange cultivation is prominent in Paton, Satbarwa, and Chainpur blocks of Palamau, the scientist added. Chianki zonal research centre was famous for orange cultivation till the early nineties but began to dwindle by 2004-2005. The rejuvenation drive of the cultivation in this centre was back in 2007, sources said. As many as 160 orange trees can be grown on one acre of land, with a five metre distance between each. A healthy tree can yield up to 30 to 100 kgs of the fruit, Ansari said. As Palamau has upland it can be used for the orange cultivation here, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri residents form panel to coordinate road digging||A committee was formed on Wednesday to ensure a coordinated approach to work on a new water supply scheme for Dhanbad, laying of pipes for which is damaging roads and leading to periodic disruptions in supply in Sindri. The committee, constituted as per instructions of Sindri DSP Ajit Kumar, includes representatives of Fertilizer Corporation of India, L&T Infra and FCI VSS Employees Association. Tlaks were held on Wednesday with the acting MD of Fertilizer Corporation of India U.C. Garg, L&T Infra site engineer Amit Singh and a delegation of senior citizens led by Sewa Singh, who is president of All India  FCI VSS Employees Association. Notably, the FCI township has an old pipeline laid more than 50 years ago through which water is supplied to around 4,000 quarters while L&T Infra is laying a new pipeline for a water supply scheme for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. Sewa Singh said, “Due to unplanned digging carried out by L&T in Sindri for laying pipelines for the new water supply scheme, the existing pipeline laid by FCI more than 50 years ago is being damaged. Hence, water supply gets disrupted. “The digging work being carried out by earth movers also damages roads, and the soil excavated from underneath is also not properly leveled causing traffic disruptions. Singh said water supply in Sindri was disrupted on Tuesday too. “We raised the issue with the Sindri DSP and complained about the frequent disruption of water supply in Sindri after which a meeting of all stakeholders was called by the DSP at his office.” FCI general manager U.C. Garg also objected to the “reckless” digging being carried out by L&T without the use of proper maps of the existing network of pipes. Later, the DSP constituted the committee comprising of representatives of FCI, L&T, FCI VSS Employee’s Association. It was agreed that digging work would be carried out under the supervision of the FCI engineer in order to avoid any damage to the existing pipelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 101 fresh Covid cases, three casualties in a day||At least three more Covid-19 patients died in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the number of Covid casualties reported in the past 48 hours to seven in the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi, Ramgarh and Dhanbad reported one Covid casualty each on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 1057 and that in Ranchi to 226, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, causing a drop in the number of active cases of infection. As many as 141 recoveries against 101 fresh cases brought the number of active cases in the state down to 1147 in the past 24 hours, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi once again reported more than half of the Covid cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on Tuesday, but recoveries outnumbered fresh cases here as well. As many as 53 people were found infected in Ranchi, while 85 Covid patients recovered here, bringing the number of active cases in the district down to 575. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 15 cases against three recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported only five cases against 19 recoveries. As many as nine people were found infected in Bokaro and five patients recovered there. As per figures with the NHM, at least nine of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. Only Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 13,886 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 50.96 lakh people and tested 50.72 lakh of them. As per the NHM, as many as 1,17,887 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.08 per cent against the national average of 0.12 per cent. At current pace, it would take more than 881 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 588.91 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
20-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police officer turns maths teacher  ||A young police officer in Jharkhand has been keeping aside time from his hectic duty to teach mathematics to students of a girls’ school in Dhanbad district. Pankaj Verma, 27, who is the officer-in-charge of Jogta police station in Baghmara under Sijua colliery region of Dhanbad, teaches mathematics to around 40 Class X students at the government-run Modidih Girls High School for two hours in the morning. The area is known for crime and mafia related activities, which were depicted in the film Gangs of Wasseypur. “I requested the principal (Satish Singh) if I can teach the students mathematics after the in-person classes resumed in the middle of December. The principal readily agreed. Since then I have been teaching the students every single days (except on holidays). I do not go by the syllabus but make the students grasp the basics of mathematics and do not leave till I have completed my job. The students seem excited and come up with queries not only in the school but at times at the police station too. I am more than happy to solve their queries,” said Verma, a 2018 batch Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission officer. The youngest in a farmer family of three brothers and one sister in Koderma district, Verma had to struggle with poverty to complete post-graduation in mathematics from Vinobha Bhave University, Hazaribagh. The teaching style of the police officer is also proving to be a learning experience for the school staff. “We are impressed with the teaching style of the police officer as it is not bookish and more concept-oriented. It makes even difficult topics look easier to understand for the students. In fact, we have come to know that before joining the police he used to run a coaching institute of his own with focus on physics, chemistry and mathematics. In a short span of a few weeks, the girls have become so fond of his teaching style that some do not even hesitate to go to the police station to sort out their queries. It is a welcome change in the perception of girls and women towards police. It will prove to be a milestone in changing police–public relations in Dhanbad,” said principal Satish Singh. The school has two full-time mathematics teachers. Priya Kumari, a Class X student, whose father is a labourer in the Sijua colliery, now dreams of becoming a police officer. “Sir has made us confident that despite odds and struggle one can achieve success in life through hard work. I was very weak in equations and solving complicated calculations. But this has changed after I took lessons from Sir. One day I also want to be a police officer,” said the 15-year-old Priya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-167
