21-01-2021||Calcutta||Drive to end abuse of children||A drive to eradicate child labour and begging by children in Calcutta was launched on Wednesday. The state commission for protection of child rights, Calcutta police, state labour department and several NGOs have come together for the initiative, which will include awareness campaigns and counselling of parents. “Whenever we go down certain streets we see children begging or selling balloons and the campaign is to eradicate that,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBPCR). The drive, she said, will continue for several months. The campaign started in front of Tollygunge police station and the group walked to the Rashbehari Avenue crossing, and from there to Southern Avenue. Members of the group talked to some of the families who live by the roadside. Awareness campaign and sensitisation are the first step of the initiative, which will be followed by counselling of parents, Chatterjee Chakraborti said. “If it still continues, we will produce the children in front of the Child Welfare Committee and try to stop it…. It is a difficult task but we have to make genuine efforts to stop it,” she said. Child labour cannot be eradicated just by implementing an act, said Manisha Bhattacharyya, joint labour commissioner (P), labour department. “All stakeholders, from parents of children to those who employ children as domestic help, will have to be aware of the problem. During the pandemic, when schools are closed, there is a propensity (among children) to go out to work or beg to earn some pocket money,” said Bhattacharyya. Announcements were being made from the procession that making children beg or work to earn money is a punishable offence, children should be sent to school, no child should be deprived of his or her right and one should not encourage begging by giving money. “People need to understand that they should not encourage begging by giving money to children…. Even if one person makes note of what we are trying to say, it will help the cause,” said Mahuya Santra, a consultant at the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. From Thursday, announcements to discourage child labour and begging by children will be made from vehicles in pockets of Gariahat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Trafficked Bangladeshi girl to be sent home||A Bangladeshi girl allegedly trafficked to Calcutta with the bait of a job and rescued from Sonagachhi four years ago is set to return home this month. The girl was 15 when she came to Calcutta in April 2017. Instead of a steady income, the next two months allegedly had captivity and repeated rapes in store. She was rescued from Sonagachhi on May 30, 2017, by police and has since been living at a rehabilitation centre. Five alleged traffickers were arrested. The department of women and child development and social welfare of the state government has recently issued a travel permit to the survivor. She will have to spend three months under observation at a shelter in Bangladesh before she can reunite with her family, said a lawyer who represented her. Upon receiving the news, the girl is said to have told her counsellors that she was happy but wanted to continue the legal fight against the alleged traffickers and spread awareness on trafficking in Bangladesh. Last month, she testified in court, identifying her alleged tormentors. On January 12, a Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court granted an interim compen-sation of Rs 50,000 for the survivor. “This is the first time that a court in Bengal awarded interim compensation to a victim of sex trafficking who is a foreign national,” said an official of the International Justice Mission, an NGO that helped the police in the rescue and has been instrumental in the rehabilitation of the girl. The compensation money will be spent on her immediate rehabilitation, the court said. “She said she would want to use the cash to continue her education,” said Piyali Mukherjee Sarkar, an IJM lawyer who represented the survivor. The girl has told the police and counsellors that her father is an auto driver. “She was good in studies but the family was poor. A family friend offered to take her to Calcutta to work in a garment factory,” said Mukherjee Sarkar. She was first taken to an apartment off the EM Bypass, where she spent a couple of weeks before being shifted to Sonagachhi. “She was also forced to take medicines to appear more physically developed than her age,” said a police officer. Among the five alleged traffickers arrested were the family friend and the owner of the brothel in Sonagachhi where the survivor was kept. The accused have been slapped with IPC sections 370 (trafficking), 366B (import of a girl from another country), 373 (buying a minor for prostitution), 376 (rape) and 467 (forging documents), and also some sections of the Pocso Act and the Foreigners Act. If convicted, they can be jailed for life. “This order not only reflects increased sensitivity and proactiveness of the judicial and government stakeholders towards a sex-trafficking case, but also a progressive application of laws, especially on foreign victim compensation,” said Saptarshi Biswas, the director of legal solutions, IJM, Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Businessman found hanging in Kasba||A 29-year-old man was found hanging at his house in Talbagan in Kasba on Tuesday evening. Police said Sanu Parbat, who ran a travel business, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. No suicide note was found, officers said. In Garfa, a 22-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his home on Tuesday evening. Debasish Das was declared dead at a hospital in Dhakuria. Police said a preliminary inquiry suggested that a recent break-up in a relationship led to the suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Body off Bypass: 2 held for murder||Two men have been arrested in connection with the murder of the man whose body was found lying on a service road of EM Bypass near the Salt Lake stadium Metro station on Monday morning. The victim was later identified as Sanjit Das, a resident of Duttabad. The post-mortem report was inconclusive, leaving police confused over whether the man was a victim of a road accident or was murdered. Once his identity was established, the police launched a search for the person with whom Das was last seen before his death. Sources said it appeared that the majority of the injuries on the victim’s body were caused by a road accident. However, a deep wound behind one of his ears had left the police and the autopsy surgeon wondering whether it was homicidal in nature. Officers said they soon learnt that he had a fight with two of his neighbours on a trivial issue on Sunday night near his home. “That was the last time anyone saw him alive. He did not return home. The next morning, his body was found a few hundred metres from his neighbourhood,” an officer said. The victim’s brother, Tukai Das, lodged a complaint with Phoolbagan police station on Tuesday, alleging that his brother had been killed by unknown men around 4.30am on Monday. After questioning neighbours and witnesses, the sleuths zeroed in on Rabi Dutta, 45, and Mantu Das, 42. Dutta is a resident of Shib Krishna Das Lane in Phoolbagan, while Das is from Duttabad. Both have been arrested for murder and remanded in police custody. “According to the preliminary findings, the victim was engaged in odd jobs and apparently did not have any enemies. Till now we have not found any criminal history of the accused men. We are not ruling out the possibility of the accused harbouring a grudge against the victim,” said a senior officer of the eastern suburban division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Model code must respect noise norms: Activist to poll panel||Environment activist Subhas Datta has written to the chief election commissioner of India, Sunil Arora, urging him to include judicial orders on noise pollution in the code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly polls. Copies of the letter have been sent to the state election commissioner, under whose supervision a number of civic polls are likely to be held over the next few months, and the member secretary of the state pollution control board. “By virtue of the order of the National Green Tribunal, Eastern Zone Bench …dated 3rd October, 2017 it is mandatory in the state of West Bengal to fix sound limiters in the microphones/ loudspeakers played in the public space,” Dutta wrote in the letter, which was sent to Arora on Tuesday. Datta pointed out that “there is total embargo put by the Supreme Court of India on loud public address systems like DJ” and demanded that the same be banned during the elections. The activist in the letter referred to the mandate of the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000, which states that “prior permission is required from the appropriate authority before deploying any public address system”. “These norms are routinely flouted in the city and elsewhere in the state,” said an activist associated with the green platform, Sabuj Mancha. Recently, at a programme to observe Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary in Ballygunge Place, the organisers had violated the mandatory sound limiter norm and also not bothered to seek permission from police. “The organisers had only told us about the programme,” an officer from the local police station had said. Representatives of various political parties shifted the onus of non-compliance to non-availability of sound limiters. “If sound limiters are not available, what can we do?” said a Trinamul leader from north Calcutta. An environment department official said the government agency WEBEL had enough sound limiters in stock. Environment activist Naba Dutta said loud speakers and DJs were a menace in some parts of the state during Diwali. “The problem is political parties and a large number of government officials do not consider violation of noise norms as an offence and tend to ignore the violations. Had they been serious about it, people would have suffered less ordeal,” said Biswajit Mukherjee, a former chief law officer of the state pollution control board. Subhas Datta also urged the election commission to put an embargo on the use of plastic, polythene and thermocol during the election campaign and requested it to keep tabs on bike processions, which he said are a potential source of “social, political and environmental disorders”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Practical worry for higher secondary students||The higher secondary practicals will be held from March 10 to March 31, but the absence of any clarity on when practical classes could resume has left many students anxious. Teachers are worried, too. Basic hands-on training is essential to successfully write a Class XII- level practical examination. Twenty-six days after the council had announced the dates, the education department has yet to clarify when campus activities could resume. “We are yet to decide whether it would be proper to reopen schools for practical classes since the pandemic is still on. We need more time as we have to think about the health of students and teachers,” said an official of the education department. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid. Metro asked the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Examination, Mahua Das, whether the schools could reopen for practical classes. She said: “We have said everything in the notice that the council issued on January 18.” Monday’s notice mentions details of the topics that are included in the practical papers but does not say anything about whether classes would be held, teachers said. “In the absence of clarity, how can we call students to the campus? This could trigger a health hazard. Be it the council or the department, someone has to give a clarification,” said Saugata Basu, the general secretary of the government school teachers’ association. An official of the council said they were awaiting instructions from the school education department about resumption of classes. “We are only an exam-conducting body. In respect to the affairs of the schools, the department takes decisions and we just issue the orders,” said the official. An association of the headmasters described as “utterly impractical” the decision to announce the dates of the practicals without clarifying whether the classes could be held. “This is an utterly impractical decision. We wrote to education minister Partha Chatterjee on January 18, telling him that the schools are confused since there is no clarity. This has left the students anxious,” said Sridam Chandra Jana, the secretary of the West Bengal Headmasters’ Association. Repeated calls to Chatterjee went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. Calls and messages to school education secretary Manish Jain did not elicit any response. Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur, said students and guardians had repeatedly requested him to resume practical classes. He said he was keen to reopen the school provided the higher secondary council and the office of the district inspector (DI) of schools gave the go-ahead. “I will soon write to the council and the DI, seek-ing permission to reopen the school. Students in small batches can attend practical classes, Our campus is huge, so following the physical distancing protocol will not be a problem,” Akhtar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Man found dead inside public toilet with throat slit||A 33-year-old man was found dead inside a pay-and-use public toilet with his throat slit in the Hastings area on Tuesday night. Police said a purported suicide note found on the man mentioned joblessness as the reason for ending his life. The body has been sent for post-mortem to verify whether the deep gash on his throat, which apparently caused his death, was self-inflicted. Family members of Dashrath Mullick, residents of Achambit Shah Road in the Hastings area, started searching for him after he failed to return home on Tuesday evening and found him in the public toilet near their home, with his throat slit. He was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. Mullick, who had been engaged in multiple odd jobs, became jobless during the lockdown, police have learned. He was one of the thousands in the city whose lives changed forever following the outbreak of Covid-19 and imposition of the lockdown to curb the spread of the disease. Over the past few months a number of people chose to end their lives after failing to cope with changes brought about by the pandemic. The scare of the transmission of the coronavirus and the changed working profile of the majority of the citizens have had a profound impact on the lives of people dependent on odd jobs. With the closure of public places, thousands of people who were engaged as cleaning staff or security guards found themselves unemployed. People who earned a livelihood working as domestic help, carpenters and masons had to switch professions almost overnight to survive the crisis. Many women from districts who worked as domestic help in the city were left unemployed after the suburban train service was suspended in March to slow down the spread of Covid. A large number of those women took to selling vegetables. Carpenters and masons, who were trained in specialised work, had to work as labourers to support their family. Police said Mullick’s father was a Group D employee at a government hospital in central Calcutta. After his death, Mullick had apparently tried to get his father’s job but failed, a police officer said. Family members have told the police that Mullick, after having lost all hope of getting his father’s job, started working in a private firm. He lost that job, too, during the lockdown. “A note has been found on him that says he was depressed because of being unemployed,” an officer of Hastings police station said. “A preliminary investigation indicated it was a case of suicide,” another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
21-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal receives second lot of vaccine doses||Bengal received 6.99 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine on Wednesday, which, together with the 6.89 lakh doses that came last week, will be enough to vaccinate the 6 lakh-odd health workers in the state, officials said. A state health department official said now that an adequate number of Covid-19 vaccine doses were available, they were targeting to administer the first dose to all health workers within one-and-a-half months. Doses were administered at 31 sites across the state on Wednesday, though it had been decided initially that Covid vaccination would not be held on Wednesdays, which are reserved for routine immunisations. “In all, 2,439 people were inoculated in Bengal on Wednesday. There was no report of any adverse event,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. Till Tuesday, the doses were being administered at 207 sites across the state. On Wednesday, the health department approved around 200 more sites, taking the total count to 400. The newly approved sites could start vaccinating health workers on Thursday or Friday, health department officials in Calcutta told their colleagues in the districts. Officials in the health department said more sites needed to be set up for speedy immunisation, which has been made possible by the arrival of the second lot of Covishield doses. The heads of the health department in several districts sent the names of proposed sites to the headquarters in the morning and most were approved by the afternoon. All sites have been asked to administer the jabs five or six days a week, depending on the availability of doses. The government had earlier decided to conduct Covid vaccination four days a week. “We received 6.99 lakh doses of Covishield on Wednesday. This entire lot is for Bengal. We had received 6.89 lakh doses last week, before the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination,” said Chakraborty, the director of health services. “We now have an adequate number of vaccine doses to inoculate the health-care workers. If we are able to vaccinate 20,000 health-care workers each day across the state, it would take one month to inoculate 6 lakh health-care workers in our state,” he said. Chakraborty felt that with holidays and weekly off-days in between, inoculation of health workers could be completed within a month and a half. Another health department official said each district had been given the liberty to choose its vaccination days, though all have been asked to provide the shots more than four days a week. “All districts have to increase the number of vaccination days in a week. They will have the liberty to choose the days taking into account local issues,” said the official. The department has also set itself a target of administering the first dose of Covishield to 60 per cent of all health workers by January 29, said an official. January 31 is the year’s first polio vaccination day. The health department has asked its staff to vaccinate as many health-care workers by then as possible. Metro reported on Wednesday that the health department was planning to allow 20 more private hospitals in and around Calcutta to run Covid vaccination sites from early next week. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, too, will open vaccination sites in 11 more ward health clinics from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-167
21-01-2021||Business||Sensex closes just below 50,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 167 points to close at 49,624.76 on Thursday, after hitting the historic 50,000-mark for the first time in intra-day trade. Weighed by selling in index heavyweights Infosys, HDFC twins and TCS, the 30-share BSE index ended 167.36 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 49,624.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 54.35 points or 0.37 per cent to close at 14,590.35. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, SBI, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Sun Pharma and ITC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto, Reliance, Bajaj Finserv and Asian Paints were among the gainers. The rupee gained 6 paise to settle at a near 5-month high of 72.99 against US dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the positive zone, while Hong Kong closed in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent lower at USD 55.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
21-01-2021||Business||L&T Infotech CFO Ashok Sonthalia resigns||Larsen & Toubro Infotech (LTI) on Wednesday said its chief financial officer Ashok Kumar Sonthalia has resigned from the company citing personal reasons. “The board of directors in its meeting held on January 19, 2021, inter-alia considered the resignation of Ashok Kumar Sonthalia, CFO of the company, on account of personal reasons and accepted the same to be effective from the close of business hours of January 25, 2021, it said in a filing to the stock exchanges. Shares of the company on Wednesday ended flat at Rs 4,092.05 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. On Tuesday, Larsen & Toubro Infotech had reported a 37.85 per cent jump in net profit at Rs 519.3 crore for the December quarter compared with the same period a year ago, driven by a surge in revenue and margin expansion. Its revenues rose 12 per cent to Rs 3,152.8 crore for the December quarter, as against Rs 2,811 crore a year ago. Revenues in US dollar terms showed a growth of 5.8 per cent sequentially to $ 427.8 million. “This has been driven by healthy growth momentum across our portfolio. We continue to see strong demand for cloud-based IT solutions. Our tier 1 level partnership with the hyperscalers enables us to work closely on client outcomes and go-to-market opportunities,” Sanjay Jalona, Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, LTI said while commenting on its performance during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
21-01-2021||Business||Jack Ma makes first public appearance since late October||Jack Ma has filmed action scenes with big-time martial artists, sung duets with pop stars and appeared at corporate rallies dressed as a glam rocker and as a masked Michael Jackson impersonator. A wallflower he is not. So speculation ran rampant after the prominent entrepreneur and co-founder of the Alibaba Group vanished from public view late last year. He had criticised Chinese regulators for what he called their overly cautious attitude toward the country’s financial system, and the authorities cracked down on his business empire shortly afterward. After that he began to skip previously scheduled appearances, prompting questions in China and in the global news media about his fate. Ma now appears to be attempting to put the speculation to rest. On Wednesday, he made his first public appearance since late October. He spoke at a livestreamed event honouring educators in China’s village schools. He did not address his troubles but said he would spend more time in philanthropic endeavours. “In this time, my colleagues and I have been learning and thinking,” he said, according to a transcript of his remarks published in the local news media. “We will throw ourselves more resolutely into educational philanthropy.” Ma, a former English teacher, said it was the responsibility of business executives of his generation to work toward common prosperity by revitalising rural areas and developing village education. His speech was consistent with his recent efforts to step away from Alibaba’s day-to-day operations and focus more on philanthropy, though he retains considerable sway over his business empire. His remarks were widely covered in the Chinese state-run news media, suggesting at the very least that Beijing's censorship machine approved of his remarks. His appearance relieved some investors, who drove Alibaba’s Hong Kong-traded shares up about 9 per cent in afternoon trading. Ma, who ran Alibaba from its founding in 1999 to its rising as one of the world’s biggest and most valuable technology companies, has long been cautious around the Chinese government. Like many entrepreneurs in the country, he has forged ties with Beijing officialdom to head off any regulatory troubles. But the rise of Alibaba's sister company, Ant Group, put him increasingly at odds with China's state-dominated financial system. Ant Group, which was once an Alibaba subsidiary and offers services like electronic payments and lending, now plays a huge role in the financial lives of many Chinese people. It had planned an initial public offering for late last year in Shanghai and Hong Kong, in what was widely expected to be the largest fund-raising of its kind. But in October, at a public event, Mr. Ma accused Chinese state-run banks of behaving like "pawnshops" and the country's financial regulators of limiting innovation by obsessing over risk. About a week later, the government halted Ant Group's I.P.O. and later ordered it to shake up its business practices. Then it began an antitrust investigation into Alibaba. Amid the official blowback, Mr. Ma began to bow out of previously scheduled appearances, including as a judge on an African entrepreneur-themed talent show that he had created. That ignited speculation, especially after other entrepreneurs who challenged Chinese officialdom were dealt heavy punishments. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||WhatsApp reiterates messages continue to be completely encrypted||WhatsApp on Wednesday said personal messages of users continue to be completely encrypted and the proposed privacy policy changes are only geared towards making business messaging effective. The reiteration by the social media app came a day after the Modi government asked it to withdraw changes to its privacy policy, which had spooked users. WhatsApp said the proposed change does not expand its ability to share user data with Facebook and that it is open to answering questions on the issue. “Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses so they can serve their customers and grow,” the company said. WhatsApp added that it will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them. "We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions," it added. Our aim is to provide transparency and new options available to engage with businesses so they can serve their customers and grow," a WhatsApp spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that WhatsApp will always protect personal messages with end-to-end encryption, so that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see them. "We are working to address misinformation and remain available to answer any questions," the spokesperson further stated. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has posed 14 questions to WhatsApp about its "invasive" changes to its Terms of Service and Privacy Policy. In a strongly worded letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, the ministry has said the proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy, without giving users an option to opt-out, "raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens". The letter noted that with over 400 million users in India, the changes will have a disproportionate impact on the country's citizens, it said. The new terms caused an outcry among technology experts, privacy advocates and users and triggered a wave of defections to rival services such as Signal and Telegram. WhatsApp had on January 16 delayed the introduction of the new privacy policy to May 15 after user backlash over sharing of user data and information with the parent company, Facebook Inc. "No one will have their account suspended or deleted on February 8. We're also going to do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp. We will then go to people gradually to review the policy at their own pace before new business options are available on May 15," WhatsApp had said in the blog post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||Government to sell residual stake in Tata Communications Ltd||The Union government is selling its residual stake in Tata Communications Ltd (TCL) through a combination of an offer-for-sale and a strategic selloff in the current financial year. The Centre holds a 26.12 per cent stake in Tata Communications, earlier known as Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd (VSNL). News of the proposed sale sent the shares of TCL crashing on the stock exchanges on Wednesday. On the BSE, the scrip ended nearly 7 per cent, or Rs 78.70, lower at Rs 1,051.25. In a notice, the department of investment and public Asset management (Dipam) said a part of the shareholding will be offered through OFS and the balance, including any leftover portion in OFS, will be offered to strategic partner Panatone Finvest Ltd, which is part of the Tata group. It has now sought bids from merchant bankers to manage the proposed sale. The transaction is to be completed by March 20, 2021, Dipam added. Based on Wednesday’s closing price, the government could mop up over Rs 7,826 crore from the sale. VSNL was privatised in 2002 by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government when it divested a 25 per cent shareholding along with the transfer of management control to Panatone Finvest Ltd, the strategic partner. Subsequent to the strategic disinvestment, the name of the company was changed to Tata Communications Ltd. “The GoI (Government of India) intends to disinvest its entire shareholding of 26.12 per cent paid-up equity capital of TCL through the OFS method of shares by promoters through the stock exchanges and thereafter to the strategic partner,” Dipam said. It added that Panatone Finvest would be “obliged to buy the offered shares” at the OFS discovered price. Besides the government’s 26.01 per cent stake, Panatone Finvest holds 34.80 per cent and Tata Sons 14.07 per cent  in TCL. The remaining 25.01 per cent is with the public. The government has mopped up Rs 15,220 crore from disinvestment proceeds so far in the current fiscal while the budgeted disinvestment target is Rs 2.10 lakh crore. Meanwhile, Tata Communications reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 309.41 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 as against Rs 58.85 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Its topline however, was flat at Rs 4222.83 crore as compared to Rs 4228.72 crore in the year ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||Bajaj Finance reports 29 per cent drop in consolidated net profits||Bajaj Finance has reported a 29 per cent drop in consolidated net profits for the December quarter of 2020 on higher loan losses and provisions. Net profits at the non-banking finance company came in at Rs 1,146 crore compared with Rs 1,614 crore a year ago. Provisions and loan losses came in at Rs 1,352 crore against Rs 831 crore a year ago. Bajaj Finance disclosed that during the period, it did a one time write-off of principal outstanding of Rs 1,970 crore and interest outstanding of Rs 365 crore on account of Covid-19 related stress. However, from the next fiscal, the company expects loan losses and provisions to revert to pre-Covid-19 levels of 160-170 basis points of average assets. During the third quarter, its assets under management (AUM) stood at Rs 1,43,550 crore against Rs 1,45,092 crore last year. AUM growth is back across all businesses barring auto finance. Bajaj Finserv, the holding company for various financial services business of the Bajaj group, has reported a 15 per cent rise in its consolidated third-quarter profit at Rs 1,290 crore. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,126 crore in the same period of 2019-20. Total income rose to Rs 15,960.72 crore against Rs 14,561 crore in the year-ago period. Phillips Carbon Black Speciality chemical maker Phillips Carbon Black has declared an interim dividend of 350 per cent, making it the second company of the RP-SG group to announce a hefty pay out. The dividend will work out to Rs 7 per share of face value of Rs 2. While third-quarter revenue remained flat at Rs 769.4 crore compared with Rs 768.85 crore in the same period last year, profit jumped to Rs 125.03 crore, up 81 per cent, from Rs 69.62 crore last fiscal. Tata Steel BSL Tata Steel BSL, formerly Bhushan Steel, reported a more than two-and-half fold jump in the net profit in the third quarter on a sequential basis. It posted a net profit of Rs 913.48 crore compared with Rs 342.02 crore in the second quarter. It had recorded Rs 501.5 crore loss in the same period last fiscal. Moreover, total income went up Rs 5,906.12 crore from Rs 5,053.43 crore in the same period last year and Rs 5,545.35 crore in the trailing quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||Business||Sensex ready to hit the 50000 mark||Investors are preparing to uncork the champagne to celebrate the Sensex hitting the 50000 mark. The BSE index on Wednesday ended just 208 points short of the magical mark at 49792.12 The market bellwether has catapulted more than 1200 points in the past  two trading sessions propelled by abundant liquidity and a stream of strong third quarter numbers along with expectations of growth boosters in the budget which is less than a fortnight away. However, analysts have predicted a possible “correction” that has created great anxiety beneath the joyful veneer. A correction occurs when prices fall 10 per cent from their recent highs. But for now the market is all agog about the Sensex jetting past the 50000-mark egged on by a  growth oriented budget and strong portfolio inflows. Provisional data showed FPIs purchasing nearly Rs 2,300 crore of stocks on Wednesday. “The benchmark index may hit 50000 during the next couple of trading sessions. Whether it will sustain at that level, is anybody’s guess,” an analyst with a brokerage said. On Wednesday, Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman of the Aditya Birla group, wrote in LinkedIn that there was an open question over how much “froth” is there in the markets and that it would need another quarter or so to confirm whether this booming trajectory was here to stay or not. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das had also warned that the disconnect between stocks and the Indian economy could cause a  correction, though this has yet to take place. “The rally in stock markets, which is global, has been triggered by the massive liquidity injection by the central banks leading to historically low-interest rates, a response to the severe recession caused by the pandemic,” V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. “But now valuations are moving to risky levels which are hard to justify. It’s difficult to predict a crash or its timing. But at high valuations, markets are vulnerable to corrections,’’ he said. The benchmark indices on Wednesday soared to lifetime highs mirroring the global markets which rose ahead of US President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration ceremony amid expectations of fresh stimulus by the new administration. Such a stimulus is expected to increase the flow of foreign funds into the emerging markets such as India. Rallying for the third straight day, the 30-share BSE Sensex advanced 393.83 points or 0.80 per cent to close at a new high of 49792.12. During intra-day trades, the Sensex touched a high of 49874.42, falling short of 50000 by only 125.58 points. Similarly, the Nifty jumped 123.55 points or 0.85 per cent to settle at a lifetime high of 14644.70. Birla view Terming volatility as a “froth”, Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said that it along with uncertainty have been an underlying phenomenon for almost two decades now and financial variables have become even more volatile in these unusual times. Stating that after the outbreak though there were prophets of doom predicting irreversible shifts in consumer demand and the evisceration of sectors, but there has been recovery across sectors. He also presented a contrarian view to the notion that work from home will be the “mega trend” saying office is not just a place where people come to work but is a melting pot — of people, ideas, and conversations. In India too, he said that the initial prognosis and narrative of experts proved to be excessively pessimistic but the country has witnessed strong recovery across manufacturing sectors, cement to paints, and automotive to aluminium. Several indicators for India, including GST collections, electricity demand, railway freight movement, and passenger vehicle sales have reverted to positive growth numbers in recent months. Reflecting on the year gone by, he said the coronavirus pandemic has brought devastation and asked people and companies not to "ignore the comorbidities -- whether in life or business", while asking them to build reserves of knowledge, ideas, collaboration and goodwill to emerge stronger from crisis. He also presented a contrarian view to the notion that work from home will be the ''mega trend'' of the decade saying office is not just a place where people come to work but is a melting pot—of people, ideas, and conversations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-164
21-01-2021||India||Farmers reject Centre proposal to suspend agri laws for a year-and-a-half||Farmers protesting against the three agriculture acts on Thursday rejected the government’s proposal to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution to end the deadlock. The decision was announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions leading protests at several Delhi border points. “In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha today, the proposal put forth by the Government yesterday, was rejected,” a statement from the SKM said. “The SKM pays homage to the 143 farmers who have been martyred in this movement so far. These companions are separated from us while fighting this mass movement. Their sacrifice will not go in vain and we will not go back without the repealing of these farm laws,” the statement said. “A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement,” it added. The unions held a marathon meeting on Thursday to discuss the government’s proposal of suspending the farm laws. A farmer leader said that the Morcha started its meeting around 2.30 pm on Thursday and it was expected to last till late evening. During the 10th round of talks on Wednesday, the Centre had proposed to suspend the contentious laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. The farmers had given no immediate reply and said they will hold discussions to confirm their stand. Briefing media after a nearly five-hour-long meeting that included two breaks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday the government has proposed to suspend implementation of the three laws for 1-1.5 years, during which period a joint committee of representatives from the government and farmers’ sides can continue their talks and those protesting on Delhi borders in extremely cold weather return to their homes. He had hoped that this would end the over-a-month-long deadlock with the farmers. However, the unions had indicated their rejection of the offer on the spot. “The government proposed to suspend the farm laws for one-and-a-half years. We rejected the proposal but since it has come from the government, we will meet tomorrow and deliberate over it,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan had said. During the meeting, the government also offered to amend the three laws but farmer leaders stuck to their demand and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP. Earlier in the day, the meeting between protesting unions and police over the January 26 tractor rally remained inconclusive as the farmers stuck to their demand to take it out on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said that police officers wanted farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital, which is not possible. “We will carry out our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible,” said Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Sources said that police officers tried to convince protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Farmers hold series of discussions ahead of Centre talks||Protesting farmers unions, a day ahead of their 11th round of talks with the Centre on Thursday, held a marathon meeting to discuss the government’s proposal of suspending the farm laws. During the 10th round of talks, the Centre had proposed to suspend the contentious laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions leading protests at several Delhi border points, held discussion over the government’s latest offer at the Singhu border. A farmer leader said that the Morcha started its meeting around 2.30 pm on Thursday and it is expected to last till late evening. During the 10th round of negotiations on Wednesday, the government proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for one to one and a half years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. The two sides decided to meet again on Friday. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the new agri laws started its consultation process on Thursday and interacted with 10 farmer organisations from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. The apex court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly two months now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Earlier in the day, the meeting between protesting unions and police over the January 26 tractor rally remained inconclusive as the farmers stuck to their demand to take it out on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said that police officers wanted farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital, which is not possible. “We will carry out our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible,” said Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Sources said that police officers tried to convince protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Five dead in fire at Serum Institute in Pune, nine evacuated||Five persons died after a fire broke out at a building at the Serum Institute of India’s Manjari premises in Pune on Thursday, while nine others were evacuated from the facility, police said. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said it appears the five persons who died in the fire were working on the building floor. Fire officials recovered the bodies during an inspection, he said. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine used in the nationwide inoculation drive against the pandemic is made. The building where the fire broke out is part of the under-construction site of the Serum facility and is one kilometre from the Covishield manufacturing unit, sources said. However, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said that Covishield vaccine production will not be affected due to the fire. “I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia,” Poonawalla tweeted. “We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed,” Poonawalla added. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the state government has ordered a probe into the blaze. The fire, which broke out at 2.45 pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building in the Serum Institute premises, was brought under control in two hours, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Namrata Patil told PTI that nine people were evacuated from the spot after the fire broke out. Viral visuals from the site showed smoke billowing out from the Serum Institute facility. Chief Fire Officer Prashant Ranpise said cooling work has commenced at the spot. Fifteen water tankers were pressed into action and the fire was brought under control around 4.30 pm, he said. “The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Furniture, wiring, cabins were gutted. No major machinery or instruments were stored on the floors where the fire broke out,” he said. “I have taken information from the Pune Municipal Corporation about the incident and instructed local officials to carry out a detailed probe into the fire,” Ajit Pawar said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told reporters that as per initial information, an electrical fault caused the fire. “As per initial information, the fire did not erupt at the unit where the Covid-19 vaccine is being produced, but in the unit where the BCG vaccine is produced,” Thackeray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||SC panel on farm laws interacts with 10 organisations from eight states||The Supreme Court-appointed panel on the new agri laws on Thursday started its consultation process and interacted with 10 farmer organisations from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. The apex court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly two months now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Currently, there are three members in the panel as the fourth, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, has recused himself from the committee. The panel, in a statement, said that the interaction was held through video conference with various farmer unions and associations on Thursday. Members had met for the first time on Tuesday at the Pusa campus in New Delhi. Ghanwat revealed that the first round of consultations with farmers and other stakeholders has been scheduled for Thursday. Ten farmer organisations from Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh participated in discussions with committee members, it said. “The farmers’ unions participated in the discussion and gave their frank opinion including suggestions to improve the implementation of Acts,” the statement said. On Wednesday, the protesting unions had told the Supreme Court that they would not participate in meetings and deliberations to be held by the court-appointed committee to address their grievances and maintained they wanted the new farm laws repealed. The top court told the lawyers appearing for farmers unions that all it wanted is a resolution of the impasse and peace, while the clarifying committee has not been given adjudicatory powers and it will only submit its report to it. The participating farmer bodies were asked to give their views on the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. President of Maharashtra-based Shetkari Sanghatana Anil Ghanwat and agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the three members of the panel. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” Ghanwad had said on Tuesday. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||China on Arunachal: constructing within territory ‘normal’||The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Thursday said China’s development and construction activities “within its own territory” is “normal” and beyond reproach in reaction to reports on building a new village in Arunachal Pradesh. “China's position on the Zangnan region (South Tibet) is consistent and clear. We never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing while responding to a question. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India’s consistent stand has been that the northeastern state is an integral and inalienable part of the country. “This is beyond reproach as it is in our territory,” Hua added. In a report, NDTV showed two images of the area in Arunachal Pradesh where it said a new village has been set up by China and it consisted of about 101 homes. According to the channel, the first image dated August 26, 2019 did not show any human habitation but the second one of November 2020 shows a row of structures. In a cautious reaction to the report, India on Monday said it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country’s security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi said India has stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens. “Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity,” it said. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). The report about China setting up a new village in Arunachal Pradesh comes amid a military standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off in eastern Ladakh, but no significant headway has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Serum Institute of India's Pune facility||Nine persons were evacuated from a building in the Serum Institute of India's Manjari premises here after a fire broke out there on Thursday, police said. There would be no loss of Covishield production due to the fire, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine used in the nationwide inoculation drive against the pandemic is made. The building where the fire broke out is part of the under-construction site of the Serum facility and is one km from the Covishield manufacturing unit, sources said. "Thank you, everyone, for your concern and prayers. So far the most important thing is that there have been no lives lost or major injuries due to the fire, despite a few floors being destroyed," Poonawalla tweeted. "I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much @PuneCityPolice & Fire Department," he added. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the state government has ordered a probe into the fire. The fire, which broke out at 2.45 pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building in the Serum Institute premises, was brought under control in two hours, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Namrata Patil told PTI that nine people were evacuated from the spot after the fire broke out. Viral visuals from the site showed smoke billowing out from the Serum Institute facility. A fire brigade official said the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team was rushed to the spot, an official said. Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said all the people trapped inside the building where the fire broke out have been evacuated. Chief Fire Officer Prashant Ranpise said cooling work has commenced at the spot. Nobody was injured in the fire, he added. Fifteen water tankers were pressed into action and the fire was brought under control around 4.30 pm, he said. "The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Furniture, wiring, cabins were gutted. No major machinery or instruments were stored on the floors where the fire broke out," he said. "I have taken information from the Pune Municipal Corporation about the incident and an instruction has been given to carry out a detailed probe into the incident," Ajit Pawar said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the state machinery to ensure that the fire is brought under control, his office tweeted. He is in touch with the Pune Municipal Commissioner, the CMO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Gambhir donates Rs 1 crore for Ram temple construction||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir has donated Rs one crore for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The cricketer-turned-politician said the donation was made by him and his family for a "glorious" temple in Ayodhya that is the dream of all Indians. "A glorious Ram temple has been the dream of all Indians. Finally, this long standing issue has been put to rest. This will pave the way for unity and tranquillity. A small contribution from me and my family has been made in this endeavour," the east Delhi MP said in a statement. The Delhi BJP has launched a campaign for collection of donations through coupons across the city, said party leaders. "Coupons of Rs 10, 100 and 1000 will be used for collection of donations from as many households as possible," said Kuljeet Chahal, Delhi BJP general secretary and convener of the campaign. Contributions over Rs 1000 will be made through cheques. There are many persons who have their sentiments deeply associated with the Ram temple and who are willing to contribute large sums of one crore or more, he said. Various saffron outfits including the RSS, VHP and others will also participate in the campaign for collecting contributions from people. A door-to-door campaign will be started for collection of donations through coupons from February 1, Chahal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Vaccination drive going well, says Amit Shah||The Indian economy is undergoing a "V-shaped recovery" and the world is watching the same in surprise, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday. Shah, one of the senior-most members of the cabinet, also said the COVID-19 vaccination drive is progressing well and once everyone is vaccinated, "we will attain victory over the pandemic". He made the comment while joining through video- conference the inauguration of a four-lane over-bridge in Shilaj here by Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. "Economies of all countries in the world were affected due to the coronavirus. But, the world is surprised and watching the V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy," Shah said. The GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent in the June 2020 quarter due to the lockdown, and the contraction narrowed down to 7.5 per cent in the September quarter as compared to the same in the year-ago period, as the unlock process began. The demand situation has shown further improvement in the December quarter which witnessed the festivities, with several high-frequency indicators illustrating the same. The Union government now expects the GDP to close FY21 with a contraction of 7.7 per cent. Shah also said that infrastructure development carried out under the Narendra Modi regime in the last six years exceeds that done by governments in the 20 years preceding the NDA government. "The work done in the infrastructure sector in last six years is equivalent to that done in 20 years of previous governments," he said. He listed various infrastructure works like Metro lines, bullet train and other projects taken up by the Centre. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is working hard to develop infrastructure in the country, be it rural or urban areas. The Modi government has provided electricity to all villages of the country, road connectivity, and has provided one bank account to every family. "Ten crore families, or 30 crore people, in India, were not having their own houses, and the way construction of houses for low-income groups is going on, we are confident that every family will get a home by 2022," Shah said. "Another big project that we have taken up is providing piped water to every household by 2022," he said. Shah said the government has also taken up the work of removal of one lakh railway crossings on national and state highways by building over-bridges or under-bridges on them. The work on around 5,000 such crossings has been completed and it is currently on in 8,000 other places, he said. "The Shilaj bridge (inaugurated here on Thursday) is one such among the one lakh bridges (being built) on the railway crossings," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Rs 5 lakh for families of farmers who died during farm protests ||A compensation of Rs 5 lakh each has been given to the families of four farmers from Ludhiana who lost their lives while participating in the ongoing protest against the Centre's agricultural reforms, a senior officer said on Thursday. Braving cold weather conditions and rain, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three farm laws. Several farmers participating in the agitation have died due to different reasons including heart attack and road accidents. On the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Rs 5 lakh compensation is being provided to the families of farmers who unfortunately lost their lives during the protest against the Centre's farm laws, said Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. Till date, he said, five farmers from Ludhiana district have lost their lives while participating in the agitation. While Rs 5 lakh compensation has already been provided to families of four farmers from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, the case of the fifth farmer is under process, he added. Farmer groups have alleged the three farm laws will end the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. The farmers have refused to end their agitation till these laws are repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Meeting between farmers and Delhi police on tractor rally remains inconclusive||The second round of meeting between the police and farmer unions regarding the proposed January 26 tractor rally by them remained inconclusive on Thursday as the farmers stuck to their demand of taking out the rally on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said the police wanted the farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital. "We will do our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible," Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new farm laws, said. Sources said police officers tried to convince the protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road, but in vain. A farmer leader, who attended the meeting with the police, said, "The government wants us to take out our rally outside Delhi, but we want to hold it inside Delhi. No decision was taken in today's meeting." Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav coordinated the meeting held at Mantram Resort near the Singhu border. The meeting was also attended by Special Commissioner (Law and Order-Western Zone) Sanjay Singh, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) Dependra Pathak and other senior officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police. A similar meeting was held on Wednesday between the union leaders and officers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on January 26. However, the farmer unions had rejected a suggestion by the police officers to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the Centre's new agriculture laws for nearly two months. The unions representing the farmers have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. The farmers are vehemently opposing the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Farmers meeting with Delhi police on tractor rally underway||A meeting is underway between the Delhi Police and farmer unions regarding the proposed tractor rally by them on Republic Day, officials said. Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav is coordinating the meeting which is being held at Mantram Resort near the Singhu border, they said. A similar meeting was held on Wednesday between the union leaders and officers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on January 26. However, the farmer unions had rejected a suggestion by the police officers to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the Centre's new agriculture laws for nearly two months. The unions representing the farmers have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. The farmers are vehemently opposing the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||India's Covid tally breaches 1.06 crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload crossed 1.06 crore with 15,223 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,02,65,706, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total cases have increased to 1,06,10,883. The death toll mounted to 1,52,869 with 151 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,65,706 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.75 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,92,308 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.81 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,93,47,782 samples have been tested up to January 20 with 7,80,835 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 151 new fatalities include 59 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala, 10 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. A total of 152869 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,582 from Maharashtra followed by 12,290 from Tamil Nadu, 12,185 from Karnataka, 10,774 from Delhi, 10,080 from West Bengal, 8,591 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature likely to increase over next two days||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday and is likely to increase slightly over the next two days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. "A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to increase slightly," an IMD official said. The Western Disturbance will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of the Western Himalayas. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, he said. The official said the city's air quality is predicted to improve slightly as the wind speed picks up. The air quality index stood at 304 at 9 am. The city's 24-hour AQI was 283 on Wednesday, 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi has already registered six severe air quality days this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Sensex jumps over 300 points to breach 50,000-mark for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points to hit the 50,000-mark for the first time ever in early trade on Thursday on strong gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and ICICI Bank amid positive global cues. After touching a lifetime high of 50,126.73, the 30-share BSE index was trading 300.09 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 50,092.21 in opening deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 85.40 points or 0.58 per cent to trade at 14,730.10. It too scaled its highest level of 14,738.30 in early trade. Bajaj Fiserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, TCS and HDFC twins were the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex had advanced by 393.83 or 0.80 per cent to close at its fresh record of 49,792.12, and the Nifty had jumped 123.55 points or 0.85 per cent to settle at a lifetime high of 14,644.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,289.05 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good at the moment given positive global cues. We believe underlying strength of the market remains intact given continued recovery in key economic data and expectations of sustained recovery in corporate earnings. Further, ongoing vaccination drive and likely opening-up of the economy at full scale augur well for the economy and equities. Additionally, favourable monetary policies of global central bankers, weak dollar and large fiscal stimulus in the US are expected to ensure sustain FPIs flow in domestic equities, he said. US equities finished at record highs on Wednesday after Joe Biden was sworn in as the President of the United States and he vowed to take all necessary measures to bring back the US economy on track. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.30 per cent higher at USD 55.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Partho-Arnab chats: Will judiciary ignore reference to 'buy' a judge, asks Khurshid||Will the judiciary turn a blind eye or set an example to restore the faith in judiciary, former law minister Salman Khurshid asked on Wednesday around the same time the Chief Justice of India lamented the tendency to cast aspersions on the judiciary. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde was decrying the culture that branded the members of a panel the Supreme Court had appointed to talk to the protesting farmers. Khurshid was referring to an intriguing entry in the purported chats between Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami and a rating agency boss. The former law minister and several of his Congress colleagues asked whether the judiciary would ignore the reference to “buy” a judge or act against those denting people’s faith in the justice delivery system. From a series of messages on May 24, 2017, one attributed to Partho Dasgupta, then chief executive of the rating agency BARC, talks about being unable to afford to lose an unnamed case. It then says that a well-known lawyer would go “all out to nail” Goswami, adding “wonder if he is doing some setting tonight… with the judge”. The purported reply from Goswami says the lawyer cannot do so because another lawyer “is aggressive”. Dasgupta replies: “But him na… that’s why I appointed him (the second lawyer).” The next two messages attributed to Dasgupta read: “Buy… the judge.” The messages do not show Goswami, known for exploding in outrage in his studio at the faintest hint of moral turpitude, chiding Dasgupta or even demurring with him. Goswami merely says: “Just one point needs to be made in the note.” The casual manner in which the conversation unfolds makes it appear as though the most routine matter was being discussed. So far, in spite of multiple responses from Goswami, he has not denied the content of the chats. It is not clear which case Dasgupta and Goswami were discussing. Around the time the conversation took place, Goswami’s channel and another media house were locked in a case. The suggestion in the chat to “buy the judge” was raised at a news conference on Wednesday by former ministers from the Manmohan Singh government who had been part of the cabinet committee on security -- A.K. Antony, Sushil Kumar Shinde and Salman Khurshid -- alongside Rajya Sabha leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. “The comments (on the judiciary) are painful and raise some questions,” Khurshid, a former law minister, said. He clarified: “We are not saying any judge may have been influenced. But anybody having the audacity to even talk about buying a judge is completely unacceptable.” Khurshid asked several pertinent questions. “Have there been attempts to pressure or influence the judiciary? Have they succeeded in extracting a wrong judgment using those illegal tactics? There is a mention about a meeting with the law minister. I have been a law minister and I know what the responsibility of a law minister is. If the law minister is brought into the loop on something of this nature, it will be extremely unfortunate.” The former minister added: “I have no qualms in saying this that the BJP has let loose people whose job, mandate is to influence judges. Question is, what would the judges do? They react, rightly so, to irresponsible reportage with processes of contempt. Will the judiciary turn a blind eye or set an example to restore the faith in judiciary? “We stand with the judiciary to ensure it remains above the dirty politics that has been unleashed by these people.... What will be left of democracy if judges are on sale?” The Congress leaders asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean on the issues of national security as well as corruption and lobbying at the highest levels of the government that the WhatsApp messages have raised. One of the purported messages from Goswami to Dasgupta, dated February 23, 2019, appears to reveal advance knowledge of the sweep of the February 26 Balakot airstrike while implying that one of the government’s objectives behind the operation was to gain popularity before the general election. On the messages relating to the Balakot airstrike, former defence minister Antony said: “No military officer will leak such sensitive information. We have to find out who in the government indulged in this treason. The government must order a proper enquiry and punish the guilty. This should not be about party politics, this is an anti-national act.” Former home minister Shinde referred to a purported message from Goswami to Dasgupta, sent just hours after the February 14, 2019, Pulwama attack that killed 40 CRPF jawans, that gloats about the “only channel with a ground presence” and says: “This attack we have won like crazy.” Shinde said that celebrating the martyrdom of 40 CRPF jawans was a blot on journalism. In a joint statement, these leaders said: “The leaked chats show Arnab Goswami gleefully informing Partho Dasgupta about the deadly terror attack in Pulwama. On February 23, three days before the Balakot strikes, this lackey journalist was not only in unauthorised possession of top secrets of defence operations, he also further disseminated these secrets to another individual on a social media platform.” It added: “In a shameful exchange, it is mentioned ‘It is good for big man in this season’. ‘He will sweep polls then’. Can the martyrdom of 40 Indian soldiers be a matter of victory for any Indian? “Was Arnab controlling the government or was the government controlling him? Both these situations are dangerous for our democracy. Never before has India’s national security been so completely compromised. Never before has the office of the Prime Minister, office of the home minister, office of the law minister, office of the information and broadcasting minister been so brazenly compromised. Never before did our judiciary come under such an attack. Do the Prime Minister, home minister, in fact the entire government, have any moral, political, constitutional right to continue in office after such damning revelations?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Centre offers to suspend farm laws; unions to talk||The Centre on Wednesday offered to submit an undertaking in the Supreme Court to suspend the implementation of the three new farm laws for one to one-and-a-half years in a move that would be just short of the repeal that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has been demanding. Conscious that the government was blinking only because it wants to somehow stop the tractor rally that the farmers are preparing for as part of their kisan parade on Republic Day, the 40 unions spearheading the talks on behalf of the SKM remained non-committal. They said they did not have the authority to take a decision without consulting all the 400-plus unions in the SKM. “It is a slightly positive development,” Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said, adding that the SKM will meet on Thursday and take a call. The Punjab unions will meet in the morning, following which the larger SKM will meet. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which gave the Dilli Chalo call that brought farmers to Delhi’s borders on November 26, is meeting on Wednesday night itself. Speaking to reporters after the 10th meeting with the farmers, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said: “During the discussions, we said the government was ready to put on hold the farm laws for one or one and a half years. I am happy that the farmer unions have taken this very seriously and said that they would consider it tomorrow (Thursday) and convey their decision on Friday.” It will be a “victory for Indian democracy” the day the farmers’ agitation ends, the minister added. The farmers did concede that it was a positive move on the part of the government which has till now only been offering amendments, repeating the offer to make more and bigger changes in the law at Wednesday’s meeting also. With the Supreme Court refusing to step in to stop the kisan parade, the government appears to have agreed to climb down further but farmer unions are wary about the sincerity of the offer, even if it is in writing before the court. “They clearly want to defuse the situation that is building up before January 26, so they made this offer. And, they wanted us to decide in a hurry, even offering us a separate room in Vigyan Bhavan to discuss among ourselves and take a decision today itself, and then call off the kisan parade. We told them that this is not how we function, and that the movement works on the basis of collective decision-making. So, it was agreed that we will return on Friday with our response,” said one union leader. Refusing to comment on whether anyone in the 40 present at the meeting warmed up to the proposal, Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said it might have some takers if the government agreed to put the farm laws on hold for five years. Kavita Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch said the government proposed that the laws could be kept in abeyance for one to one and a half years but added that it could be a “mutually agreed upon time”, indicating that the duration could be longer. “To show they (the government) are serious and sincere about the suspension idea, they are willing to do this through an undertaking in the Supreme Court. Along with it, they are talking about forming a committee that will then give its recommendations on the future of these laws, whether they should be amended or repealed,” Kavita said, adding that the composition and terms of reference of the committee were not discussed. Mollah said the talks began with both sides sticking to their guns and it was only towards the end that the government softened its position. Wednesday’s meeting saw the farmers again raise the issue of notices being sent by the National Investigation Agency to people supporting their movement to scare them away and dissuade others from joining the agitation. This was raised at the last meeting, too, but still there have been instances of people, including members of the Khalsa Aid, getting notices. Agriculture minister Tomar told the union leaders that this was being stopped now, Darshan Pal told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Low turnout dogs vaccine campaign||Poor turnouts have dogged India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign that has inoculated nearly 787,000 healthcare workers, but this is little more than half of the targeted beneficiaries to be covered in the five days since its start. The Union health ministry said 786,842 people had been vaccinated till 6pm on Wednesday through 14,119 vaccination sessions since January 16, but the ministry’s guidelines had proposed 100 beneficiaries per session — or over 1.41 million should have received the vaccinations by now. Twenty states organised vaccination sessions on Wednesday through around 2,400 sites which under the guidelines should have vaccinated around 240,000 people, but the actual number of vaccinations were 112,007 up to 6pm — or 45 per cent of the ideal number. Health officials and sections of potential beneficiaries believe that vaccine hesitancy is contributing to the lower-than-expected turnouts, particularly among sections of doctors who have questioned the use of one vaccine without proven efficacy data. The campaign is relying on two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford product made in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, a homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Some doctors have expressed hesitance over Covaxin because its efficacy is still under evaluation. But even healthcare workers expected to receive Covishield have failed to turn up. At the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, on Tuesday, the campaign staff had to invite healthcare workers who were not scheduled to take the vaccine that day because those on the list did not arrive. Amid the poor turnouts, the Centre has tweaked the digital platform deployed for the campaign to enable it to accept additional, non-scheduled beneficiaries from a list of pre-registered beneficiaries who may not be scheduled for a specific day. “This is being done to allow maximum possible number of beneficiaries per session and (to achieve) better coverage,” a health official said on Wednesday. Campaign staff may search the database of pre-registered beneficiaries through the mobile numbers and invite them to take the vaccines. Medical experts are concerned about the possible impacts of poor turnouts among healthcare workers on the campaign’s subsequent rounds when vaccines would be offered to frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic underlying health disorders. Health officials are hoping the vaccination campaign would help accelerate India’s pace towards herd immunity, a threshold at which so many people are protected through either vaccinations or natural infections that the epidemic vanishes. “The faster more and more people are vaccinated, the closer India will move towards herd immunity,” said a senior community medicine specialist. Experts believe a significant proportion of the population is already protected, albeit even if temporarily, through natural infections. Studies have shown that protective antibodies from natural infection last six to eight months or longer. Scientists also believe other arms of the immune system also protect people from reinfections. The health ministry had till Wednesday recorded four deaths among over 786,000 people who have received the vaccines since Saturday but asserted that none of them were related to the vaccination. A senior health official said the deaths had been recorded as part of a rigorous process to track every adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) but they have no connection with the vaccination. The official said post-mortem reports had shown that a person died at Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh from cardio-pulmonary disease, and two persons — one each at Bellary and Shivamoga in Karnataka died from heart attacks. A post-mortem report from a death in Telangana is awaited, he said. An expert said the deaths appeared to be part of background death rates in all populations. “There is a background death rate in any population. When we carefully track a very large number of people, in this campaign hundreds of thousands of people, over many days, there would be deaths from different causes,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist formerly with Calcutta’s School of Tropical Medicine. “The AEFI monitoring mechanism is recording them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: SC keeps off Republic Day tractor rally ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday made the Centre withdraw its application seeking a stay on the proposed tractor rally by farmers on January 26 after the Republic Day parade, saying “we consider it improper for us to allow or disallow any rally”. “You (the government) are the executive. You have authority to take whatever action through police. You have powers to act on law and order, we won’t intervene,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government. “It is highly inappropriate for the court to act as a first authority to allow or disallow protesters. We can allow you to withdraw the application. You are the executive and have the power to look into this. It’s an issue of law and order and of the police,” the CJI said. The court was dealing with an application filed by Delhi police, which reports to the Centre, seeking a stay on the proposed rally, claiming that Khalistani elements had infiltrated the protests and would create large-scale disturbance during the Republic Day parade. The bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, also turned down Mehta’s request that the court allow the Delhi police application till January 25, review the situation and thereafter pass an order. Finally, the government withdrew the application. Informed by senior lawyers Dushyant Dave and Prashant Bhushan, representing eight farmer unions, that the unions were not willing to appear before the court-appointed committee on the three laws, the Chief Justice said: “Please see what solution can be found. In this case, just saying not appearing before the committee will not help. You have to counsel the parties to bring about peace.” Bhushan: “Yes I have advised them there should be peace. The farmers’ unions say they don’t want any amendments now. They want only repeal. They say no discussions was held on the farm bills.” CJI Bobde: “In a democracy, other than repeal, the court can set aside a law and the court is seized of this. The law is not in force at the moment.” Bhushan: “They are trying to put democratic pressure. They fear that if they get up and go away since the laws are not in force, then later if courts come to the conclusion that the laws are constitutional and interim orders are withdrawn, then what happens. That’s why they are apprehensive.” (The Supreme Court had earlier passed an interim order putting the farm laws on hold.) CJI Bobde: “If we uphold the farmers’ bills, then you can start the agitation. But peace has to be maintained.” Bhushan: “Farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on the Outer Ring Road. No attempt to destroy peace (will be made).” CJI Bobde: “See that your clients assure the citizens of Delhi complete peace.” The CJI later asked the attorney-general and Bhushan to ensure peace in the capital. The court will take up the matter again after eight weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Aadhaar ruling review rejected||Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court on Wednesday sought reference to a seven-judge bench the Centre’s decision to pass the Aadhaar Act in 2015, on the ground that “it would have serious consequences — not just for judicial discipline, but also for the ends of justice”. Justice Chandrachud disagreed with the majority opinion of four other judges on the bench who dismissed a batch of petitions seeking review of the 2018 judgment by another constitution bench that had upheld the validity of the Act. Dissenting judge Justice Chandrachud differed with the view on the ground that the Aadhaar Bill could not have been passed by Parliament without the approval of Rajya Sabha since it was not a “money bill”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India|| Congress asks media to introspect||The Congress on Wednesday asked the media to introspect while saying WhatsApp messages attributed to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami suggested he had easy access to the Prime Minister and home minister and used it to gain business favours and influence policy. It also accused Goswami of conspiring to manipulate TV ratings and speaking insensitively about a dying Union minister. Asserting that the Congress does not consider Goswami a journalist, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said a nexus between a media lobby and the government was not good for democracy. “Laanat hai aisi journalism par (Shame on such journalism). Lobbying for business favours, fixing rivals, influencing policies, breaking the society using breaking news — will the media do some introspection?” he said. Khera said the purported conversations between Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, showed how close Goswami was to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah and how casually he mentioned them as though they were friends. “The confidence with which Arnab flaunts his proximity to the Prime Minister and his office is shocking. From the chats it appears that Arnab shared a very comfortable access to the Prime Minister and secured his intervention in overcoming business troubles and fixing rivals,” Khera said. “Why was the Prime Minister allowing Arnab such friendly access to himself and his office? Why was Arnab allowed to actively lobby with the Prime Minister and his office? What was the quid pro quo? “From these chats it is clear that Arnab not only had direct access to one of the most powerful leaders of the ruling party, then party president Amit Shah, he also took ratings agency boss Partho Dasgupta to meet him. Arnab was actively securing Shah’s intervention to influence policy and controlling the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.” Khera asked: “How can the president of the party so brazenly interfere in policy matters to help a media house at the expense of others? Why was Shah interfering in the functioning of a supposedly autonomous authority called the Trai? What was Arnab’s hold on Shah?” Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid cited references to Arun Jaitley in the messages, written shortly before the death of the severely ill former finance minister and senior lawyer. “Jaitley was widely respected both in the Bar and Parliament. The kind of conversation about him is deeply saddening. If this is how they treat their own, how will they treat ordinary citizens?” he said. Arnab had reportedly said: “Jaitley is stretching it.” A Congress statement cited corruption charges against Goswami’s channel. “In 2017, Arnab Goswami’s channel and another channel bypassed the auction system put in place by Prasar Bharati to gain viewership on DD Free Dish. The two channels did not pay the fee to Doordarshan to book slots in the free DTH service with the help of Dish TV, a private DTH service. This violation cost crores of rupees to the public exchequer. “The chats tell us that the then information and broadcasting minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore allegedly informed Arnab that he was keeping aside a complaint that was received by his department against Goswami’s channel.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||BJP fails to rise to Arun Jaitley’s defence||Not one BJP leader has come forward to defend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “dear friend” and late finance minister Arun Jaitley, termed the “biggest failure” in a purported WhatsApp chat involving Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. An April 2019 WhatsApp message attributed to Partho Dasgupta, then CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, terms the then ailing Jaitley the “biggest failure” of the government, and Goswami purportedly writes back: “That I agree totally.” When Jaitley died of cancer four months later, Modi declared from the middle of a foreign tour: “I can’t imagine that I am here in Bahrain while my dear friend Arun Jaitley is no more.” The same day — August 24, 2019 — the Prime Minister also tweeted: “With the demise of Arun Jaitley Ji, I have lost a valued friend, whom I have had the honour of knowing for decades. His insight on issues and nuanced understanding of matters had very few parallels…. We will miss him!” Just five days before that, on August 19, 2019, a purported WhatsApp message from Goswami to Dasgupta had said: “Jaitley stretching it. PMO doesn’t know what to do. PM leaving on Wednesday for France.” Jaitley was then battling for his life. Dasgupta is purported to have asked: “So hasn’t died yet?” Goswami’s purported reply: “Maintaining him. I expect something by evening. One of my meetings in Delhi this week gets pushed because of this.” So far, the content of the chats has not been denied. Last month home minister Amit Shah unveiled a statue to Jaitley at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, now renamed Arun Jaitley Stadium, and said his departed colleague had “served the nation with passion and devotion”. On December 28, 2020, Modi tweeted: “Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary…. He worked tirelessly for India’s progress.” However, BJP leaders have not felt obliged to challenge the belittling of Jaitley in the WhatsApp chat or condemn the insensitive comments made when he was battling death, maintaining silence in public and arguing in private that the controversy is a “TRP war between two channels” not worth according importance to. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar too comes under fire in the purported chats between Dasgupta and Goswami. A message attributed to Dasgupta describes Javadekar as “useless” while one attributed to Goswami expresses preference for Smriti Irani in Javadekar’s place. The BJP has not reacted to this, either. Javadekar, fielded on Tuesday to address the media and attack Rahul Gandhi, was asked about the messages but refused to react, saying the subject had nothing to do with his news conference. Many in the BJP believe that Goswami, known to have had easy access to Modi and Shah, was expressing what those in the power corridors genuinely felt about Jaitley at the time. It was widely speculated that Modi and Shah wanted Jaitley out of the finance ministry but couldn’t act on the desire since both had accepted his services as a lawyer. Jaitley had defended Modi in Gujarat riot cases and Shah in the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case. Modi-Shah’s alleged intent was bared when Jaitley underwent a kidney transplant in May 2018. Piyush Goyal was “temporarily assigned” additional charge of the finance ministry while Jaitley was designated “minister without portfolio”. BJP parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy had at the time flagged how the Prime Minister’s official website said Goyal was the finance minister while the finance ministry’s website continued to accord that distinction to Jaitley. It was Nirmala Sitharaman and not Goyal, though, who eventually succeeded Jaitley as full-time finance minister. BJP insiders say Jaitley had long been promoting Sitharaman and may have expressed a dying wish saying she be given the finance portfolio. Sitharaman, who termed Jaitley a “visionary leader” while presenting the 2020 budget, too has chosen not to react to the allegation that the former finance minister was “the biggest failure”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Unions seek amendments in labour laws||Ten central trade unions on Wednesday met government representatives and demanded the four new labour laws be put on hold and consultations be held with them towards their amendment. They described the meetings convened by the government on framing of the rules for these laws — Wednesday witnessed the last round — as a “farce” and a “camouflage” to hide the lack of consultations before the bills were passed. A labour ministry official, however, said the rules would be finalised by the end of this month, implying the unions’ protests would have little impact. The workers fear the new laws would facilitate a hire-and-fire policy, longer working hours and the continuation of poor pay. They accuse the government of rushing with the rules, after unilaterally pushing through the laws, under pressure from corporate houses and employers’ organisations. Among the 10 organisations that categorically opposed the four laws were the Congress-affiliated Intuc, CPI labour arm Aituc and CPM-backed Citu. The 10 of them handed over a joint letter to labour minister Santosh Gangwar criticising the government for ignoring their suggestions before pushing the bills through. Three other trade union bodies also attended the meeting and made recommendations about improving the laws but did not oppose them full-scale. These were the RSS trade union wing Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, the National Front of Indian Trade Unions, and a pro-government faction of the Trade Union Coordination Centre. The government had got the Code on Wages passed in 2019 and the remaining three laws in the last session of Parliament. The Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions, Code of Industrial Relations, and the Code on Social Security were passed in the Rajya Sabha last September amid a House boycott by major Opposition parties on another issue. “The government did not accept any of our suggestions when the bills were prepared and got the bills passed in the Rajya Sabha in an hour without proper discussion,” Ashok Singh of Intuc said. Aituc secretary Amarjeet Kaur echoed him. In their letter, the workers’ bodies accused the government of being uninterested about bipartite or tripartite discussions in accordance with the International labour Organisation conventions. They complained that no meetings of the Indian Labour Conference had been held since 2015. The government is expected to hold the meetings once in two or three years. “The central trade unions demand that all the four codes should be put on hold and then discussions should start with the central trade unions on each of the labour codes afresh in the true spirit of bipartite and tripartite consultations. We do not accept this meeting as consultation but a farce to camouflage consultations,” the letter said. The BMS objected to the exclusion of contract labourers from the ambit of the labour codes, which exempt labour contractors hiring up to 50 workers in particular establishments from implementing the measures on health, safety and social security. Some of the central trade unions have already aligned themselves with the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws, joining them on Delhi’s borders with their own placards protesting the labour codes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Delhi Union of Journalists condemn libel arrest warrant on scribe||The Delhi Union of Journalists on Wednesday condemned the arrest warrant issued by a Gujarat court against senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta in a defamation suit filed by the Adani group. In a statement the Delhi Union of Journalists expressed shock that a Kutch court has issued an arrest warrant against Guha Thakurta for alleged defamation of the Adani group in an article published in 2017 that said the Narendra Modi government had tweaked rules relating to a special economic zone which gave the company a “Rs 500-crore bonanza”. Condemning the arrest warrant, the union said: “Ironically, the Adani group has withdrawn its charges against the publishers of the article and the co-authors but not Guha Thakurta. In 2017 the article that stirred controversy was published by the Economic & Political Weekly (EPW). “It alleged that the government of India had tweaked rules of the special economic zone to enable Adani Power Limited to get duty drawback of Rs 500 crore from the government. The Adani group sent a notice to the publisher, threatening legal action. The EPW’s publisher, the Sameeksha Trust, pulled down the article and its editor Guha Thakurta resigned in protest.” In June 2017, the statement said, The Wire news portal republished the article with permission from the EPW. “The Adani group then filed a suit on The Wire and the co-authors of the article…. In May 2019 a Gujarat court ordered the publishers to remove one sentence and one word from the article. The Wire complied and the defamation suit was rejected by the court,” the statement said. Subsequently, the Adani group withdrew the case against The Wire and the co-authors. “In the circumstances it is strange that another court should have ordered the arrest of Guha Thakurta.” The statement said: “The Delhi Union of Journalists severely condemns the move to arrest a leading journalist. We have long demanded decriminalisation of the defamation law that is a serious threat to media freedoms. We urge the higher judiciary to strike down the criminal defamation law at the earliest.” Guha Thakurta could not be contacted. The Wire said in a statement issued on Wednesday: “Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and two other authors wrote an article for the Economic and Political Weekly in 2017 on the Adani group, which was republished subsequently by The Wire. “While the Adani group had initiated both civil and criminal defamation against the three authors and The Wire in 2017, the proceedings against The Wire and its editors were unconditionally withdrawn in 2019, as were those against two of the three authors of the article. We are dismayed to see that the case of civil and criminal defamation against Paranjoy Guha Thakurta has not been withdrawn.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Congress rally against farm laws in Bangalore||The Congress on Wednesday mobilised thousands of party workers and farmers to stage a massive rally against the contentious farm laws in an event that left the city choked. The principal Opposition party made good use of the popular sentiments against the farm laws to attract a huge gathering in the first such show of strength in the city after the series of protests against the citizenship matrix. The protesters who assembled at the city railway station marched for around 3km towards Freedom Park and then tried to lay siege to the Raj Bhavan to send the message loud and clear to the NDA government in Delhi. But the huge police deployment prevented them from getting anywhere near Raj Bhavan, located just over a kilometre from Freedom Park. Police detained hundreds of protesters, including senior Congress leaders, before releasing them later. Among those who were detained and bussed away were state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramiah. Chants of “anti-farmer Modi” and “anti-farmer BJP” rent the air as the protesters marched, or rode tractors and trucks towards the protest venue. Congress leaders who addressed the public meeting at Freedom Park made it clear that it was not just a party event but a platform for the farmers whose voices need to be heard by the state and central governments. “This is not just a Congress event. This is the voice of the state, the nation and our farmers,” Shivakumar told the rally. Originally planned for January 15, the event was postponed because of Sankranti that is widely celebrated across the state. “This agitation is not limited to organising this rally, but we are organising such protests in every taluk in the state to drive home the message that farmers want the farm laws repealed,” Shivakumar said. “I urge the Prime Minister to publish the names of farmers and low-paid workers who benefited from the Rs 20 lakh crore (economic stimulus) package. We know this government is working only for large corporations and not for ordinary citizens,” he said. Siddaramiah said the country’s farmers have decided to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Modi, why are you working against farmers when the whole country is asking you to repeal the farm laws? If you have any humanity and decency left, please listen to the farmers and their women and children protesting in Delhi,” Siddaramiah said. He said the Supreme Court’s stay on the implementation of the farm laws was a loss of face for the Prime Minister. “If these laws are pro-farmer, why do you think the Supreme Court stayed their implementation? The order is a loss of face for you. Yet you don’t listen to the farmers,” Siddaramiah said. He described the rally as the beginning of what would continue till the next Lok Sabha elections. “I am telling you, Modi and Yediyurappa, our farmers have organised themselves against you,” he added. The Congress leaders alleged that vehicles carrying thousands of protesters were stopped outside the city limits. “The BJP government is doing to the farmers what the British colonial power did to stop the freedom movement. But they must realise that if the British can be sent packing by our freedom fighters, it’s not too difficult for the people to remove the BJP from power,” former minister Krishna Byre Gowda told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Mathura, Kashi claim on Mohan Bhagwat||A sadhu has claimed that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has said the outfit would soon further the cause of Hindutva in Kashi and Mathura, core issues of the saffron camp along with Ayodhya. Sutikshna Das Maharaj, the head of Sudama Kuti, an ashram in Vrindavan, said after meeting the RSS chief on Tuesday evening: “We discussed matters related to Kashi and Mathura. Bhagwat said Kashi and Mathura would be taken up soon.” Bhagwat is in Vrindavan to attend meetings of the RSS. “He said his blessings were with us on these two issues and we together would succeed for sure. He also said it was our duty to make efforts and that God would fulfill them,” said Das, adding that he had met Bhagwat to congratulate him on the beginning of the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Padam Singh, the RSS kshetra prachar pramukh in west Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, however, said when asked about Das’s claims: “Any official statement on any issue would come directly from the sarsanghchalak. Nobody else is authorised to say what his views on any issue are.” Mathura is the birthplace of Lord Krishna, Kashi or Varanasi is considered the land of Lord Shiva. In both places mosques are located in close proximity of temples. People considered close to the Sangh parivar have filed court cases in Varanasi and Mathura seeking approval to remove Gyanvapi Mosque from near Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and Shahi Idgah Masjid from near Krishna Janmasthan temple in Mathura.They have claimed that temples were destroyed to build mosques in both places during the Mughal period. Although the RSS has not broached the issue directly in recent years, Kashi and Mathura have been core to its cause along with Ayodhya since the 1980s. The Ram temple movement in Ayodhya culminated in the decimation of Babri Masjid in 1992. After the Supreme Court in November 2019 paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, the central government has set up a Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to build the shrine. The trust has begun a countrywide drive to collect funds for the construction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Day’s pay as 'voluntary' contribution for Ram temple||A senior official in the Uttar Pradesh public works department has begun the process of deducting a day’s salary from PWD employees as “voluntary” contribution towards building a Ram temple in Ayodhya, angering staff who said their permission had not been taken. Rajpal Singh, engineer-in-chief of the development section of the PWD, has purportedly written to a bank at Hazrathganj in Lucknow seeking to open an account in the name of “PWD Ram Mandir Welfare”. The letter, dated January 9, 2021, mentions that a day’s pay would be deducted from the salaries of PWD employees and the amount would be deposited in this account. “With regard to opening of an account in the name of PWD Ram Mandir Welfare,” the letter’s subject line says. The letter mentions that superintending engineer Munish Kumar and chief assistant Virendra Kumar would handle the account, where the “voluntarily” donations would be deposited. Several calls The Telegraph made to Singh and a text message on his mobile phone went unanswered. An employee said on the condition of anonymity: “We came to know that a day’s salary would be deducted. Nobody discussed with us before taking the decision. This is not a voluntary contribution.” “As far as I know, nobody in the government asked Singh to do this. He himself discussed it with some of his colleagues a few days ago and then informed some of the employees about the drive. The majority of the employees came to know about the decision on Wednesday when Singh’s letter was circulated on social media,” the employee said. The employee pointed to Rule 10 of the Uttar Pradesh Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1956, which prohibits employees from asking for and accepting contributions and associating himself or herself with the collection of funds without the sanction of the government. PWD sources said that although there was no official order from the government, some senior officials of the department had on their own taken the initiative to collect funds for the construction of the temple. The sources said that although there was resentment among sections of employees, none was likely to protest given the sensitivity of the issue. Subhash Chandra Kushwaha, a social scientist, told reporters: “This is forcible collection of money for a religious purpose. It could be that the government has approved this drive, albeit unofficially.” The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, authorised to build the Ram temple in Ayodhya, began a funds collection drive on January 14 with President Ram Nath Kovind becoming the first person to contribute. The other initial donors are mostly politicians. Vishwa Hindu Parishad and BJP workers have been organising camps across the country to collect funds. Mahant Paramahans Das, a sadhu in Ayodhya, said: “Some people are fraudulently collecting money in the name of the Ram temple. It is a crime and the trust must look into it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Fee waiver directive to private schools in Odisha||The Odisha government has asked all private schools to waive a certain percentage of the fees for the 2020-21 academic session in line with the directive of the high court. The reduction of fees will be made under seven specific slabs. The increase in fees by private schools, both aided and unaided, has been a contentious issue with parents’ associations protesting the “ irrational” hike by school managements. The matter had even reached Orissa High Court. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said that private schools have been directed to waive fees following the order of the high court. “We are hopeful that the private schools would carry out the court’s order immediately,” Dash said. According to the notification issued by the school and mass education department on Tuesday, the percentage of the annual fees charged by the private institutions will be waived under seven slabs. While there will be a 26 per cent waiver for fees above Rs 1 lakh, the exemption will be to the tune of 25 per cent for fees between Rs 72,001 and Rs 1 lakh, 20 per cent for charges between Rs 48,001 and Rs 72,000, 15 per cent for annual fees between Rs 24,001 and Rs 48,000, 12 per cent for fees between Rs 12,001 and Rs 24,000 and 7.5 per cent for schools charging between Rs 6,001 and Rs 12,000. However, there will be no waiver of fees for schools charging annually up to Rs 6,000. The department has also directed the private schools to waive hostel fees by 30 per cent and rationalise the fees being charged for food and transport. “We are relieved. We are hopeful that the private schools would immediately reduce their fee structures,” said Madhumita Pradhan, parent of a student of DAV Public School, Unit VIII, Bhubaneswar. Odisha Parents’ Federation chairman Bashudev Bhat told The Telegraph: “This is the first time that the state government has thought about the parents’ plight. It’s certainly a welcome step. More such steps need to be taken for bringing reformation in the education sector.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Blockade at NTPC power plant after labourer’s death||Hundreds of officials, workers and their families were held hostage at the NTPC power plant and its township at Barauni in Begusarai district of Bihar over two days after locals laid siege with the body of a labourer killed in a road mishap. The ordeal began on Tuesday afternoon after an unskilled labourer Ramashish Thakur, 56, commuting on a bicycle on National Highway 31, was hit by a speeding car and succumbed to his injuries. The incident occurred around 1km from the power plant. Ramashish was a resident of Malhipur area in Begusarai. Once the hospital declared Ramashish dead, some locals and his family members took his body to the power plant and blocked its gates as well as the route to its township. They demanded compensation and a job to a kin of the victim. The blockade continued overnight and talks with the block development officer and a representative of Utility Powertech Limited (UPL), the company for which the deceased was working on contract at the NTPC power plant, failed to break the deadlock. Around 150 NTPC employees, 500 contractual workers and 100 CISF personnel were stuck inside the power plant, while around 150 families residing in the adjacent township suffered the same fate. Those working shifts could not be relieved by their counterparts because of the protest and were stuck for over 24 hours. Meanwhile, worried power plant officials kept writing to their headquarters and the district administration to resolve the issue. Finally, senior district officials intervened and the protesters agreed to lift the blockade late on Wednesday afternoon. They also took the body with them. “The delay in resolving the issue amicably occurred because no official from the NTPC human resources department was willing to come to talk to the people protesting at the gates of the power plant. The district administration provided a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased. The people have called off their protest,” Begusarai superintendent of police Awakash Kumar told The Telegraph. NTPC sources said the UPL, which supplies contractual workers to the power plant, also gave a compensation of around Rs 1.5 lakh to the victim’s kin. “Ramashish’s death was not connected to our company in any manner. Yet the locals blocked the entry and exit routes of the power plant and the adjacent township. It was illogical. Such incidents hamper the work of electricity generation and the government must ensure that they do not happen,” NTPC public relations officer Vishwanath Chandan told this newspaper. Barauni is around 140km east of state capital Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||West Bengal||One wedding and 14 funerals in Bengal||The ambience at Char-Churabhandar village in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district changed from festivity to mourning overnight. On Monday, the village was busy celebrating the marriage of a girl, the festive mood spilling on Tuesday as well. Abruptly, the village plunged in despair when the news of the Tuesday night AH 48 accident that killed 14 persons, who were part of the bride’s party on way to the groom’s family reception, spread. When this correspondent went to the village on Wednesday, wails were heard from many homes. As state ministers Gautam Deb and Aroop Biswas reached the village and went to the houses of the deceased, hundreds joined them to extend their condolences. “We have no words,” said Joydeb Roy, the bride’s father, standing near the morgue of Jalpaiguri district hospital on Wednesday. “None of us had an inkling that my daughter’s marriage would turn into a nightmare for so many,” he said, alluding to the 14 dead and the 13 injured. Dulali Roy, one of Roy’s neighbours, lost her husband and two sons in the accident. “She is often falling unconscious. We don’t know how to console her. She has lost her whole family in the mishap,” said a neighbour. Pushpa Roy, also a neighbour of the bride, had been seriously injured but died at the NBMCH later. Kameswar Singha of Odlabari of Malbazar subdivision in Jalpaiguri district, a relative of the bride, lost six family members. “My elder daughter, son-in-law, two granddaughters, sister-in-law and her mother have died,” said an expressionless Kameshwar, standing near the morgue. His son Ajay, injured and being treated at Jalpaiguri superspecialty hospital, received permission to join his father at the morgue. Wincing in pain, he stood near the morgue to catch a glimpse of the deceased. Six-year-old Ritesh Mishra, who being treated at the same super-specialty hospital here, lost his parents Rajesh and Renu. “Ever since he learnt the news, he is just staring blankly and not talking. We don’t know how long it would take for him to become normal,” said a relative. Bipan Sarkar from nearby Baroghoria village lost his wife Mamani and three-year-old son Biraj in the accident. “I returned home (to Baroghoria) after the wedding but my wife and son stayed back in Char-Churabhandar. Our fourth wedding anniversary is on Friday. We had plans. But everything is finished,” he wept.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Mom and three girls bend it like Beckham||If football runs in a family, it is in the Sharma family from Karmatar village, some 40km from Darjeeling. Chandrakala Sharma, 38, defends the village women’s team that also has her three daughters, Bandana, 22, Archana, 21 and Aradhana, 20, in the line-up. Also, Chandrakala’s son Iswar, 18, is a footballer. Her husband Mani Raj, too, was a footballer, but stopped playing the beautiful game following a heart ailment some years ago. Chandrakala and her family are regulars in village level football, but they shot to fame for participating as part of the local team, Rangeet Girls Football Association, in the recent mega football tournament organised by Darjeeling police. A picture of the awesome foursome — Chandrakala and her three daughters — posted by Darjeeling Police, is earning rave reviews. Darjeeling Police on Wednesday posted: “Hats off to this wonderful family for loving and participating in the beautiful game of Football…that’s probably the best pic we have seen which should give inspiration to one and all.” Chandrakala, who’s from Thurbo in  West Sikkim, took to football at age nine and played for Sikkim “school state level team”, she said. “I married in 1996 and moved to Karmatar with my love, football,” she said. Not surprisingly, her daughters and son took the game like a fish takes to water. “The Darjeeling police tournament gave us a platform to display our skill. We, however, lost in the quarterfinals in a penalty shootout, and this still hurts,” said Chandrakala. During her prime, Chandrakala was a striker, but with age she has moved to defence while her daughters are strikers. Obviously, the mother is manager-cum-coach, though they have a local coach, Sagar Subba, to help them. “We have a small car, Alto, but whenever there is a tourney in our village, the family bundles up in the car to go there and play,” Chandrakala said. When does she scream more, at home or on the field? “In both,” said her daughter Bandana who is doing her masters in zoology from Darjeeling Government College. “But, we are so proud of her.” The Darjeeling police football tourney had an astounding 211 teams, including 25 women’s, which surprised even former Indian football skipper Bhaichung Bhutia, the chief guest of the finals on Tuesday. The hill police is planning to start a volleyball tournament during the next phase of Khel Utsav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||One more Bengal MLA defects to BJP||Arindam Bhattacharya, who had won the 2016 Assembly polls as a Left-backed Congress candidate and later switched over to the Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP on Wednesday. The MLA of Santipur in Nadia switched to the new party in the presence of the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya at the national headquarters in New Delhi. Justifying the reason behind his defection, Bhattacharya said: “There was no freedom to work (in Trinamul). I had a plan, a vision to work for development and betterment for people of my constituency and the state as a whole. But unfortunately, the ruling party has no vision, no future planning…the state has become synonymous with corruption.” “I eventually changed my mind to leave Trinamul to restore the lost pride of Bengal,” Bhattacharya added while speaking to media persons in Delhi. Bhattacharya had won the Santipur seat defeating Ajoy De of Trinamul in 2016 but defected to the ruling party in 2017. His defection triggered a major internal bickering in Trinamul. There were regular incidents of clashes between Bhattacharya’s supporters and those aligned to De, forcing Trinamul’s top leadership to intervene on a number of occasions. Trinamul leaders said Bhattacharya joining the BJP would have little impact on their organisation in Nadia. Trinamul MP and the party’s Nadia district president Mahua Moitra refused to comment on the issue. “My best wishes for him,” she told The Telegraph. Reacting to Bhattacharya’s induction, BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar said: “I have no comment to offer since the decision to take him has been taken by the party’s top leadership”. Bhattacharya’s defection comes a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee told a rally in Purulia on Tuesday that anybody could leave the party, but she would not bow the head before the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||14 dead in 4-vehicle pile-up on Bengal highway||Fourteen persons, including six minors, of a marriage party died in a devastating four-vehicle pile-up on a foggy Tuesday night on the Asian Highway 48 in Maynatoli area of the district’s Dhupguri block. Thirteen others are injured and are being treated at various hospitals of the region. On Tuesday, when three light vehicles — an Alto and two small vans — with 28 people of the marriage party were heading towards Dhupguri on the highway, a 10-wheel truck with boulders from the opposite end lost control, rammed into one of the light vehicles and then the two others. “Because of the fog, visibility was poor. The first vehicle collided head-on with the truck and the truck hit the divider. The other two vehicles coming from the wrong side collided one by one with the left side of the truck. As a result of the impact, boulders on the truck as well as the truck itself fell on these light vehicles. Occupants got buried,” said a police officer, adding the truck driver had been detained. As the passengers were taken out by the police, firemen and residents and rushed to Dhupguri block hospital, doctors pronounced 13 of them dead. Later, a woman shifted to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital succumbed, taking the toll to 14. Sources said on Monday, a girl hailing from Char-Churabhandar village of Maynaguri block got married to a youth from Lalschool area of Dhupguri block. On Tuesday, the groom’s family arranged a reception and accordingly, 35 people from bride’s side were heading for the venue in five light vehicles, including cars. The mishap involved three of those vehicles. “Two vehicles had moved ahead and reached the groom’s place. Three vehicles were together and met with the accident,” said a villager. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh for each next-of-kin of the deceased, Rs 50,000 to each of those who with serious injuries and Rs 25,000 to each of those with minor injuries. “We want people to be more cautious while driving during winter months,” Mamata said. On Wednesday, state ministers Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh, along with party leaders and MLA Mitali Roy, visited the homes of some of the victims, handed over compensation cheques and assured them that the government was taking care of the treatment of the injured. The Prime Minister’s Office also came forward to help, announcing Rs 2 lakh for each of the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for each of the injured. “The road accident in Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri (West Bengal) is extremely anguishing. In this time of sadness, prayers with the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon,” the PMO tweet read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Day’s Covid toll lowest in Bengal in 8 months||Bengal on Wednesday logged six Covid-19 deaths, including two from Calcutta, the lowest daily toll for the state in this pandemic in 237 days since the six deaths reported on May 28 last year. The state also reported 509 recoveries and 409 new infections on Wednesday, which resulted in a drop in total active cases for the 86th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. Active cases, from the Dashami high of 37,190, are now 6,675 on Wednesday. Rising for 89 consecutive days from 87.44 on October 22 last year, Bengal’s recovery rate touched 97.04 per cent. The national rate is 96.7 now. “The real highlight of the day, however, is how we have managed to improve our daily death count. Even in December, we were getting around 50-60 deaths daily, with 20-odd from Calcutta alone. Look at where we are now,” said a Bengal minister. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.77 compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. “Our next key goal is a major improvement in the mortality rate,” said the minister. The state attributed 8,457 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the total Covid toll of 10,080 to co-morbidities. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.33 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 61 days ago. “The much better positive confirmation rate is a clear indicator of a decisive reduction in the spread of the outbreak,” said the minister. Bengal’s total test count – including 27,104 tests on Wednesday – is over 77.23 lakh now, at 85,815 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata promises to resend Kurmi ST tag proposal||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday assured a top leader of the Kurmi community that her government would send to the Centre a proposal for the re-inclusion of the community in the Scheduled Tribe category. The chief minister gave the assurance to Ajit Prasad Mahata, chief adviser, Adivasi Kurmi Samaj, during a meeting held at the conference hall of Belguma police line here on Wednesday afternoon after she inaugurated around 40 projects in different Jungle Mahal districts. “I took an appointment with the chief minister to talk to her regarding our demand of re-enlistment of our community as ST. After talking for a few minutes, she assured me that she would resend the proposal to the Centre,” Mahata said, adding that he was very pleased after getting the assurance from the chief minister. “According the ST status to the community depends upon the central government. We are apolitical but extend our support to one who will stand with us,” Mahata said. The demand for the inclusion of Kurmis, who play an important role in determining the outcome in over 35 Assembly constituencies in the Jungle Mahala, in the ST category has been there for years. The Kurmis claimed that they had been registered as Scheduled Tribe till 1931, but were dropped from the list post-Independence for some “unknown reasons”. They were included in the OBC list, but they want to be re-included in the ST category, said multiple Kurmi leaders. In 2017, Mamata had written to then Union minister for tribal affairs Jual Oram, requesting him to consider the state government’s proposal to confer the ST tag on Kurmis. However within a week, the central government replied to the state with a request to resend the application with further comments and informed that the Office of the Registrar of General of India didn’t support the proposal. Trinamul insiders said the chief minister’s assurance to Mahata that she would resend the proposal was a masterstroke in view of the Purulia demography, where more than 25 per cent of the population belong to the kurmi community. Sources said there were around 50 lakh Kurmis in Bengal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, a majority of the Kurmi votes, a Trinamul insider said, shifted to the BJP from Trinamul, which helped the saffron party bag five of the six Lok Sabha seats in the region. Local BJP functionaries said they had already taken the Kurmis’ demand up with central leaders of the party. “The reason behind rejecting the proposal earlier was a genuine fault of the state which failed to convince the Central government. If the state sends the proposal properly, the Centre will certainly consider it. We are with the Kurmi community,” said Bidyasagar Chakraborty, the Purulia district BJP president. The chief minister said in Purulia on Wednesday that her government would organise 621 fairs in Bengal to boost small scale industries and artisans in the Jungle Mahal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC urged to resign||The SFI on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly gagging democratic activities on campus and asked varsity authorities to unconditionally revoke the recent suspensions of university teachers, students and employees. Addressing reporters in Birbhum’s Bolpur, state SFI secretary Srijan Bhattacharya condemned Chakraborty’s “political activities” and demanded his resignation in the wake of recent suspensions of teachers, students and employees who “dared” to raise their voice against the VC. SFI leaders, including Bhattacharya, said they would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also the Visva-Bharati chancellor, and President Ram Nath Kovind this week for the removal of the VC who is “working against the values of the university’s founder Rabindranath Tagore”. “Urgent steps need to be taken so that we do not have to refer to someone like him as the esteemed VC anymore,” he said, demanding suspensions of student leaders Falguni Pan, Somnath Sow and economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya be revoked. Suggesting that the varsity was suffering from a “systemic” top-down problem, Bhattacharya emphasised on the VC’s “arrogance”, saying it had “ruined the varsity’s atmosphere”. He slammed Chakrabarty for “daring to humiliate Nobel laureate Amartya Sen” over an alleged land encroachment controversy. Bhattacharya said the controversy involving Sen was the latest in a chain of events that began in 2019 with the VC’s alleged support for the BJP’s citizenship thrusts. He condemned the VC’s attempts at saffronisation of the campus by inviting Rightwing ideologues such as Swapan Dasgupta to help promote the CAA. “Visva-Bharati is in a tough position... We strongly condemn it...In no uncertain terms we demand the resignation of the VC,” he added. SFI sources said a letter to the Prime Minister and President would be drafted and sent this week after signatures were collected from across the varsity town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu ducks ideology query||Trinamul Congress turncoat Suvendu Adhikari was lost for words in an ABP Ananda interview when he was asked if he stuck to his oft-declared Gandhian ideology or subscribed to Sangh figure Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s stand vis-à-vis a particular episode in the Quit India movement. With hands folded, Suvendu, the BJP’s catch of the season, sought forgiveness for not answering the question from the channel’s executive vice-president Suman De and stepped away. The 50-year-old Adhikari repeatedly declares himself as an ideological descendant of the Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar (national government) of 1942 and its protagonists and iconic Gandhians — such as Satish Chandra Samanta, Sushil Kumar Dhara, Ajoy Mukherjee and Matangini Hazra. De quoted Syama Prasad Mookerjee on the movement when he was a minister of Bengal Province (1941-43) in the A.K. Fazlul Haq’s coalition government. The question, the final one in the 54-minute interview, made Adhikari visibly uncomfortable and he tried to excuse himself from evaluating Mookerjee over his view of the landmark movement of 1942. Mookerjee is a foremost figure of the saffron ecosystem but his legacy is controversial. The relevant excerpts of the interview (in Bengali) follow. De: My final question. Whenever someone switches parties, there is a change in the ideological perspective. Let’s take for instance, you repeatedly say in your public addresses — all of us think so too — the Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar of 1942 is extremely important in our state’s and nation’s history. You are a self-proclaimed ideological disciple of, the likes of Satish Samanta, Ajoy Mukherjee… names that will forever be remembered…. But the party you have switched to today, the predecessor of that was the Bharatiya Jana Sangh (the political arm of the RSS), its founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee had a completely different view of the 1942 movement. Just three months later, he said: “I do not think that the meaningless indiscipline and destructive work that was done in the past three months, it would be helpful to the cause of gaining Independence for our country.” (Quoting from Rashtro Shongrameyr ek Odhyay, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, Page 61) Just think, “meaningless indiscipline”, “destructive”, he says of the 1942 movement. Will you, Suvendu Adhikari, go by your own evaluation? Or will you go by that of the very respectable Syama Prasad Mookerjee? Adhikari: See, I will not evaluate Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee on the basis of this particular statement. I do not have that right. De: I am not asking you to do that though. I am asking you, while evaluating 1942, would you give precedence to your own assessment, or will you give precedence to Syama Prasad Mookerjee? Adhikari: No. You have asked me this question in relation to such a man, I am skipping this one (with folded hands). (De laughs out) You have the right to ask that question. I too have the right to step away. De: Indeed. (Adhikari laughs out) (What De did not add, possibly on account of Adhikari’s apparent hurry to step away, was another key quote from Page 116 of the same book, where Mookerjee said: “Now, in a state of war, a national government should be formed in a way that the war can be conducted in intensive cooperation with the friendly side.) The Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar was a historic, independent parallel government established in Tamluk, in Adhikari’s backyard, during Mahatma Gandhi’s Quit India Movement. The Tamralipta Jatiya Sarkar had set up police stations, military departments, courts, a system for revenue collection, and even its own newspaper, Biplabi (The Revolutionary). The so-called national government functioned between December 17, 1942, and August 8, 1944. It was dissolved on the explicit directions of Mahatma Gandhi, taking note of the end of the Quit India Movement. Adhikari’s icons like Ajoy Mukherjee went on to become a three-term chief minister of Bengal. Satish Chandra Samanta was a five-term Parliamentarian in Independent India. Sushil Kumar Dhara — who passed away at 99 in 2011 and was often visited by Adhikari — was a three-term MLA and a one-term MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
21-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal decides on 15% hike in tea wages||The state labour department has decided on an interim hike of 15 per cent in the daily wages of workers and monthly salaries of staff and sub-staff serving Bengal’s tea industry, which is likely to be a leverage for the ruling Trinamul in the brew belt before Assembly polls. Tea workers, who now receive Rs 176 a day, will get a hike of Rs 26 that will increase the daily wage rate to Rs 202, sources said. “Also, staff and the sub-staff serving in tea estates will get a hike of 15 per cent on gross salaries...The revised rates will be effective from January 1 this year,” said Ziaul Alam, convener of Joint Forum, an apex body of tea trade unions. The decision, which will benefit close to three lakh workers and 10,000 staff and sub-staff, was taken at a tripartite meeting convened by the state labour department here on Wednesday in the presence of Bengal labour minister Moloy Ghatak, senior officials of his department, representatives of tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions. This interim hike in tea wage, sources said, came after October 2018. Tea trade union leaders said that it was pointed out at the meeting that an interim hike was needed at once, as the dates of the Assembly polls could be declared any time. Once dates were declared, the model code of conduct would kick in and nothing could be done. “That is why the state labour department took this step. They are also likely to issue the notification soon. We have, however, made it clear that talks for the final revision of salaries of the staff and sub-staff and for fixing the minimum daily wage for tea workers should continue,” said Saman Pathak, the Darjeeling district Citu secretary. Tea planters said that they agreed to the hike but also flagged productivity issues at the meeting. “It is necessary that the state takes initiative to address productivity issues. Rise in the cost of production vis-à-vis yield is a major concern in tea estates,” said Sumit Ghosh, secretary of the north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India. The Mamata Banerjee government has already started the Cha Sundari housing scheme in the tea belt. However, the interim wage hike decision, political observers said, may help Trinamul steal a march on its political opponents, especially the BJP. In north Bengal, votes of tea workers and their families decide the results of at least 15 Assembly seats. In neighbouring Assam — India’s largest tea producing state with the saffron party in power — the daily wage happens to be Rs 167 in the tea sector. Trinamul will surely highlight the Rs 35 difference in wages in Bengal and Assam, pointed out observers. “In fact, the wage in Assam is even lower in places like the Barak valley,” said an observer. “But even if we consider Rs 167 (as the average) in Assam, Bengal’s current wage rate is Rs 9 higher, but after the interim hike comes in force, the difference will increase to Rs 35. This would surely prompt Trinamul to raise the issue during campaign to counter BJP,” Like Bengal, Assam also faces elections in the first half of this year, with the BJP’s Sarbananda Sonowal government seeking a fresh term. Tea wage is a political issue there too. “Assam Cha Mazdoor Sangh has recently launched the ‘Shramik Garjan’ (workers’ roar) campaign over wage revision,” said a political analyst. “In this context, the ACMS will surely mention the hike announced by the Bengal government. It will be interesting to see how the BJP government there handles the issue.” The ACMS has demanded a daily wage of Rs 351 for tea workers in Assam, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-227
21-01-2021||North East||Healthcare device by IIT Guwahati scholars||Two research scholars from IIT Guwahati have gained entry to the global Charm Health Innovation Challenge for “developing” a device capable of “remotely” carrying out primary health check-up, a solution which could help reach a large rural population. Mitali Basak and Shirsendu Mitra teamed up and participated in the competition under the category of “Student Innovators” and submitted an idea of a benchtop digital setup integrated with an algorithm to record initial screening parameters like body temperature, pulse rate, eye and tongue analysis of a patient remotely, the institute has said. Further, a robust algorithm along with cloud interfacing is expected to enable the device to “store” large volumes of health data for future benefit. Charm Health Innovation challenge is a platform for innovators and entrepreneurs to showcase their innovative technological solutions and new business models of healthcare, AI (artificial intelligence)-assisted patient care and remote monitoring incorporating AI/VR (virtual reality) and NLP (natural language processing), wearables and devices. The challenge is organised by two California- based organisations — Charm Health and iValley. “A situation like Covid demands human interactions to be as minimal as possible. In view of this, the current innovation serves a potential tool for healthcare management remotely, taking care of physical as well as social distancing norms. The device developed by the scholars is capable of remotely doing primary health check-up,” the IIT said. Basak, a third-year PhD scholar, Centre for Nanotechnology, IIT Guwahati, along with Mitra, former PhD scholar, department of chemical engineering, IIT Guwahati (presently an early career fellow at IIT Gandhinagar), are working on the prototype which is expected to be ready within the next four months. This innovation challenge includes a cash prize of $2,500 for the two top winners. The winners of this challenge will be decided after the submission of a prototype based on the proposed innovation. Apart from this, once the winning innovation is fully developed, its commercialisation will be taken forward by the organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
21-01-2021||North East||Abducted duo in Arunachal Pradesh appeal for safe release||In videos purportedly released by their captors, two employees of a private oil company who were kidnapped by suspected militants on December 21 from Arunachal Pradesh, have pleaded with their respective state governments — Assam and Bihar — to secure their safe release. Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, from Assam and Ram Kumar, 31, from Bihar, were kidnapped by a joint group of suspected Ulfa (I) and NSCN (K) militants from Diyun in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh. The kidnappers had reportedly sought Rs 20 crore for the release of the duo but the amount was subsequently scaled down to Rs 18 crore, officials said. The videos, which were released to a section of private TV channels a day before the duo completes a month in captivity, follow a warning issued by Ulfa (I) on January 12 that Kumar could be harmed if the company fails to pay the amount for “exploiting” the natural resources of Assam and the Northeast. In one of the videos, Kumar urges Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to take up the matter with his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal for his safe return. Hailing from Khagaria district, Kumar says in Hindi that he was a victim of conflict between his company and the militant outfits and he is in the custody of the NSCN (K) and Ulfa (I) for a month. The NSCN (K) is said to be active in the Changlang area. In the other video, Gogoi, who hails from Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district, makes a similar appeal to Sonowal in Assamese. He also appeals to his employers to secure his release. Gogoi is a drilling superintendent while Kumar works as a radio operator with Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited, one of the “country’s leading and fastest growing drilling services contractors”. Quippo has its corporate office in Gurgaon and has been engaged by Oil India Limited for drilling activities in the Kharsang area of Changlang district. Changlang is one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. It was in the news recently for the arson that took place under Vijaynagar circle on December 11. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav said they had information about the kidnapped duo till the second week of January, apprehending they may have crossed the border. “We have also heard about the videos. Our people are working on the ground to secure their release,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
21-01-2021||Opinion||Losing point: RTI and bona fides of the enquirer||Accountability is often found to be elusive in India’s administrative culture. So the Right to Information Act was welcomed with high hope when it came. According to Section 6(2) of the RTI Act, 2005, the member of the public seeking information need not offer reasons for his query. Recently, however, the Delhi High Court ruled that a disclosure of interest in the information sought would be necessary in order to establish the bona fides of the enquirer. Otherwise, the response may cause injustice to the persons about whom the query is being made. In other words, the court ruled in favour of the accountability of the RTI applicant to prevent ‘roving and fishing’ enquiries. Many administrators would welcome the ruling, because replying to broad-based RTI queries often eats into other work, although the law has an extensive list of issues on which public institutions are not obliged to give out information. The RTI Act is a reminder of the obligations of transparency and accountability of public institutions in a democracy. The last is the operative term: it is the people’s right to demand accountability of public institutions. This right is inscribed in Section 6(2) of the Act as in others — being a citizen comprises the bona fides, reasons are not required. The disclosure of interest would make injustice to the applicant more of a possibility than that to the subjects of the query, who or which are protected from injustice by the prohibitions enshrined in the Act. Since such disclosure is not required by the Act, it is puzzling that the Delhi High Court, after pronouncing the need for disclosure of interest, should impose a hefty fine on the RTI applicant who had petitioned against the Central Information Commission. The court in its wisdom made its ruling in a particular case, but if disclosure of interest were to become a condition for an RTI applicant, not only would the purpose of the law be lost or diminished but people would also refrain from seeking information under it. The fine is forbidding enough. It is unfortunate that the RTI Act has already been perceived as damaged by the Narendra Modi government’s decision to control the tenure and allowances of information commissioners. The gradual erosion of people’s rights bodes no good.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Fight ahead: Mamata to contest from Nandigram||Sir — In a move that observers have described as a masterstroke, Mamata Banerjee, while addressing a rally at Nandigram, has announced that she will contest from that constituency against her bête noire, Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s biggest weapon against the ruling party, Trinamul Congress (“Mamata takes Nandi by the horns, to contest from game-changer soil”, Jan 19). Some political analysts feel that this time Bhowanipore, the home turf of the chief minister, would not be the best seat for her to contest from as the demography of the area has changed. The BJP has also made considerable inroads into the Bhowanipore assembly segment. This has led to a decrease in TMC’s vote share in the area in recent polls. The BJP was reported to have pushed back TMC by 496 votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in ward number 73, which used to be the chief minister’s stronghold. Perhaps this explains Banerjee’s jitteriness and her subsequent decision to contest from multiple seats. Accepting the challenge Adhikari has asserted that he will leave politics if he cannot defeat her by 50,000 votes. Time and again, Adhikari has said that it was he who led the land movement in Nandigram as a son of the soil. In East Midnapore, members of the Adhikari family have a massive support base. The district’s Kanthi and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats are represented by the former TMC legislator’s father, Sisir Adhikari, and his brother, Dibyendu Adhikari. Reportedly, no one from the Adhikari family was present at Banerjee’s rally. It is evident that Banerjee won’t be able to give much time to Nandigram before the polls as she is, ultimately, the face of all 294 assembly seats. It is up to the local leaders to tackle everything. It would be a cut-throat battle for the Nandigram seat between the son of the soil and of the charismatic chief minister. It is too early to predict who will have the last laugh. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — With her sudden announcement to contest from the Nandigram constituency for the upcoming assembly elections, Mamata Banerjee has turned the battle between the TMC and the BJP into a personal fight between herself and the former TMC leader, Suvendu Adhikari. Winning Nandigram will be a tough job for Adhikari now, given Banerjee’s image and overall popularity with the masses. Nevertheless, Banerjee’s challenge is bound to force Adhikari to spend most of his time in his home district and Nandigram in order to ensure the BJP’s win in that crucial seat. This would mean that he will not be able to work for the saffron party in other districts as much as the BJP would like. The Adhikari family has been the local custodians of East Midnapore for the TMC since the party was formed in 1998. Perhaps Banerjee’s decision will help the party strengthen its ties with the East Midnapore voters independent of the Adhikaris. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The manner in which Mamata Banerjee announced that she has decided to contest from Nandigram, besides Bhowanipore, was inspiring. It was crucial for Banerjee to attend the rally in Nandigram after the departure of Suvendu Adhikari. She has had the time to observe the impact of Adhikari’s defection to the BJP and has now stepped forward to help tide over the crisis that the party is facing. It is natural for the BJP to feel threatened by Banerjee’s announcement and consider it to be a populist move. The chief minister’s presence in Nandigram is without a doubt an endeavour to regain some of TMC’s lost hold over the district and ensure rural votes for the elections. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — With the assembly polls right around the corner, the political situation in Bengal is rapidly heating up. The chief minister’s decision to announce her candidature from Nandigram is certainly a bold move. Only time will tell if it bears fruit. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta Ray of hope Sir — It was wonderful to read that over 5,600 birds were recorded during a count conducted at Santragachi Jheel last week. The counting — it was done by a team of seven — found that the number of avians at the waterbody is higher than the last five years. Some of the species that were spotted include the Northern Pintail, Gadwall and Ferruginous Pochard. Over the last few years there has been a considerable drop in the number of migratory birds visiting Calcutta owing to increased air pollution. Unless there is a marked improvement in air quality, this number might just remain a fluke. Meera Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Weak privacy policies in India||Are privacy and choice rights that Indian citizens can claim? The Supreme Court, in 2017, had upheld privacy to be a fundamental right. Yet, the domain of privacy remains besieged, and this macabre theatre of the lack of privacy and the alleged whittling down of consumer choice is unfolding, most noticeably, in the digital domain. WhatsApp, for example, announced and then deferred new service rules pertaining to data harvesting and users’ privacy. The growing concerns with the proposed changes are manifest in two institutional responses. The Delhi High Court has said that the use of the app is “voluntary” and asked citizens to exit the platform if they are worried about the new terms and conditions; the Centre, meanwhile, has asked WhatsApp to withdraw its privacy update in deference to data security. It has also asked why the platform has a lenient policy update for European countries, raising, once again, suspicions of differential treatment. The Delhi High Court may have upheld the sanctity of the principle of choice by pointing out to citizens that they have the option to use other apps. However, certain conditions make this ‘switch’ difficult for consumers. For one, WhatsApp has a dedicated subscriber base — over 400 million people use its services in India. The popularity of this particular platform — it is famed for its user-friendliness — combined with enhanced reliance on digital communication on account of a raging pandemic implies that WhatsApp is unlikely to witness a loss in public patronage. The Centre’s concern with data privacy is welcome: but the onus of protecting the privacy or data of users cannot be put on social media companies alone. In an age where data, metaphorically speaking, is the new oil, India is yet to design a comprehensive data privacy law. Worse, there are worries about the efficacy of the personal data protection bill — it is still being debated in Parliament — with its critics raising concerns over such provisions as the exemptions given to the State to access personal data, segmentation of data into specific categories, the need for consent for age-specific users to use internet-enabled services that may lead to disenfranchisement as well as the questionable skills of India’s Data Protection Authority personnel. The Centre’s advocacy on citizens’ data privacy will ring hollow unless it takes steps to iron out these creases in India’s yet-to-be-rolled-out data protection framework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Indo-US relations: play the strategic game smartly||Spoiler alert. There is a scene in the popular Netflix regency drama, Bridgerton, where Daphne is trying to convince the Queen that it was love at first sight for her and the Duke. Then the Duke corrects the record: it was initially a strategic decision on their part to pretend to be in love, he informs the Queen, though he had now truly fallen for Daphne. That is a little like the state of the relations between India and the United States of America today, after the administration of Donald Trump — he left office yesterday — declassified its strategic documents for the Indo-Pacific region, outlining the rationale for America’s attraction to India. New Delhi has for long argued that its relationships with other nations, especially the US, are not about containing any third country. It rightly does not like to be seen — or even mistakenly interpreted — as working on behalf of any other country. It is no one’s Team B. But the declassification of the US strategy document eliminates that fig leaf, explaining clearly that America’s primary reason for its increased alignment with India is to “counter Chinese influence in South and Southeast Asia and other regions of mutual concern”. Sure, you might say, we always knew that. We did. But the declassification of a policy that is still in place ties India’s hands each time it wants to resort to its stock reply on China — that New Delhi is not part of some grand conspiracy to contain Beijing’s growth. It is also a smart ploy by Trump’s team to reduce Joe Biden’s negotiating room with China. By outlining a series of military steps to strengthen the defence capabilities of the US’s partners and allies in the Indo-Pacific, the now-public document makes it difficult for Biden to try something different without risking criticism that he is “weak” on China. By itself, this is all an inconvenience, nothing more, for India and Biden. But here is the twist. While some believe Biden might retreat a step or two — no more — from Trump’s directly confrontational approach with China, it is likely that we might see a role reversal when it comes to US-Russia relations. Though the Trump administration maintained and enforced tough sanctions against Russia for its interference in the US democratic process in 2016, those moves never really had the full-throated backing of the White House. That, along with broad bipartisan support for India in the US, has so far allowed New Delhi to avoid sanctions for its purchase of the S-400 missile defence system from Russia. But US officials have warned India that time might be running out. For Moscow, the S-400 deal with India, agreed upon by President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is a litmus test of whether New Delhi truly still retains an independent foreign policy. Finding a way out of this crisis without either upsetting Russia or attracting sanctions was never going to be easy. Attempting to do so without suggesting that Washington somehow holds the strings to New Delhi’s foreign policy will be even harder. That is not all. Both Biden and the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, have pitched the idea of a group of 10 democracies — the United Kingdom is calling it the D10 — that will brainstorm and develop common global positions. The implicit focus of the group? China and Russia. New Delhi is thrilled to be a part of the D10 — the US, the UK, Germany, Japan, France, Italy, Canada, Australia and South Korea will be the others — but would have been careful about avoiding criticism of Russia. Now every move India makes in such a grouping will be seen by Moscow and Beijing through the prism of whether it aids US interests in the Indo-Pacific region. It is tempting to think that India should just give up this game of shadows and openly acknowledge itself as a US ally with shared interests against China. After all, Beijing is hardly being friendly with New Delhi as is. Why bother about China’s sentiments? That is a dangerous trap, mostly because it only increases India’s dependence on one country — the US — that itself is far from predictable or reliable. And I do not mean just the past four years under Trump. Veteran Indian diplomats have not forgotten how Barack Obama, and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, sprung a surprise on the world by announcing their climate deal just before the Paris agreement was to be finalized. After that, it was almost impossible for others like India to resist the pressure to sign on to the deal. So what is the way forward? New Delhi could turn the discomfort of the declassified document into a weapon to explain to the Biden administration why India needs to be even more careful about perceptions. It could use the situation to buy itself greater strategic space instead of watching it shrink. Ultimately, this is not about proving anything to Russia, China or any other nation. This is about India’s strategic identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Evolutionary process||The efficacy of competitive politics in a parliamentary democracy is invariably linked to the health of its political parties. At the extreme end is the United States of America where a two-party system has defined the political landscape since the mid-19th century. Although individuals have occasionally broken the mould in state elections, no formation outside the broad-based Republican and Democratic parties has endured. Political fights based on either individuals or issues are, more often than not, carried out within parties — a reason why it is often difficult to distinguish between a moderate Republican and a moderate Democrat. No doubt there are moments when the polarization between parties is sharp and seemingly unbridgeable. In recent times, for example, there is an energetic conservative movement within the Republicans that would have no place in the Democratic camp. Likewise, there has been a sharp spurt in identity concerns within the Democratic Party that has, at best, triggered a sharp reaction in the Republican camp. However, despite the disruption occasioned by Donald Trump, the broad architecture of competitive politics has endured the storm. A broadly similar pattern — with an older ancestry — can be discerned in British politics, except that the ideological and cultural divisions between the Conservative and Labour parties are sharper. The attempts by the Liberal Democrats, the Greens and the parties on the extreme Right and Left to inject a greater measure of choice to the electorate have not made any significant headway. However, the spectacular growth of the Scottish National Party has added a regional dimension to British politics — something that was hitherto confined to Northern Ireland — and even put a big question mark on the future of the United Kingdom. The old pattern of Conservative versus Labour, with the Liberal Democrats making patchy interventions of consequence, has, however, persisted in England. What is also significant is that despite the UK’s four-decade cohabitation in the European Union, the pattern of competitive politics that can be traced back to the mid-Victorian era has endured. A feature of political life in the Anglophone democracies — that also engulfs Australia, Canada and New Zealand — is the relative fixity of political allegiances in the political class at least. People encounter life having made a political choice based on political orientation, family tradition or neighbourhood and these remain broadly unchanging. The real electoral contests involve securing the support of not more than 15 per cent of the electorate — those who are described as the ‘floating voters’. In public life, a stigma is attached to those who switch parties. Had it not been for the exigencies of the war with Germany and the inability of the traditional Tory leadership to tackle the challenge of Hitler, Winston Churchill would never have become prime minister. That was because the political class couldn’t digest his mid-career defection from the Liberals to the Conservatives. Till he proved his mettle as an inspirational wartime prime minister, Churchill was never regarded as ‘one of us’ by the Tory establishment. Every nation forges its own distinct political traditions over time and often through a process of trial and error. Yet, countries that trace their political institutions to the Westminster model share a common disdain for shifting allegiances. A moral opprobrium is often attached to those who switch parties, even if the change is dictated by real political differences. This is also true of India where the post-1947 party system is still in a process of evolution, despite seven decades of competitive politics. The dominance of the Congress as a broad-based movement for national independence ensured that many of the ideological currents in politics were encapsulated within it. True, many of the stalwarts of the erstwhile Congress Socialist Party broke away and formed their own party and the Hindu nationalists assembled under the banner of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. Yet, the character of the Congress as a broad church was largely unaffected until the split of 1969. Apart from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Akali Dal that had definite socio-cultural moorings that were located in pre-1947 politics, even regional impulses were subsumed within the Congress. Competitive politics, including the belief that the mighty Congress could be effectively challenged, began with the 1967 general election. There were two broad trends. First, there were the regional parties such as the Utkal Congress, the Bangla Congress and the Bharatiya Kranti Dal of Charan Singh that mounted a challenge to the Congress. Subsequently, N.T. Rama Rao forged the Telugu Desam Party on the strength of wounded pride of Andhra Pradesh, the Shiv Sena championed the cause of the Marathi language and culture, including a dose of Hindu pride, and the Asom Gana Parishad grew out of the anti-foreigner movement in Assam. The regional parties acquired national importance once it became clear that an effective challenge to the Congress at the national level could only be mounted by a coalition of non-Congress parties. Secondly, the parties that based their politics on the strength of ideological convictions also increased their following. After 1980, the Jana Sangh regrouped under the banner of the Bharatiya Janata Party and chose to reach people outside the fold of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh parivar. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), having earlier overshadowed the parent Communist Party of India, created a formidable base for itself in West Bengal, Kerala and Tripura. And, finally, the Bahujan Samaj Party made a mark for itself on the strength of subaltern identity politics. The real challenge before the parties that sought to take advantage of the slow disintegration of the Congress was the process of aggregation. It was the BJP that approached this issue with dexterity. By 1980, it was clear to the sangh parivar that in order to emerge as an alternative pole of politics, it had to shed all insistence on ideological purity. While it was necessary to bring people together on the basis of a loose commitment to Hindu cultural identity, it was equally necessary to keep its doors open to those who were looking for a more stable home at the national level. This meant courting political activists from both the Congress and the regional parties. Addressing a Trinamul Congress meeting in Purulia last Tuesday, Mamata Banerjee hit out at those who had left her to join the BJP by arguing that “politics is a solemn ideology and philosophy and one cannot change these things everyday like clothes.” The chief minister’s anger at the defectors was understandable but less so was her assertion that her party was — like the communist parties —based on firm ideological convictions. The reality is that the TMC was founded as a splinter from the Congress by those who felt that a more frontal anti-CPI(M) approach was necessary in West Bengal. Subsequently, it teamed up with the BJP because it needed national backing for its fight. This alliance broke once the TMC acquired a critical mass and started reaching out to Muslim voters. After the TMC swept the state polls in 2011, it slowly reinvented itself as a party of Bengali sub-nationalism bound by a loyalty to Banerjee. When the latter commitment began eroding and the BJP emerged as the principal Opposition, the TMC began to show cracks. There was nothing remotely ideological in the whole process. It was merely a step in the evolution of a new all-India party with a Hindu nationalist core but stitched together by aggregating political impulses. The process isn’t unique to West Bengal; it has been experienced before in Assam, Tripura, Karnataka, Bihar and even Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. One national party is on its deathbed. The BJP under Narendra Modi is emerging as its successor. The party system in India is in a process of constant evolution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Rally to protest against the three farm laws in Jamshedpur||Around 1000 people from different cross-sections of the society came together under the banner of Kisan Andolan Ekta Manch took out a rally from Sakchi’s Ambagan ground to protest against the Centre's farm bills. The rally was led by Bhagwan Singh, the president of the Mango Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee. It had protesters holding banners and flags condemning the controversial laws. Supported by the All India Sikh Students Federation ( AISSF) and various Opposition parties like - Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Congress, and the Left, the rally later transformed into a sit-in demonstration near the Sakchi roundabout. JMM's Jugsalai legislator Mangal Kalindi and former Ichagarg MLA Arvind Singh also participated in the dharna. Singh while addressing the gathering, said that even after the farmers protesting against the farm laws for over about two months at the Delhi border, the deadlock continues. Both Singh and the Jugsalai MLA demanded the complete rollback of the farm laws by the central government. Meanwhile, Bhagwan Singh mentioned that the rally was a way to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have hit the street in a bid to compel the government to roll back - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, that were passed by both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, last year. The huge turnout at the rally resulted in the disruption of traffic on the busy Kalimati Road for about two hours in the morning. Commuters traveling in cars were the worst affected as they got stuck in traffic congestion caused by the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wager, out to attend nature’s call, drowns in mine pit||A daily wage earner from Sinidih in Katras died when he drowned into an abandoned coal mine pit. His body was recovered on Thursday at around 1 pm, 24 hours after the accident on Wednesday. A group of trained divers of Moonidih Area engaged by BCCL and local administration recovered the body of Budhan Bhuian (25), who had gone near the pit on Wednesday to attend his nature’s call. Bhuian, son of a retired BCCL employee, slipped inside the pit during that time. A group of local women bathing near the area saw the incident and shouted for help, after which a group of villagers tried to rescue him. But they failed as by that time, Bhuian was deep inside the pit. A team of Madhuban Police led by officer-in-charge Sonu Kumar who reached the site also called some local divers but they failed to rescue him. After a brief pause, the operation was resumed on Thursday morning with the help of the experts when the body was recovered and sent for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. Bhuian’s mother Kalki Devi said that his son was a patient of epilepsy. “He must have slipped into the mine pit during one such attack,” she added. Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto consoled the family members on Thursday and asked BCCL officers to ensure proper safety measures near the mine pit. Project officer of Maheshpur Colliery of BCCL, under whose jurisdiction the mine pit falls, assured financial help to the family members. “The barricading of the entire mine pit has been carried out by BCCL with the barbed wires. We have also put the boards indicating the dangerous site and water level in the mine pit. But some local residents still use the mine pit for bathing, dishwashing, cloth washing and other purposes” Sonu Kumar said “The body will be handed over to family members of the deceased after the arrival of the postmortem report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Appeal to open stadiums for sports training  ||Jharkhand Olympic Association has urged all district administrations to allow sportsmen and women to access stadiums to facilitate regular training and practice. On Thursday, JOA wrote to deputy commissioners of all 24 districts, requesting them to direct respective sports officers to act in this regard and cited ‘unlock’ orders issued by the state government in December last year following the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19. JOA secretary Madhukant Pathak, who issued the letter, underscored the need for proper access to facilities, citing the “immense pool of sporting talent” in Jharkhand. He said many sportspersons failed to perform due to the lack of facilities and resources. He said despite formal orders from the state government to allow players to use stadiums sans spectators, things had not improved on the ground. “We recently met with chief secretary Sukhdev Singh with our plea. He later issued orders to the sports department, but the latter isn’t enforcing it. Hence, citing the state government’s order of December 17, 2020, we thought of writing to all DCs from our end,” Pathak said. Notably, it was on June 25, 2020, that the state government had first allowed opening of all stadiums for sporting activities to be held without spectators. It also prescribed a host of dos and don’ts. Since then, several sporting activities in India and the world have gradually resumed. In Jharkhand, the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) organised a T20 league during September-October last year. In February 2021, Jharkhand Athletics Association is scheduled to hold an international walk race championship in Ranchi, which is an Olympic qualification event. Pathak said, “The whole of 2020 went in vain due to the Covid-19 pandemic. For any player, every day is important to keep in shape if he/she aspires to qualify for national and international events. The other problem in our state is that many players hail from poor backgrounds and face financial strain to even meet proper dietary requirements. It’s high time players get access to stadiums for practice and training,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra youth loses leg in landmine blast in Chatra||A 25-year-old man lost his leg in a landmine blast on Wednesday when he went to graze his cattle at the Dumaria forest in Kolhaiya panchayat in Chatra. Gobardhan Singh Bhokta went to feed his cattle to the forest like other days but on Wednesday evening, he accidentally stepped on a landmine, planted by Maoists to target police personnel on patrol, resulting in the blast. The blast was so powerful that besides losing his leg, Bhotka suffered injuries on his chest, chin and other parts of the body. It happened at around 6 pm but the youth remained at the site for more than three hours, screaming for help, until villagers searching for him came to his rescue at around 9 pm. On recovering Bhotka in a pool of blood, the villagers informed the Rajpur police, whose team arrived along with CRPF officials. Bhotka was then sent to the Chatra Sadar Hospital, but his critical condition prompted doctors to shift him to RIMS, Ranchi. Sub-divisional police officer Avinash Kumar, who went to Chatra Sadar Hospital, sent a police official to Ranchi with Bhokta. He assured his family of help and even aided them financially for treatment. Kumar said he is following this case and if needed, will help Bhokta again. This is the second time in less than 10 days that such an incident has happened in the area. On January 13, 45-year-old Sohrai Bhuiyan also sustained severe injuries in his leg in a similar incident at the Bandarchunwa forest in Huntergunj block. The Chatra Police said that they were conducting regular operations to nab the Maoists and have alerted the patrolling teams as well as villagers about the landmines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Now, 2 vaccine centres in coal town||The ongoing Covid vaccination drive, so far confined to two rural health centres in Dhanbad, will be extended to the town at Sadar Hospital from Friday and at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College from next week. The Dhanbad civil surgeon, Dr Gopal Das, said, “We have a target of 100 vaccinations per day at each of the two centres and a list of beneficiaries has already been finalised from the state government. The beneficiaries are receiving messages on their mobiles about the time and place of the vaccination.” The district reproductive and child health officer, Dr Vikash Kumar Rana, said the vaccination drive at Sadar Hospital will begin from Friday while the vaccination drive at Nirmal Mahto hospital will begin from next week. The Sadar Hospital in-charge, Dr Rajkumar Singh, said vaccinations would begin at 10am for selected beneficiaries. “All infrastructure, including manpower, have been in place at our centre from January 8 when a dry run was conducted at our hospital along with community health centres at Baghmara, Tundi, Topchanchi, Nirsa, Jharia, Baliapur and Govindpur,” he said. Since the rollout of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16, shots of Civishield have been administered to beneficiaries in Dhanbad at community health centres of Tundi and Topchanchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city gets AIFF nod to host Women's World Cup camps||The state sports department has received the green signal from All India Football Federation (AIFF) for hosting the national preparatory camp for the Fifa under-17 Women’s World Cup in Jamshedpur. The women’s department of the national football federation has also given its nod for the under-20 women’s preparatory camp to be held in the steel city. Both the camps will stretch for three months and are supposed to start from next month. Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) secretary Ghulam Rabbani informed that the AIFF has sent him the approval letter.  “The camps will be finally held in Jamshedpur,” he said over the phone from Giridih. The under-17 camp is scheduled to kick-off from February 4 and will be followed by the one for the under-20 eves. “Though the schedule of the camps is yet to be decided, the exercise for the under-17 age group will probably be conducted from February 4 onwards. An annunciation will be made shortly,” an official of JFA said. The camps will be conducted at JRD Tata Sports Complex, Flatlet ground (in Kadma) and the greens at Tata Football Academy. Around 70 women footballers would take part in both the preparatory camps. The greens at JRD Tata Sports Complex and the Flatlet are used for training sessions of Jamshedpur Football Club. Both the grounds can be utilised for the camps since JFC is busy competing in the Indian Super League, which is underway in Goa. The state sports department had recently initiated talks with the AIFF and Sports Authority of India (Eastern Centre) regarding the camp in Jamshedpur. It is being said that chief minister Hemant Soren was keen to host the camp in Jharkhand. Expenses related to the camps will be borne by the state government while AIFF and JFA will be lending the technical support. The preparatory camp was scheduled in Jamshedpur in October last year. However, it had to be cancelled because of the pandemic. A recce team led by the then state sports director Anil Kumar Singh had inspected the available facilities in Jamshedpur last year. The team also held a discussion with officials of Tata Steel sports wing. Besides going to the JRD Tata Sports Complex and the checking the ground at Flatlets in Kadma, the team also visited some hotels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sakchi site cleared for new vending zone||Civic authorities used a bulldozer to clear encroachments on Thursday from an area near the Sakchi gate of Jubilee park where a new vending zone is coming up. Jamshedpur Notified Area  Committee (JNAC) said the vending zone will be spread over 1,000 sq ft. JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar, who supervised the eviction drive and cleanliness operation, said, "This will be the city's first dedicated vending zone. The vending zone was planned to end traffic snarls caused by push-cart vendors near Jubilee Park." He said the new area will be used to rehabilitate over 50 vendors who currently run their businesses from makeshift shops and push carts on both sides of the road that connects The Bengal Club with Jubilee Park. JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti who was also present at the site said, "Apart from traffic congestion, vendors also used to litter the road. This made the place unhygienic. Daily garbage has to be cleaned by staff deployed by Jusco," he said. According to the JNAC official, the vending zone will become fully operational within a week. There will be a parking zone where people can park vehicles and enjoy the delicacies and buy necessities. “Bins will be placed for proper segregation of dry and wet waste,” said Bharti. Notably, the civic body also has plans to set up a similar dedicated vending zone at Kadma and Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to hold international film festival from February 20||A group of young filmmakers of Dhanbad, aiming to organise the first Coal Capital International Film Festival Olympiad, have started to select entries for the festival, set to kick off on February 20. The film festival has been divided into three categories -- short film, documentary and music video -- while the entries will be screened from February 20 to March 1. The screenings of the top 10 films from each category will be carried out on March 6 at the Tetullah ground in coal town. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Nehal Ahmad (38), one of the organisers of the event, said, “The entries can be uploaded on the website, www.cciffo.com or sent on the email id office@cciffo.com  from January 19 to February 20.” Ahmad is a Dhanbad-based filmmaker who is organising the first-of-its-kind event in the town under the banner of AKS Trust. “Short films and documentaries of less than 30 minutes duration will be accepted, while the music videos should be of standard length of around two and a half to three minutes,” he said. He elaborated that the entries can be of any language, including local ones like Nagpuri, Khortha,Mundari, Bhojpuri and Magahi. “We have already received a Bhojpuri entry from Mauritius. The Bhojpuri dialect of Mauritius is slightly different from that of Bihar,” Ahmad, a postgraduate diploma-holder in TV Production and Direction from Sri Aurobindo Institute of Mass Communication, New Delhi, said. Giving out more details, he said that the first round of selection of entries would be done after the arrival of all entries upto February 20. “The indoor screening of entries would be carried out  for more than 10 days from February 20 before a  panel of experts from Ranchi, Calcutta and Dhanbad. After that, the entries will undergo the second round of indoor screening from March 1 to March 5. Thereafter, the open-screening of top 10 ten entries will be carried out on March 6,” he added. Ahmad’s short film Chappal, which highlights the problems of Naxalism in the state was selected as the best film during the short film festival Super Shorts-12, in 2012. Amit Chandra, the founder-director of the Coal Capital International Film Festival Olympiad said it will be a challenge for them to conduct the open-screening on March 6 as the Tetullah ground belongs to the department of Railways. “We will seek permission from the district administration and Dhanbad Division authorities of Indian Railway,” he said. “The basic aim behind organising the film festivals is to aware common people about a variety of films based on various social, human and environmental issues and to attract youths to filmmaking,” said  Chandra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||With new lungs, Mahto is fit to leave Chennai hospital||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto thanked doctors, his colleagues in the Cabinet and family members for supporting him during his fight against Covid-induced lung fibrosis on Thursday via video conferencing – his first public interaction since he was hospitalised in October 2020. “I thank everyone who stood by my side during my treatment and did not lose hope,” said Mahto. While the minister appeared on the screen for media persons, he did not speak at length about his battle against Covid-19 and subsequent health complications. However, doctors from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in Chennai, where he underwent lung transplant surgery, said that Mahto would be able to return home soon and lead a normal life. Dr Suresh Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at MGM Chennai, said that Mahto was fit to return home, but he has decided to stay in the hospital for a couple of weeks and then leave for Jharkhand. “Medically, he is fit to go home. However, the minister has decided to stay in the hospital for a few weeks and then go home when he feels that he is ready to return to normal life,” Rao said. Speaking about the procedure of Mahto’s lung transplant Dr K. R. Balakrishnan of MGM Healthcare said, “It was a challenging case as not many transplants have been done for Covid-destroyed lungs. However, given the condition of the minister we made some quick decisions to ensure patient safety and expected patient outcome.” “We weighed in all the options available before us and decided to go ahead with the transplant. The patient responded well to the procedure and his lungs are now working well,” Balakrishnan added. Mahto was weaned off the mechanical ventilation on December 8 last year. Finally, his tracheostomy was removed on January 1 and currently he is making good progress and his vital parameters are stable and monitored continuously, doctors said during a press conference in Chennai on Thursday. “Lung transplant may well be the answer to many COVID survivors whose lungs suffered severe fibrosis, thereby making them chronic respiratory patients. In such patients when all other clinical and mechanical interventions fail, lung transplantation is an option,” added Dr Apar Jindal, Clinical Director and Consultant, Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology & Chest Medicine at MGM Healthcare. Doctors from MGM said that Tamil Nadu’s policy for organ donation made the process of finding a lung donor easier for the minister and the surgery was performed as soon as a donor was found. The doctors also thanked Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Agriculture Minister Badal Patralekh for trusting the medical experts at MGM and backing them in their decisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over a lakh vaccine doses reach state in second tranche  ||Jharkhand received a second instalment of the Covishield vaccine on Wednesday with state health department officials confirming they had got about 1.65 lakh doses which would allow them to go ahead with plans to immunize 1.25 lakh people in the first phase. Jharkhand had received 1,62,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine on January 14, two days before the start of the nationwide vaccination drive. One vial contains 5ml of the vaccine which works out to 10 doses. Each beneficiary is to get two doses of 0.5ml each. The state nodal officer for the immunization programme, Dr Ajit Prasad, told reporters they now had enough stocks to successfully vaccinate all registered beneficiaries in the first phase. In the four days of vaccination in the state, 11,714 people got their shots against a target of 19,200, which works out to about 61 per cent. Wednesday’s count was less than 3,000 with only 2,779 people taking the vaccine, according to health department figures at 8pm. On Day One, 3,200 people took the vaccine, but the second day saw 3,000 people turning up for the vaccine. On Tuesday, around 2,735 turned up. The vaccination drive is underway across 48 centres in the state with a target of 4,800 per day. No major adverse reactions have been reported so far, as per the health department. “The low vaccination turnout is a nationwide trend. Since health workers are getting inoculated in the first phase, they should be more confident and forthcoming. The situation will gradually improve in the coming days as we now have sufficient stocks… we will step up counselling sessions and other motivational activities,” said Prasad. The nodal officer said that now vaccines would be sent to all districts. “We don’t have a storage problem at all,” he stressed. There are 275 vaccine storage points, nine walk-in coolers, five ice-lined refrigerators, 700 deep freezers, and 5,505 cold boxes for storing vials. Currently, the vaccination drive is underway four days a week—Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. Thursdays and Saturdays have been set aside for other immunisation work. Sunday is a holiday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs 125 fresh Covid cases, zero casualties in a day||Jharkhand achieved close to 56 per cent of its vaccination target on Wednesday by administering Covishield shots to as many as 2779 of the 4970 beneficiaries registered for vaccination on the day, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The vaccination programme was held at 48 centres across the state on Wednesday, and most numbers of people were vaccinated in Ranchi, which achieved 63 per cent of its vaccination target. At least 230 of the 367 registered beneficiaries were administered the shots at three vaccination centres in the district. As many as nine beneficiaries complained of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) in Dhanbad, where 133 people were administered the Covishield shots, revealed figures with the NHM. Jamtara, where 72 people were vaccinated, reported one case of AEFI. However, doctors said that none of the adverse effects following Immunization were severe. Meanwhile, as many as 125 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday, while at least 170 patients recovered in the state, the NHM stated in a separate bulletin released on Wednesday night. Ranchi reported 65 cases against 102 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases in the districts down to 527. As per the NHM, as many as 1102 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 12524 people and about 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 50.93 lakh people and tested 50.84 lakh of them. As per government data, more than 98 per cent of the 118012 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in the state was 0.08 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 909 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in the country was 612.49 days. After reported seven deaths in 48 hours, the state did not report any Covid casualty on Wednesday. As many as 1057 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Church delegation meets Modi on Stan Swamy||Narendra Modi has refused to “interfere” in securing the release of Father Stan Swamy, the elderly and ailing rights activist who has been in prison for over 100 days, a Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI) delegation that met the Prime Minister on Tuesday has said. Modi is learnt to have told Cardinals Oswald Gracias, George Alencherry and Baselios Cleemis in Delhi that the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has the custody of the Jesuit priest, is an “independent” organisation and that he will be unable to intervene. “With regards to the release of Fr Stan Swamy, the Prime Minister said he was aware of the situation and was sympathetic. But this is taken care of by an independent agency (NIA) and the government does not want to interfere in the matter,” Cardinal Gracias, the Archbishop of Bombay and president of the CBCI, said on Wednesday. “The solution in Stan Swamy’s case can only come from the investigating agencies, the Prime Minister said. He added that the case had to go through normal channels,” Cardinal Gracias added. Swamy, 83, was arrested on October 8, 2020, from his residence at Bagaicha near Ranchi. Swamy is one of 16 rights activists, lawyers, writers and academics arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and charged with Maoist links. He is lodged in a Mumbai jail. Swamy maintains that he had not attended the Elgar Parishad event at Bhima Koregaon on December 31, 2017. Caste violence had erupted the next day, resulting in the death of one person. Swamy has been charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sent to judicial custody by a special NIA court. On January 15 this year, Swamy completed 100 days in Taloja prison. Swamy, who suffers from Parkinson’s disease, had been for long denied a sipper and straw, which he needs as he cannot have liquid in a glass without spilling the contents. He had to move court and was finally granted the items on December 4 last year. The others in jail in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case include activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Gautam Navlakha, Delhi University professor Hany Babu, poet Varavara Rao, lawyers Surendra Gadling, Rona Wilson, Sudhir Dhawale, Shoma Sen and Mahesh Raut and academic Anand Teltumbde. They have been in jail for over two years. During Tuesday’s meeting, the cardinals asked Prime Minister Modi about the proposal to invite Pope Francis to India. “The Prime Minister is positive about this and has shared his eagerness to get the Holy Father to India and that this was always on the mind of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has to find an appropriate time when the Holy Father can be invited. The present health and safety conditions in India do not warrant a visit of the Holy Father,” Cardinal Gracias said. The Pope had expressed eagerness to visit India in 2017, four years after his election to the papacy, but the Modi government had not invited him then. The Pope had then visited Myanmar and Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
21-01-2021||Jharkhand||Auto-irrigation and app-based soil monitoring system for farmers||A smart auto-irrigation and app-based soil monitoring system primarily focused on motivating and engaging underprivileged families of migrants who own fields but lack resources for agriculture and are forced to move out for livelihood has not only earned funding from the US-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers but also started helping such people at four sites in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand. A faculty of IIT-Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad, along with a group of students and a horticulture officer have developed the project. The project was set up and devices were installed in the fields at four places in Dhanbad — Baliapur Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sardar Patel Nagar, Koylanagar and Rajendra Sarobar near the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. “The project is part of the US-based Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’ Humanitarian Activities Committee (IEEE-HAC) and SIGHT’s (special interest group on humanitarian technology) response to the current Covid-19 situation. Under the project, one institute from selected developing countries was chosen to improve the pandemic situation in their society by means of technology,” said Rajeev Kumar Ranjan, a faculty in the electronics engineering department of IIT-ISM, who is leading the project. The project was the only one selected from India by IEEE, the world’s largest technical professional organisation dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity. A grant of $3,700 was provided to start the project. “We received the grant in June last year. Earlier this month, we completed installation in four sites and developed the AgroPro app. The new system comes with automatic irrigation, control through multi-language app, farmer-less irrigation support, 24x7 monitoring, smart adjustment according to environmental conditions powered by artificial intelligence and modular design with support for multiple sprinklers/pumps. We also aspire to further develop the project into an effective food security system that can predict various crop failure scenarios beforehand and become sustainable with the adding of solar panels for supplying electricity,” added Ranjan. The older irrigation technology led to a lot of water wastage and it discourages people to take up farming, particularly in a parched area like Dhanbad, despite owning lands and forces them to migrate to other cities for employment. The project will help those with less farming skill in coming out with a more proficient way of irrigation with the sprinkler system. Temperature, moisture and humidity readings are continuously monitored using sensors and is managed by the AgroPro app, which is available for download on Google Play Store. “The automatic soil monitoring and irrigation system will help farmers tackle water management issues and enhance the crop yield thereby generating means for their livelihood. We had conducted a survey last September and got to know about the problems faced by farmers. This helped us in developing the project to address their issues,” said Ranjan. The basic setup costs around Rs 10,000 for 21,000sqfeet of land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-166
