22-01-2021||Calcutta||On your paws, get set, walk||At long last did the show season start. New Town Carnival wasn’t strictly a dog show — it wasn’t a test of adherence to breed specifications and it was open to felines too — but pet lovers lapped up the excuse to play with and click pictures with man’s best friends. “My dog had no handler for eight months during the lockdown and since the Kennel Club of India has cancelled all pointed shows this season he is missing the action,” said Diptiman Sengupta, who had come with Diesel, a Golden Retriever with an enviable coat. “This carnival is a great idea, at least the dogs get to stay in practise.” The event had pets and their owners walking down a red carpet to showcase how obedient the pets were, how well groomed they were and also how well dressed they were. Puchkai, the Shih Tzu, paraded in a purple sweater knitted by owner Pritha Roy Sarkar. “Now that I’m done with Puchkai’s sweater, I shall start knitting one for my daughter,” laughed Pritha later, while picking up a prize for grooming. Google, the Siberian Husky who bagged the prize for obedience, wowed with a bandana that had his name on. “I got it printed from Presto,” smiled Mousumi Das of Salt Lake’s EC Block. Google’s popularity preceded him and many a visitor went and asked Mousumi if he was indeed the Husky who played in FD Park in the afternoons. “Some even asked if I lived in Google’s house,” she laughed. Pixel, the Beagle, walked in an attractive yellow jacket with Tom and Jerry motifs. In fact Madhurika Modani offered him a treat in front of the judges that made the scent hound stand on two legs for it. The audience broke into cheers. Hats off to Deboleena Majumder who had come with — not one, not two, not three but — four pets out of which two were cats. She had dressed them all differently. “Himu, the Himalayan cat, is wearing a hat and galis pants and Sweety, the Persian cat is wearing a frock with a floral hair band,” smiled the Salt Lake CD Block resident before walking in with them. Aditri Tarafder, a nine-year-old from Kankurgachi, walked with her cat Billy. “He was a little nervous so I carried him,” she said about the cat she adopted a year ago after he was abandoned by his mother. “I have a Lovebird named Sunshine but didn’t get him as this show isn’t open for birds,” said Aditri’s friend Mohona Sengupta. “I love dogs too but am allergic to them. I guess I’ll be OK playing with them today since I have a mask on,” she said, embracing her friend Srinika Dasgupta’s Husky Frozzo. A memorable moment was when Rik Ganguli Biswas held his two month old kitten up to the world in a scene straight out of The Lion King. The rest of the time Miffy stayed put on his shoulder. “If you fall off, Miffy, you’ll be dinner for some dog here!” warned Rik’s mother Runa. Beagle puppy Enzo kept slipping out of his harness and running to eat anything that lay on the ground, keeping Avijoy Biswas on his toes. “He eats everything but what we give him,” laughed the college student. “We have all lost weight running after him.” Glen, the black Lab, was a bit of a runaway too when he slipped out of Shamik Poddar’s hands and ran to Shamik’s fiance Madhuwanti Goswami. Mayo, a Spitz, jumped off the fountain ledge she was resting on and barked at it profusely when it suddenly got turned on and started spraying water on her. And Duggu, the English Cream Retreiver, had a bleeding paw somehow but the Animel Planet crew (that was organising the show) rushed in with first aid. There was also participation by a few “Indie” dogs, much to the cheer of Shrddhaa, who runs an animal adoption centre called Shrddhaaz Adoption. “These days a lots of pedigreed dogs are getting abandoned in New Town but hopefully awareness can be raised for pet owners to have a heart,” said the IT sector employee who has four homes, each full of animals awaiting families. Some rare breeds set the cameras ablaze, like Sumit Dutt’s Cane Corso, Choco, and Rahul Chowdhury’s Alaskan Malamute, Rustom. The audience gasped collectively as Rustom walked the ramp with a mane and attitude no less than that of a lion. “They are friendly and obedient,” said owner Rahul. “I have Huskies too and they have a mind of their own but Malamutes can be trained.” And then came Chicaboo, the showstopper of the ramp walk. The Rottweiler was dressed — not in clothes or hair bands — but a topor and garland. He walked in with Souvik Chakravarti and was accompanied by a board that read “Bharat Pet-rimony”. The dog was scouting for a bride! The board had Chicaboo’s bio-data in brief, where his profession was mentioned as stand-up comedian and hobbies included destroying furniture and stealing shoes. “A hundred people must have come to click pictures with him today,” said Souvik. “They can’t believe a Rottweiler can be so friendly. It’s very important to us that he be kind and gentle.” The search for the bride, by the way, is still on. The carnival was held under the New Town Kolkata Development Authority banner and chairman Debashis Sen welcomed everyone to the festivities. Judges included fashion designer Mamika De, Anvita Singh Kumar who has over 26,000 followers on the Instagram account she runs for her Labradors Brad and Pitt, and Satarupa Bose, an avid dog lover. All loved the ambience and appreciate the platform for so many pet lovers to meet. “The dog shows that take place around town have become commercial and get hijacked by breeders. We wanted a fun day for people who love their pets as members of their family,” said Tapan Gupta of Animel Planet, which has branches across Salt Lake and New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Pat on the back from NKDA for 20 New Town organizers||Members of 10 gated communities and 10 blocks receive a Covid Safe Puja Award from Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) on the final day of the New Town Carnival on Sunday. “Every year NKDA felicitates the best puja, idol, decoration etc in New Town but in 2020 we wanted it to be low-key affair. So we are awarding the top pujas that best maintained Covid safety protocol on the recommendation of New Town Forum and News (NTFN),” said Sen. Social group NTFN had compiled the Covid guidelines issued by the government and the high court before the Pujas and used them as criteria for their markings. “We had 26 volunteers who did the rounds of 86 pujas,” said vice-president Ankur Roy Choudhury. “We even paid surprise visits and found that while some organisers claimed to have called off cultural programmes, the events took place after all!” Arabindo Adhikary, president of the Alaktika Housing Complex puja committee, said the judges even made calls to security guards and random residents to verify claims. “We cancelled community lunch, shifted functions online and were very strict about anjali and sindur khela. Residents had to make sacrifices but it was a matter of safety,” said Adhikary. Pictures by Gautam Bhadra and Shukraditya Bose||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||And the winners are...||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Lessons from the Covid year||• If one was happy to save money on transport another had to, with a heavy heart, lay off his juniors. The year 2020 has been a whirlwind and New Town’s CD Block organised a virtual meet where residents talked about how they fared. Sumi Pal was happy with the quality time she got to spend with her daughters. “I haven’t had this luxury in the past 13 years since my kids were born,” said the IT professional. “I also got to enjoy the beauty of dawn and dusk. Still, I feel the virtual world cannot fill the void of human touch and face-to-face interaction.” Debi Dutta shared her experience of online teaching and was happy with all the extra time she found to read. Purba Kar converted her passion to profession during the lockdown by going all out with her homemade chocolates. “The year has also taught us terms like lockdown, social distancing and the use of new apps,” she said. There was music and recitation too. Ruma Baul sang Tagore’s Tomar kotha hetha keho. “Earlier I used to travel a lot for my business and never bothered about travelling expenses. But during the lockdown, I realised that I was saving a hefty amount. I donated this money to charity and it brought me satisfaction. I tried to stay positive so any form of depression couldn’t touch me. Rita Basu, who recited Tagore’s Prabin, felt the pandemic gave people time with the family and taught everyone to share chores, irrespective of gender. Amalabha Dutta recounted the harrowing experience he had when his company asked him to lay off some employees. “I felt like shifting passengers from a sinking boat to a lifeboat,” said the resident. “But on the upside I got the opportunity for ample spiritual practice which was not possible earlier.” Patralekha Mukherjee sang Tagore’s Borisho dhara majhe shantir bari, Sathi Bairagi sang Charan dharite diyo go and Gouri Sanyal sang Jibon jakhon shukaye jay. Rita Chowdhuri sang folk and Sukla Dasgupta a prayer song. The organiser of the event, cultural convenor of the block Sithi Kana Ghatak, shared her own experience. “I was alarmed when we learnt about the deadly virus at a seminar at Biswa Bangla Convention Centre on March 15, but gradually chalked out a survival strategy for residents. We kept everyone connected online and held periodic programmes May onwards,” said the lady who also paid tribute to Covid victims. Bharati Kanjilal Health high • Through an interaction with doctors, EE Block residents learnt that the risk of kidney problems increases with hypertension, diabetes and age. They also learnt that symptoms include back pain or difficulty in passing urine. The rule of thumb, however, was to increase the intake of water if urine is yellowish. “Kidney ailments would be the fifth leading cause of death globally by 2040 but it is preventable through intervention,” said Ranjan Sarkar, nephrologist of AMRI Hospitals. The hospital had held a health and awareness camp with EE Block Residents Forum. “Residents are coming for blood pressure, blood sugar, ECG, pulmonary function tests as well as free doctors’ consultation and some tips on kidney diseases,” said secretary Samir Mondal. Puspa Kar, an EE Block resident, had come especially for the awareness camp. “I’ve been having some pain in the back and wanted to check if it’s kidney-related. I’ll also get my blood pressure and blood sugar measured,” she said. General physician Sharmistha Ghosh was impressed by the initiative, especially the assistance the forum will lend to senior citizens. “Today we have found 70 to 75 per cent of patients to be suffering from diabetes and hypertension as well as a few with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), arthritis and Parkinson’s disease.” Bharati Kanjilal Women on top • A platform for women entrepreneurs — Winning Strees — had conducted a health and fitness drive at BF Park which was fun, educational and motivational. Zumba instructor Priyadarshini Singh led the group to a fun workout before which she addressed the crowd. “Despite the stress in your life take some time out and stay fit,” she said. “You can also take it up as a profession later,” she said. Fitness expert Swati Singh Roy helped measure BMI and other parameters for visitors. “I know a 21-year-old woman who weighs 101kg! She suffers from a host of health problems but sadly there are many like her now-a-days,” noted the lady who runs a facility called Kinnys Wellness Mantra. Psychotherapist Kakoli Das Mandal spoke on mental wellness and about overcoming the taboo of seeking help for mental issues. Anupriya Chowdhary, co-founder of Shivam Swachh Soch, spoke on menstrual hygiene and about overcoming inhibitions in using menstrual cups. There was a health quiz as well as recitation by Tanushree Chakraborty, founder of Winning Strees. “Every woman is a star, be it a homemaker or an entrepreneur. We want to inspire these women so they can unlock their true potential,” said Chakraborty. Bharati Kanjilal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
22-01-2021||Calcutta||5 crocodiles released in the Sunderbans||Five saltwater crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) bred in captivity for conservation were released into the wild in the Sunderbans on Thursday. The crocodiles have been bred at a sanctuary in Bhagabatpur in Patharpratima, South 24-Parganas, said a forest official. Around 12.30pm, the adult crocodiles were brought to the Netidhopani forest camp inside the core area of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Each crocodile was kept in a cylindrical perforated capsule made of synthetic plastic polymer. Two diesel-powered boats manned by scores of foresters carried the capsules to the bank of a canal at the camp. The boats stopped around 100 metres from land. Groups of foresters then carried each capsule on their shoulders to the river bank. Had the crocodiles not been sub-adults, the task would have been easier said than done. Fifty more crocodiles will be released into the wild in the Sunderbans this year, said a forest official. “Earth’s largest living crocodilian — and, some say, the animal most likely to eat a human — is the saltwater or estuarine crocodile. Average-size males reach 17 feet and 1,000 pounds (450kg), but specimens 23 feet long and weighing 2,200 pounds are not uncommon,” says National Geographic. The sub-adults released on Thursday weighed between 16kg and 22kg and were 5-5.5ft long. Once on land, the mouths of each capsule were opened and following a brief wait, out came the crocodiles. Slowly but steadily, they crawled their way through the mud to the water, cheered by the audience. Each crocodile was marked by a unique code by clipping their tails scutes (thickened horny or bony plates) for monitoring, said a forest official. Climate change and loss of habitat have depleted the number of saltwater crocodiles in the mangrove delta, said a forest official. A 2012 census conducted by the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, and the wildlife wing of the forest department of Bengal, recorded 240 crocodiles spread over 1,160km in the estuarine mangrove delta. Saltwater crocodile is the top aquatic predator in the Sunderbans, said forest officials. In 2011, a crocodile killed a tiger in water at the Dobanki camp of Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. “Classic opportunistic predators, they lurk patiently beneath the surface near the water’s edge, waiting for potential prey to stop for a sip of water. They’ll feed on anything they can get their jaws on, including water buffalo, monkeys, wild boar, and even sharks,” according to National Geographic. The saltwater crocodile conservation breeding programme started in 1976. At the beginning, 32 eggs were collected from a creek. “Now, the centre has six breeding pools, 14 tanks to keep hatchlings. Over 600 crocodiles bred at the centre have been released into the wild,” said a forest official. The centre is home to five mating pairs of crocodiles. The crocodiles usually mate in March and the females lay eggs in May. The eggs laid by female crocodiles are collected within a fortnight by forest staff, who keep them in a temperature and humidity-controlled incubator. “The hatchlings come out within 80-85 days,” the forest official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||New Town seeks Covid vaccine site||An application has been submitted by the New Town authorities to start a Covid-19 vaccination centre in New Town. “We have sent a proposal to the district magistrate. Our safe house is being kept ready for the purpose,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The safe house in Action Area II, next to Tank 12, was started in August. But no one has been admitted there since December 24 when the last person was released. The health department has been intimated about the closure of the facility. “We are procuring a cold freezer to store vaccines. We already have a doctor and nurses to conduct the vaccination process,” said Sen. General vaccine centres Three general immunisation and Mother and Child Care centres have been started in New Town by the health department, supported by NKDA. They are operating on Mondays, from 11am to 3pm. All the routine vaccines of babies like polio and DTP (diptheria, tetanus and pertussis), will be administered here. Medical advice will also be given to pregnant women and mothers. The first centre started functioning on January 11 at the Utility Building near Akankha More. Two more started this Monday at the CB Market community hall and opposite the NBCC Square complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Trafficking story in comic strip to spread awareness||The real-life story of a young girl who was lured into a trap and trafficked from the heart of Calcutta has been turned into a digital comic strip to create awareness about the menace of human trafficking. The comic strip named Web of Deceit — A Missing and Trafficking Casefile has been developed by two NGOs and will be available in the form of an app on android phones from Sunday (January 24). The developers have adopted an interactive format so that readers can type inputs when prompted and help the story progress. The story has been infused with data on legal rights of women and things one can do to report such incidents. Hundreds of young girls in Bengal are forced into prostitution every year either to support their poverty-stricken families or because they were betrayed by a male friend or a relative they had trusted. Some are lured with false promises of a job and others with the prospect of marriage. Most of the cases remain unreported because of the social stigma attached to victims of trafficking. The makers of the comic strip said they were hoping to reach out to their young audience who have access to smartphones but often fail to assess their vulnerability. “The majority of the girls we work with, even in remote villages of the Sunderbans, have access to smartphones. An interactive format has been used in the comic strip and the readers will be given two options to react to every situation. Depending on their response, the story will progress,” said Leena Kejriwal, the founder of the Missing Link Trust, which jointly developed the comic strip in collaboration with International Justice Mission. The Web of Deceit is the story of a school girl who is lured by an “aunt” with the promise of new clothes and forced into prostitution. The narrative is based on real-life incidents like the girl being fed with a sweet laced with sedatives every time before she is forced to meet a stranger, Kejriwal said. The comic strip also shows how law enforcing agencies use technology to zero in on traffickers and their money transactions. It also highlights the harassment a trafficking survivor faces during the trial of her tormentors. Many school girls go missing in pockets of South 24-Parganas such as Kultali, Mathurapur, Madhusudanpur, Jamtala and Gosaba, and also in other districts. “Trafficking is no longer confined to the rural population. Anyone living next to you could be a victim of trafficking. People often do not open up because of the stigma attached (to trafficked persons). Hence, we are trying to address the problem at its preventive stage so that people can identity human trafficking and its tell-tale signs,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Double decker bus for New Town tour||One might soon get to take a tour of New Town in an open-air double decker bus. Hidco has approached the tourism department with a proposal to run one of its two buses in the township. “The route is being worked out. We will prepare a tourist circuit, starting from Biswa Bangla Gate. It will do the rounds of Coffee House, Eco Park and Mother’s Wax Museum and get back to Biswa Bangla Gate, where passengers might stop for lunch if they so wish. The department has agreed in principle,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. A trial run has been conducted and another round of meeting took place on Wednesday. Ticketing will be handled by the tourism department. Sen said he had suggested sale of tickets on the bus also, so that people can board the bus along the way, much like the hop-on-hop-off buses in London and Paris. Launched in October, the buses now do a guided heritage tour of central Calcutta, with tickets costing Rs 2,500 for the nine seats on the open-air upper deck and Rs 1,250 for the eight seats on the lower deck. The bus is running at 50 per cent seating capacity due to Covid-19 restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Guided tour of New Town on double-decker||A restored double-decker bus with an open-air deck will start plying across New Town taking residents as well as visitors on a guided tour of prominent places. The bus, retrofitted with a modern engine and spares, is undergoing test runs in the township, said an official of Hidco, which has launched the project in collaboration with the tourism department. “The bus will start from Kolkata Gate and travel past major attractions of New Town such as the Rabindra Tirtha complex, the new Coffee House, Eco Park, Mother's Wax Museum and Eco Urban Village,” the official said. The passengers will be taken on short guided tours of all the places where the bus will stop. “The bus will have a guide…. Snacks will be served on board,” said the official of Hidco, the agency that looks after civic amenities of the township. A double-decker bus now plies in New Town ferrying passengers from Eco Park to Eco Urban Village but it doesn’t have a guide on board and also does not stop for the passengers to visit the prominent places in the township. Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said: “We thought of having the bus (double-decker bus with an open-air deck) here as a lot of happening tourist spots have come up in New Town.” The British government had in 1926 introduced double-decker buses. In Calcutta, they were labelled slowcoach monstrosities belching black fumes and withdrawn from the streets. But in London, they enjoy the right of way, for traffic and tourism. Double-decker buses once plied along all main thoroughfares in the city and also to Howrah. The buses were phased out in the mid-1990s when they ran into maintenance issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||E-bus for cancer hospital||An electric bus service has been started to connect the second campus of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) to Biswa Bangla Gate crossing. “The superintendent of CNCI met me with a request to provide connectivity to the Major Arterial Road. With cancer treatment having started there, patients are coming from far and wide. Once they reach Narkelbagan, they are forced to hire totos which fleece them to cover the short distance. The patients are often not from economically solvent backgrounds. So we realised that it was a very genuine requirement,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco). Hidco owns three e-buses. The route of one of them has been rationalised. With booking for New Town Coffee House going fully online and those making the booking reaching mostly by private transport, the bus has been diverted to CNCI. Instead of making a left turn at Tata Memorial Center to reach Coffee House via Eco Space, the bus now goes right after Tata Memorial Center towards CNCI, reducing the route from 4km to a 2km one. The service starts at 9am from Narkelbagan and continues to and fro till 12.30pm. There is a break for the battery to be recharged at the depot before resuming at 2pm.  There are nine trips being done now through the day. The last trip is at 6.30pm from CNCI. More electric buses Hidco has plans of increasing its electric bus fleet. A tender has been floated seeking bids for buses on lease. “This time we plan to lease buses and pay as per the kilometres run. The existing e-buses were bought by us from KPIT Technologies, with a three-year maintenance contract. But it is turning out to be an expensive arrangement,” said Sen. The electric bus service, introduced in 2018, has carried 2.97 lakh passengers so far. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt to launch buses in Netaji’s memory||The state government will launch three bus services and lay the foundation stone of a bus terminus in Nadia’s Krishnagar as a tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. The decision comes ahead of the Assembly polls in Bengal and at a time when political parties, mainly the BJP and the Trinamul, are trying to appropriate the legacy of Netaji, whose birth anniversary will be observed on Saturday. The Centre has decided to celebrate Netaji’s birth anniversary as “Parakram Diwas”, a move that has drawn criticism from the Left and Trinamul, which has been demanding that the day be observed as Deshprem Divas. The Bengal government-run South Bengal State Transport Corporation (SBSTC) has come forward to dedicate three new bus services - between Siliguri and Mayapur, Tollygunge and Tarapith, and Tollygunge and Jhargram - in Netaji’s memory on January 23. “The Siliguri-Mayapur service has been named Netaji Express, Tollygunge-Tarapith service Azad Hind Express and the Tollygunge-Jhargram service Joy Hind Express,” said SBSTC managing director Godala Kiran Kumar. The same day the foundation stone of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Bus Terminus in Krishnagar will be laid. The foundation stone of the proposed terminus will be laid by the state correctional home services minister, Ujjwal Biswas. A statue of Netaji will be installed at the site during the programme. The statue will be unveiled by Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Civic chief tests positive||Former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, who is now the chairperson of the board of administrators (BOA) of the civic body,Krishna Chakraborty tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. According to Chakraborty, she has very mild symptoms and has isolated herself at home. “I got myself tested and the report has come out positive. I am in quarantine at home and apart from weakness have very little of the other symptoms of the disease,” she said. Chakraborty was part of the team from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation that kicked off the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 at the Duttabad urban primary health centre. She had not taken the vaccine shot, unlike three of her colleagues. Tapas Chatterjee, the former deputy mayor of the civic body who is also on the board of administrators, had tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be hospitalised in September. Apart from Chakraborty and Chatterjee, Nirmal Dutta, the councillor of Ward 38 that comprises areas in Duttabad, had also tested positive for Covid-19 and was quarantined in a New Town facility. Dutta was leading from the front in terms of conducting sanitisation drives in the area that comprises swathes of tenements bordering Salt Lake. Sudhir Saha, a former mayoral council member, has recovered from Covid recently. Covid-19 has claimed the life of one civic official with Subhash Bose, the councillor of Ward 6, succumbing in August. He was in his mid-fifties. Ward 6 includes Teghoria, Atghara, Kaikhali and Chinar Park. These places had seen a steady rise in infection at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid shot limit doubled at select Bengal sites||A number of Covid-19 vaccination sites in the state have been asked to remain prepared to inoculate 200 health-care workers every day from Friday, officials of the health department as well as those managing some of the sites said on Thursday. Also from Friday, Covid shots will be administered at over 400 sites across Bengal, up from 207. “The number of persons to be given the shots every day and the number of sites have been increased to speed up vaccination,” said a health department official. The department informed vaccination site managers that 200 individuals would be invited — through text messages or phone calls or both — to get inoculated at each site from Friday. “Initially, all sites were asked to inoculate 100 people each every day. The number has been increased to 200 to prevent any significant dip in the number of people vaccinated per day,” the official said. “If we invite 200 people to a site on a day, 100 may turn up. So with 50 per cent of those invited turning up, the actual number would still remain 100. This is a way to work around vaccine hesitancy among many health-care workers…. If 200 people turn up, the site should be prepared to inoculate all of them. There is no dearth of vaccines and vaccinators.” Bengal received 6.99 lakh doses of Covishield on Wednesday, which, together with 6.89 lakh doses it had received last week, will be enough to inoculate the 6 lakh-odd health workers of the state. Covishield is a two-dose vaccine and the second shot is to be given 28 days after the fIrst. Which means 12 lakh doses will be required to vaccinate all health workers of the state. Sources in the health department have said that some doses always go waste in any vaccination programme. With total 13.88 lakh does in its custody, the state health department is in a position to inoculate all health-care workers. Some of the new sites in and around Calcutta where vaccination will begin on Friday are Woodlands Hospital, Medica Superspecialty Hospital and AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake, said sources in the state health department. Several more hospitals will launch inoculation next week. Besides, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will also begin inoculation at 11 more ward health clinics from Monday. Now, the jabs are being given at five clinics. On Thursday, vaccination went ahead at 94 sites. “Covid-19 vaccination was successfully done for the fifth day on Thursday at 94 planned sites. Altogether, 7,692 people were vaccinated against the target of 9,400. We managed to vaccinate 81 per cent of those targeted,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. No serious adverse event was reported on Thursday, Minor issues like pain at the injection site, dizziness, vertigo and nausea were reported. “Recipients with such complaints were sent home after initial observation,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Antibody survey to weigh potency||A study is being done at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital which may provide valuable data to indicate how effective the Covishield vaccine is. The Bypass hospital is one of the vaccination centres in the first phase. “We have undertaken a project whereby a survey will be conducted among 1,500 of our colleagues. We are testing once just before the first injection, again just before the second injection after 28 days and then we will repeat the test a month later to see if antibodies have developed,” said Mahesh Goenka, director, Institute of Gastro Sciences and Liver Transplant. The antibody test will come positive if the vaccine is effective. The test, he said, would be repeated at regular intervals to check how long the protection continues. “After two months, we will be able to say how effective the vaccine is. It must have been tested already in a controlled environment before it was launched. But this might be the first study which will tell us its efficacy in a real-life scenario in the population. Of course, it will be a population of healthcare workers,” said Goenka, who himself took the jab at the hospital on Saturday. On Day 1, 107 people were inoculated from the Apollo rolls, overshooting the day’s target of 100. But on Day 2 and 3, the figure fell to 74 and 76 respectively, with several listed recipients from outside not turning up. Director, Institute of Gastro Sciences and Liver Transplant, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Age: 63 Resident of: BH Block (permanent), Silver Spring (temporary) Took the jab at: 10.50am. I was the third person in the queue. State of mind: Though we were getting WhatsApp messages from colleagues all across the country that so many people had complications or side effects, I had no misgivings, not even one per cent. After four days: I have no problem. Not even local pain. Some of my colleagues felt weakness or muscle pain. Nobody had anything significant. But for me, it was perfect. I went to work straightaway. Brush with Covid: No, I did not have it. I was tasting my PCR regularly and tested my antibody at least five times in this period. I would have been happy if I had developed antibody. But it came negative. We were coming in contact with patients in the outpatient department, who we listen to and examine. Also when we do surgery, we often come to know later that the patient was Covid-19 positive. So we were always worried. There must have been 40-50 cases when I got exposed. I was doing OPD all along except for two weeks after I returned from South America in March when I quarantined myself. I may be a senior citizen but I do not have comorbidities. If you would have taken Covaxin: I was sure I would take whatever was available. Confidence level now: Being in medical science, I know that within three days of taking the vaccine, it is not giving any protection to me. I am looking forward to taking the second vaccine. I cannot relax one bit now. It is only after 15 days of taking the second dose that we can expect antibodies. Senior consultant in pulmonary and critical care, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Age: 48 Resident of: Highland Woods, New Town Took the jab at: 10.45am. I was the first in my hospital to take it. I had been the first to get into the Covid unit and admitted the first Covid patient in our hospital. I still remember the date and time — March 27, 8.10pm. So our hospital gave me this privilege. State of mind then: I was not nervous at all. The safety of the vaccine is well-proven. Even if the efficacy is 50 per cent it will give us more chance of herd immunity. If two people next to me get good immune response from the vaccine even if I do not, it helps me. Then even if a fourth person gets infected, these two will form a ring around me and I will be safe. The chain of transmission will break. It will reduce the geometric progression of infection to arithmetic progression if enough people in the transmission chain develop immunity from the vaccine even if everyone does not. After four days: I have no problem. Brush with Covid: No, I haven’t had Covid-19 despite treating more than 2,000 patients in the last nine months and doing aerosol-generating procedures like incubation, ventilation, tracheostomy and bronchoscopy. If you would have taken Covaxin: Yes. Theoretically it is a better vaccine as it uses an inactivated virus (i.e. killed Covid-19 virus). Covishield is a subunit vaccine. It uses spike protein using an adenovirus vector. So, you are not giving the blood brother but the cousin. Obviously, it would have been better if Covaxin got two or three weeks more to present their data. That could have avoided the misgivings. Confidence level now: It won’t stop me from wearing a mask, avoiding close environment and close contact. I will wait for millions around to be vaccinated to feel confident. Chief gastrointestinal and liver transplant intensivist, Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals Age: 44 Resident of: Sanai Abasan, New Town Took the jab at: 10.50am State of mind then: I was eager to take the vaccine as soon as it became available. Since I am an infectious diseases specialist and intensivist, I know about vaccine protocol. After half an hour of being under observation, I came back to my ITU and did the rounds. After four days: There is mild myalgia (muscle pain) but that happens for any vaccine that is injected. Brush with Covid: No, I did not get it despite working in the critical care unit. We did the first cadavar liver transplant in eastern India in Covid times. If you would have taken Covaxin: Yes. Both are safe. The central government doctors have taken it. The adverse effects of all these vaccines are coming at 0.2 or 0.5 per cent which is acceptable for any vaccine. Confidence level now: I feel confident. But I am using all the protective gear till I get the second dose. Paediatrician, Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Age: 64 Resident of: Madurdaha Took the jab at: 10.45am. Was the first to take it at the hospital. State of mind then: As a paediatrician, I know about vaccination and the possible side effects. I lost a friend and batchmate at Medical College to Covid-19. His registration number was just before mine. I feel emotional and also realise the need for vaccination. Brush with Covid: No. Confidence level now: High. Those who are getting the chance should take the vaccine at the first chance. Save yourself and thus save others. Anaesthetist and in charge of the rapid response team at the vaccination centre at Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Age: 57 Resident of: Rajdanga, Kasba Took the jab at: 10.50am State of mind then: The nurses briefed me about the vaccine. I am aware of its theoretical side. Only after the taking it will we know about its practical side. In my head, it is similar to the tetanus vaccine. Yes, I was a bit scared and spoke to my family. But since I head the rapid response team, I had to step up. Brush with Covid: No. Confidence level now: They kept me under observation for half an hour. I am feeling fine now. In fact, I am on duty here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-165
22-01-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to offer tuition fee relief ||St Xavier’s University will offer a 50 per cent waiver on the tuition fee to MBA students from the second semester if their family income is less than Rs 4 lakh a year, a move prompted by pandemic-induced financial constraints. The university is introducing the Father Beckers Scholarship to offer the waiver — Rs, 2.05 lakh in each semester, vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj told Metro. Father Beckers, a DSc in biochemistry, had come to India in 1954 and joined the chemistry department of St Xavier’s College in 1960. He had served as head of the department for over a decade. The Belgian priest became an Indian citizen in 1978. “Since retiring from service, Father Beckers had been working for the marginalised, especially the santhals of Bengal. As the scholarship stems from a spirit of benevolence, we decided to name if after him,” said Father Felix Raj. “The pandemic has caused hardship to the families of the students. The financial constraints will not go away easily,” the VC said. “So the scholarship will be offered from the second semester onwards”. The university will try to give the scholarship to “as many MBA students as possible based on the annual income”. Since admissions will start in June and the waiver will come in force from the second semester, the detailed criteria will be announced later, an official said. The recipients of the scholarship will have to comply with other conditions such as at least 75 per cent attendance in all semesters and no arrear paper in any preceding semester. Of all the components of the fee in the MBA programme, the tuition fee is the highest. “Therefore, we have decided to offer a waiver on the tuition fee,” the VC said. Last month, St Xavier’s University had decided to offer a concession on fees in the current semester (January to June) to the undergraduate and postgraduate students who would need it. Institutions across Bengal are offering fee relief to students and helping them buy smartphones or laptops so they can attend classes on digital platforms amid the pandemic. Convocation St Xavier’s University will hold its second convocation on February 6. A total of 451 postgraduate and undergraduate students of the university will be awarded degrees. The ceremony will be conducted in a blended mode with only 80 rank holders joining the programme in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal govt cuts Covid requisitioned beds||The state health department has decided to reduce the number of Covid beds it had requisitioned in private hospitals across the state in early days of the pandemic because “rates of hospitalisation of Covid patients are…going down”. The director of state health services, Ajay Chakraborty, issued an order on Wednesday allowing requisitioned beds at 55 private hospitals across Bengal to be used for treating non-Covid patients. “Total numbers of active cases are coming down gradually and rates of hospitalisation of Covid patients are also going down. Under these present circumstances, it has been decided that these beds of private hospitals requisitioned by the government may be released in phases,” reads the order. The order mentions that the beds may again be taken over, “with a three days’ notice”, if required. A bulletin issued by the health department on Thursday said Bengal recorded 409 new Covid-19 cases over the past 24 hours. Wednesday’s bulletin said 412 new cases had been recorded in the preceding 24 hours. The government had requisitioned 72 beds (60 general and 12 intensive care unit) at AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake for Covid patients. Fifty general beds have been released. Of the 113 beds (83 general and 30 intensive care unit) requisitioned at Desun Hospital, 63 general beds and 20 intensive care unit beds have been released. All 100 Covid beds at the KPC Medical College and Hospital have been released. Seventy five of them are general beds, 13 are intensive care unit beds and 12 are high dependency unit beds. The high dependency unit is a ward where patients who need more medical support than those on general beds but less support than those in intensive care units are kept. Covid patients requiring advanced care could be brought to these hospitals from any place in Bengal. Some of the other private hospitals where Covid beds have been released are ILS Golabari, Narayana Hospital Old Building (West Bank Hospital) in Howrah and Charnock Hospital in Chinar Park. Patients allotted requisitioned beds at private hospitals are treated for free if they are sent there by a state-run hospital or the health department. After a patient’s discharge, the hospital sends the bill to the state government and gets reimbursed. “If a Covid patient is referred to our hospital by the health department, we admit and treat the patient for free,” said Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals. But Covid patients approaching the hospitals directly — without any referral by the state health department — have to pay for the treatment even if they are alloted requisitioned beds, said Barua. “We try not to keep Covid bed vacants. If a requisitioned bed is vacant and Covid patient approaches us without any referral from the health department, we will allot the bed to him or her. But the patient has to pay for the treatment,” Barua said. A senior official of the health department said that since the rate of hospitalisation of Covid patients had declined, the department felt people with other illnesses should have more scope for hospitalisation. Around 70 per cent of the requisitioned Covid beds at AMRI Salt Lake had remained vacant for the past month, Barua said. “But the intensive care unit occupancy during the period was between 95 and 100 per cent,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Calcutta||Life in lockdown, drawn by children||Twelve-year-old Shalbani Ghosh could not step out during Durga Puja last year. Her situation, and that of many families like hers, were reflected in a drawing she made for a competition whose topic was “festival celebration during the pandemic”. The painting competition for kids aged between seven and 16 was organised by Nehru Children’s Museum. Migrant workers returning home, online classes and work from home, and doctors and cops as Covid warriors featured in the paintings the children made to depict their interpretation of the Covid pandemic and the lockdown. For Class IV student Shalbani, pandal-hopping last Durga Puja was on the television screen. She drew a family, including the grandparents, watching Durga idols on the screen. “Every year we go out for pandal-hopping, but this year there was no going out to keep the infection away,” said Shalbani. The competition was for two age groups: seven to 11 years and 11 to 16 years. Unlike previous years, the canvas shifted from wall to paper because of the pandemic. “In previous years we provided a wall to the students, on which they painted in a group. But this time, because of the pandemic, we could not allow any gathering. Hence, we asked the students to send their entries to us,” said Indrani Sengupta, the secretary of the museum. Students had to courier the paintings to the museum. More than 100 entries from Calcutta and districts came in. Every year, a topical theme is chosen. This year, Sengupta said, the pandemic was the most obvious option. The painting exhibition at the museum will be on till Sunday, January 24. Seven-year-old Debajit Pandit juxtaposed the picture outside and inside the house during the lockdown. The Class I student show-ed a child attending online class and his father working from home, while outside the home is the image of stretchers and doctors treating patients. Apratim Mukherjee’s drawing of migrant workers returning home after the lockdown was announced won one of the top slots. “It had to be related to the lockdown and the image was not alien to him when his drawing teacher spoke to him about it. Being at home for months at a stretch, he had seen these images on the television and newspaper and he could relate to it,” said father Tapas Mukherjee. Apratim’s drawing also had a community kitchen from where food was being distributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Calcutta||V-Day in Salt Lake: Councillors jump queue to get the jab||The Covid-19 vaccination drive began in Salt Lake from Saturday with a total of 125 people getting vaccinated at two centres. This included three members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) board of administrators who courted controversy by reportedly jumping the queue to get the shot. In the first phase, only healthcare and frontline workers are supposed to get inoculated. The drive in Salt Lake is being conducted at the urban primary health centre in Duttabad, opposite Labony Estate, and at the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital, where 71 hospital staffers took the shot on the first day. At Duttabad, the number of people administered vaccines on Day 1 was 54.The day’s target at both sites was 100 each. The drive is being conducted on Monday,Tuesday, Friday and Saturday every week. Courting controversy The Duttabad centre on Saturday had opened its doors to administer Covishield shots at around 10am. The first vaccine was administered to two doctors — Lakshmipat Nahata, who is associated with the civic body, followed by Kusum Adhikary, the BMC’s chief medical officer. After they took the shots, there was nobody else present from the day’s vaccination list. As the first hour went by, three members of the civic board of administrators ‑ Pranay Roy, previously in charge of health, Rajesh Chirimar, previously in charge of education, and Sudhir Saha, previously in charge of parks and lighting in the now defunct mayoral council, took the jab. Roy defended their action saying that they took the vaccine shots as very few people had turned up in the first couple of hours and even those who were there were very apprehensive of taking the shots.“We stepped up in order to inspire people and dispel fears,” he said. Chirimar said they did not want to deprive anybody from taking the shot. He pointed out that their names did feature on the list of people to be vaccinated although their date was not on the first day. According to Chirimar, they had received a directive from the health department that beneficiaries would receive messages on their cellphones asking them to visit the centre. Low turnout to take the shot “However a day before the drive we were asked to call up 100 health workers out of a list of 457,” said Chirimar. “Only 19 of them agreed to take the shots and just a handful arrived in the first couple of hours on Saturday.” “We had expected a huge crowd and there was strong police bandobast as well. Since nobody was turning up we asked the health officials if we could volunteer and they did not object,” said Chirimar, who then wrote a post on Facebook to encourage others to take the shot. Apart from Chirimar and Roy, Saha, who has just recovered from Covid, took the shot. Asked what his urgency was since he is now expected to have developed antibodies in his system, he refused to comment. Sabyasachi Dutta, the former mayor of the civic body who is now a state secretary of the BJP, said it was selfish of the three members of the board of administrators to take the vaccines. “Everyone will receive the shots but these people could not wait. They manipulated the system to get the shots for themselves,” said Dutta. How it’s done People whose names feature on the list of beneficiaries are supposed to get SMS alerts via the CoWin mobile app. The SMS carries the date and venue where the recipient has to reach. Once there, a health official first enquires if the person has any co-morbidity and if needed, conducts a basic check-up. The candidate is then administered the shot and asked to wait for 30 minutes. In case he feels unwell, doctors conduct a second check-up and if symptoms are serious, he is sent to a hospital. Till Tuesday, nobody in Salt Lake had to be hospitalised. On January 16, a total of 54 people were vaccinated at this centre, including 20 doctors. On Monday, the number was 41 and on Tuesday 36. There were healthcare workers from centres like Susrut Eye Foundation & Research Centre of HB Block and Charnock Hospital of Chinar Park. “We are thankful that the authorities are administrating the vaccine to us first but I wish we had a choice of vaccine,” said a healthcare worker who did not wish to be named. There was an air of apprehension and curiosity and so the centre remained heavily guarded by police. Many residents tried to peep through the windows, after which the windows were kept shut throughout. Duttabad residents, who clamoured outside, asked the policemen why they were not being given the shots. “Our area is badly affected and you are not letting us take it. Why are they are doing it from our locality then?” an irate Rabi Misra demanded from a cop before being shooed away. There was a much steadier flow of beneficiaries at Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital. “We got 540 doses of Covishield from the district health administration. Our target is 100 beneficiaries per day,” said superintendant Partha Pratim Guha. But 71 took it on the first day, 59 on the second and 69 on the third. App & apprehensions From Monday, the government started using the CoWin app to send out SMSes to inform recipients about the jabs but the authorities suspect something to be amiss. On Monday, only four of the enlisted people turned up in the first hour at Duttabad. In the first five hours — from 10am to 3pm — only 21 turned up. The next batch of 16 people arrived between 3.30pm and 5.30pm while the rest turned up a little before 6pm. On Tuesday, the number of people who turned up dipped further and stood at 36 at the end of the day. “It is evident that some people are afraid but there are also some who did not receive the alerts,” said an official. A conservancy worker refused to take the shot, saying he feared the doctor would ask him to go without alcohol for 28 days after which the second dose has to be taken. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-166
22-01-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 746 points to close at 48,878.54 ||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 746 points to close at 48,878.54 on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 746.22 points or 1.50 per cent lower at 48,878.54. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 218.45 points or 1.5 per cent to 14,371.90. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, SBI, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, HDFC and Reliance. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Hindustan Unilever, UltraTech Cement, TCS, Bajaj Finserv and Infosys were the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the negative territory. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in early deals. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,614.66 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.80 per cent lower at USD 55.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty open lower in line with other Asian bourses||The BSE benchmark Sensex fell 152.69 points or 0.31 per cent to 49,472.07 in early trade on Friday, tracking subdued Asian markets. Likewise, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 54.35 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,590.35 in opening trade. On the Sensex chart, Axis Bank, Tech Mahindra, ONGC, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finance and Sun Pharma were major laggards. Bajaj Auto, Asian Paints, Mahindra and Mahindra, Maruti Suzuki and Reliance Industries were top gainers. On Thursday, the Sensex had dropped 167.36 points or 0.34 per cent to end at 49,624.76, and the Nifty had shed 54.35 points or 0.37 per cent to close at 14,590.35. Intra-day, the 30-share BSE Sensex had touched the 50,000-level for the first time ever on Thursday on growth optimism and global cues but succumbed to profit-booking in fag-end trade. Asian shares were trading broadly lower in late afternoon deals on Friday, a day after hitting record highs. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,614.66 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. The global oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 1.37 per cent to USD 55.40 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Revival in economy will exceed most forecasts: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India has said the revival in the economy will exceed most forecasts which will drive the economy towards a “glorious summer” while throwing open the space for a greater policy support. In its January bulletin on the economy, an article by deputy governor Michael Debabrata Patra and others were full of optimism about a quick recovery. The RBI has, however, said the views in the article were those of the authors and do not necessarily represent that of the central bank. The article, however, had a message for finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who is set to present the budget on February 1. It said the need to kickstart investment was acquiring urgency to secure a durable turnaround. India must also look for ways in which idle cash in the balance sheets of corporations and banks, and reverse repo balances with the RBI find their way as credit to the productive sectors and into real spending on investment activities. According to the article, India’s GDP is within a striking distance of recording positive growth and the shape of the recovery will be “V” with this letter standing for the vaccine. The article was alluding to a successful vaccination programme leading to a V-shaped recovery. “India has launched the biggest vaccination drive in the world, backed by its comparative advantage of having the largest vaccine manufacturing capacity in the world and a rich experience of mass inoculation drives against polio and measles... If successful, it will tilt the balance of risks upwards.” Large states such as Bengal have recorded strong footfalls in public places, while trading activity as reflected in e-way bills expanded at a brisk pace in December. Further, aggregate demand conditions have either consolidated recent gains or vaulted upwards. Further, domestic spending is normalising rapidly as GST collections have surged to an all time high of Rs 1.15 lakh crore in December. Labour market conditions are also improving with a gradual pick up in employment across space and time, as indicated by the household survey of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank net profit down 13.5 per cent from a year ago||Covid related provisions have eroded the bottomline of Bandhan Bank for the December quarter of 2020. The private bank posted a net profit of Rs 632.6 crore, down 13.5 per cent from a year ago. The bank has made an additional provision of Rs 1,000 crore on standard advances during the quarter for Covid-19. With additional standard asset provisions that the bank is carrying out in its micro banking portfolio, total additional provision in its books stands at Rs 3,119 crore. Net interest income of the lender grew 34.5 per cent year-on-year to Rs 2,071.7 crore from Rs 1,540 crore a year ago. Non-interest income grew 55 per cent to Rs 553 crore, taking the total income of the lender to Rs 2,625 crore, up 38.3 per cent over the previous year. Net interest margin of the lender was up 4 basis points year-on-year to 8.3 per cent. “With the fourth quarter historically being the best for us every financial year, we now look forward to similar a performance in last quarter,” said Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, managing director and CEO of Bandhan Bank. Reported gross non-performing assets (NPAs) was 1.1 per cent and net NPAs at 0.3 per cent Federal Bank Federal Bank’s third-quarter net profit declined 8.2 per cent to Rs 404.10 crore, mainly due to higher provisioning for bad loans. The private sector lender had registered a profit of Rs 440.64 crore in the year-ago period. Total income, however, improved to Rs 3,941.36 crore during the third quarter from Rs 3,738.22 crore a year ago, Federal Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
22-01-2021||Business||Saregama India Ltd buys music rights to four Bollywood production house films||Saregama India Ltd is making a comeback in the Hindi movie circuit after decades. The company has bought the music rights to the films of four big Bollywood production houses, which are expected to hit the theatres in the next 6-14 months. Saregama did not disclose the names citing confidentiality agreements. Music rights of Bollywood blockbusters were the staple of the company during the last century before it took a pause and underwent a transformation, just as delivery of music and content changed from LP records to cassettes to CDs and finally went digital. Riding on the digital wave, Saregama reported a 201 per cent growth in profit after tax in the third quarter at Rs 31.6 crore compared with Rs 10.5 crore a year ago. Turnover went up 3 per cent to Rs 133.9 crore from Rs 129.5 crore in the same period last year. The company said it has been able to increase monetisation of intellectual property (music, film, tv serials) for 12 consecutive quarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||PwC analysts in favour of additional tax benefits for WFH expenses||Analysts at PwC India are in favour of additional tax benefits for salaried individuals to meet expenses incurred on account of work from home. The move can potentially increase income at the hands of the individuals and will play a role in increasing demand. The benefit could be in the form of additional standard deduction or could be included as tax benefits under chapter VI of the Income Tax Act. “Demand creation aspects should be particularly focussed with more money being left in the hands of the individuals. So one clear thinking is that at the level of the small to medium taxpayers, in view of Covid, a deduction could be given particularly for salaried employees when they work from home,” said Rahul Garg, senior tax partner, PwC India. “Whatever expenditure they are incurring working from home, which in a typical case could have been incurred in the office by their employers, if that is allowed to be treated for deduction and that saves tax for them, it will leave more money in their hands. Also it is reasonable equitable, because if businesses were to incur that expense, you would have had deductible expenditure," he said. Corporate tax Another change on the wish list is broadening the base of the low 15 per cent corporate tax benefit currently available to manufacturing units that are registered on or after October 1, 2019 under section 115BAB of Income Tax Act. “There is a distinction in law which says that only manufacturing companies set up after a particular date are entitled to a 15 per cent tax. This needs reconsideration to cover a broader sense of MSMEs and also to cover non manufacturing contributors in the supply chain so that the alternative regime is available to all,” Garg said. Ranen Banerjee, leader - economic advisory services, PwC India, said demand generation could be the central focus of the next Union budget. An additional 2 per cent deficit over 3.5 per cent budgeted earlier could give almost Rs 4 trillion that could be utilised for demand generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Asian Paints reports 62.28 per cent jump in consolidated profit||Asian Paints on Thursday reported a 62.28 per cent jump in its consolidated profit to Rs 1,265.35 crore for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020. The company had posted a profit of Rs 779.71 crore during the same period of previous fiscal.   Revenue from operations for the October-December quarter stood at Rs 6,886.39 crore, up 25.43 per cent, from Rs 5,490.11 crore reported in the same period of 2019-20, Asian Paints Ltd said in a regulatory filing. Amit Syngle, managing director & CEO, Asian Paints said demand conditions continued to exhibit a strong recovery across business segments, spread over most regions in the third quarter of this financial year. The domestic decorative business delivered a powerful performance with more than 30 per cent volume growth led by a strong performance in premium and luxury portfolios. The Home Décor foray of Asian Paints got a big fillip from a strong performance of the home improvement business”. JSPL profit Steel maker Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) on Thursday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,432.20 crore for the December quarter of 2020, mainly on account of increased income. The company had recorded a net loss of Rs 257.36 crore during the same quarter a year ago. Total income jumped to Rs 10,898.70 crore against Rs 7,526.28 crore in the October-December quarter of 2019-20, up about 45 per cent. JSPL's total expenses were at Rs 7,878.86 crore, compared to Rs 7,767.37 crore earlier. Part of the OP Jindal Group, JSPL has a presence in steel, power, mining and infrastructure sectors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||India open to resuming crude oil purchase from Tehran||India plans to keep the option open of resuming crude purchase from Tehran and will closely monitor the steps taken by the Biden administration on the Iran nuclear issue. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan had earlier said that the country hopes to resume crude oil imports from Iran after Biden takes charge as US President. Analysts, however, said the country should adopt a cautious approach on the issue as the Biden administration has a lot of hurdles to overcome before returning to the table on this matter. The slump in global crude prices and the alternative crude sources the country has found because of the US sanctions on Iran should help India in taking this cautious approach, they added. The Trump administration had walked out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) in May 2018, three years after it was signed by the Barack Obama administration alongside the UK, France, China, Russia and Germany. Iran said last year it would stop abiding by the deal, which seeks to restrict the country’s nuclear activities. India stopped imports from Iran, previously its third-largest oil supplier, in mid-2019. It purchased 7.65 million tonnes of Venezuelan crude from January to October last year compared with 15.9 million tonnes in 2019. S&P Global Platts in a report said the year 2020 was the first year when Iranian crude inflows into India dropped to zero and that gave Iraq an opportunity to grab a market share of as high as 25 per cent, with shipments of about 50.17 million tonnes in 2020, up from 45.88 million tonnes in 2019, shipping data showed. "Competitive pricing was an important factor to make Iraq the top supplier of crude to India. But Iraq's share in 2021 could go lower as there is a likelihood of some crude coming back from Iran due to the potential easing of US sanctions from the new Biden administration," said Lim Jit Yang, adviser for oil markets at S&P Global Platts Analytics. The report said Iranian crude supply could grow by 500,000 barrels per day between June and December, assuming a new agreement is forged by late 2021 and that the Biden administration is not as stringent about policing sanctions enforcement than the Trump administration. In a best-case scenario, growth of up to one million b/d is possible by December, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Odisha toll road project: Canadian fund signs agreement with Bharat Road Network Limited||Canadian institutional fund manager Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) through its infrastructure investment trust — India Highway Concession Trust — has signed an agreement with Bharat Road Network Limited to acquire a 67-kilometre toll road project from Bhubaneswar to Chandikhole, in Odisha. The enterprise value of the SPV — Shree Jagannath Expressway Private Limited — is estimated in the range of Rs 1800-2000 crore, people familiar with the development said. The SPV is in charge of the development, operations and maintenance of the project which began in December 2011 with an initial concession period of 26 years. BRNL is the largest shareholder with a 40 per cent stake. The company is looking to reduce debt and to use the proceeds for organic and inorganic growth. BRNL’s borrowings were at Rs 260 crore as in September 2020. “It will be the first asset integrated into the new CDPQ-owned roads platform in India, which we set up and staffed in 2020. This reflects our interest for the sector and more broadly the Indian infrastructure market,” said Emmanuel Jaclot, executive vice-president and head of infrastructure, CDPQ. "The transaction is expected to help BRNL in reducing its debts and will also provide the company with funds for reinvesting in its existing assets under construction," said Bajrang Kumar Choudhary, managing director, BRNL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Future Group shares jump after stock exchanges approve RIL deal||Shares in Future Group companies jumped 5 per cent on Thursday after Indian stock exchanges approved the group’s Rs 24,713-crore deal to sell their retail assets to Mukesh Ambani-led conglomerate Reliance Industries. The Indian exchanges said they reached the decision after communicating with India’s markets regulator, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which had earlier cleared the deal. However, the BSE and NSE, have stated that their approval is “subject to the outcome of any of the ongoing litigations/arbitration/legal proceedings involving the draft scheme and/or the decision by any competent authority/competent court in this regard”. The deal had soured ties with Future’s business  partner Amazon.com Inc, which claimed the transaction breached agreements with Future made in 2019. Amazon raised legal and regulatory challenges to the deal at a Singapore arbitration court and in the Delhi court. The stock exchanges have advised Future Group to ensure that the details of the complaints made by Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC (Amazon), the submissions of Future Retail Ltd and the counter submissions of Amazon are brought to the notice of the shareholders of the listed entities involved in the scheme while seeking their approval. “Further, the same shall also be brought to the notice of the NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) while filing the draft scheme for its approval.” The observations of Sebi/stock exchanges are to be incorporated in the petition to be filed before the NCLT, the reports said. The stock exchanges have also asked Future to ensure shareholders are informed that 74.2 per cent of the business value of the Future Enterprises Ltd, post amalgamation of all the transferor companies, is getting transferred to Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Ltd and that these two companies would not be seeking listing post the scheme of arrangement. Sebi has also directed Future Group to ensure that suitable disclosure about the latest financials of the companies involved in the scheme being not more than six months old are made before filing the same with the NCLT. PTI quoted an Amazon spokesperson who said “the letters issued by BSE & NSE clearly state that comments of Sebi on the “draft scheme of arrangement” (proposed transaction) are subject to the outcome of the ongoing arbitration and any other legal proceedings. We will continue to pursue our legal remedies to enforce our rights.” Future Group founder and CEO  Kishore Biyani said earlier this month it expects regulatory approval of the deal, after a New Delhi court in December said the authorities can take a decision on the transaction in accordance with the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Small and mid-cap stocks will beat larger peers in India: Morgan Stanley||Global brokerage firm Morgan Stanley has said that growth in India is set to surprise on the upside. The brokerage also pointed out that small and mid-cap stocks will beat their larger peers as returns to investors will come from bottom-up stock picking rather than following a top-down approach. In stock market parlance, a top-down approach is that when an investor looks at the macro-economic picture first and then takes a decision. Bottom-up investing is done after analysing individual companies. In a note, equity strategists Ridham Desai and Nayant Parekh and equity analyst Sheela Rathi identified 12 stocks as they came out with their most favoured investment themes for 2021. The investment bank said that a key factor influencing its equity portfolio strategy is that growth is set to surprise on the upside because of a combination of improving policy traction, global growth, accommodative monetary stance, strong farm output, robust corporate activity and the likely peak of Covid-19 cases. “While we expect monetary accommodation to remain at the current high levels, we think the RBI is now on a long pause. With inflation likely to remain sticky and interest rates likely to be at current low levels to address growth concerns, real rates may remain in negative territory for most of 2021’’, they added. Its 12 picks for the current year are Bajaj Auto, Bharat Electronics, Bharti Airtel, Britannia, DLF, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, IndusInd Bank, Just Dial, Larsen & Toubro, MMFSL, PNB Housing and Tata Steel. On what this would mean for investor portfolios, the note said that small and mid-caps could beat large caps and portfolio returns will more likely be driven by bottom-up stock-picking than top-down macro. "We think domestic cyclicals outperform exporters, rate sensitives and consumers outperform, whereas energy underperforms - backed by growth and rates calls. We are overweight consumer discretionary, industrials, financials, utilities and underweight technology and energy’’, the Morgan Stanley note said. Stocks that included Bharat Electronics, Britannia, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, IndusInd Bank, Just Dial, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services (MMFSL), PNB Housing and Tata Steel entered into its focus list for 2021. However, it has excluded Motherson Sumi, ITC, HDFC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance, Havells, SBI and Interglobe Aviation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||Business||Sensex scales 50000-level for first time||The Sensex on Thursday scaled the 50000-level for the first time on hopes of an economic recovery and positive global cues but fell victim to profit booking to finish below the milestone. However, the mood was one of caution as stretched valuations in some stocks raised the bar for corporate earnings which could turn out to be a double-edged sword. Equity investors have benefited from strong inflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) as central banks globally inject huge liquidity to kickstart their economy. So far in January, they have made investments worth Rs 22,730 crore in domestic equities. Their enthusiasm is expected to continue on optimism of fresh stimulus by the new Biden administration. Back home, while good corporate results have kept the momentum going, expectations of a growth-oriented budget from Nirmala Sitharaman have added to the positive sentiment. Shares of market heavyweight Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) rose 2 per cent after market regulator Sebi on Thursday gave a conditional approval to Future Group’s sale of assets to RIL. The 30-share Sensex opened above the 50000-mark at 50096.57. It thereafter hit a record intra-day peak of 50184.01. However, profit booking in the last one hour of the trading session saw the index surrendering its gains to end lower at 49624.76, a drop of 167.36 points, or 0.34 per cent. It has taken just one month and 32 trading sessions for the index to cover the last 5000 points. Nilesh Shah, group president and MD, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company, said, “The Sensex touching 50000 is like the Indian cricket team winning test series in Australia against all odds of Covid-19. While economic data is about the past which is improving month-on-month, the Sensex is reflecting the positivity about the future.” Some experts  have warned of a correction if corporate India’s performance does not meet expectations. “Valuations are a function of earnings and earnings not coming through remains the key risk. The continuous upmove not backed by fundamentals may make the rally fragile going ahead,” said Joseph Thomas, head of research at Emkay Wealth Management. He added that a broad based rally in the markets should be underpinned by a healthy economic growth which would be the key variable providing indications how the future trajectory of risk assets (like equities) shapes-up. In today’s trade, ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, SBI, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Sun Pharma and ITC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto, Reliance Industries (RIL), Bajaj Finserv and Asian Paints were among the gainers, climbing up to 2.72 per cent. However, Ashwin Patni, Head Products & Alternatives, at Axis AMC is of the view that 50,000 is just another level, though he is quick to add that the domestic markets are at the cusp of a long term cyclical growth trajectory. "Markets have touched 50,000. Like other peaks over the last 40 years, there is jubilation and wonderment amongst the finance community. While it might seem momentous, these levels and dates, in reality mean nothing at all. An index such as Sensex ultimately is a broad representation of the performance of the market. So when someone says the index has risen 50 times in 40 years, it is a representation of how the Indian equity markets have fared over this time. This growth has come through periods of booms and recessions and across bull and bear markets", Patni added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-163
22-01-2021||India||Do not fear vaccine, Modi tells beneficiaries in Varanasi ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to dispel fears and misconceptions over the efficacy and safety of Covid vaccines in an interaction with health workers in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency. “When doctors and health workers give a clean chit to the vaccine, it sends a very strong message among people about the efficacy of the shots,” he said through a video conference. Health practitioners who have been vaccinated against coronavirus or have administered the shots to others took part, sharing their first-hand experiences. “Really, corona warriors have done a wonderful job,” Modi said in the 30-minute interaction during which a hospital matron, a nurse, a lab technician and a doctor asserted that there were no side effects after they were vaccinated. The interaction came against the backdrop of authorities grappling with hesitancy over the vaccination, with many health workers not turning up to get themselves vaccinated at their assigned centres. “The world’s largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Our frontline warriors are getting vaccinated across the nation,” Modi had tweeted on Thursday. “This interaction would give first hand opportunity to hear their experiences as well as feedback,” he had said. The prime minister had launched the nationwide inoculation drive on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially. Nearly 10.5 lakh beneficiaries have received anti-coronavirus shots under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. In a span of 24 hours, 2,37,050 people were vaccinated across 4,049 sessions. A total of 18,167 sessions have been conducted so far. On the testing front too, India continues to register growing numbers, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Congress demands Parliamentary probe into Arnab WhatsApp chats||A Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the alleged leaked WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami should be conducted, the Congress demanded on Friday. The Congress Working Committee, the highest decision making body of the grand old party, passed a resolution to this effect, for the breach of national security and violations of Official Secrets Act and book those involved. Chaired by Sonia Gandhi, the CWC had earlier discussed the issue, as well as that of farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 vaccination drive. It had passed three resolutions on each of them. “The CWC demands a time-bound investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee to enquire into the breach of national security, violations of Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved. Ultimately, those who are guilty of treacherous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished,” the resolution said. The CWC expresses its grave concern at the revelations “exposing the sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security”, it said. “It is clear that among those involved are persons in the highest echelons of government and there has been a breach of secrecy concerning vital and sensitive military operations. The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subversion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary,” the resolution also said. It alleged that the “shameful compromise” of the Modi government with non-government players has been exposed. The CWC also expressed shock that even days after the revelations, the prime minister and central government remained silent on the issue as though the storm will pass. “Their silence undermines their collusion, complicity and guilt. The storm will not pass and we will hold the central government accountable for compromising national security and aiding India's adversaries,” the resolution said. Earlier, in her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said there have been “very disturbing reports” on how national security has been “so thoroughly compromised”. Referring to former defence minister A.K. Antony dubbing the leaking of official secrets of military operations as treason, she said the silence from the government's side on what has been revealed has been deafening. “Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed,” the Congress chief said. In another resolution, the CWC demanded that the Centre immediately repeals the three ‘anti-agri’ laws, against which the farmers have launched an agitation for the last over 50 days. The CWC noted that these three laws impinge upon the constitutional rights of states and constitute the first step in dismantling the three pillars of the edifice of food security built up over the past decades - MSP, public procurement and PDS and also did not pass the test of parliamentary scrutiny as they were bulldozed by muzzling the voice of the opposition. The resolution further said that the farmers only want repeal of the laws, but the government continues to side-step, malign, deceive and hoodwink the farmers by attempting to tire out, intimidate and divide the farmers. In the third resolution, the CWC said it calls upon the central government to take all necessary steps to overcome the hesitancy among frontline health professionals on Covid-19 vaccination. “The hesitancy is on account of the blatant politicisation of the regulatory process in order to boost the image of the prime minister.” “The CWC underlines that India's under-privileged, disadvantages and marginalised sections, particularly the scheduled castes, the scheduled tribes, other backward classes and the poor, need to be administered the vaccine free of charge and within a time-bound period,” K.C. Venugopal said while reading out the resolution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Farmers threaten to step up agitation as talks hit roadblock||The government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday as the farmer leaders stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of three farm laws they find pro-corporate and a legal guarantee for MSP, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre during the last round when they offered to suspend the laws and form a joint committee to find solutions. Farmer leaders said they will intensify their agitation now and alleged that the government's approach was not right during the meeting.' After the meeting, Union agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar  said some "forces" definitely wanted the protests to continue for their own personal and political motives. He said no resolution was possible when the sanctity of agitation was lost. The minister said farmer unions had been asked to revert till Saturday if they agreed to the government's proposal for putting the laws on hold and forming a joint committee to reach a solution, after which the talks can continue. "We also told farmers to give their own proposal, other than the repeal of Acts, if they have got anything better than our offer," Tomar told reporters after the 11th round of talks. Asked whether he expects the farmers to agree to the government offer, he said, "I don't want to speculate, but we are hopeful that farmer unions will consider our response positively." On whether he saw any division among the union leaders on the government proposal, Tomar did not give a direct reply but said, "We thanked all farmer leaders, including those who support our proposal and those who are against it." While the meeting lasted for almost five hours, the two sides sat face to face for less than 30 minutes. In the very beginning, the farmer leaders informed the government that they have decided to reject the proposal made by the government in the last round of talks on Wednesday. The three central ministers, including Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, urged the union representatives to reconsider their stand, after which the two sides went for a lunch break. The break, during which the farmer leaders had their langar (community kitchen) food, lasted for more than three hours. The break also saw the 41 farmer leaders holding consultations among themselves, at times in smaller groups, while the three central ministers waited in a separate room at Vigyan Bhawan. After the meeting, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the discussions have broken down as the unions rejected the government's proposal. The ministers told the unions that they have been given all possible options and they must discuss internally the proposal of suspending the laws. Tomar told the farmer leaders that the government would be ready for another meeting if farmers want to discuss the proposal, sources said. The minister also thanked unions for their cooperation and said while there were no problems with the laws, the government offered to suspend them as respect for the protesting farmers. Coming out of the meeting venue, farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said there was no headway in the discussions and the government asked unions to deliberate on its proposal again. Kakka was the first to leave the meeting, but said it was for "some personal reasons". In the last round of meetings held on Wednesday, the government had offered to put on hold the three laws and set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, after internal consultations on Thursday, the farmer unions decided to reject the offer and stick to their two major demands -- the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). "We told the government that we will not agree to anything other than the repeal of the laws. But the minister asked us to discuss separately again and rethink the matter and convey the decision," farmer leader Darshan Pal told PTI. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said: "We conveyed our position clearly to the government that we want a repeal of the laws and not a suspension. The ministers asked us to reconsider our decision." Some leaders expressed apprehensions that the movement will lose its momentum once the farmers go away from Delhi borders. Harpal Singh, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union -- Asli Arajnaitik (Real Apolitical), said, "Even if we accept the government's offer, our fellow brothers sitting at Delhi borders will not accept anything other than a repeal of the laws. They will not spare us. What achievement will we show to them?" He also questioned the government's credibility, alleging it was difficult to believe that they will keep their word on putting the laws on hold for 18 months. "We will die here but we will not return without getting the laws repealed," Singh said. Along with Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are also participating in the talks with representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. In a full general body meeting on Thursday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting unions, rejected the government's proposal. "A full repeal of three central farm Acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," the Morcha said in a statement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||CWC members decide to elect president after Assembly polls||The Congress Working Committee on Friday decided that the new president of the party will be elected in June, and approved holding internal discussions on the matter after Assembly polls in five states. The committee after a three and a half hour meeting authorised incumbent party chief Sonia Gandhi to schedule the internal election after the conclusion of assembly polls in five states. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress leaders K.C. Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala said elections to the CWC will also be held but it remains to be seen whether they can be scheduled before or after the election to the Congress chief's post. Sources said the Central Election Authority has proposed the holding of polls for electing the party president and AICC session on May 29 and the working committee discussed the dates, but authorised Sonia Gandhi to schedule them after the assembly polls. The CWC passed three resolutions demanding a repeal of the three agriculture laws, a time-bound JPC probe into the alleged violations of national security and Official Secrets Act and another to ensure that the government ensures free time-bound Covid-19 vaccination for the poor and oppressed sections. “The CWC decided that there will be an elected Congress President by June 2021 at any cost,” AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal said. He said the little change of schedule depending on the state elections will be decided soon. “The CWC discussed the schedule of Congress president's elections in May-end, proposed by its election authority. All CWC members unanimously requested the Congress president that the internal elections should not interfere with the assembly elections,” Venugopal said. He said the Congress president was requested unanimously to reschedule AICC Plenary Session to the end of June 2021 and the Congress chief's election would be concluded by June 2021. “We will conduct elections as per the Constitution of the party. We need a change of schedule due to assembly polls as counting would be underway in May,” he said. Asked about any dissenting notes on the holding of elections, Surjewala said, "There was no dissent at the meeting." He added that leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma or P. Chidambaram were not dissenters but senior members of the Congress party and were all unanimous in deciding to extend the election schedule a little. “There was no argument in the election schedule issue. The meeting was very fruitful. There is no dispute over conducting an organisational election,” Venugopal said. He said a little clarity was needed on whether the CWC election can be held before or after the Congress president’s election. “We have to go to the constitution to look at that. The practice is to hold Congress president’s election first and then the CWC election,” he said. There were reports about Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot hitting out at those demanding internal elections, saying the leaders should leave this to the party chief and focus on how to fight the Narendra Modi-led BJP. Anand Sharma objected to the tone of his remarks, dubbing it “disrespectful”, the sources said. The virtual meeting chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi started with her address. She then asked AICC general secretary organisation K.C. Venugopal to read out the Organisational Election Schedule sent by the chairperson of the Central Election Authority. The CEC chaired by Madhusudan Mistry has proposed that the AICC Session and the party president's election be held on May 29, with the process of nomination filing starting in the month of May itself. Sonia Gandhi took over as the interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party’s Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. There have been demands from a section of the Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president and an organisational overhaul. The CWC had in its earlier meeting decided to hold organisational elections, following a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues. Sonia Gandhi had last month met some of these 'letter-writers' and discussed the issues raised by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Centre asks farmers to reconsider offer of holding laws for 18 months||The Centre on Friday asked protesting farmers’ unions to reconsider its offer of suspending the three contentious agri laws for 12 to 18 months but they stood firm on their grounds, asking for complete repeal of the Acts. The farmers’ unions are meeting with three central ministers for the 11th round of talks to solve the nearly two-months-long impasse over the controversial laws, enacted in September last year. In the last round of meetings held on Wednesday, the government had offered to put on hold the three laws and set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, after internal consultations on Thursday, the farmer unions decided to reject the offer and stick to their two major demands -- the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). “We told the government that we will not agree to anything other than the repeal of the laws. But the minister asked us to discuss separately again and rethink on the matter and convey the decision,” farmer leader Darshan Pal told PTI during a break after the first session. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said, “We have conveyed our position clearly to the government that we want a repeal of the laws and not a suspension. The minister (Narendra Singh Tomar) asked us to reconsider our decision.” Tikait said the farmer leaders are discussing internally on this issue. “After the lunch break, we will convey our decision,” he added. The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers began at around 1 pm, but not much headway was visible in the first two hours of the meeting. Along with Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are also participating in the talks with representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. In a full general body meeting on Thursday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting unions, rejected the government's proposal. "A full repeal of three central farm Acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," the Morcha said in a statement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati -- the other three members on the panel -- started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Union ministers start 11th round of talks with protesting farmer unions||The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday to break the nearly two-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws. In the last round of meeting held on Wednesday, the government yielded some ground in its bid to end the farmers' protest on various border points of the national capital. The Centre had offered to put on hold the three laws for 12-18 months and also set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, the farmer unions on Thursday rejected the government's offer and remained stuck to their two major demand -- repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). Farmers group said they will continue the protest and also hold tractor rally on January 26, the Republic Day. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha..., the proposal put forth by the government...was rejected. A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had said in a statement on Thursday. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Centre 'insensitive' towards farmers' agitation, claims Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday launched a fierce attack on the Centre over the farmers' agitation and said the government has shown "shocking insensitivity and arrogance going through the charade of consultations". Addressing a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee, she alleged that it was now abundantly clear that the three farm laws were prepared in haste and Parliament was consciously denied an opportunity to examine in any meaningful detail their implications and impacts. "The agitation of farmers continues and the government has shown shocking insensitivity and arrogance going through the charade of consultations," she said. The crucial meeting, being held virtually, will also finalise the plan for organisational elections, including that of the next Congress president. Gandhi said the Congress position on the issue of the farm laws has been clear from the very beginning. "We reject them categorically because they will destroy the foundations of food security that are based on the three pillars of MSP, public procurement and PDS." Discussing the budget session of Parliament, she said there are many pressing issues of public concern that need to be debated and discussed, but it remains to be seen whether the government will agree to a discussion. On the purported WhatsApp chat leaks of Arnab Goswami, she said, "There have been very disturbing reports on how national security has been so thoroughly compromised." "The silence from the government's side on what has been revealed has been deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed," she said. Gandhi expressed the hope that the process of the COVID-19 vaccination drive will continue and be completed to the fullest extent. The government, she added, has inflicted untold suffering on the people of the country by the manner in which it has managed the COVID-19 pandemic. "It will take years for the scars to heal," she alleged. The economic situation remains grim and large parts of the economy like MSME and the informal sector have been decimated with the government refusing to extend a lifeline, the Congress president said. "When public expenditure has to be carefully prioritized, it is very painful to find huge amounts of money being allocated and spent on initiatives that can only be described as 'personal vanity projects'," she said. "Panic privatization has gripped the government and this is something that the Congress party can never accept and support," Gandhi added. The Congress chief also asked the party office bearers to list the schedule and modalities for organizational elections that has to get the CWC's approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Centre against 2nd chance for UPSC aspirants who missed exam due to Covid||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it was not in favour of granting one more opportunity to those civil services aspirants who could not appear in their last attempt in the exams conducted by the UPSC last year due to the pandemic situation. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar took note of the submissions of Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing on behalf of the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), that the government was not ready to give one more chance to the civil services aspirants who could not appear in 2020 due to the COVID-19 situation. "We are not ready to give one more chance. Give me the time to file an affidavit... yesterday night I received instruction that we are not agreeable," the law officer told the bench which also comprised justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murai. The bench has now posted the plea of a civil services aspirant Rachna for hearing on January 25 and asked the Centre to file an affidavit during the period and serve it to the parties. Earlier, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had told the bench that the government was considering the issue of granting one more opportunity to such civil services aspirants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||CBI files case against Cambridge Analytica for data harvesting||The CBI has booked UK-based Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research Ltd for illegally harvesting data of Facebook users in India for commercial purposes, officials said on Friday. The action came after a preliminary enquiry into the matter which showed that Global Science Research had created an app "thisisyourdigitallife" which was authorised by Facebook to collect specific datasets of its users for research and academic purposes in 2014, they said. The company then entered into a criminal conspiracy with Cambridge Analytica, allowing it to use the data harvested by it for commercial purposes, the officials said. Facebook had collected certificates from both the firms in 2016-17 that data collected by them using "thisisyourdigitallife" was accounted for and destroyed. However, the CBI enquiry did not find any evidence of any such destruction, according to the officials. "The enquiry prima facie established that Global Science Research Ltd, UK dishonestly and fraudulently accessed data of app users of "thisisyourdigitallife" and their Facebook friends," an official said, citing the FIR. After nearly 18 months of the preliminary enquiry, the CBI has booked the UK-based Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research for alleged illegal harvesting of data of 5.62 lakh Indian Facebook users for profiteering and manipulating elections, officials said Friday. The agency registered case against Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research represented by Aleksandr Kogan, both based in the UK, under Indian Penal Code section related to criminal conspiracy and Information Technology Act violations related to receiving stolen computer resource and negligence in handling personal data collected by them, they said. Based on news reports of illegal data harvesting to manipulate elections, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had sent a complaint to the CBI on July 25, 2018 based on which the agency had registered a preliminary enquiry into the matter, they said. It is alleged that Kogan of GSR had created an application "Thisisyourdigitallife" having permission from Facebook to collect certain categories of its users' data for "research and academic purposes". It illegally collected additional data of not only the 335 users of the application but also of their friends' network on Facebook, the social media giant without their consent or knowledge, the FIR alleged. The data was allegedly sold for commerical gains to Cambridge Analytica which used it for profiling users and influencing elections in India, the complaint alleged. Although the application had 335 users in India, it was able to harvest data of 5.62 lakh Facebook members who were in their friends' network, Facebook had told the MeitY in its response. Cambridge Analytica in its response had told the ministry that it received data of only US-based users from GSR. The company did not respond to further queries, the complaint alleged. During the enquiry, the CBI contacted all the 335 Indian users of the GSR's application out of which only six responded. They all unanimously told the agency that they were not aware that their personal data and that of their friends was collected, the FIR said. The users told the agency that they would not have used the application if they had known about the collection of personal data, it said. After nearly 18 months, the CBI enquiry has prima facie established that GSR dishonestly and fraudulently accessed and harvested data of Facebook users without their consent or knowledge of including private chats, pages visited, demographic information etc, the FIR alleged. The agency enquiry also established that GSR illegally gave the right to Cambridge Analytica to use the data for commercial gains, it alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||More than 14,000 people test Covid positive, 163 succumb to the virus in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,06,25,428 with 14,545 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,02,83,708, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,53,032 with 163 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,83,708 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.78 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh for the third consecutive day.There are 1,88,688 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,01,48,024 samples have been tested up to January 21 with 8,00,242 samples being tested on Thursday. The 163 new fatalities include 52 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 15 from Punjab , 9 each from Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 1,53,032 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,634 from Maharashtra followed by 12,299 from Tamil Nadu, 12,187 from Karnataka, 10,782 from Delhi, 10,089 from West Bengal, 8,597 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Fog disrupts traffic movement in Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, on Friday even as foggy conditions disrupted traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Moderate fog lowered visibility to 350 metres at Safdarjung and Palam, officials said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres. A fresh Western Disturbance affecting the western Himalayas is likely to provide some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature is expected to increase to 9 degrees Celsius by Sunday as a result of easterly winds and cloud cover. Easterly winds have already started blowing in the national capital. A cloud cover will further increase the minimum temperature on Saturday and Sunday," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature. However, Srivastava said, the minimum temperature will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday. The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Centre’s proposal to suspend implementation farm laws rejected||The protesting farmers on Thursday rejected the Centre’s proposal to suspend the implementation of the three contentious laws for 18 months, taking the stand that the 143 “martyred” farmers had died seeking repeal and not such half-measures. “The SKM pays homage to the 143 farmers who have been martyred in this movement so far. These companions are separated from us while fighting this mass movement. Their sacrifice will not go in vain and we will not go back without the repealing of these farm laws,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said in a statement. The decision by the SKM, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protest, was announced on Thursday night after three rounds of meetings over the 24 hours since the offer had been made. This being the first concrete offer from the government, it was considered with all seriousness and saw some farmer leaders inclined to accepting it. But, sources said, even they were clear that it could be accepted only if the government enacted a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) for 23 crops. Repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed MSP have been the farmers’ two main demands. It was the second demand that took the movement beyond Punjab and Haryana. The offer was first discussed on Wednesday night within the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which had given the “Dilli chalo” call that brought thousands of farmers to Delhi’s borders on November 26. On Thursday morning, another round of discussion took place among the farmer unions from Punjab, after which the SKM met. All day the union leaders maintained a studied silence. By evening, when the SKM remained closeted, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union from Uttar Pradesh said the offer had been rejected. By this time, Shingara Singh Mann of the BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) — the largest farmer organisation from Punjab, which has brought the highest number of people to picket the Tikri border — too had made it known that the offer was unacceptable. Mann said that suspension of the laws would mean they would be hanging over the farmers’ heads like a sword. Other union leaders too questioned the logic in having the laws in the statute books if they were not to be implemented. “Why is the government not repealing them if it is sincere?” was the refrain. Another consideration was that the movement was on the ascendant with more unions joining in from across the country. Added to this was the enthusiasm in Punjab for the tractor rally planned in Delhi on Republic Day. The farm union leaders have more than once over the past two months maintained that while they are the ones attending the talks with the government, it is not them but the mass of farmers who are leading the movement. “What if we agree to the proposal and a large section of farmers do not? That would divide and weaken this movement, and we will not be able to mobilise people on this scale for a long time in that eventuality,” a union leader said. Less than an hour after the SKM announced its decision, BKU (Siddupur) leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal told reporters at the Singhu border that the meeting was still on and that no decision had been taken. However, another union leader who was at the meeting said that what was being discussed was related to differences that had cropped up between the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh leader Shiv Kumar “Kakkaji” and Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni. Delhi police have requested the SKM not to conduct the planned January 26 “kisan parade” in Delhi but the farmers have reiterated that they would hold the tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road after the official Republic Day parade. The union leaders have maintained that the rally would be peaceful and that they know that any form of violence would be counterproductive and weaken the movement. The SKM will formally communicate its decision to the government on Friday, when the eleventh round of talks is scheduled. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had been hopeful of resolving the issue on Friday. But the farmers — while conceding that the offer is a positive step — continue to bristle at the absence of empathy, the name calling, the use of force to stop their movement, and the use of the National Investigation Agency to scare them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||5 dead in fire at Serum Institute of india, vaccine production not hit||A blaze on Thursday at the Serum Institute of India killed five people but the world’s biggest vaccine maker said it would not affect production of the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine. At least nine people have been evacuated from the five-storey, under-construction building in the Manjari complex, according to sources. The building is 1km from the Covishield manufacturing unit. Videos and pictures showed black smoke billowing from a multi-storey building at the Serum Institute’s sprawling headquarters complex in Pune. The process of manufacturing the coronavirus vaccine has not been affected, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla said. “We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation, we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed,” Poonawalla tweeted. “I would like to reassure all governments and the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much, Pune City Police and Fire Department,” he added. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine is being made. Poonawalla told a TV channel that the fire would mean delays in launching new products and revenue losses of more than Rs 1,000 crore. Equipment worth millions of dollars has been damaged, he said. But a source said that none of the new production equipment for vaccines was in the building that caught fire. Those who died were construction workers working on the fifth floor. The fire broke out at 2.45pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building and was brought under control around 4.30pm. Initial information suggested an electrical fault had caused the fire. Cyrus Poonawalla, the Serum Institute chairman and managing director, said the family of each of the deceased would receive a compensation of Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Report sought on captive elephant death||The Latehar district administration in Jharkhand has asked officials of the Palamau Tiger Reserve under Betla National Park to submit a report at the earliest on the lapses that led to the killing of a captive 40-year-old male elephant by two wild tuskers. This was the first such incident of a captive elephant being killed by wild tuskers and that too in the presence of a large number of forest guards. Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran shot off a letter on Wednesday to deputy director of the north division of the tiger reserve, Kumar Ashish, on reasons for shifting the captive elephant to the Palamau Fort and what steps had been taken by the forest officials to safeguard the animal. “The forest officials had not reported anything to me about Monday night’s incident. However, after going through media reports and The Telegraph report I came to know about certain lapses. I also saw the central government guidelines (issued by Union ministry of environment and forests in 2008) for care and management of captive elephants as part of Project Elephant. I have asked them to furnish a report on the reason for shifting the elephant to that particular location, the steps taken to safeguard the animal and whether they followed all the guidelines issued by the central government,” said Imran, a 2010-batch IAS officer. The male elephant named Kal Bhairav was gored to death by two wild tuskers at Palamau Fort late on Monday night in the presence of nearly 10 forest guards who could only shout and burst crackers in their efforts to ward them off. The wild tuskers continued attacking the captive elephant and finally broke his chains and took him nearly 200 metres away from the shed. he entire incident lasted for over an hour with the captive elephant receiving multiple external injuries (over 25) and his intestines being punctured by the wild tuskers. Forest officials, however, claimed that they are yet to receive any letter from the deputy commissioner. “We are yet to receive any such letter from the deputy commissioner so far,” said Kumar. Five captive elephants were kept at the Palamau Fort, which is a major tourist attraction. The forest department had constructed three watch towers with halogen lights all around and a provision for 24x7 forest guards in such a manner that 10 of them are on duty at any point of time. Kal Bhairav was among the three captive elephants rescued and brought to the Betla National Park from Mysore in Karnataka in 2018 and was the lone male among them. Wildlife conservationist and secretary of the Nature Conservation Society, D.S. Srivastava, who has been studying elephant and tiger behaviour in the Palamau and Latehar regions for over three decades, had blamed the forest officials for the incident. “Firstly, forest officials should not have kept the captive elephants at Palamau Fort which is in a dense forest and there is always a danger of attack from wild elephants. Secondly, they should have constructed a deep trench all around the shed to prevent wild elephants from coming closer to the captive ones. Thirdly, they should have provided tranquilliser guns to the forest guards as bursting crackers and shouting is not going to be of much help to ward off tuskers when they become aggressive,” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Kashmir valley witnessesing saffron boom||The Valley appears to be witnessing a saffron boom, largely thanks to the Congress. Only, this version of saffron concerns the kitchen more than the polling booth. While the BJP continues to struggle in Kashmir, a spice emblematic of the Valley and representing the party’s favourite colour is said to have turned a corner after years of poor yields. Saffron, the world’s costliest spice, fetches Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh a kilogram. Its production in Kashmir, the only place in India where it is grown, had been waning for decades because of droughts and the conversion of saffron-growing fields into residential plots. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had over the years shown an unexpected level of interest in kicking up its production, something many Kashmiris attribute to the symbolism of the colour rather than his love of the spice itself. Modi must thank his predecessor Manmohan Singh for the recent good news, though, for the rise in production seems largely the outcome of the Rs 410-crore National Saffron Mission (NSM), which the erstwhile UPA Prime Minister had launched in 2010, slowly bearing fruit. Officials said the Modi government can be credited only for continuing with the programme, and for Kashmiri saffron securing the geographical Indication (GI) tag. “Great Achievement: Annual yield of the world’s costliest spice, #Saffron, cultivated in Kashmir has crossed 13 metric tonnes for the first time in the last 10 years,” lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s office tweeted on Wednesday. While some officials cited even higher figures, an industry body suggested the actual production should be lower than what Sinha had claimed. Kashmir agriculture director Mohammad Iqbal Choudhary said the actual production in Kashmir was 18 tonnes. “So far as the production of 13 metric tonnes is concerned, it is the yield from some 2,400 hectares that have been rejuvenated under the mission so far. In all, the mission aims to rejuvenate 3,700 hectares,” Choudhary told The Telegraph. Official data say that production rose to 13.36 tonnes over this area in 2020 against 1.489 tonnes a decade ago when the mission was launched. The purported improvement comes seven months after Kashmiri saffron got the GI tag — a boost in the competition with saffron produced in Iran, Spain and other places. “The GI tag is helping big time. Because of it we introduced e-trading. Lacha saffron would cost Rs 80 per gram last year but is selling at Rs 175-185 now. Similarly, the price of the Mogra variety has shot up to Rs 228 per gram this year from Rs 120 per gram in 2019,” Choudhary said. Saffron production had peaked in the 1980s, when farmers claim it was around 30 tonnes while government figures cite about half that figure. The NSM sought to introduce scientific techniques to rejuvenate saffron bulbs, provide groundwater irrigation through bore wells and sprinklers, provide power tillers, and set up a high-tech saffron park with mechanised processing and e-trading facilities. Mohammad Qasim Ghani, chief agriculture officer of Pulwama, where the spice is mainly grown, said the NSM had helped increase production. “Because of it, production has gone up to 4.5kg-5kg per hectare. In its heyday, production was 6-7kg a hectare, and we aim to achieve that,” he said. Officials said a Rs 40-crore Spice Park set up under the mission, where saffron is scientifically dried and tested for quality, had been a boon. However, Ghulam Mohammad Pampori, president of the Kashmir Saffron Growers and Dealers Association, contested all the figures. “The situation has not changed much on the ground. Drought and disease remain enemies of the crop. They (the government) are only interested in promoting themselves, while the fact is that production per hectare remains what it was a few years ago,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Governor’s decision on Rajiv’s assassins soon||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that the Tamil Nadu governor would take a decision within the next three-four days on the premature release of seven assassins of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta made the announcement before a bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra, following which the court adjourned the matter for four weeks. The court was hearing a petition filed by A.G. Perarivalan, one of the convicts, seeking his release from jail in view of a recommendation by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018. Mehta told the court that he had instructions to say that the governor would take a decision within three-four days. Besides Perarivalan, the other life convicts are Nalini, Murugan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Pyas. The Tamil Nadu cabinet had passed a resolution in September 2018 to release the convicts and had forwarded it to governor Banwarilal Purohit. The recommendation is pending for over two years. The Centre has not accepted the Tamil Nadu government’s recommendation for the release of the convicts and challenged it in the Supreme Court. Rajiv was assassinated by suicide bombers of the LTTE at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu in 1991. In his petition, Perarivalan has said that he was accused of buying the belt bomb battery used to assassinate Rajiv, but the allegation had not been proved beyond reasonable doubt. During a hearing last November, the judges, who examined the report filed on behalf of the CBI in connection with the case, expressed dissatisfaction, saying nothing new had been filed on the belt bomb and ordering a fresh report. During that hearing, the court had questioned the governor’s delay in deciding on the release. Perarivalan has been in prison for nearly 30 years .His death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by the Supreme Court as the President had earlier taken nearly 12 years to reject the clemency petitions. During the November 3 hearing, Justice Rao, heading the three-judge bench, had told senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan appearing for Perarivalan: “We don’t want to exercise our jurisdiction, but we are not happy with how this recommendation has been pending for two years. Tell us what the law and cases are which can allow us to do it (pass a direction). We can hear this after vacation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Supreme Court notice on Mirzapur resident’s plea on show||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the response of the Centre, streaming service Amazon Prime Video and Excel Entertainment, the producer of the popular web series Mirzapur, on a plea by a resident of Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh, accusing the makers of hurting the sentiments of the entire city by branding it a place of terror, crime, adultery, gambling and gang wars. Besides seeking action against the producers and actors of the web series for “indecent representation”, petitioner Sujit Kumar Singh, a resident of Mirzapur, through advocate Binay Kumar Das has urged the court to direct the Centre to evolve suitable guidelines for such shows, including prior certification by the information and broadcasting ministry akin to that granted for regular movies. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian sought a response within four weeks. The petitioner has challenged how Mirzapur has been portrayed as being full of terror, crime and other illegal activities in the fictional series, which he said had maligned its image as a city of Uttar Pradesh. According to the petitioner, Mirzapur has a high historical and cultural value. It was founded in the 17th century and by 1800 it became the greatest trading centre in northern India, Singh said. The Ganga meets the Vindhya range in Mirzapur. This is considered significant in Hindu mythology and has a mention in the Vedas. The world-famous Vindhyachal temple, one of the 108 shaktipeeths, is also situated in Mirzapur. Mirzapur is also famous for its carpet and brassware industry, the petitioner pointed out. According to the petition, emperor Ashoka created the Buddhist stupa and Ashok stambh (which is now the national symbol) from the red marbles of Mirzapur. Excel Entertainment’s two-part web series, however, depicts Mirzapur as a city of goons and an adulteress, the petition said. “It is shown in the series that (a) lady belonging to Mirzapur having sexual affair with her servant and with her father-in-law as well. By showing such ridiculous and shameless things on the name of a city/district is the insult of approx. 30 lakh population and rich culture of Mirzapur,” the petition says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||CRPF to induct women into CoBRA||The country’s largest paramilitary force — the CRPF — is planning to induct women personnel into its jungle warfare commando wing CoBRA, its director-general A.P. Maheshwari said on Thursday. “We are favourably considering inducting women in the CoBRA,” Maheswari said during a news conference. In 2008, the Centre had raised a 10,000-strong special force under the command and control of the CRPF to counter Maoists and equip them with Maoist intelligence techniques and strategy. The Combat Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) team is deployed in Maoist-affected regions across the country. The CoBRA unit is headquartered in the National Capital Region and has its battalion headquarters in all Maoist-affected states. “CoBRA commandos get an incentive of 15 per cent above the salary that is normally drawn by a CRPF jawan,” said a CRPF official. At present, most CoBRA battalions are deployed in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, the official said. The CRPF has had women personnel in combat since 1986 when its first “Mahila” battalion was raised. It has six such units now. The women troops are deployed across the country for rendering law-and-order duties, anti-Maoist operations and other operational tasks. The force, having a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel, is the lead internal security combat unit and is also posted in Jammu and Kashmir for counter-terrorism operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena dares BJP on soldier insult ||BJP leaders did well to file cases against the makers of the Tandav web series but they would be “truly men” if they register cases also against Arnab Goswami who “insulted the martyrdom of Indian soldiers”, the Shiv Sena said on Thursday. The Sena, an estranged BJP ally that heads the government in Maharashtra, also referred to allegations made after the February 2019 Pulwama attack “that the killing of our soldiers was part of a political conspiracy... to win the Lok Sabha elections”. The Sena said that while the media creates a ballyhoo if someone is caught with 100 grams of ganja, it is not ready to hold a national debate on Goswami’s alleged act of treason. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana made these remarks in relation to the leak of purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV managing director Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, then chief of TV ratings agency BARC. Messages attributed to Goswami and written immediately after the Pulwama attack, which killed 40 CRPF jawans, gloat about the “only channel with a ground presence” and say: “This attack we have won like crazy.” Another purported message from Goswami appears to suggest that one of the government’s objectives behind the Balakot operation was to gain popularity before the general election. Several BJP leaders recently filed cases against Tandav’s makers alleging the political drama ridicules Hindu deities. “It’s good that the BJP filed cases against the producer and director of Tandav in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But they (BJP leaders) will be truly men if the BJP files cases also against Goswami, who insulted the martyrdom of jawans,” the Saamana editorial says. “The souls of the Pulwama attack martyrs will find peace if there is discussion also on Goswami’s treason.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Poll ex-chiefs flag migrant voting hurdles||Three former chief election commissioners (CECs) have highlighted the challenges of extending voting facilities to migrants within and outside India. In the 2019 polls, a third of eligible voters did not vote, and most of these are believed to be migrant workers. The webinar by poll watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) on “Voting Facilities for Migrant Workers” came almost two months after the Election Commission of India (EC) told the Union law ministry that a mere change in the rules by the government, which would not require an amendment by Parliament, could extend electronically transferable postal ballots to overseas voters. More than 25,000 such voters, mostly from northern Kerala, returned home and voted in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. More than 1.36 crore Indian citizens live abroad, mostly in the Persian Gulf region. Former CEC S.Y. Quraishi questioned the double standard in allowing overseas migrants to vote in the countries they live in, while restricting the facility of voting away from one’s constituency only to the armed forces in India. However, he also pointed out the problems of allowing such a facility in India and abroad. “Migrants within the country are not disenfranchised. They are supposed to be registered where they are normally resident. The option to be registered at home (town), while living here (place of work) actually does not exist. It is a different matter that the EC has not been very strict about it,” said Quraishi. “Vote indicates political power. Where do I want political power? In my village or my workplace.… If workers from Bihar or Uttar Pradesh were not allowed to register in Delhi, no government would ever bother about them... no unauthorised colonies would be regularised. It is up to the voter to choose where he or she wants that particular power,” he added. Quraishi went on: “In Dubai or Kuwait or New York or Paris, we cannot ensure the model code of conduct.… We don’t have control over speech. You are giving them more options than domestic migrants.” India’s 22nd CEC, O.P. Rawat, said: “There is no accepted legal definition of migrant workers anywhere in the statute. Who will be taken as a migrant worker for enrolling and voting? We found that the labour ministry and other stakeholders concerned had no say on this major issue. Once such a definition is available, we can devise means for their voting wherever they are, if they choose so.” He added: “In many places they may be under the clutches of employers. They may be compelled by this person to vote according to his or her wishes. The EC would have to ensure that when identification takes place, somebody is present to ensure that the same person identified as the voter votes according to their free will.” Activists such as Gujarat-based Teesta Setalvad asked the EC to use rosters that are mandated under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act to enrol voters. Rajiv Khandelwal, the founder of the Aajeevika Bureau, alleged that the apathy of authorities in Gujarat over the recent deaths of 15 Rajasthani migrant workers in Surat in a traffic collision stemmed from the absence of political inclusion. “There was absolutely no local support (for the families of the deceased) except the local villagers. No political representation, no bureaucracy, no one to immediately be available at a time like this. It took the longest time to even identify the workers as they were not registered and had no formal proof of presence in the city. It took MLAs and sarpanches from Banaswada (Rajasthan) to show up in Surat to bring the bodies back.” He said most workers want voting rights in their place of work if they could also doubly retain their vote back home. Former CEC Nasim Zaidi praised the EC for exploring alternative methods of voting. “The only possible method (to allow domestic migrants to vote in their native places) is electronic postal ballots. The concept of national polling centres and district absentee voter centres (where this type of voting can be facilitated) is taking place in the EC. Migrant resident Indians (MRIs) need to be identifiable, distinct, countable and registered at the original place of residence and unable to travel back to vote.” ADR founder Jagdeep Chhokar said: “Why should the EC spend so much time, energy and effort to provide these facilities to NRIs without doing even a fraction of that for the MRIs?… I am aghast that the definition is a problem and we don’t know who has to define. That only shows that we don’t want to define.” Ashwani Kumar, professor of public policy at Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Social Sciences, pointed out that the number of migrant workers in the 2011 Census was 450 million and have been estimated to have risen to 580 million this year. Different studies show that 60 to 83 per cent failed to cast their vote in some election after moving from their hometowns, and 41 per cent of entries in Delhi’s electoral roll — considered the most accurate —  has errors. “There is a deep anti-migrant apathy especially at the BLO (booth-level officer) level,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Government ready to shift Varavara to jail ward||The Maharashtra government told Bombay High Court on Thursday that the state was willing to shift jailed poet Varavara Rao to the prison ward of the JJ Hospital in Mumbai from a private facility. The ailing octogenarian poet-activist, who is an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is admitted to the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai. Earlier this week, the hospital authorities submitted a report in the high court stating that 81-year-old Rao was fit to be discharged. Once discharged from the Nanavati Hospital, Rao is to be sent back to the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, where he is lodged as an undertrial. On Thursday, state’s counsel Deepak Thakare, however, told the high court that the instructions from the state were that once discharged, Rao could instead be sent to the JJ Hospital’s prison ward. “His family members will be allowed to visit subject to the protocols, and the treatment which is given in Nanavati will continue,” Thakare told a bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale. “These are my instructions, the rest is subject to ASG’s (the NIA’s counsel) arguments,” he said. Thakare said that following the court’s previous suggestion of taking a humane approach considering Rao’s advanced age, the state had taken the above decision. Earlier during the day’s hearing, senior counsel Indira Jaising had urged the bench to release Rao on bail and let him be with his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Can’t understand anything taught online: Runaway boy ||A 14-year-old boy ran away from his home in Gujarat’s Surat, leaving behind a note for his family that said he was not able to understand anything taught during the online classes of his school, police said on Thursday. The Class VIII boy left his home on Monday afternoon and reached his uncle’s place in Bhayandar near Mumbai, around 270km from his residence in Surat, they said. “During the probe, the police came to know that the boy and his parents lived in Bhayandar till around four years back and the teenager misses his friends there and does not feel comfortable in Surat,” inspector of Rander police station J.P. Jadeja said. The boy left his home in Surat when his parents were away. After failing to find him, his father lodged a missing person’s complaint at Rander police station, he said. Jadeja said that before leaving, the teen left a hand-written note that read: “Mummy and Papa, I troubled you a lot in the past. But now, I am going far away. I cannot understand anything which is taught through online classes. Sorry for all the trouble.” Except for Classes X and XII, schools in Gujarat have been imparting education through the online mode because of the coronavirus pandemic. “When we launched a search for the boy, his uncle, who still lives at Bhayandar, called the minor’s father on Wednesday to inform him that the boy had reached his place and was safe at home. After being informed about it, his parents have left Surat to meet him,” Jadeja said. The police, however, did not specify how the boy reached Bhayandar. The boy’s father is a small-time supplier of tobacco and food items in Surat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
22-01-2021||India||Leaked letter bares booze warts in Bihar||A leaked letter by a superintendent of police flagging the complicity of excise officials, public representatives and police officers in flouting the liquor ban in Bihar has embarrassed the Nitish Kumar government. The January 6 letter by SP (prohibition) Rakesh Kumar Sinha, a 2012-batch IPS officer, was hurriedly withdrawn after the authorities noticed it circulating on social media on Tuesday. Sinha was quickly transferred. However, by Wednesday evening, even the letter withdrawing the earlier one had gone viral, leaving the government with more egg on its face. The Opposition has seized its chance to question Nitish’s seriousness about prohibition, a pet project he had introduced in 2016 through a legislation but whose implementation has run into a wall of corruption since the beginning. Sinha had marked his letter to all district and railway SPs, asking them to probe the movable and immovable properties of excise department officials. “People are selling and purchasing liquor in all police station areas across Bihar by bribing excise inspectors, sub-inspectors and constables. Local public representatives are also involved in it, due to which the liquor ban has become a joke,” the letter said. “If a probe is conducted into the movable and immovable assets acquired by these officials and their relatives, it will create a sensation in the government department.” It added: “Take necessary action after investigating the properties of these officials along with (those of) their relatives, and also probing the location of their mobile phones with those belonging to the liquor mafia to check the sale and purchase of alcohol.” Police sources said that after Sinha’s transfer, the officer who replaced him was asked to issue another letter withdrawing the previous one. Police headquarters has asked the DSP (administration) in the prohibition division, who is supposedly responsible for drafting and issuing letters, to explain “why the particular letter (Sinha’s) was issued without giving it a serious thought”. A deeply entrenched and well-heeled mafia has established liquor supply routes and an expansive distribution network in collusion with police and excise officials. Even some station house officers have been caught selling liquor. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said: “The prohibition SP wrote to his counterparts in the districts that officials and public representatives are involved in selling liquor despite the ban. However, the liquor mafia with connections up to the CM House got the SP transferred. This is the real face of Nitish Kumar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
22-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC expels disgruntled MLA Baishali Dalmiya from party||The ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal on Friday expelled disgruntled MLA Baishali Dalmiya from the party for anti-party activities, sources said. The Bally legislator has been publicly speaking against a section of the TMC leadership. She had also claimed that there is no place for “honest and sincere people in the party”. In a statement, the TMC said that its disciplinary committee met on Friday and decided to expel Dalmiya from the party. Her expulsion came hours after senior TMC leader Rajib Banerjee resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, joining the growing list of dissenters who have put the ruling camp in a tight spot ahead of the assembly election. Dalmiya criticised the party leadership for Banerjee’s resignation as well. “Corrupt people are calling the shots in Howrah district. There is no place for the honest ones,” she said. Days ago in an interview with NDTV, Dalmiya had expressed strong views against the party. “I have complaints against some people who are working against the party, against the people and against the community I serve. I have reservations against them. There are people in my area who are not allowing business to flourish in Howrah. There are people who are trying to create hurdles for MLAs, MPs and other leaders of the party,” she said on Tuesday. “I want these termites - I call them termites - to be eradicated so that it is good for the community, it is good for the common people, it is good for senior workers of the party who have given their blood and sweat for the party but do not get any position in the party just because of these few people,” Dalmiya added. The TMC received its biggest jolt last month, during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore, when party heavyweight Adhikari and 34 other leaders, including five MLAs and an MP of the ruling camp, switched over to the BJP. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when the BJP bagged 18 seats, just four less than the ruling TMC, and emerged as its challenger in Bengal, a TMC MP, 15 TMC MLAs, three legislators of the CPI(M) and four belonging to the Congress have switched over to the saffron camp. However, none of them resigned as MLAs. Elections to the 294-member assembly are likely to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee quits from Bengal forest minister's post||In yet another jolt for the TMC dispensation, ahead of the assembly polls, Bengal forest minister Rajib Banerjee on Friday quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, citing personal attacks aimed at him for airing grievances against a section of party leaders as the reason. He said he was "deeply hurt" by the actions of some of the party members but declined to comment when asked if he plans to quit the party in the days to come. "I had grievances against some of the party's senior members and informed the leadership about it. I also had a word with party supremo, but nothing happened. Instead, I was personally attacked by a section of the leaders. "I was deeply hurt by the personal attacks aimed at me. Hence, I resigned from the cabinet," he told reporters after meeting Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan. The Domjur legislator said earlier, too, he had decided to quit the state cabinet, when removed as the irrigation minister without any notice, but Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had stopped him from doing so back then. He, however, thanked the chief minister profusely, and said that he would always remain "indebted to her for allowing him to serve the people of the state". In the letter submitted to the chief minister this morning, he tendered his resignation. "It has been a great honour and privilege to serve the people of Bengal. I heartily convey my gratitude for getting this opportunity," he wrote in the letter. The Domjur MLA, who had been airing his grievances against a section of ruling party leaders over the past few weeks, joins the string of TMC leaders and legislators who recently quit the Mamata Banerjee camp. Most of them, including his former cabinet colleague Suvendu Adhikari, have switched over to the BJP. Banerjee also said that a copy of the resignation letter has been forwarded to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for "necessary action."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
22-01-2021||West Bengal||4kg pangolin scales seized at Matigara||The forest department arrested an Alipurduar resident and seized around 4kg of pangolin scales from him at Matigara near here on Wednesday evening. The pangolin scales were kept in a school bag carried by Alam. Murshid Alam, a resident of Patlakhawa in Alipurduar, was arrested by the Sarugarah range under the Baikunthapur forest division. Five others with him managed to escape when the foresters arrived for a raid after receiving a tip-off. Sanjoy Dutta, the Sarugarah forest range officer, said the six had assembled near the  Balason river bridge in Matigara. Foresters said the pangolin might have been killed in Bhutan and the six were planning to smuggle the animal’s scales into Sikkim. Pangolin is an endangered species under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972) and on the Red List of IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). “Pangolin’s meat is consumed in countries like China and Vietnam. Its scales are also used for making traditional medicine in these countries,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Buses in Netaji memory at Krishnagar||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to launch three new bus services from two different locations in the state and lay the foundation stone of a new bus terminus in Nadia’s Krishnagar as a tribute to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary. The decision of the state government comes ahead of the Assembly polls in Bengal and at a time when political parties, mainly the BJP and the Trinamul, are trying to appropriate the legacy of Netaji, whose birth anniversary would be observed on Saturday. The Centre has decided to celebrate Netaji’s birth anniversary as ‘Parakram Diwas’, a move that has drawn criticism from the Left and Trinamul that had long demanded the day to be observed as Deshprem Divas. The Bengal government-run South Bengal State Transport Corporation (SBSTC)  has come forward to dedicate three new bus services between Siliguri and Mayapur, Tollygunj and Tarapith and Tollygunj and Jhargram on January 23 in Netaji’s memory, apart from laying the foundation stone of the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Bus Terminus in Krishnagar. The foundation stone of the proposed new terminus in Krishnagar will be laid by state correctional home services minister Ujjwal Biswas. A statue of Netaji will also be installed at the site of the bus stand during the programme. The statue will be unveiled by Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra. “The Siliguri-Mayapur bus service has been named as Netaji Express, the Tollygunj-Tarapith bus service will be known as Azad Hind Express and Joy Hind Express will be the name of the Tollygunj-Jhargram bus service,” said Godala Kiran Kumar, SBSTC managing director, and added it would be a fitting tribute to the iconic leader and freedom fighter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Man gets death sentence  in museum murder||The fourth additional and sessions judge's court in Murshidabad’s Berhampore on Thursday awarded death sentence to a man who worked as a casual labourer in the historic Hazar Duari museum for killing in rage the head clerk on July 9, 2002. Saju Sheikh, 52, a resident of Murshidabad’s Khoshbagh, received the sentence from the fourth additional and sessions judge, Mahananda Das, after being pronounced guilty on Tuesday. His accomplice Alauddin Sheikh, a fellow labourer who assisted him in fleeing the scene, received five years in jail in the same ruling. On the afternoon of July 9, 2002, Saju had approached head clerk Prabir Kumar Saha, then 31, and alleged he had not been given commensurate amount of work in comparison to the other casual labourers. In the ensuing argument, Saju attacked Saha with a sharp gardening tool in the presence of 13 eyewitnesses and fled with Alauddin’s help. Rushed to Lalbagh subdivisional hospital, Saha succumbed on the way. “Saju Sheikh mercilessly killed the head clerk of the Hazar Duari museum office in full view of others and that is why he received death sentence,” said government lawyer Prasanta Kumar Datta. He added that conclusive evidence had been deliberated upon earlier this week after talks with all eyewitnesses. Saju and Alauddin had been out on bail until Wednesday, when they were arrested after being convicted of their role in the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata gets private investment proposals  for north Bengal||The Mamata Banerjee government has received private investment proposals of over Rs 3,000 crore for north Bengal for the next fiscal year, state finance minister Amit Mitra said on Thursday. “North Bengal has investment proposal of Rs 3,265 crore for the business year 2021-2022. Last year, there were investment proposals totalling Rs 1,678 crore. These proposals have come for setting up infrastructure on tea tourism, industrial hubs, cement companies, and so on,” said Mitra who virtually attended the inauguration of the eighth edition of North Bengal Business Conclave & Synergy North Bengal in 2021. The two-day conclave, inaugurated at a hotel in Siliguri on Thursday, was organised by the NB zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation. In course of his speech, Mitra said they received proposals to set up three industrial parks, two in Alipurduar district and one in Jalpaiguri. “The estimated project cost for industrial parks in Alipurduar is Rs 700 crore and for the one in Jalpaiguri Rs 350 crore,” Mitra added. The event hosted to boost fresh private investments saw participation from all eight districts of the region. Representatives of trade organisations from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh, countries with which the region shares international borders, attended the meet virtually. “On day one, talks were held on prospective investments, statutory compliances, business development and some ancillary issues,” said a source in CII. It was also learnt that there are investment proposals for around Rs 200 crore in tourism and Rs 500 crore for tea tourism. The CII source added that prospective investors had brought proposals such as a dairy project in Raiganj, food processing units in Malda, Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur and furniture and steel projects. Sanjit Saha, chairman of the NB zonal council of CII, said they would see that such investments are made in the region. “We welcome private firms to new industrial parks. If investments come in, they will largely help create jobs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul milks tea wage hike in north Bengal||Tea trade union leaders of Trinamul hit the streets in the brew belt of north Bengal on Thursday to reap political dividends from the state government’s decision on Wednesday of a 15 per cent interim hike on daily wages of tea workers and salaries of the staff and sub-staff in the sector. In the presence of state labour minister and Trinamul leader Moloy Ghatak, trade union leaders under the banner of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union held a rally in Birpara of Alipurduar district, right in the centre of the Dooars tea belt, to celebrate the hike. A public meeting was also held in Birpara where Trinamul leaders, including Ghatak, went after the BJP for “not doing anything” for the tea sector. “We are happy that wages of workers and salaries of staff and sub-staff in tea gardens will increase by 15 per cent. The question here is, what has the BJP done for the tea workers?” Ghatak asked. Ghatak also pointed out that wages in the tea sector in BJP-ruled Assam were much lower than in Bengal. “Let them first match the wage rate of Bengal in Assam... In the last 10 years (with Trinamul in power), the Bengal government has increased tea wages from Rs 67 to Rs 202. To add to it, a number of other initiatives have been taken for the tea population,” the labour minister said. Hundreds of workers swarmed in from nearby tea gardens to the meeting, mood upbeat. “It is evident that the hike has turned the tables in Trinamul’s favour to a considerable extent…BJP will have to come up with a new strategy to win tea workers’ support,” said an observer. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, however, tried to prove the hike was not in consonance with the Code on Wages, 2019. “It is a paltry rise and through such interim hikes the Trinamul government is trying to subvert workers’ rights. The state labour minister should look into codes before making such a decision and expedite the process to fix minimum wages for tea workers of Bengal,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC flags BJP’s ‘hollow promise’ of Narayani Sena||District Trinamul leaders in Cooch Behar produced an RTI application and its reply to accuse the BJP of making “another hollow promise” over setting up an infantry regiment in the Indian Army after the name of the Narayani Sena, the armed troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar. The move, political observers said, indicates that Mamata Banerjee’s party intends to stoke sentiments of Cooch Behar residents by raising an emotive issue and a longstanding demand of the region. Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul chief, said here on Thursday that Udayranjan Roy Prodhani, an assistant professor of Dhubri Law College in neighbouring Assam and a resident of Gauripur, had written to the Union defence ministry last year asking whether it had any plans to raise such a regiment. “The Union defence ministry has replied, clearly saying that there is no such plan with them. Here in Cooch Behar, the local BJP MP has time and again promised that the Centre will come up with such a regiment. It is evident now that the BJP makes empty promises to garner votes,” said Roy. The issue, sources said, was raised time and again. Back in 2016, S.S. Ahluwalia, who was Darjeeling MP then, had written to then Union home minister Rajnath Singh, requesting him see that such a regiment is raised in the Indian Army. Last year, when BJP president J.P. Nadda was in Bengal, Nisith Pramanik, the Cooch Behar MP, had requested him to look into the issue, keeping in mind the Rajbanshi vote bank of north Bengal. Though the Centre has not made any decision on the issue, the Mamata Banerjee government in the state went ahead and announced creation of a Narayani battalion in the state police force last month. Mamata, who also announced that headquarters of this battalion will be in Mekhliganj of Cooch Behar, has also laid its foundation stone. “The decision to form such a battalion in the state police will obviously help Trinamul draw support of the Rajbanshi community, a considerable part of whom had voted for BJP at the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Now this RTI reply is yet another arsenal that the ruling party of the state is likely to use against BJP when it goes to campaign in Rajbanshi-dominated belts. It will be interesting to see how BJP handles the situation,” said a political observer. Calls by this paper to MP Pramanik went unanswered. Sanjoy Chakraborty, a general secretary of Cooch Behar district BJP, put on a brave face. “We also want the regiment and our MP has time and again raised the issue in Parliament and different quarters. Also, we are not sure about the documents that Trinamul leaders have shown today. They are simply trying to use people’s sentiments ahead of the polls,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||News portal lobs ‘Nepal citizen’ charge at Anit Thapa||A Kathmandu-based web portal has created a furore in Darjeeling by reporting that Morcha leader Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), is listed as a citizen of Nepal. Anit Thapa has condemned the report as fake and called it a “conspiracy”. Published by web portal KathmanduKhabar (www.kathmandukhabar.com) — which translates as News from Kathmandu — the report Neta Bharatko, nagarikta Nepal ko! (Leader from India with citizenship from Nepal !) claimed Thapa had gone to Dubai based on a forged Nepal citizenship. The website also uploaded the alleged citizenship certificate purportedly issued by the assistant chief district officer of Jhapa district, Nepal, to Thapa. The alleged citizenship certificate names one Binod Thapa as Anit’s father and adds that Anit registered himself as a resident of Bhadrapur in Jhapa district of Nepal. The report goes on to add that Anit is a resident of Kurseong and his real father’s name is Shyam Bahadur Thapa. “After completing his education, he entered Nepal seeking a job. However, when he failed to secure a job of his liking, he reached Dubai on a forged citizenship and passport. On his return from Dubai, he started a printing press business in Darjeeling,” the report states. Such was the impact of the story that Anit immediately issued a press statement denying the allegations. “Whenever issues are raised by Darjeeling hills in the interest of Indian Gorkhas, a political conspiracy comes into play. Questions raised on my citizenship is part of this conspiracy. The published news is fake. I condemn this news,” said Anit in a message sent through the party’s social media group. Anit was referring to his party president Binay Tamang raising the demand to review the Indo-Nepal friendship treaty of 1950, which among other things allows citizens of both the countries to move into each other’s territory and also conduct business. Anit has challenged anyone to verify the details by visiting the address mentioned in the purported citizenship certificate. But the report is significant for Darjeeling region as proponents of Gorkhaland state have been stating that a separate state is needed to clearly distinguish citizens between Nepal and India, among other issues. Moreover, possessing dual citizenship is a crime. “If anyone can prove (my Nepal citizenship) allegations, they are free to file a case,” countered Anit. Many in the hills said the story could be a selective leak because of the political situation in the hills. Questions were also raised on the portal’s authenticity. Aashish Guragain, chairman of National Media Pvt. Ltd that runs the portal, told The Telegraph over phone from Kathmandu that their story was to question the issue of forged citizenship. “We did our story based on information provided by our sources. We have uploaded the document we received...The office that issued the document has been mentioned, the document has been stamped and we will also reach out to authorities out here (in Nepal),” said Guragain. He added: “Maybe we are unknown in Darjeeling... (but) we have been in existence since 2012.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||MLA behind my dad’s murder, says BJP worker||The decision of the BJP leadership to induct Trinamul turncoat MLA Arindam Bhattacharya has angered many district party workers and leaders in the Santipur Assembly segment in particular and Nadia in general. Many BJP workers and leaders wrote to the state leadership on Thursday, calling the party’s decision to enrol Bhattacharya “suicidal”. Bhattacharya had won in 2016 as a Congress candidate from Santipur Assembly seat in Nadia and switched over to the Trinamul in 2017 to join the BJP on Wednesday. Trouble began for the BJP leadership within a few hours of Bhattacharya’s induction when Sufal Sikdar, son of slain BJP leader Biplab Sikdar in Santipur, through a video post on social media questioned the party’s decision. “My father was killed because of a conspiracy hatched by the MLA. People here even installed a bust of my father...How can I as a BJP activist accept a person who has shattered our lives? I heard that he will visit our area. If he dares to, villagers will welcome him with a garland of shoes,” Sufal told this paper. On May 23, 2019, Sufal’s father Biplab, a booth committee president of the BJP, was gunned down allegedly by Trinamul-backed goons. Sufal said the apparent motive behind the murder was an attempt to grab power at the local Haripur-Methirdanga panchayat by ensuring the defection of six BJP candidates. “My father earned the wrath of Trinamul as he refused to join the party or hand over the panchayat. The MLA was behind my father’s murder. We filed a complaint against him, but the police never dared to arrest him,” said Sufal. His mother Sankari said: “We are shocked that the BJP leadership did not respect our pain.” BJP’s Nadia south unit convened an emergency meeting of aggrieved leaders and workers at its Ranaghat office, but party workers said they would not budge. BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar said he had no role behind the MLA’s induction and had no comment to offer. “It is the decision of the top party brass but I will inform the leadership about the resentment of party workers,” Sarkar said. MLA Bhattacharya told this paper: “I will work according to the party’s directive.” In Asansol, a group of old-timers from Kutli and Barabani went to the district BJP office and told senior BJP leaders including Arvind Menon, on how old-timers were being neglected to accommodate “Trinamul turncoats”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee bullish on handing land rights to refugees ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that the state government would continue to issue freehold land rights to refugees residing in refugee colonies set up on central government land even as some central agencies, mainly the railways, served eviction notice on the residents of some of such colonies. “All those residing in the refugee colonies, be it on state government or central government or private land, would be given freehold land rights free of cost. Residents of some of the colonies set up on central government land were asked to vacate the land… We won’t accept any kind of eviction,” said the chief minister at Nabanna after a cabinet meeting. Mamata said that so far 30,000 refugee families had received freehold rights of the land on which they had been residing for years. “We are ready to distribute land rights to another 12,000 families. The process to give such rights to another 3,840 families nearing completion,” she added. Sources said Mamata raised the issue after NF Railway wrote a letter to the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri seeking possession of land on which some families received freehold rights. The state government came to know that eviction notice was served to some residents living on land owned by the railways in North 24-Parganas. The CM’s assertion was a message to Delhi, said an official. “This is significant as the state has started giving freehold rights to residents of refugee colonies on central government land without consulting the Centre.” The state, sources said, has taken up the process of giving freehold rights to the residents of 119 refugee colonies, most of which are set up on central government land. “Questions can be raised whether the state can give freehold rights on central government land until plots are relinquished to the state. But the state is initiating the process on humanitarian grounds as eviction of people living on a plot for 40 to 50 years is not possible,” said an official. Recently, the state government took the initiative to hold talks with railways that as eviction of people residing on their land for years was not possible, it would be better to allow the state to issue settlement rights. “But before talks could be held, the railways started issuing notices to residents. The state will now continue to issue land rights,” said an official. Trinamul insiders said that the move was smart as it would help the party counter the BJP’s campaign on Citizenship (Amendment) Act among refugees ahead of polls. “Now, if the railways move to court against the state initiative, we can refugees that the BJP-led Centre does not want to give them freehold land rights while the state government had issued orders to this effect. They will be able to understand who their well-wishers are,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||New BJP building in Burdwan stoned by party workers||A new three-storey BJP party office here, inaugurated by its national president J.P. Nadda last month, was on Thursday stoned by party workers during an alleged clash between two factions over charges that BJP district president Sandip Nandi neglected old-timers for turncoats. Sources said at least three BJP workers were injured and many windows panes were damaged as members of Nandi’s rival faction attacked the office — named after revolutionary Rash Behari Bose — with bricks and stones. The attack happened on a day home minister Amit Shah tweeted tributes to mark Bose’s death anniversary. BJP sources said the clash erupted during a meeting held by district observer Sawar Dhanania at the party office, when old-timers protested against the inclusion of newcomers, mainly those from Trinamul, to the district apex committee. Heated exchanges led to scuffles. BJP old-timers allegedly hurled brickbats at the office and set on fire three mini-trucks. Police have rounded up seven BJP workers. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh blamed Trinamul. “BJP workers simply can’t ransack their own party office. Trinamul was behind it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks CBI for central order in  coal case||Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed the CBI to produce the document issued by the Union government that had led the central agency to probe against Anup Majhi alias Lala, an Asansol businessman, in a case related to illegal trading of coal. The central government had claimed in the middle of 2020 that it had definite information about the trade of illegally mined coal. The Centre also said some traders, police officers and politicians were involved in the racket and asked the CBI to conduct a probe. Majhi, whose name figured in the FIR filed by the CBI, moved a petition before the high court last year challenging the legality of the Centre’s decision to initiate proceedings against him without obtaining prior approval from the state government. Majhi’s counsel claimed before the court that the coal mine in question was situated within Bengal and the central agency could not start proceedings against any person of the state without obtaining prior permission of the state government. The lawyer also informed the judge that the state had initially directed the CBI to conduct a probe in the issue but had withdrawn its order in November 2018. Appearing for the Centre, advocate Phiroze Edulji opposed the prayer. After hearing both the sides, Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya issued the order and fixed the matter for hearing again on January 27. According to the CBI, Majhi is allegedly involved in illegal mining and coal theft from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas. Names of several ECL officials have also cropped up in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-225
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Additional 15 lakh people come under pension schemes||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the state government would bring additional 15 lakh persons under the ambit of old-age or widow pension schemes, the decision apparently part of her government’s bid to reach out to more people with direct benefits ahead of Assembly polls. “The state cabinet on Thursday decided to bring another 15 lakh people who had applied for old age and widow pension. All those who need the assistance will start getting it soon,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata said state departments earlier could not bring all applicants under pension schemes because of certain restrictions such as family income. “But mothers and other aged people in our families need support. This is the reason why the state government has decided to include all applicants in the list of beneficiaries...,” she added. Sources in Nabanna said that as of now nearly 20 lakh indigent persons get old-age pension or widow pension from departments including panchayat, women and child welfare, agriculture and backward classes welfare. “All beneficiaries get a monthly Rs 1,000 under the (pension) scheme based on certain criteria including monthly income cap. This is why all applicants could not get the benefit earlier,” a senior official said. Sources said as the state government had decided to overlook the basic eligibility criterion of family income, the state might have to shoulder the entire burden of additional pensioners. “Usually, the state and Centre share the burden of pension to certain beneficiaries on a 50:50 basis. But as the state has decided to include applicants irrespective of monthly income, it appears that it has to shoulder the burden solely for those who don’t qualify the (existing) criteria. The number of such applicants is yet to be ascertained,” said an official. Land rights Mamata also asserted that the state would continue to issue freehold land rights “free of cost” to refugees in refugee colonies on central government land even though some central agencies, mainly the railways, have served eviction notices on residents of some such colonies. “We won’t accept any kind of eviction,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
22-01-2021||West Bengal||5.5 lakh patients recover from Covid-19 in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday went past 5.5 lakh Covid-19 recoveries in all, with the day’s 517 recoveries. The state also logged 416 new infections and nine deaths in the 24-hour window till 9am on Thursday. The most recent 50,000 recoveries were logged in 35 days and the total of over 5.5 lakh came in 310 days from the first Covid-19 infection detected in Bengal on March 17, 2020. “The first 50,000 of Bengal’s recoveries took 137 days (since March 17). We had been achieving recent 50,000 recoveries in 12 to 17 days. The latest one took longer because the number of infections being found daily has come down drastically, naturally bringing down the number of daily recoveries as well,” said a state minister. “With us having reined the outbreak in considerably, these daily numbers will keep going down,” he added. Bengal now has nearly 5.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, including 5.5 lakh recoveries and 10,089 deaths. On Thursday, Bengal reported a drop in total active cases for the 87th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total active cases fell from the Dashami high of 37,190 to 6,565, an improvement of over 82 per cent. With a rise over 90 consecutive days — from 87.44 on October 22 last year — the recovery rate touched 97.06 per cent, leading the national rate by 0.32 per cent. However, mortality rate is 1.77, worse than the national 1.44 per cent. No jabs on Netaji day The state government postponed the vaccination drive on January 23, birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, owing to the fact that most health workers would be busy with mega celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
22-01-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission hints at central forces on all polling premises||The full bench of the Election Commission led by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora hinted on Thursday that it was likely to take the unprecedented decision of bringing all voting booths under the cover of central forces in the forthcoming Bengal Assembly polls. The hint shows the seriousness with which the Nirvachan Sadan has been taking the views of the Opposition parties while drawing up plans for the polls. A source at Nabanna said the full bench gave a clear hint during its meetings with the top brass of state civil and police administration that central forces would be posted on all polling premises irrespective of the nature of the booth. “In previous elections, we were asked to do the sensitivity mapping of poll premises very carefully and depending on it, requirement of central forces used to be estimated. But this time, the issue of mapping of poll premises didn’t crop up during the meeting with the full bench. It gives a clear hint that the EC would deploy central forces on all polling premises,” said a source. The full bench also held an all-party meeting here on Thursday. According to sources, the BJP demanded before the full bench that central forces be deployed in the state as soon as the model code of conduct is implemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-226
22-01-2021||North East||Assam Congress flags ‘unfulfilled’ promises ahead of Modi visit||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Assam on Saturday, the Opposition Congress on Thursday flagged the “unfulfilled” promises made by him and his government to the people of the state in the run-up to the 2014 general and 2016 Assembly elections. PCC president Ripun Bora told The Telegraph that they have nothing against Modi’s visit to distribute land pattas (documents) at Jerenga Pathar in Sivasagar district to the landless people but the Opposition party wanted to remind him and his government of many promises and decisions made in the form of 24 questions. Bora “hoped” that these issues will find mention in Modi’s address at the rally. “We welcome him but we also want to know what has he given Assam and its people? His government has only deprived and neglected Assam and sold its assets. We want to remind him of his unfulfilled promises, commitments and the wrong decisions of the BJP-led government which have adversely affected Assam. We have identified 24 questions/issues which have hurt Assam’s interests and he will now come and make some more promises. He should tell us which areas/sectors of Assam have benefited from the BJP-led government,” he said. The “unfulfilled” promises or decisions of the Modi government, Bora said, included his promise to deport all illegal Bangladeshis by May 2014, implementing the 1985 Assam Accord in toto, according Scheduled Tribes status to six communities of the state within a year, updating the National Register of Citizens, dredging of the Brahmaputra to ease the flood and erosion problems and the bridge over the river in Majuli, the revival of the two paper mills and jobs for 25 lakh youths. The decisions included “ending” the North East Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (NEIPP), 2007, changing the 90:10 (Centre and state) ratio of funding pattern and Backward Regions Grant Fund, choking the flow of funds impacting overall development and “selling” the Gopinath Bordoloi airport and 27 oil fields. “Instead of giving anything to Assam, your government has only sold our assets after claiming that the Congress has done nothing. You have deprived us, fooled us and looted us. We also want to know how many illegal Bangladeshis have been deported. Forget packing off illegal Bangladeshis or implementing the Assam Accord, they have instead imposed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act which not only violates the March 24, 1971, cut-off year for detecting and deporting illegal foreigners but also affects the state’s social fabric. The NRC update too remains incomplete. This has been done only to keep the influx issue alive for political gains, that too by a government which swears by protecting the jati (community), mati (land), bheti (hearth) of the Assamese people,” Bora said. The PCC president repeatedly stressed on the words Assam and the people of Assam, seen by many as an attempt to convey to the masses that the Congress has in mind the best interests of the state, not the ruling BJP which has lined up a sustained and aggressive campaign for the Assembly polls to be held in April-May. Modi’s visit follows that of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda. Shah will again visit the state on January 24 and address two rallies. Bora raised the issue of growing unemployment, pointing out that the Prime Minister will not understand the pain of parents with unemployed wards since he has no children of his own. PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said the government’s demonetisation move and the abrupt coronavirus-induced lockdowns aggravated the unemployment situation. “The hopes and expectations of the people of Assam have been shattered by the BJP-led government,” she said. BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami dismissed the charges, asserting that the ruling party was committed to protecting the jati, mati and bheti of Assam but it may take some time because of the problems inherited from the erstwhile Congress regime. “They have not done as much as we have on the implementation of the Assam Accord. We have reformed the Assam Public Service Commission, the backbone of the state administration. hey are talking about privatisation but privatisation doesn’t mean selling. They have conveniently forgotten the privatisation of Delhi and Mumbai airports! We have already awarded 1 lakh land pattas and will award over 1 lakh during Modiji’s visit. How many land pattas have they given to the landless?” Goswami asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
22-01-2021||Opinion||Screens on fire: regulation in the OTT and digital space||Regulatory framework exists in the print media, with the Press Council of India serving as a watchdog for the medium. Television content is also monitored by a complicated ecosystem that accommodates both institutional and independent regulation. Surprisingly, digital media — over-the-top platforms are turning out to be a popular and profitable segment within it — has, it is alleged, been given considerable leeway in the matter. Over the years, there has been very little regulatory intervention in this space. This, however, changed with the Central government issuing a notification in November last year, bringing digital and online media platforms under the aegis of the ministry of information and broadcasting. The Centre’s intervention was based on a two-fold logic. Complaints about content dished out by digital services are not uncommon: for instance, the I&B ministry is on record stating that it has received a number of aggrieved petitions that allege that the web series, Tandav, which is streaming on Amazon Prime, has hurt religious sentiments. Secondly — and more importantly — the Centre’s move could also have been mandated by the need to create a level playing field for all kinds of media to uphold the principle of fairness. That some form of regulation is necessary in the OTT and digital space cannot be disputed. But a problem is likely to arise when regulation becomes an excuse for surveillance that is, critics say, both political and ideological in nature. Tandav, once again, is a case in point. Even though the makers of the web series agreed to delete the objectionable scenes, its director, producer and writer as well as a functionary of the OTT platform had to move court for relief. This may have been necessitated by the intimidation that was unleashed with numerous first information reports filed in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Strikingly, the I&B ministry issued its summons even before the first FIR had been filed. The outcome of all this is likely to be undesirable for creativity and commerce. Creativity would undoubtedly bear the brunt of such interference. Ideally, consumers — are they not adult citizens? — should be trusted with the freedom to choose or reject what they are shown. The economic potential generated by OTTs — they are a source of employment and revenue in these difficult times — could also be marred by overreach. The Centre’s decision to study OTT models in other countries is welcome. But it will not bear fruit if needless scrutiny is prioritized over sensible regulation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Known good: efficacy of Covid vaccines||The need for inoculation against Covid-19 as soon as possible cannot be denied. But no vaccine should be administered without the recipient’s trust and conviction that are based on full information about its efficacy. Only then can there be informed consent; its absence regarding the two vaccines being administered across India is disturbing. The Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, a national association, formulated the requirements that would set at rest the doubts and fears of concerned citizens. The forum stated that all data pertaining to clinical trials of both vaccines should be made available to scientists and healthcare workers so that they can make informed choices. The data from Phase III trials should be transparently presented as and when they become available, and the decision to grant emergency use authorization could then be reconsidered. Since it is Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine, that has not completed Phase III trials but has received EUA, the thrust of the forum’s statement is clear. But Covishield — the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine — too has only completed its trials overseas, not in India. The Centre-directed system of inoculations has exacerbated the problems caused by urgency and has made nonsense of informed consent. What is the point of telling someone that a vaccine has not undergone its Phase III trials, for instance, and is in ‘clinical trial mode’ if the person has no option? The system now compels a person to accept what is being given; refusal means there is no guarantee of a second chance, let alone inoculation with a vaccine of choice. Clinical trials require volunteers. If people must take whichever vaccine comes their way — or none at all — there is nothing voluntary about it. Consent seems to have been hijacked by the Union government; it decides who is to get what. Such a situation also raises fears of penalties: a ban on air travel without vaccination, for example. Many experts are wondering why the government did not wait for the indigenous vaccine to complete trials before release. It would be deplorable if this were a case of misplaced nationalism. Even if it is the most efficacious vaccine in the world, it must be proved to be so. Declaring both vaccines ‘equal’ at this stage, without permitting people to choose or even consent, increases fear and distrust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Shell shield: parking black money overseas||The parking of black money overseas is not a new phenomenon. In 2016, the Panama Papers leak led to the allegation of prominent politicians and celebrities from India parking funds in offshore companies as clients of Mossack Fonseca. In 2015, at least 1,100 Indians could be identified with secret bank accounts in HSBC Geneva. In October 2014, the Centre submitted to the Supreme Court a list containing the names of 627 people who held such accounts in foreign banks in 2006; the names were revealed by the French government. Interestingly, September 30, 2015 marked the end of the 90-day ‘compliance scheme’ for the declaration of offshore assets and accounts, resulting in 638 individuals declaring assets worth Rs 37,700 million. As per the norms of the Reserve Bank of India, no Indian could float an overseas entity before 2003. In 2004, individuals were allowed to remit funds of up to US $25,000 annually under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme. The limit stood at US $2,50,000 from June 2015 onwards. It was only in August 2013 that individuals were allowed to set up subsidiaries or invest in joint ventures under the Overseas Direct Investment window. Dirty secret The Panama Papers leak exposed entities that were not involved in any trade or service. These companies, named ‘shell’ or proxy firms, exist on paper and are different from dormant and defunct entities. The share capital of such a company is not proportional to its revenue; the bank balance does not match its revenue; transactions become untraceable to conceal profits, payment or receipt of bribes, terrorism financing and tax obligations. Mossack Fonseca, headquartered in the tax haven, Panama, advised clients across the world on how to hide their identity to avoid taxes. The Black Money Act of 2015 enabled the government to enter into agreements with other countries for the exchange of information, recovery of tax, and avoidance of double taxation. But uncovering the identities of these clients still required skilful investigative effort. Shell companies were allegedly created in large numbers in 2016 in India at the time of demonetization in Calcutta and Surat to assist those who owned banned currencies. In Surat, those involved in money-laundering adopted a technique called ‘layering’ that made it possible to conduct multiple transactions involving several entities, making it difficult to expose the money trail. Costly silence Section 248 of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 empowers the government to deregister a company if it has failed to commence its business within one year of its incorporation or has not conducted any business for two continuous years. A Task Force on Shell Companies was constituted in February 2017 under the chairmanship of the revenue secretary and corporate affairs secretary. The Securities and Exchange Board of India imposed trading restrictions on 162 listed entities in 2017. The minister of state for corporate affairs informed Parliament in December that year that 2,26,000 companies had been struck off from the register of companies. Later, another 14,848 registered firms were deleted in January 2019. There should be a seamless flow of information among the ministry of corporate affairs, the income tax department and the enforcement directorate to identify shell companies. Surprisingly even after being overhauled in 2013, the Companies Act, unlike the Securities Act in the United states of America, remains silent about naming shell companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Nehru and Bose: not quite parallel lives||Subhas Chandra Bose was born on January 23, 1897. Netaji was one of the most charismatic leaders of the Independence movement who, before the saga of the Indian National Army, was twice the president of the Indian National Congress. Bose, who started his political career as a protégé of Deshbandu Chittaranjan Das, became, along with Jawaharlal Nehru, the most popular leader of the country’s youth. In 1928, the Nehru Report, prepared by Motilal Nehru — he headed a committee of an all-party conference to prepare a draft for the Constitution of free India — was made public. It was presented on the assumption that the new Constitution will be based on Dominion Status. This was opposed by the young radical group of the Congress headed by Nehru and Bose who were propagating full independence. However, when it came to the choice of the president of the Congress session at Calcutta, Bose not only supported Motilal Nehru but also went to the extent of saying nobody else would be acceptable. He wrote to the elder Nehru on July 28, 1928: “I cannot tell you how disappointed the whole of Bengal will feel if for any reason you decline the Congress Presidentship… we can think of nobody else who can rise to the occasion.” Jawaharlal Nehru was elected president of the next session at Lahore where the resolution of ‘complete independence’ was passed and January 26 (later Republic Day) declared as Independence Day. The decade of 1930-40 saw four stalwarts of the Congress as presidents of the party: Sardar Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru, Netaji and Maulana Azad. Of all these leaders of the Congress after M.K. Gandhi, no two leaders were as close to each other than Nehru and Bose till the latter fell out with Gandhi in 1939 which also adversely affected his relations with Nehru. Both Nehru and Bose had their vision of India lit up by the idea of socialism. Both laid emphasis on centralized planning, heavy industries and State ownership of key industries. The deep ideological affinity they shared turned into a strong personal bond. When Kamala Nehru died in Lausanne in February 1936, Bose, already in Europe, reached there before she breathed her last and helped Jawaharlal make the funeral arrangements. Before Kamala died, the presidentship of the 1936 Congress session at Lucknow had been offered to Jawaharlal. Within a few days of her death, Bose wrote to Nehru on March 6, 1936 from Austria: “Among the front rank leaders of today, you are the only one to whom we can look up to for leading the Congress in a progressive direction. Moreover your position is unique and I think even Mahatma Gandhi will be more accommodating towards you than towards anybody else.” After Bose was elected president of the Congress in 1938 for its 51st session in Haripura, Nehru, after a strenuous election campaign tour of the country, left for Europe where he propagated India’s case and got the opportunity to acquaint himself with the situation that was leading towards the Second World War. On October 19, 1938, Bose wrote to him: “You cannot imagine how I have missed you all these months… you have been able to do such valuable work during your stay in Europe... several problems will await solution till you are back.” The newly-elected Congress president, who had offered Nehru the chairmanship of the proposed National Planning Committee, repeated the offer: “Hope you will accept the Chairmanship of the National Committee. You must if it is to be a success.” The relations between Nehru and Bose continued to be cordial even after the latter was re-elected as the Congress president in 1939. When differences arose between the Mahatma and Bose on the constitution of the CWC, the latter sought Jawaharlal’s advice and wrote to him on April 15, 1939: “Will it be possible for you to run up here for a few hours? We could then have a talk and I could have your advice as to how to proceed next?” Jawaharlal not only travelled from Allahabad to Manbhum in Bihar to meet Bose, who was bedridden, but also wrote to Gandhi on April 17: “I think now, as I thought in Delhi, that you should accept Subhas as President. To try and push him out seems to be an exceedingly wrong step.” But despite Jawaharlal’s best efforts, the differences between the Mahatma and Bose could not be resolved. It had become extremely difficult for Gandhi to reject the advice of his colleagues in the right-wing, led by Patel, who were determined not to compromise with Bose. Ultimately, Bose resigned from the Congress, formed his own party — the Forward Bloc — and the rest, as they say, is history. Lest it be forgotten. Netaji named one of the brigades of his INA ‘Nehru Brigade’. After he died in an air crash in 1945, Nehru ensured that his widow, Emilie, was given life-long financial assistance by the Congress. With West Bengal elections around the corner, there will be attempts to distort history and exaggerate the differences between Bose and Nehru. Yes, there were differences, but only 1939 onwards. The differences were restricted to views on fascism and the relationship with Gandhi. Nobody could have put it better than Rudrangshu Mukherjee who, in his book, Nehru and Bose: Parallel Lives, writes: “Subhas believed that he and Jawaharlal could make history together. But Jawaharlal could not see his destiny without Gandhi. This was the limiting point of their relationship.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Playful imagination||The late scientist, C.V. Seshadri, and I spent hours discussing the idea of alternatives in dhabas and cafes around his laboratory in Chennai. Professor Seshadri, infinitely curious about inventions and alternatives, claimed that the signal for alternatives becomes obvious when a mode of thinking as a mode of living fails as a paradigm, a discourse as well as a mode of storytelling. I was thinking about Seshadri’s heuristic as I was analyzing the current regime’s performance. The media have surrounded the regime with a penumbra of inanity and banality that masquerades as competence. But as one probes, one finds the crisis of the regime at three levels as it boasts of the new normal. The regime has failed as a paradigm, as a nation state and as a model of development. As a discourse of democracy, it has become ironic. As a mode of storytelling, it is almost autistic, its main characters performing like inarticulate brands. The nation state has destroyed the pluralistic, civilizationally syncretic view of India in its intolerance of difference. Its models of development have not been inclusive of tribe, peasant, or craft. Its decision to erase the handicraft and handloom committees is a clear expression of its indifference to craft as a way of life. As a democracy, it has turned populist and majoritarian, suppressing dissent and difference. It has begun erasing the margins and destroying nature. Extinction has become an accompaniment to genocide. As a narrative, the regime practises erasure, erasing the language of plurality and dissent. Development as a unilinear narrative becomes a destruction of storytelling and of the story. The regime has little sense of plurality as it wants to reduce the nation state to a master text of Tulsi Das. The sheer variety of interpretation in the oral imagination is threatened. Deeply and fundamentally one creates a mediocre, majoritarian regime fusing past and future mechanically. As the regime fails as paradigm, discourse and narrative, one senses that the time for storytelling has come. The regime’s abiding sense of banality is not only a symptom of the persons and of the persona associated with it. It is also a failure of ideas, a loss of diversity and plurality. As a majoritarian democracy, it lacks a theory of plurality and remains caught in the polarity of majority versus minority. By reducing itself to an electoral imagination, democracy is turning arid. The violence and suffering of development lack a language beyond cost benefit where the refugee, the displaced, the migrant disappear within policy narratives. Democracy needs to rethink itself at an epistemic and ontological level. It needs to ask what knowledge systems are based on and what is the political epistemology of modern democratic systems. Secondly, to think this way, it has to go beyond the impoverishment of the linear time of development where even sustainability appears as an oxymoron. Thirdly, democracy needs a new imagination to confront forms of collective violence — genocide, extinction, triage, obsolescence and erasure. Memory and an ethics balancing memory and innovation have to be invented to understand technological violence. The list of shortcomings, from concepts to a sense of mediocrity, has reached a saturation point. The time for an imagination of alternatives has arrived. But there is a ritual prelude to it. Firstly, one needs a new imagination and an argument for diversity. Diversity multiplies the Other, creating a new understanding of coexistence and difference. Dialogue becomes essential and dissent welcome. Diversity has to move to plurality, from the recognition of difference to the dialogue of difference. One has to comprehend that the monolithic, the monologic, has no sense of difference. Worse, as Alfred Wallace, the evolutionist, pointed out, a science at a moment of hegemony is threatened from within itself. It is for the scientist to invent alternatives to sustain the ecology of pluralism. Today, the future has become a subject of expertise. But most futures tend to be extrapolations of the present or celebrations of technology. The future must challenge the technological hubris and one can do it through the creation of alternatives. An alternative imagination emphasizes that there are plural answers to the future. Simultaneously, the past is reconsidered as a bundle of unexplored possibilities. As time becomes plural, so do the answers to the many questions. For example, town-planning does not work according to the arrogance of Haussmannic master plans but pluralistically, catering to the diverse imaginations of the city based on livelihood, lifestyles and life chances. Here the Dalit understanding of a city as a sensorium is considered as valuable as the antiseptic technocratic view of the city. The migrant is as much a stakeholder as a real estate operator. More critically, each is seen as a producer of knowledge and not merely as a consumer of the dominant form. The city thus becomes a corpus of knowledge forms where the wisdom of the slum challenges the prudence of a gated city. The dialogue of knowledge systems extends from medicine and urban planning to education, the body and ethics. The alternative imagination does not evaporate before experts but becomes a trustee of vulnerable and variegated knowledge. Uncertainty and plurality have to work together in the new knowledge society. As a friend put it, democracy and the future acquire a new set of cognitive dancing shoes. A sense of alternatives also cuts down violence as a possibility and as a solution. A sense of alternatives, creating an availability of diversity, allows different forms of livelihood to coexist, even seeking a mutuality through difference. One does not erase a defeated knowledge or an alternative way of solving something as obsolescent, deemed as subject to erasure, or as something to be museumized. Alternatives are more life-giving in their realization that economic efficacy is a limited language. One does not seek a pre-emptive closure of life forms the way the government does when it declares weaving a sunset industry although it involves 13.5 million people. Such obsolescence-inducing industries have little sense of nature, or of the sacred or of multiple time. Development is an ideology of institutionalized or formalized obsolescence, which erases the tribe or the craft or domains of agriculture by reading them as obsolescent or outdated. In erasing these worlds, it impoverishes the possibility of an alternative imagination even developing. One needs the world of alternatives not just instrumentally but because such frameworks sustain the heuristics of play in a society, inventing possibilities. Democracy in the age of development has lost its sense of play. Even children use concepts as if they are in uniform. Playfulness allows for the sacred and learns to go beyond the monolingualism of power and efficiency. Childhood acquires a different magic and history a sense of emergence and surprise. An episteme of alternative imaginations allows for the play of secession as a pluralistic imagination. Playful secession alters the greed of federalism, allowing for panarchy. Panarchy is a concept that argues that different levels of scale require different conceptual solutions. Panarchy challenges the hegemony of hierarchic systems adding to plurality an ontological necessity. The region rather than the nation becomes an answer to cultural and ecological difference. One realizes that it is not just that totalitarianism has become more ruthlessly inventive and coercive but that democracy has, in the meantime, become more pompous and arid. One needs to alter the imagination of democracy cognitively so that it goes beyond the formally political or organizational and caters to language, time, ecology and culture. Democracy as a 19th century shibboleth can easily be usurped by populism and majoritarianism. Democracy needs new imaginaries, new metaphors, to survive. For that, it has to invent itself beyond current possibilities. Our regime today is an assortment of mediocrities. A dream of alternatives can create the democracy of the future. In fact, if M.K. Gandhi were here today, he would say, ‘democracy like Western civilization would be a good idea.’ We have to reinvent pluralistically and playfully. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Experts meet JRDA officials for Jharia smart city||A team of experts from coal town on Friday briefed the Managing Director of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority Uma Shankar Singh regarding the similarities and differences between the Polavaram Rehabilitation project and Jharia Master plan. The eight-member team recently returned from West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh after carrying out an on site inspection and study of Polavaram Dam rehabilitation project. The team comprising five members of the implementing agency of Jharia master plan, Jharia Rehabilitation and  Development Authority (JRDA) and three members of  Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) also made a presentation before Singh, highlighting the USPs of the Polavaram project. Singh, who is also the Deputy Commissioner of Dhanbad, will also conduct a meeting with Smart City Ranchi project officials on Saturday. On January 27, he will meet top officials of the Centre looking after the Jharia Rehabilitation plan. Talking to the media after Friday’s meeting, Singh said, “We discussed all sorts of issues to prepare a comprehensive rehabilitation plan which is acceptable to all.” An open session of DC Uma Shankar Singh and BCCL chairman, Gopal Singh was held with the residents of 595 underground fire affected sites on January 16 at the new hall during which their suggestions, apprehension and concerns were enlisted. On January 12 he also had a meeting with people’s representatives including Dhanbad MP, PN Singh, Jharia MLA, Purnima Singh; Dhanbad MLA, Raj Sinha; Sindri MLA, Indrajit Mahto; Tundi MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto and Nirsa MLA, Aparna Sengupta. There, they elicited their views to prepare a comprehensive policy for rehabilitation. “We also discussed the ways of initiating the rehabilitation work at the earliest and steps required to accelerate the land and fund transfer process for expediting rehabilitation from 595 underground fire affected areas,” he added. A new livelihood plan with  provisions of all basic facilities at the new place will be linked. Divulging more details, Resettlement in Charge of JRDA, Guljar Anjum, who was present at the meeting said, “The district team during the study of Polavaram Dam found various similarities between the Jharia master plan and Polavaram Dam rehabilitation plan. Both the places the displaced people are being provided houses built on land. The major difference was that while all beneficiaries of the Polavaram dam project are rural and dependent on agrarian income, here 90 per cent of people depend on coal production-related work.” “The package presently being offered by us is also somewhat similar to the package being offered to affected people of Polavaram project,” said Anjum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Lalu has pneumonia, daughter Misa in Ranchi||RJD chief Lalu Prasad has been diagnosed with pneumonia but is currently stable, doctors at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here said on Friday. The health condition of the jailed former Bihar chief minister deteriorated suddenly on Thursday night when he complained of breathlessness, sending hospital authorities into tizzy. Soon, state health minister Banna Gupta, RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad, Lalu’s doctor Umesh Prasad and others rushed to the RIMS Paying Ward to take stock of the situation. The RIMS director told reporters on Friday that they were in touch with experts of  All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “Lalu Prasad has been detected with pneumonia but is stable. His lungs too are infected. We had performed a rapid antigen kit (RAT) Covid test which was negative. However, an RT-PCR test is also being done for confirmation," Dr Prasad said. Lalu, RIMS sources have confirmed, is suffering from multiple age-related ailments such as high blood pressure, hyper-tension, kidney malfunction and heart issues. Concerned over the sudden deterioration in Lalu’s health, daughter Misa Bharati came to Ranchi on Friday afternoon. Till reports last came in, she was awaiting permission of jail authorities to meet him. RJD sources said Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi and their younger son and leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav were also scheduled to reach Ranchi in a chartered flight by Friday night. Scores of RJD workers and supporters had lined up outside RIMS Paying Ward since morning to enquire about their leader's health. As per the jail manual, only three persons are allowed to meet Lalu every Saturday. However, the Opposition BJP has been accusing the Hemant Soren government of blatantly violating the manual ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government was formed in Jharkhand in December 2019. The Jharkhand High Court is also hearing a PIL accusing the RJD chief of violating the jail manual. During Friday’s hearing, the court expressed unhappiness with RIMS for not submitting a reply to its earlier query. The high court will hear the case again on February 5. Ever since his convictions in several cases concerning the Rs 970 crore fodder scam, Lalu has been in custody since January 2018. He has been at RIMS on account of his failing health. He was moved to Kelly’s Bungalow over concerns of infection in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in August 2020. However, on November 26, Ranchi district administration moved him back to the RIMS Paying Ward after an audio of his purported conversations with BJP MLAs, allegedly to lure them to switch sides during a Bihar Assembly floor test last year, went viral. While BJP MLA Lalan Paswan, whom Lalu allegedly phoned, had filed an FIR against the RJD chief in Patna in the last week of November 2020, accusing him of horse-trading, Jharkhand High Court lawyer Rajeev Kumar had also filed a PIL in Ranchi in the first week of December 2020 seeking the court’s intervention over the use of a mobile phone by a prisoner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Senior-most nurse at Sadar Hospital gets first Covishield jab||Dhanbad began its Covid-19 vaccination drive in its urban areas on Friday with the senior-most nurse of the Sadar Hospital taking the first jab at its main building. Archana Chattaraj (57) said neither she nor her family members were nervous about the vaccination, as she took the jab in the presence of a host of senior officials of the district administration and District Health Department, including Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and Civil Surgeon Dr. Gopal Das. “There was no reaction or any uneasy feeling after taking the vaccine. After remaining in the observation room for half an hour I came back to my home and did everything as per my normal routine,” Chattaraj said. “My son-in-law, Ashay Nirgude who had also undergone vaccination in Washington two days back convinced me to take it too,” she added. Chattaraj, a nurse at the Matri Shishu Kalyan Kendra of Sadar Hospital, further said that she will convince her colleagues to take the vaccine. Medical Officer of Sadar Hospital Dhanbad, PP Pandey  became the first doctor and second person who was administered the vaccine at Sadar Hospital. He was followed by another Medical Officer Dr. Masoom Alam and Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das. Two centers of Dhanbad -- Sadar Hospital and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital -- have been selected for vaccination drive in the urban areas by the health department. The process began at Sadar Hospital on Friday, while at SNMMCH it will begin from Monday. The dry run for vaccination was conducted at SNMMCH during the second half of the day, while the training for two teams of vaccinators was done from 11 am to 1 pm at PG block of the hospital. “The vaccination drive was carried out at two rural centres at community health centres in Tundi and Topchanchi since January 16,” Uma Shankar Singh said. “The urban vaccination will prove to be useful as these areas have larger concentrations of health workers,” said Singh. “Only seven or eight beneficiaries had minor reactions,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Baton charge on protesting job-seekers in Ranchi||Birsa Chowk was the centre of a clash between protestors and police on Friday noon when hundreds of job-seekers, who were on way to chief minister Hemant Soren’s residence 12km away to demand extension of services, had to be dispersed with batons At least half a dozen protesters sustained injuries, serious enough for them to be treated at Sadar Hospital. But others managed to continue their protest at HEC Gate, demanding that unless police allowed them to meet the chief minister they would not budge. City SP Saturabh did not take journalists calls for comments. But a DSP ranked officer at Birsa Chowk dubbed the police action mild. “It was a mild lathicharge. We didn’t have orders to allow anyone to lay siege on CM House. We pleaded them to leave… but many turned rogue. Hence, a lathicharge was necessary,” he said. As per a communiqué issued from chief minister’s office in the evening, a high-level meeting under the aegis of chief secretary Sukhdev Singh was held on January 6 to decide on modalities for service contractors under the 15th finance commission. “The chief minister has given his nod to the decision taken at the meeting and rural development department will soon issue detailed guidelines for hiring,” read the communiqué. Since January 1, around 1,600 people employed on contract in various capacities, like a computer operator, junior engineer, etc, at panchayat bodies under the 14th finance commission were on an indefinite stir at Birsa Chowk to protest against their termination. As per plans announced earlier, they began marching towards CM House around 12noon, but police blocked their way by closing the HEC Gate. As many tried to scale the gates, police had to resort to lathicharge, leading to a commotion. Several protesters were injured. Protester Piyush Pandey said at least six persons, including a pregnant woman, sustained severe injuries. “Are we Naxalites or terrorists? We are Jharkhandis seeking jobs. This was the government which promised us during Assembly polls that our contracts would not be terminated and that our services will be extended as per the 15th finance commission too. “Suddenly in December (2019) the government changed track, first by claiming that it had to seek permission from the Centre. Now when the Union government has agreed that the state can continue engaging us on contract basis if required, the state government is talking of fresh recruitments,” he said. Pandey said all 1,600 protesters were working on a meagre salary of Rs 10,000 (computer operator) and Rs 17,000 (junior engineer) per month to help the state government implement its welfare plans at the grassroots level. “Now, the government has abandoned us,” he said. Accusing the state government of apathy, another protestor said, “The state government only talks of giving opportunities and creating jobs to local youths. But here, 1,600 local residents are staring at uncertainty due to the government’s abrupt decision to hire afresh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||JFC sign Manipuri winger on loan from FC Goa  ||Indian international winger Seiminlen Doungel has joined Jamshedpur on loan from FC Goa until the end of the 2020-21 Indian Super League season. Fondly known as Len, the Manipuri winger brings with him trophy-winning expertise, having previously won the I-League in 2015-16 and Federation Cup in 2012 and 2017. He was runner-up in the AFC Cup in 2016 and also played an important role in the FC Goa team that finished top of the league in the 2019-20 ISL season, thereby helping them become the ISL Premiers (Shield winners). Owen Coyle underlined the importance of bringing Len into the squad for the remainder of the season. “Len is the most versatile of wingers in the league. He is highly experienced, hungry to play and has proven his quality for years. We want to keep pushing and qualify for the top 4 and we saw an opportunity with Len, who can help us achieve our aim,” the JFC head coach said. Len arrives at Jamshedpur with a wealth of experience. The 27-year-old has made 148 club appearances in his career so far with various teams, like East Bengal, Bengaluru FC, NorthEast United, Shillong Lajong and FC Goa. He is also one of the four Indian players to have a hat-trick in his name in the ISL. “Jamshedpur is a club that has shown a lot of ambition this season with a coach who has been doing great things for a long time. I am here to do my best for the club and help out the team, so we can achieve good results for the last part of the season and qualify for the play-offs,” Len said. The winger joined the Jamshedpur bio-bubble immediately after completing his loan move and will be wearing jersey number 18 for the season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Sub-10 chill to subside across state from Sunday||The sub-1Sub-10 chill to subside across state from Sunday0 chill currently prevailing in most parts of Jharkhand is likely to be short-lived as minimum temperatures are set to rise from Sunday in most districts because of a western disturbance, according to IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres. "A western disturbance passing through Jammu and Kashmir would impact weather conditions of Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar from Sunday. The current north-westerly wind pattern would change to easterly from Saturday. This would result in moisture incursion and cloud formation," Abhishek Anand, the deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, explained on Friday. The senior Met official did not rule out the possibility of light showers around mid-week due to the impact of the passing western disturbance. Weathermen said the night readings, which were below 10 degree Celsius since Wednesday in most parts of the state including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Daltonganj, Pakur, Dumka, Koderma and Deoghar, would witness a two-three degree rise from Sunday. Minimum readings in neighbouring West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and elsewhere would also witness a rising trend from Sunday. Met officials at IMD's Patna centre which also keeps a tab on Jharkhand's weather conditions issued an alert of moderate to heavy fog, especially in  districts located in hilly terrains for the next 72 hours. "Dense fog has been reported from eastern and northeastern parts of the country today (Friday). Several pockets over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and foothills of the Himalayas in West Bengal, witnessed dense fog due to the approaching western disturbance. Jharkhand too would be affected, " said a weather analyst at Patna Met Centre. Met statistics revealed that Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 8.8 degree Celsius while Jamshedpur recorded 9.6 degree Celsius on Friday. Both Daltonganj and Bokaro recorded minimum temperatures of 8.1 degree Celsius, while Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district notched 8 degree Celsius. Giridih recorded the lowest temperature in the state with the local IMD observatory putting it at 6.6 degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||At least four people killed during illegal excavation of mica in Koderma mine||At least four illegal miners, on a mission to excavate mica scraps, were buried alive on Thursday in Ghatwa village in Fulwaria, three kilometers away from the Koderma district headquarters. According to sources, villagers from nearby Purnadih and Dumariatand villages including Mahendra Das, Lakhan Das, Chandar Das, Kaushalya Devi, Sanjay Singh Ghatwar, Rajesh Singh Ghatwar, and few a others came in search of mica scrap when the mine suddenly collapsed on them, killing the four. Villagers managed to pull out Rajesh and Sanjay, who were admitted in hospital, But their condition remained critical. On receiving information, Superintendent of Police Ehtesham Waquarib, divisional forest officer Suraj Kumar and sub-divisional officer Manish Kumar reached there and ensured the start of the relief work. However, during the late night operations, they failed to find any trace of the bodies. By 11 am on Friday, relief workers managed to fish out two dead bodies of Lakhan Das and Kaushalya Devi, and are still struggling to find Mahendra Das and Chandar Das. Police officials said that the accident had made them aware of the illegal mining in the area, carried out by one Islam Mian. They said that they had spotted illegal mines and had asked the villagers not to participate, warning them of action if they did. Jharkhand has banned mica mining more than two decades ago, but the high demand of the mineral in several industries has resulted in villagers risking their lives to collect the scrap and hand it over to middlemen. This scrap is then transported to other countries via Calcutta. Koderma and Giridih are rich sources of mica, and thus such accidents take place in the area from time to time. District officials have now hinted of taking action to stop this illegal activity in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
22-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coal India units get minister’s awards||Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi presented coal minister’s award to Central Coalfields Ltd, a subsidiary of Coal India Ltd (CIL) with its headquarters in Ranchi, at a function in New Delhi on Thursday. The minister also presented the same award, instituted for promoting best and sustainable coal mining in the country, to other CIL subsidiaries. While Northern Coalfields Limited (NCL) received the award for outstanding performance in coal production, Western Coalfields Limited (WCL) got it for sustainable mining. “Coal is and will remain the lifeline of our energy aspirations,” Joshi said on the occasion, adding the country aimed to become self-reliant in coal production with due care to safety and sustainability. CCL CMD P.M. Prasad and P.K. Sinha and Manoj Kumar, his counterparts in NCL and WCL respectively, received the awards in presence of Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain and CIL chairman Pramod Agarwal. The coal minister also launched Project Passion — the enterprise resource planning (EPR) for CIL — at the same function. EPR will be implemented in two phases. While it was launched for CIL headquarters, WCL and Mahanadi Coalfields Limited on Thursday, it will be introduced in the rest six subsidiaries in August this year. “Implementation of EPR will help CIL in real-time decision making, improving efficiency and reducing cost,” the minister said, adding it will also empower CIL to achieve one billion tonnes coal production by 2023-24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-165
