23-01-2021||Calcutta||PM lands in Calcutta on ‘Parakram Diwas’ meant to commemorate Netaji||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Calcutta on Saturday afternoon to take part in the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The prime minister’s aircraft landed at the NSC Bose International Airport around 3 pm, from where he took a helicopter for the city. State minister Purnendu Basu received him at the airport. Modi’s copter landed at the RCTC Ground in the heart of the city at 3.25 pm. The prime minister was received there by Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and state minister Firhad Hakim. Modi will deliver the valedictory address in an international seminar on Bose titled “Re-visiting the legacy of Netaji Subhas in the 21st century” at the National Library. Following this he will participate in a programme at the Victoria Memorial. There, he will inaugurate an exhibition and a projection mapping show on Netaji that is intended to be showcased all around the year. He also visited Netaji Bhavan, Bose’s residence. Earlier in the day, the prime minister paid homage to the freedom fighter in a Twitter post. “Tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a great freedom fighter and a true son of Mother India, on his birth anniversary,” the prime minister said in the tweet in Hindi. “A grateful nation will always remember his sacrifice and dedication for the independence of the country,” he said. The government has decided to observe January 23 as “Parakram Diwas” to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bose, who was born on this day in 1897. Ahead of his visit, state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee attacked the Centre and said it only remembers Bose when elections are due. “We don’t remember Netaji before the elections. He is in our hearts for 365 days. We are in touch with his family,” she said. “Why was the national Planning Commission, which was conceptualised by Netaji in independent India, dissolved? Why is the demand for a holiday on Netaji’s birthday by our government not yet met,” Mamata said after paying tributes to Bose. Earlier in the day, Mamata kicked off a grand procession in Calcutta to pay tribute to Netaji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Relief soon near Avishikta crossing||The widening of a stretch of EM Bypass near the Avishikta crossing is nearly complete and cars will be running on the widened portion in about 10 days, a senior official of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of EM Bypass, has said. Twenty-five metres have been widened on the western side and 12 metres on the eastern side. The widened stretch, which runs over a canal, will handle a lot of traffic soon after it is opened as the Avishikta crossing would be closed for construction of the New Garia-Airport Metro tracks, said an officer of Calcutta police’s traffic department. “We have almost completed the widening work. The bituminous top coat is being laid now. Some illumination work is left. It will be operational within 10 days,” said the CMDA official. The existing width of the Bypass is 26 metres — each of the two flanks is 13 metres wide. After the widening, the total width will be 72 metres. The official said that the widened portions were actually two culverts that have been built above the canal. There were two culverts on which vehicles moved. Two more culverts have been built to widen the road width. The work began in November 2019. The CMDA had to temporarily block the flow of water through the canal to build the piers of the culvert. Work on widening another stretch of EM Bypass — near the Metropolitan crossing — is underway. The CMDA official said the widening work there would be completed by July. The CMDA had embarked upon widening EM Bypass in 2013. The CMDA official said the width of EM Bypass between Ultadanga and Ajoynagar, further south of Avishikta crossing, was 72 metres wide. But the portion of the Bypass between Ajoynagar and Dhalai bridge was 55 metres wide. “We have not been able to widen EM Bypass further south of Ajoynagar,” he said. The total length of EM Bypass — Garia Dhalai bridge to Ultadanga — is 15.6km. The police officer said that once Avishikta crossing is closed, vehicles coming from Anwar Shah Road connector would not be able to take a right turn towards Garia from the crossing. Similarly, cars coming from Ruby cannot take a right turn towards Anwar Shah Road connector. “Garia-bound vehicles coming from Anwar Shah Road connector have to turn left and then take a U-turn from a place called Mandipara to enter the Garia-bound flank of EM Bypass,” said the officer. “Anwar Shah Road connector-bound vehicles coming from Ruby have to go straight towards Patuli and take a U-turn from the Kalikapur crossing. The vehicles will then come to the Avishikta crossing and turn left to enter Anwar Shah Road connector,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Bike tragedy after trip for blessings, glare on bump||A 29-year-old motorcyclist died after his two-wheeler spun out of control and rammed into a tree along Prince Anwar Shah Road early on Friday. His friend, who was on the pillion, suffered critical head injuries and has been hospitalised. Soham Mullick, 29, from Kasba, and Mayukh Ranjan Ghosh, 32, who lives in Naktala, were returning home after visiting their teacher in Jadavpur the night before, police said. The teacher has purportedly told the police that Mullick and Ghosh had met him to seek his blessings as they had recently changed their workplaces. Ghosh works for a news channel as a journalist and Mullick was associated with another channel. The two were taken to SSKM Hospital, where Mullick was declared dead. Ghosh was shifted to the Institute of Neuroscience in Mullickbazar. “Both were wearing helmets. They suffered head injuries and one of them died on the spot,” said an officer of Lake police station. The accident happened near the Lords Bakery crossing around 4am. An officer of the traffic department said a speed breaker on the stretch could have triggered the accident. “Skid marks were seen on the road from the spot where the two-wheeler apparently lost control. The marks started just after the bump. The biker might have failed to spot the speed-breaker and lost balance after hitting it. The two-wheeler finally rammed into a tree,” the officer said. Mullick is survived by his parents. A family member alleged that some of his belongings, including his mobile phone, were missing from the spot. A case of unnatural death has been registered with Lake police station. Officers stressed the need for motorists to regulate speed, especially on empty stretches, when there are no cops and fewer vehicles around. “But unfortunately motorists just do the opposite. Most of them press the accelerator when they see an empty road. Speeding leaves little scope for the driver or motorist to negotiate a crater or speed-breaker,” another officer of the traffic department said. As many as 64 motorcyclists and pillion-riders lost their lives in road accidents in Calcutta last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Vidyut Bhavan sieged by thousands of contractual employees||Vidyut Bhavan — the headquarters of the West Bengal State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd —  was under siege by thousands of contractual employees on Friday, prompting the police to intervene late at night as the protesters refused to budge even after 12 hours of blockade. Around 100 permanent employees who had reported for work at Vidyut Bhavan, in Salt Lake’s DJ Block, could not return home before late on Friday. The employees, who had arrived around 10am, could not leave till the police removed the protesters around 9.45pm, a spokesperson for the utility said. “Our employees had been trapped inside the building for hours and they could not get out,” said the spokesperson. The contractual employees were demanding a minimum wage of Rs 21,600 a month, a well-defined salary structure, an assurance that they would be retained till they turned 60, an opportunity to become permanent employees based on performance, and allowances, bonus and provident fund benefits. The police said more than 3,000 people had gathered outside Vidyut Bhavan in the morning and the count swelled as the day progressed. “We were keeping a close watch. It was a peaceful gathering. But things started taking an unwanted turn when the agitators blocked the gate of the building, leaving other employees trapped inside. Despite our repeated requests, when they did not agree to move, we had to push them back to rescue the trapped employees,” an officer of the Bidhannagar police said. The 100-odd employees who were inside could leave for home after 10pm. A huge contingent of police cordoned the area and pushed back the agitators to make way for the people trapped inside for close to 12 hours. They were taken out of the building through the rear gate and escorted back home. Around 60 people were arrested from the spot and taken to the police station. A woman employee who was stuck said: “We are habituated to meetings and gatherings outside our office. But we were shocked to discover that we were not being allowed to step out. We were stranded for so many hours.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Man allegedly shot dead in Chitpore over ‘family dispute’||A man was allegedly shot dead in Chitpore on Friday evening apparently because of a family dispute, police said. Officers of Chitpore police station said a woman’s parental family and in-laws had got involved in a dispute over taking her back to her parental home. The dispute led to the shooting around 6pm, the officers said. The incident took place in front of 22 Lockgate Road. Hossain Din, who is brother-in-law of the woman, was shot by a few men. Neighbours managed to catch two of the men and handed them over to the police. The cops came to know that they were friends of the woman’s brother. They were allegedly acting on his behest. An improvised gun and two fired cartridges were found at the spot, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Health panel orders refunds to healthcare institutes||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday asked two healthcare institutes to refund the extra amount they had charged for Covid-19 tests. “We have told them that the amount charged for the Covid test in excess of what the government has fixed has to be returned,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. The two establishments are BMRI and SRL. BMRI had overcharged Rs 3,600 for the reports of three RT-PCR tests for Covid and SRL had overcharged Rs 700 for two reports, said Banerjee. The tests were conducted in November and December. The state government has capped the rate of an RT-PCR test for Covid at Rs 950. Despite the government-imposed cap, there have been instances of private hospitals and diagnostic centres charging more for an RT-PCR test. Overbilling The commission asked Divine Nursing Home to return Rs 35,805 to a patient who was overcharged. “The hospital had billed Rs 6,500 as bed charge. We had said bed charges could not be enhanced. Despite that they charged more than the original rate, which was Rs 4,000. There was also some overbilling in pathological tests. So, we have asked the nursing home to refund Rs 35,805," said Banerjee. Refund Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has been asked to refund Rs 1 lakh to the family of a cancer patient who died. The patient had tested positive for Covid during his stay in the hospital. Banerjee said the patient was undergoing prolonged treatment at the hospital. “Since the patient tested positive for Covid on the 21st day, the hospital has some responsibility. We have asked the hospital to refund Rs 1 lakh,” said Banerjee. The patient’s family was billed Rs 15 lakh, of which they paid Rs 9 lakh. The rest was paid by the insurance company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Netaji, the name of an ever-burning candle||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, whose 125th birth anniversary falls on Saturday, was an  exceptional personality. To ensure the independence of his motherland from the clutches of the British, he sacrificed his whole life. Unfortunately, he could not see India as an independent nation; Netaji disappeared from the national scene at a climactic moment. Yet, he is alive in the hearts of millions of Indians. Netaji’s spirit and ethos shall remain an ever-burning candle for the generations to come. “Jai Hind”, coined by Netaji, became a national slogan, to commence any conversation, as a greeting and as a salutation to our Mother India. “Jai Hind” is being used by all ranks and files of the Indian Army for the past decade. The slogan has bound the army in a more positive and unique way. Netaji has been one of my greatest heroes since childhood. My late mother was largely responsible for this. I consider myself extremely lucky to have been able to meet Colonel Lakshmi Sahgal, the commanding officer of the Rani of Jhansi Regiment of Netaji’s Indian National Army (INA). I met her when she used to come to Calcutta every year for Netaji’s birth anniversary celebrations. Her stories on Netaji and the INA enthralled me. It was very kind of Colonel Sahgal to accept my invitation to visit our home and motivate my wife, daughter and son. It was another honour for me to have met Netaji’s daughter, Anita Pfaff, when she visited Netaji Bhavan on January 23, 1995. Netaji not only sacrificed his life for the country but also visualised ways of eradicating poverty, illiteracy and diseases. His most unique quality was that he could transcend all barriers of caste and creed. The INA had generals from the Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and other communities. “Had Subhas been there, the partition would not have taken place,” Mahatma Gandhi had said. On August 25, 1943, Netaji formally assumed supreme command of the INA. He said in a special order: “In the coming struggle for the liberation of our motherland, the Azad Hind Fauj has a vital role to play. To fulfil this role, we must weld ourselves into an army that will have one goal — freedom.” On August 26 that year, the commander of the Japanese army revealed a major plan of operation in the Imphal area on the Indian border. Netaji concentrated all efforts on the mobilisation of men and materials for the fight. A guerrilla regiment was raised. The elite regiment had the best soldiers and ammunition to spearhead the INA operation. While Netaji was busy mobilising men and materials for the struggle, he received news of the Great Famine of Bengal. He made arrangements for 1 lakh tonnes of rice to be sent to Bengal. He urged the British government in India to permit the movement of the rice from Myanmar to India, but was spurned. On October 21, 1943, a meeting of the delegates of Indians living in East Asia was held in Singapore. Here, Netaji announced the formation of a provisional government of “azad Hind (free India). But with all leaders in prison and the common people disarmed, it was not possible to set up a provisional government within India or to launch an armed struggle, Netaji said. “It is therefore the duty of the Indian Independence League in East Asia, supported by all patriotic Indians at home and abroad, to undertake this task — the task of setting up a provisional government of azad Hind and of conducting the last fight for the freedom with the help of the Azad Hind Fauj,” he said. On November 5-6, 1943, at the Greater East Asia Conference in Tokyo, Netaji represented the provisional government as an observer. Here, Netaji persuaded the Japanese to transfer the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to the provisional government. Netaji, like Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, had always fought for “poorna swaraj”, or complete freedom. Had Netaji prevailed, the tragic fallout of dominion status granted by the British, especially the communal massacre, could have been avoided. Netaji and his vision for economic planning, national unity, women’s empowerment and poorna swaraj have left behind a fiery legend.  Pratapaditya Mazumdar is a Lieutenant Colonel (Retd)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||La Martiniere for Boys gives exam dates for X, XII||La Martiniere for Boys has gone ahead and announced dates for exams to be held on the campus. Several other schools are ready with their calendar, too, but are holding back from announcing the dates because the state government is yet to give a nod. In a notice for Classes X and XII, La Martiniere for Boys said on-site rehearsal exams for Class X will be held from February 22 to March 5; and on-site rehearsal exams for Class XII from Thursday, February 18 to 20 and from March 1 to 5, “but both are subject to directives from the state government and parental consent.” The exam schedule will follow, said the notice signed by principal John Rafi and sent out late on Thursday. Traditionally, La Martiniere for Boys informs students about exam dates at least a month in advance. Schools like St James’ and South Point, too, are ready with their schedules for holding on-campus practicals and rehearsal exams for Classes X and XII. La Martiniere for Girls plans to hold rehearsal exams for Classes X and XII on the campus. Don Bosco Park Circus is considering calling students to the campus for practicals from mid-February. But the state government is yet to make any announcement about when they plan to ask schools to reopen. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid. Education minister Partha Chatterjee and school education secretary Manish Jain did not respond to calls or messages from The Telegraph. The chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certification Examinations (CISCE), Gerry Arathoon, had earlier told Metro that schools would need two months of on-campus classes before board exams could be held. “It’s high time those appearing for board exams came to school for offline classes. We have prepared the time-table and we are waiting for the government’s go-ahead. We need to have practicals, revision classes and then rehearsal exams,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’. In most schools, students have not written a full-length paper for close to a year. “Students need to practise writing for two-three hours at a stretch,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. “We will have on-campus rehearsals for Classes X and XII as and when we receive government notification.” St James’ has been conducting practicals where teachers show the experiments from the lab to students at home. “It is not enough but it is the best we can do,” Ireland said. Usually, every year students attend eight to nine months of practicals but this time there have been none so far. “Students should at least come for a month-and-a-half for practicals. We are thinking of mid-February but we are also hoping that the government will come out with some directives by end-January,” said Father Bikash Mondal, the principal of Don Bosco Park Circus. Students of classes X and XII can be called in groups in a staggered way, school heads said. St Augustine’s Day School Barrackpore said they were ready to reopen as soon as the government gives a nod. “Parents of Classes X and XII have approached us to call students for practicals and some classes,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School. “Our schedule is ready in the hope that in February we will be allowed to reopen for Classes IX to XII. But we cannot do anything without the government’s approval,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of South Point, a CBSE school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Why Covid vaccine has run into reluctance||The state government is worried that many health workers are reluctant to be vaccinated against Covid-19 and is asking hospital authorities to dispel their doubts and motivate them to take the jabs. The health workers are still reluctant because they harbour doubts about the vaccines approved for emergency use in India, ranging from their adverse effects to dearth of efficacy data. “We want to finish this phase of vaccination as quickly as possible and proceed to the next phase, but reluctance among many health workers is slowing down the process. We are hoping that the number of vaccine recipients will go up in the next few weeks. There are a variety of reasons why many health-care workers are not keen on getting a dose. So, we are asking senior doctors and hospital officials who have already taken shots to motivate others,” a senior official of the health department said on Friday. Health-care workers are being vaccinated in the current phase, following which frontline workers will be called. “Human resources and infrastructure are wasted if people don't turn up for vaccination. We expect the turnout will increase once prospective recipients see for themselves that those who have taken the shots have not suffered from any serious adverse effect.” At the vaccination centres in Peerless Hospital and the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, barely 50 per cent of the prospective recipients from other hospitals who are to get their shots there are turning up. Officials of both hospitals said they were asking their employees to fill up the vacant slots. Many of those who did not turn up said their family members had asked them not to go for vaccination now since they had suffered from Covid-19 and developed antibodies. “There were others who said they were on leave. Several did not receive calls. We got some of our employees vaccinated in the vacant slots with the health department’s consent,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional director (eastern India) of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The hospital was given 12 vials of Covishield vaccine, each having around 10 doses. The hospital could vaccinate 109 people and returned two vials to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The hospital has asked senior doctors to motivate health workers to take the vaccine. Utpal Brahma, a consultant in emergency medicine at the hospital, said there were questions in the minds of several co-workers. “I had taken the vaccine on the first day (January 16) and had no reaction. After several senior doctors and nurses have taken the vaccine, doubts are slowly getting cleared. But still we are being asked about adverse effects,” Brahma said. “We are assuring them that there could be minor side effects like fever or pain at the site of injection. Paracetamol can be taken.” Before vaccination, Brahma and other senior doctors are talking to recipients in groups and addressing their concerns. “People are also asking what they should eat before and after the vaccination. There are no restrictions,” said Brahma. At Peerless Hospital, there were plans to get 120 health workers vaccinated. All were supposed to come from the two other private hospitals. However, only 64 had turned up. The hospital filled some vacant slots with its employees. “There is reluctance among some of our employees, too. Government officials are calling up every day, asking us to motivate such workers,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “People are confused about whether Covishield underwent proper trials and about adverse effects. We are speaking to such workers individually to explain that the vaccine did undergo trials and it's safe,” he said. The health department, in video conferences, is also asking senior officials of government hospitals to try and bring more employees for vaccination. “We are asking senior doctors and administrators to take the vaccine and then speak to their colleagues," said a health department official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination: Lists of frontline workers sought||The state health department has requested various government departments to draw up by January 25 lists of employees who are in the frontline in the battle against Covid-19 so that a plan can be prepared for the next round of vaccination. The departments that have been identified for “line listing” — according to the health department’s parlance — include home, transport, police, panchayat, prisons, municipal affairs and civil defence. “The Union health ministry wants the completed list to be uploaded on the CoWIN app by January 28. We have requested all departments, including those in the offices of the district magistrates and the block development officers, to give us the lists three days in advance,” an official at Swasthya Bhavan said. “The health department will be responsible for administering the doses. If required, we can train nodal officers and back office staff in each department in uploading data on the CoWIN app.” Some departments said they were in the final stages of drawing up the lists, while a few said their lists were ready. Calcutta police, for instance, have submitted a list of 36,500 personnel, including civic volunteers. On Friday, senior health department officials held several rounds of meetings with representatives of various central organisations, including the railways, Calcutta Port Trust, BSF, NSG, CISF, ITBP and Assam Rifles, to decide on sites where health-care workers from these agencies could be vaccinated. Once the complete list of frontline workers is ready, vaccination centres will be set up across four strata — district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, block primary health centres and rural hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-164
23-01-2021||Business||JSW Steel net rises for December 2020 quarter||JSW Steel on Friday reported a manifold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 2,669 crore for the December 2020 quarter. The private sector steel maker had clocked a net profit of Rs 187 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year, JSW Steel said in a BSE filing. Its consolidated income during October-December 2020 rose to Rs 22,006 crore from Rs 18,182 crore in the year-ago period. Biocon profit falls Biotechnology major Biocon has reported an 18.97 per cent fall in consolidated profit at Rs 186.6 crore for the quarter ended December 2020 on account of higher expenses. The company had posted a profit of Rs 230.3 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
23-01-2021||Business||Amit Mitra seeks fiscal leeway in letter to Nirmala Sitharaman||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has written a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on relaxing the limits under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM), release of tax devolution and increase in spending from the State Disaster Relief Fund. In his letter, Mitra has urged her to relax the FRBM limits by at least 2 per cent in 2021-22 so that states can use the full headroom for borrowing granted by the Centre. The Modi government had raised the borrowing limit for states by 5 per cent as part of its Atma Nirbhar Bharat package of measures. Borrowings up to 4 per cent were freely allowed but an additional 1 per cent came with reform-driven conditions, which Mitra says limits the fiscal space of states. Mitra said in his letter that the states have been allowed to dip into the State Disaster Relief Fund up to 50 per cent to meet Covid-related expenses but the corpus is just Rs 1,100 crore. “The state would need Rs 11,387 crore to tackle Covid-19 for 2020-21,” the letter said. Mitra said Bengal has spent Rs 4,000 crore to combat Covid-19 but has received only Rs 279 crore in grants from the Centre. Release of pending allotments under centrally sponsored schemes was also in the letter. The estimated amount is Rs 32,494.67 crore under various schemes. Mitra has also called for re-evaluation of the ongoing central schemes and making sufficient allocation for maintenance as well as for costs towards manpower. Mitra also noted that the Centre must borrow the remaining Rs 72,000 crore to meet the shortfall in GST compensation cess collection and lend it on to the states. Out of the Rs 1.82 lakh crore estimated GST compensation gap, the Centre is borrowing Rs 1.10 lakh crore through an RBI special window, Mitra pointed out. Bengal had also asked for relief worth Rs 35,000 crore for cyclone Amphan, of which only Rs 2,250 crore has been given. “The balance amount must be provided to the state expeditiously,” Mitra said. He further said that the Centre must end the shortfall in tax devolution. The state has received only Rs 27,943.70 crore against dues of Rs 37,904.50 crore till December end, Mitra said in the letter. The letter is in the wake of a pre-budget consultative meeting with the state finance ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
23-01-2021||Business||Cabinet move to end GAIL monopoly||The Union cabinet may soon consider the oil ministry’s proposal to set up an independent gas pipeline operator which would end the monopoly of state-owned GAIL in the pipeline business. The petroleum ministry, which has held inter-ministerial consultations on setting up a transport service operator (TSO), would send a formal proposal to the cabinet soon and the issue would be taken before the end of this fiscal. Officials said the operator would be put in place to manage the common carrier part of the gas pipeline infrastructure. The TSO will be entrusted with the task of booking pipeline capacity for transport of gas from producers to the consumers on payment of a fee to be decided by the regulator. After the bifurcation of the operations of GAIL into gas transportation and marketing, the former may be put under an independent TSO. Adani stake in IGX Adani Total Gas and Torrent Gas have become the first strategic investors in IGX (Indian Gas Exchange) by acquiring a 5 per cent stake each for Rs 3.69 crore. In a stock exchange filing, Adani Total said it will pick up this 5 per cent stake for more than Rs 3.69 crore. Torrent Gas will pick up its stake for the same amount. IGX is an arm of IEX and the first authorised gas exchange in the country. The exchange has 16 members and more than 500 registered clients. With three physical hubs at Hazira and Dahej in Gujarat and KG Basin in Andhra Pradesh, IGX has traded 75,000 MMBTU since its launch in June 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
23-01-2021||Business||Bid to regulate top NBFCs like banks||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday proposed a four-layered regulatory structure for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) with a progressive increase in the intensity of regulation leading to the upper  layer where the top 25-30 entities will be subject to tighter regulations akin to banks. According to a discussion paper released by the RBI, the NBFCs will be split into four layers — base, middle, upper and top — similar to a pyramid. However, the RBI did not propose any reserve requirements such as cash reserve ratio (CRR) or statutory liquidity ratio (SLR). The base layer will have the least regulation. The RBI proposed higher entry point norms in terms of net owned funds (NOF). A five-year timeline will be given to the NBFCs to achieve this rule. Bad loan classification will be changed to 90 days from 180 days . The next is NBFC-ML (middle layer) where regulations will be a little more strict. These include both deposit and non deposit taking NBFCs classified as systemically important apart from housing finance companies. However, the top 25-30 NBFCs in the country which fall into the upper layer (NBFC-UL) will see several regulatory changes. These are non-banks which are identified as systemically significant. They will be subject to differential provisioning on standard assets against a flat rate of 0.40 per cent at present. A significant change is that Core Equity Tier -1 which is now applicable for banks will be implemented here. This has been proposed at 9  per cent. Finally, there is the top layer. Ideally, this layer will remain empty unless supervisors take a view on specific NBFCs. If certain NBFCs lying in the upper layer are seen to pose extreme risks according to supervisory judgement, they can be put to significantly higher and regulatory requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
23-01-2021||Business||Indian Bank board approves cash plan||The board of Indian Bank on Friday has approved a capital raising plan of Rs 7,000 crore. This includes raising an equity capital of Rs 4,000 crore through qualified institutional placements, a follow-on offer, rights issue or a combination of these. Another Rs 3,000 crore will come from AT1/tier-2 bonds in one or more tranches. In a statement to the bourses, Indian Bank said it will obtain shareholders’ approval to raise capital at an EGM scheduled in March. The bank’s capital adequacy ratio has improved to 14.06 per cent for the quarter ended December 2020 from 13.64 per cent for the September quarter. The public sector bank has posted a net profit of Rs 514 crore for the quarter ended December 31, 2020. Net loss in the corresponding year-ago quarter was Rs 1,739 crore. The bank’s net revenue grew 15 per cent at Rs 5,710 crore from Rs 4,966 crore for the third quarter of 2019-20. Yes Bank Private sector lender Yes Bank has reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 147 crore for the December quarter and a jump in asset quality stress because of Covid-19. The bank had suffered a loss of Rs 18,564 crore in the year-ago period when it recognised all the hidden stress in the balance sheet. Managing director and chief executive Prashant Kumar said this is the third straight quarter where the bank has shown a rise in profits and it continues with its de-risking strategy, which led to a marginal rise of 1.7 per cent in advances to Rs 1.69 lakh crore. Net NPA stood at 2.35 per cent during the quarter, against 4.22 per cent a year ago."We expect that with all the efforts the bank has been making, we would definitely be able to manage and maintain gross NPA below 10 per cent and net NPA below 3 per cent," said Padmaja Chunduru, MD and CEO of Indian Bank.Following the amalgamation of Allahabad Bank, 166 branches, 25 zonal offices, 9 currency chests, 3 service branches have been rationalised so far.Indian Bank scrips at Rs 90.90 were up 1.56 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
23-01-2021||Business||Profit booking leads sharp slide from 50000||Profit booking amid weak global cues played spoilsport as the Sensex fell 746 points after touching 50000 on Thursday even as the Nifty fell below the 14400 mark. Market experts are guiding for more volatile days in the days ahead, though they admit that in the long-run, the bull run remains intact. The Sensex had on Thursday hit the 50000 mark for the first time aided by strong portfolio inflows and on positive vibes from Joe Biden taking charge as the US President. However, the persistent run-up in stock values had set the stage for moderation. On Friday, global developments were also not conducive for sustaining the benchmark index’s run above the 50000 mark. There was disappointing data from the Eurozone, news from China of more infections amid apprehensions of more lockdowns elsewhere. “Virus worries were front and centre with Asian stocks falling, as a spike in Chinese infections sparked testing of millions in Beijing,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. “European stocks dropped on rising Covid-19 cases and lockdown worries globally. Optimism surrounding a leadership change at the White House ran out of steam. Data also showed the flash Eurozone purchasing managers index dropping in January to a two-month low of 47.5, coming close to the expected 47.6 — from 49.1 in December. “UK retail sales only grew 0.3 per cent in December, weaker than expected, marking a weak end to their worst year on record,’’ he said. Back home, analysts say that good results from companies are now largely factored into the prices and the key event to watch out for is the Union budget and that stocks will be volatile ahead of February 1. In Friday’s trade, the Sensex could not sustain at higher levels as investors sold the RIL stock ahead of its third quarter results, while banking and finance counters also witnessed heavy selling. After opening marginally lower at 49594.95, the 30-share Sensex hit an intra-day low of 48832.08 and finished at 48878.54 — a fall of 746.22 points or 1.50 per cent over its last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
23-01-2021||Business||Reliance profit up 12% for December quarter of 2020||Buoyed by a strong performance from Jio, Reliance Industries (RIL) on Friday beat Street estimates to post a 12.55 per cent growth in net profits for the December quarter of 2020. The oil-to-telecom conglomerate recorded a net profit of Rs 13,101 crore compared with Rs 11,640 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting RIL to post profits in the region of Rs 11,000 crore. Its performance was led by the digital services segment, even as the O2C division, which contributes almost 67 per cent to overall revenues saw a sequential 10 per cent growth in its topline to Rs 83,838 crore. But, on a year-on-year basis, there was a sharp drop from Rs 119,121 crore as the business is yet to fully revive from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the star of the show was Jio Platforms (Jio), which houses its digital services business. Jio saw its profits rising 15.5 per cent over the second quarter of 2020 to Rs 3,489 crore from Rs 3,020 crore, while revenue from operations rose 5.3 per cent to Rs 19,475 crore during the same period. EBITDA margins were also higher by 50 basis points at 43.6 per cent. Average revenue per user (ARPU) during the quarter came as a pleasant surprised at Rs 151 per subscriber per month against Rs 145 per subscriber per month in the trailing quarter. Analysts had expected Jio to post an ARPU of Rs 148 during the quarter. RIL said total customer gross addition in the digital services division was robust at 25.1 million. On the O2C business, the sequential revenue push came largely on account of higher volumes in transportation fuels, purified terephtalic acid and polyester supported by improved product realisation across polymers, fibre intermediates and polyester. RIL said polymer margins were at a record high while margins for intermediates were sequentially better. It added that restraints on public transport and increased preference for personal vehicles improved demand for personal mobility fuels like gasoline and diesel. However, the performance of its retail business disappointed with revenues falling almost 10 per cent on a sequential basis to Rs 33,018 crore from Rs 36,566 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-162
23-01-2021||India||Delhi police give permission to hold R-Day tractor rally||Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws on Saturday claimed that the Delhi Police have given them permission  to hold their tractor parades on January 26 in the national capital. The tractor parades will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi, but details will be finalised tonight, farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar said after attending a meeting between the unions and the police. Kohar claimed that the Delhi Police has given its nod to the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day in the national capital. Talking to reporters, another farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that as thousands of farmers will participate in the parade, there will be no single route. Farmers have repeatedly ensured that the rally will remain peaceful, as some leaders have expressed concerns over it. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said that barricades set up at Delhi border points, will be removed on January 26 and farmers will take out tractor rallies after entering the national capital. Earlier in the day, 32 protesting unions met at the Singhu border near Delhi, a major protest site, to reconsider the government’s proposal to put the contentious legislations on hold. This comes a day after the government asked farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the laws for 18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders, the 11th round on Friday saw both sides hardening their positions. They could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting. The government asked farmer unions to revert by Saturday in case they agree to the suspension proposal and the talks can continue only thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Netaji would have been proud of today’s India, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the city on Saturday to honour the memory of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, said the icon of the freedom movement would have been proud to see how strong the country had become. Speaking in the presence of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, governor Jagdeep Dhankar and other dignitaries at a programme held at Victoria Memorial, Modi said, "I sometimes wonder how Netaji would have felt if he had seen how a new and strong India is taking shape. " But Mamata did not deliver her speech after BJP supporters interrupted her with chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. "Government programmes should have some dignity," she said. "Don't insult me after calling me here. This is not a political programme. If you invite someone to a government programme, you should not insult them," Mamata said at the event, one of the rare occasions the Bengal chief minister shared the platform with the Prime Minister. In his speech, Modi said, Bose would have also been proud that the government he dreamt of was fighting a pandemic with vaccines developed by it and gave a befitting reply whenever its sovereignty was challenged. "I sometimes wonder how Netaji would have felt if he had seen how a new and strong India is taking shape," he said at the programme held to celebrate the day as 'Parakram Diwas'. "Netaji had dreamt of a strong India, from LAC to LOC we are following his footsteps. Whenever our sovereignty was challenged, we have given a befitting reply," he said while adding that the country has a strong force and modern fighter aircraft such as Tejas and Rafale. Modi also released a commemorative stamp and coin on the occasion, saying that Bose’s birth anniversary will be celebrated as ‘Parakram Diwas’ every year. Before reaching the event at Victoria Memorial, the Prime Minister paid floral tributes at Netaji’s statue at the National Library in Calcutta. He also interacted with some of the artists as he went around seeing the paintings and folk art of Bengal. The Prime Minister also greeted participants in an international conference on “Revisiting the legacy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose” at Belvedere House to mark his 125th birth anniversary. Modi was at the National Library for 18 minutes, accompanied by governor Dhankar. Before this, the PM  visited Netaji’s ancestral house in the afternoon. There, he was greeted with chants of “Jai Shri Ram” by people waiting outside Netaji Bhawan in the Bhawanipore area. The PM also waved at them.  He was received at the entrance of the house by Sugato Bose and his brother Sumantro Bose, the freedom fighter’s grandnephews. Modi was shown the ‘Wanderer’ car, which Netaji used to escape from Calcutta to Gomoh, said Sugato Bose. The PM was also shown the bedrooms of Netaji and his brother Sarat Chandra Bose. Modi was also given a quick walkthrough of the museum, which houses photographs of the Azad Hind Fauj. The PM was also shown the table used by Netaji in Singapore. Hours before Modi arrived in the city, Mamata attacked the Centre for failing to declare the day a national holiday and build a memorial for the freedom fighter. "I protest the Centre's decision to not yet declare Netaji's birth anniversary as a national holiday. You are building a new Parliament and buying new planes... why no memorial for Netaji?" the chief minister said. With Assembly elections now only a few months away, the events of the day, particularly the one at Victoria Memorial, invited retorts and counter-retorts from members of the BJP and Trinamul Congress, ndtv.com reported. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya was the first off the block, alleging that Ms Banerjee had "insulted" the memory of Netaji and that "Bengal will not tolerate this disregard of its icons". "Mamata Banerjee insulted the legacy of Rabindranath Tagore by refusing to attend Viswa Bharati's centenary celebrations. She has done the same by not delivering her speech on the occasion of Netaji's anniversary celebrations," he declared. Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien hit back by tweeting the dictionary definition of the word 'dignity' and saying "you can(not) teach lumpens to be dignified".  "dignity (noun) The state or quality of being worthy of honour and respect. You can't teach 'dignity'. Nor can you teach lumpens to be dignified. Here is a one-min video of what exactly happened today. Including the dignified response by Mamata Banerjee," Mr O'Brien said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||AAP MLA sent to prison for two years for assaulting AIIMS staff||AAP MLA and former Delhi minister Somnath Bharti was on Saturday sentenced to two years in jail by a court here in a 2016 case of assaulting the security staff at AIIMS and causing damage to hospital property. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi backed its MLA from Malviya Nagar, claiming that "injustice" has been meted out to him and expressed the hope that he will get justice at the appellate level. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of Rs one lakh on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader. "The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti," the magistrate said. The court, however, granted bail to Bharti enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term. According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here with a JCB operator. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS. The court convicted Bharti for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting). It also held the AAP MLA guilty under section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The offences carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail. The court, however, acquitted Bharti's associates and co-accused -- Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey -- citing a lack of evidence against them. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS. Bharti had told the court that police officials and other witnesses had deposed against him to falsely implicate him in the case. In its statement, the AAP said, "We respect the judiciary and have full faith in the judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Mr Somnath Bharti in this case." The party said Bharti is filing an appeal. "We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level," it said. "Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading," the AAP said. When contacted, Bharti said he does not want to comment after his party's statement. The AAP leader is not new to controversies. In 2014, as the law minister in the then Kejriwal government, he led a late-night vigilante raid against some African women, accusing them of being drug runners. In 2015, he was arrested in connection with a domestic violence case lodged by his wife. He was later cleared of the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Farmers' meet underway to mull on govt proposal||A meeting of 32 Punjab farmer unions opposed to the Centre's farm laws is underway at the Singhu border here, a major protest site, to reconsider the government's proposal to put the contentious legislations on hold. This comes a day after the government asked farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the legislations for 18 months. Later in the day, a crucial meeting of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 farmer organisations leading the protests at several Delhi border points, will be held. "The meeting of Punjab farmer unions is going on. A meeting of Samyukta Kisan Morcha will be held later in the day," said Lakhbir Singh, vice president (Punjab) of All India Kisan Sabha. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders, the 11th round on Friday saw both sides hardening their positions. They could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting. The government asked farmer unions to revert by Saturday in case they agree to the suspension proposal and the talks can continue only thereafter. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre in the last round of talks on Wednesday when it offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi borders. Farmer leaders, however, said they would settle for nothing less than a complete repeal of the laws, enacted in September last year, which they find pro-corporate, and a legal guarantee for the procurement of crops at government-fixed MSP (minimum support price). They also said their tractor parade will go ahead as per the plans on January 26 and unions have told the police that it is the government's responsibility to maintain peace. The farmer unions are adamant on taking out their tractor parade on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on January 26, even as the Delhi Police urged them to hold it outside the national capital, a request that was publicly rejected by the unions. A meeting between a group of farm leaders and police officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is scheduled later on Saturday to discuss alternative routes for the tractor parade. Talking to reporters after the meeting on Friday, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has always maintained a sensitive approach towards farmers and their interest, but some forces were definitely at works to keep the agitation on and those forces certainly do not want farmers to benefit. "No resolution is possible when the sanctity of an agitation is lost," he had said while adding that no decision can be reached in the interest of the farmers if vested interests get an upper hand. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on MSP for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Modi points finger at previous Assam govts for failing to protect land rights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday castigated the previous governments in Assam for depriving its lakhs of poor indigenous people of their land rights. The BJP-led government in the state is committed to ensuring that the indigenous people have legal rights over their land, Modi said, after launching a drive to give ownership certificates to over one lakh families. Marking its launch, the prime minister distributed 'pattas' to 10 people at the historic 'Jerenga Pathar' here. "When the Sarbananda Sonowal government took over the reins in Assam, more than six lakh indigenous families had no legal rights over their land. In the last few years more than two lakh such families have been allotted ownership certificates. "With more than one lakh famiies added today, the government has shown its commitment to protecting the rights of the indigeneous people," Modi said. The previous governments in Assam never cared for the rights of those who "loved this sacred land", he said. The land ownership certificates (pattas) will guarantee their 'Swabhiman' (pride), Swadheenta (freedom) and Suraksha (protection). He asserted that the BJP-led government is committed to protecting the land, language and culture of the indigenous people. Referring to the celebration of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as 'Parakram Divas', the prime minister said the day "inspires hope and national pride". He also lauded the state government for having freed the world-famous Kaziranga National Park from encroachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||R-Day parade entry only with invitation cards or tickets||Ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the Delhi Police has issued an advisory, saying people will be allowed to watch the parade at Rajpath strictly on the production of an invitation card or a ticket. The police also said that those below 15 years of age will not be allowed at the event. "This year, Entry to RDC-2021 will be strictly through Invitation Card/Ticket only! All those, who don't have valid Invitation Card/Ticket are advised to watch live program at home. Children below 15 years age are not allowed to RDC-2021 at Rajpath," the Delhi Police said in a tweet. In another tweet, the police instructed the invitees not to carry bags, briefcases, pins, eatables, cameras, binoculars, handicams, electronic gadgets such as iPads, iPods, palm-top computers, laptops, computers, tablet computers, power-banks, digital diaries. The invitees have also been advised not to carry remote-controlled car keys (will be deposited at the facilitation counter), arms and ammunition, thermos flasks, water bottles, cigarettes, bidis, matchboxes, lighters, knives, razors, scissors, blades, wire pluckers, screwdrivers, alcohol, perfume spray, cans, daggers, swords, sharp-edged materials, fireworks, inflammable items, umbrellas, replica firearms or toy guns, tear guns, stun guns and explosives in any form. There will be no free entry to the programme this year, the police said. The national capital has been brought under an unprecedented ground-to-air security cover, with thousands of armed personnel keeping a tight vigil in view of the Republic day celebrations scheduled on January 26. Patrolling has been intensified in the busy market areas of the city. Security arrangements have also been tightened at the border areas in view of a proposed tractor parade by the farmers agitating against the Centre's new farm laws on January 26. Like the Independence Day function last year, all chairs in the enclosures at the Republic Day event at Rajpath will be placed following social-distancing norms in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The crowd size has been brought down to 25,000 this year from around 1.25 lakh last year. The number of enclosures has also been halved to just 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||India logs more than 14,000 cases, 152 casualties in a day||With 14,256 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 1,06,39,684 on Saturday, while 1,03,00,838 patients have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.81 per cent, according to the health ministry. There are 1,85,662 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which accounts for only 1.78 per cent of the total caseload, according to data released by the ministry. The COVID-19 caseload has mounted to 1,06,39,684 and the death toll due to the disease has climbed to 1,53,184, with the novel coronavirus claiming 152 more lives in the country in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. According to the ICMR, a total of 19,09,85,119 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 8,37,095 on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and the 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 last year, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 152 COVID-19 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours include 50 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, eight each from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and seven each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra has so far reported the highest number of 50,684 deaths caused by the viral disease in the country, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,307), Karnataka (12,190), Delhi (10,789), West Bengal (10,097), Uttar Pradesh (8,605), Andhra Pradesh (7,146), Punjab (5,543) and Gujarat (4,374). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Fog lowers visibility in parts of Delhi, minimum temperature rises to 8 degrees Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius on Saturday even as fog lowered visibility to 300 metres in some parts of the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A fresh Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the western Himalayas provided some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius as a result of easterly winds and a cloud cover over the national capital, an IMD official said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said easterly winds are not as cold as the northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, pushing the minimum temperature up. However, the minimum temperature in Delhi will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday, Srivastava said. "The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to four degrees Celsius by Monday," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Farms laws enacted sneakily when people were battling Covid: Farmers||Had it been any other government, the farmers would have called off their protest after receiving an assurance that the contentious farm laws would be kept in abeyance for 18 months, believes Waryam Singh. “But not with this government,” the elderly farmer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district stressed as he and fellow protesters sat around a fire on a chilly winter morning at the Singhu border. “Modi sarkar pe humko vishwas nahi hai (We don’t trust the Modi government),” he declared. It was a sentiment expressed widely across the protest epicentre on Friday —through posters, chants and effigies or just terse statements like Waryam’s; by sloganeering women marchers and contrite former Modi bhakts. Explaining their distrust, Waryam and several others cited how the Narendra Modi government had got the three “anti-farmer” laws enacted “chupke se” (sneakily) while the people were battling Covid-19. The laws were brought through ordinances in June when the country was in lockdown. Later, in September, the bills were rushed through Parliament by a much-contested voice vote. By then, BJP ally Akali Dal had pulled out its minister in protest against the bills and parties seen as friendly to the government had either opposed the bills or asked for them to be sent to the Select Committee in Parliament. “This is a ploy by the government,” Waryam said, implying the government’s promise to keep the laws in abeyance was an attempt to trick the farmers into ending their protest. “Hum yahan se hatne wale nahi hai: 2024 tak baithenge, lekin kanoon radd kiye bina ghar nahi lautenge (We won’t retreat. We’ll sit here till 2024 if necessary; we won’t return till the laws have been repealed),” said Rai Singh, a Jat farmer from Haryana. The next general election is due in 2024. On Thursday, the protesting farmers had rejected the government’s offer to suspend the implementation of the three laws, saying the 143 farmers “martyred” while protesting had died seeking repeal and not such half-measures. If the government had hoped the offer would mollify the farmers, it seems to have had the opposite effect. The farmers now feel the offer reflects how their agitation has forced the government into a climb-down, and that a final push would force it to repeal the laws. “If we withdraw now, it would mean victory for the government,” said Paramjit Singh, an activist from Chhattisgarh. The rejection of the government offer by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner the movement is being conducted, may have been driven by the mood at the protest sites, an office-bearer with a farm union who declined to be named suggested. “The protesters may have refused to withdraw the agitation,” he said, adding that the unions had sensed that the mood was for a “decisive battle”. The crowd was much larger on Friday at Singhu and appeared more determined, if that is possible. The women were especially visible with their chants against the “Modi sarkar”, “Khattar sarkar (Haryana government)”, “Adani-Ambani” and the RSS. As the farm union office-bearer was speaking, a procession of mostly women passed by carrying an effigy of Modi. “Look, this is the level of anger against the government,” he said. Asked why they wanted to burn an effigy of the Prime Minister, Jagdeep, a homemaker from Patiala, shot back: “Jab Pradhan Mantri humko maarna chahta hai to hum kya karen (What do we do when the Prime Minister wants to kill us)?” “People are dying here,” she said, “and we are being given date after date (for talks).” The farmers are furious that the government has been dragging the talks on — Friday witnessed the 11th round — while the death toll keeps rising among their ranks. Having had her say, Jagdeep hurried off to join the others shouting “Modi murdabad (Down with Modi)”. The loudspeakers too keep blaring attacks on Modi and the RSS, and the posters and wall paintings along the highways castigate the Prime Minister and his “corporate friends”, accusing them of planning to use the new laws to usurp the farm sector. Has the movement against the farm laws turned into a general sense of anger at Modi and the policies of his government? An elderly Baldev Singh, from a village near Amritsar, has no doubt that it has. “Modi jhooth bolta hai. Bola kisan ki kamaayi doguna karega aur kiya kya? Chupke se humko khatam karne ka kanoon laya (Modi tells lies. He promised to double the farmers’ income but what did he do? He brought in these laws surreptitiously to finish us),” he alleged. Nirmal Singh and several others from the knot of farmers with whom Baldev sat recalled the “note-bandi” (demonetisation), condemned it as “tanashahi” (dictatorship) and said everybody could now see what a fiasco it was. Rajkumar Danda, a Jat farmer from Jind, joined the conversation. He said he had been a “Modi bhakt” but not any more. “We were fed up with the Congress and saw a lot of hope in Modi. But now my faith in him has been shattered. If these laws are implemented, the farmers will be at the mercy of Adani and Ambani,” he said. Rajkumar and a friend, Baljit Singh, displayed the “pagdis” (turbans) they had worn as a mark of solidarity with their Sikh brethren from Punjab. Rajkumar said the BJP was trying to divide Punjab and Haryana but more and more farmers, mostly Jats from Haryana, were joining the agitation. Regular supplies of milk and vegetables from Haryana are helping sustain the protest, he said. “Jab tak ye pagdi sar par hai, hum hookah nahi peete (As long as I wear this turban, I’m not smoking),” Rajkumar said. Jat farmers are known to love their hookah while smoking is prohibited in Sikhism. “Ladai chalti rahegi jab tak kanoon radd nahi hote (The battle will continue till the laws are scrapped),” Rajkumar signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Umar Khalid alleges 'vicious media campaign' against him||The “presumption of innocence” should not be destroyed at the threshold of the justice process through a “media trial”, a court said here on Friday on a plea from former JNU student Umar Khalid who alleged a “vicious media campaign” against him in a Delhi riot case. The court said the media had reported that Khalid had confessed his involvement in the riots but none of the news reports had clarified that such a statement, even if actually made, cannot be used by the prosecution as evidence. Khalid has said he has not signed the disclosure statement. The court noted that one news report began with the words “Radical Islamist and anti-Hindu Delhi riots accused Umar Khalid” and portrayed the entire Delhi riots as anti-Hindu riots despite all the communities having “felt the consequences” of the violence. “Such news items might show to the public at large that accused Umar Khalid had in fact confessed/ admitted his role in Delhi riots. However, it is the duty of the judicial system to decide a case on merits after trial,” chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar said. “Considering the fact that the accused did not make any specific prayer in the application, I hope that the reporters would use self-regulation techniques.” Khalid’s plea says media reports have quoted from his alleged disclosure statement to claim he had confessed to involvement in the riots, and that this is prejudicing his right to a fair trial. He has stressed that the alleged disclosure statement, which is part of the chargesheet, clearly says the accused had “refused to sign” it. The court said a reporter should have basic knowledge of the law because the readers and viewers were not obliged to know the law and tended to take news reports as true without verification. “Therefore, it is the duty of the press and media to inform and educate its readers and viewers about all the relevant facts and circumstances of a news item published or shown on the news channel,” the court said. The court order said: “One of the basic principles of criminal jurisprudence is the presumption of innocence. This should not be destroyed at the very threshold through the process of media trial. “Protection of such presumption is essential for maintenance of the dignity of the courts and is one of the cardinal principles of the rule of law in a free, democratic country.” The court added: “Self-regulation is the best mode of regulation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Partho-Arnab chats: Congress demands joint parliamentary committee investigation||If the Narendra Modi government was hoping to brush under the carpet the grave questions kicked up by leaked WhatsApp chats a week ago, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Friday chose to play spoilsport. The CWC demanded a time-bound investigation by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to punish the “treasonous behaviour” of those “exposed” by the purported chats between Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and the then BARC chief Partho Dasgupta. The CWC passed a resolution condemning the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others in the government. Their silence is proof of their collusion, complicity and guilt, the Congress said, adding that people in the highest echelons of the government were involved. Listing the areas of concern, the CWC resolution said: “It is clear that among those involved are persons in the highest echelons of the government and there has been a breach of secrecy concerning vital and sensitive military operations. The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subversion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary.” The CWC sought the JPC inquiry into the “breach of national security, violations of the Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved”. Congress president Sonia Gandhi set the tone at the meeting by saying: “Very recently there have been very disturbing reports on how national security has been so thoroughly compromised. (Former defence minister) A.K. Antony had said that leaking of official secrets of military operations is treason. Yet the silence from the government’s side on what has been revealed has been deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed.” Sonia also expressed shock at the government’s “insensitivity and arrogance” on the farmers’ movement, demanding immediate repeal of the three laws in place of the charade of consultations. “It is abundantly clear that the three laws were prepared in haste and Parliament was consciously denied an opportunity to examine in any meaningful detail their implications and impact. Our position has been very clear from the very beginning: we reject them categorically because they will destroy the foundations of food security that are based on the three pillars of MSP, public procurement and PDS.” The CWC adopted a separate resolution on the subject, saying: “Crores of farmers are fighting a decisive battle to save their farms and fields against a diabolical onslaught by the Modi government determined to sacrifice their interests at the altar of a handful of crony industrialist friends. “Lakhs of farmers have been forced to sit on Delhi’s borders in bone-chilling cold, hailstorms and rains. According to the farmers’ organisations, 147 farmers have lost their lives. The Prime Minister and an arrogant BJP government refuse to feel their agony and anguish or listen to their cry for justice.” The resolution added: “Across the country, farmers and farm labourers have been protesting, taking out rallies, holding hunger strikes, conducting tractor yatras and extensive demonstrations, yet a tyrannical government continues to sidestep, malign, deceive and hoodwink them by attempting to tire out, intimidate and divide the farmers.” The CWC also adopted a resolution on the coronavirus inoculation process, expressing concern at the “complete lack of clarity about availability of the vaccine”, particularly for the underprivileged, disadvantaged and marginalised sections such as the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes and the poor who should get it free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Supreme Court allows video call by Kappan mom||The Supreme Court on Friday gave permission for the 90-year-old mother of Siddique Kappan, a Malayalam journalist lodged in a Mathura jail on what his family and colleagues say are false terror charges, to speak to her son through a video call. The apex court had initially wanted to direct the Uttar Pradesh government to allow videoconferencing facilities at the jail. But solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, pleaded there was no need for such a direction as the administration was willing to provide the facility. Delhi-based journalist Kappan, 41, was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been brutalised fatally. He was accused of being an extremist linked to the Popular Front of India and charged under the anti-terror law UAPA for allegedly trying to foment trouble. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), which denies Kappan is a PFI member, had filed a habeas corpus petition saying the state government was not providing any information on him. During Friday’s brief hearing, KUWJ counsel Kapil Sibal told the bench that Kappan’s mother, who is in Kerala, wanted to speak to her son despite her fragile health. She frequently passes out, he added. “Please allow her the videoconferencing option so that she can see her son, at least. We have filed an application. Please allow us,” Sibal pleaded. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, who headed the bench, immediately said “We will allow…” and proceeded to dictate an order when Mehta intervened. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, later adjourned the matter. Kappan, a native of Vengara in Malappuram, worked for the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com in Delhi, where he is secretary of the local KUWJ unit. In its plea, the KUWJ has said: “The accused Kappan is a diabetic and was on medication; (he) was denied medicines and deprived of his right to sleep for the whole night from 6pm on 5.10.20 to 6am on 06.10.20 under the pretext of questioning.” It says Kappan was “badly slapped three times on his face after removing the spectacles (during) questioning by the local intelligence of police” and was beaten with a stick “on his thighs three times and was dragged in addition to mental torture”. The KUWJ has sought “an independent enquiry by a retired judge of this Hon’ble Court to determine the facts connected with the illegal arrest and detention”. Kappan’s family has been organising street dharnas in Kerala seeking his release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Labour law protests to intensify||Ten central trade unions on Friday decided to intensify their agitation next month over four labour laws that the Narendra Modi government wants to enforce. The ministry of labour and employment is finalising the rules for the implementation of the Code on Wages, Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions; Code on Industrial Relations and the Code on Social Security. A labour ministry official said the government was planning to implement the laws on February 1. The Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc), All India Trade Union Congress (Aituc) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu) met in Delhi on Friday and decided to hold state-level agitations in February. “These laws are completely against workers’ interests. They will reduce the workers to slaves. They will have no bargaining power and no right to protest either,” Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu said. Aituc secretary Amarjeet Kaur said the unions would write to the International Labour Organisation citing lack of tripartite consultations over these laws and rules. The trade unions have been staying away from the rules-making process. A labour ministry official said the government would wait till January 27 for any comments from the trade unions, after which the rules would be finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Congress defers leader elections to June ||The Congress hasn’t yet been able to resolve the leadership crisis after Rahul Gandhi’s resignation in July 2019, formally pushing the promised January deadline to elect the president to June after the meeting of its highest decision-making body on Friday. Although reasons such as ensuing Assembly elections and procedural matters were cited at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Friday, it was clear that the process was going to be delayed because there was no consensus among the top leaders over the road map. Differences cropped up at the meeting as well when two groups of leaders sparred over the desirability of organisational elections. While some leaders, considered blind loyalists, felt there was no need for elections to the CWC or even to the post of party president and that everything should be left to Sonia Gandhi, others demanded immediate organisational polls, presenting it as a pre-requisite for the Congress’s revival. It is ironical that the top leadership is divided between two opinions: One section believes there is a leadership crisis and it has to be addressed at the earliest; the other seeks to portray that Rahul is the leader after all, no matter whether he holds any formal position or not. The dominant opinion, however, both within the Congress and in the larger Opposition camp is that the party is drifting rudderless and Rahul has caused immense damage to the anti-Modi politics by his vacillations. Even the so-called blind loyalists want Rahul to return sooner than later and privately admit that precious time and energy were being lost in this avoidable mess. Rahul hasn’t indicated his readiness to return, though he has been acting like the proxy president of the party. He will visit poll-bound Tamil Nadu on Saturday to resume the Congress campaign, as he would have done had he been the president. It was he who met a delegation from another poll-bound state, Kerala, last week, giving instructions on the action plan. Ask who would be the last word on poll-bound Bengal and Assam, the unanimous view is Rahul, not Sonia, who is more of a ceremonial head than functional president. But the irony for the party is that while it grapples with the leadership crisis, Rahul is said to be uninterested in returning as president. In fact the issue is much more complex than his desire to return as president. It is about the leadership structure, about his choices, about the role of entrenched veterans who have reservations over his style of functioning. Insiders know that Kamal Nath, seen as a neutral player, had been tasked by Sonia with resolving the differences with the “Group of 23” — the leaders who had written a letter to her about the drift in the party — but his mission failed. A reluctant Sonia was advised to continue for some more months as president as forcing any plan without evolving a consensus could trigger unseemly consequences. The announcement on Friday that the Congress will get an elected president by June reflects that thinking. The party’s election authority had suggested a schedule for May but some leaders felt the organisational elections should not affect the preparations for the upcoming Assembly polls. The earlier agreement was to complete the process by January-February and a section of the media had kept reporting that Rahul had agreed and would return as president by February. The June date means the party will remain without an active, functional head for five months, more so at a time when the ground realities are becoming hostile against the incumbent government and the absence of an effective Opposition is being discussed everywhere. While the state of confusion is demoralising for party workers, a senior leader told The Telegraph: “This is akin to the death wish at a time when the party has hit rock bottom and is struggling for survival.” Nobody — Rahul loyalists or critics — are happy with the delay. But a resolution is bound to be elusive without unity of purpose. The state of affairs in the Congress was reflected in the nature of discussions at Friday’s meeting. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot burst out at those seeking organisational elections, asking if these people had lost faith in the party president. He pointed out that leaders who always held key positions because of the blessings of the party president were now asking for internal elections, subtly questioning the personal capacities of these leaders. This evoked a sharp response from Anand Sharma, who wondered why they were being insulted for suggesting reforms to strengthen the party. He recalled how he had worked with Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi and their loyalty was now being questioned after decades of service. Sharma was not alone in asking for organisational elections as veterans such as Ghulam Nabi Azad and P. Chidambaram also sought polls to both the CWC and the central election committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Agri minister blames 'external force' for preventing early farmer resolution||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday blamed an “external force” for preventing an early resolution of the standoff with the farmers, speaking after the farm unions rejected the government’s offer to keep the three contentious laws in abeyance for 18 months instead of repealing them. Briefing reporters after a meeting with farmers that ran into several hours but saw very little conversation, Tomar said some external force was trying to ensure the agitation continued, once again bringing up a conspiracy theory that the government’s supporters have repeatedly invoked since the protesting farmers began gathering near Delhi’s borders from end-November. He sidestepped the question whether he saw a division among the farmers since some were in favour of accepting the government’s latest offer. “We should remain hopeful. Let’s wait till tomorrow for the unions’ final decision,” he added. Ministers have told the union leaders to reconsider and convey their response by noon on Saturday, after which a date for another meeting can be fixed. This is the first time in 11 such meetings that the negotiations have ended without a date being set for the next meeting. At Friday’s talks, the government’s main interlocutors — Tomar and food minister Piyush Goyal — expressed displeasure at the Samyukta Kisan Morcha announcing to the media its rejection of the Centre’s proposal on Thursday before communicating it to the ministers. The government also said that the 18-month abeyance was the maximum it could offer, but the farmers stuck to their demand for repeal of the three laws. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the dialogue had broken down and the farmers were now preparing for the “kisan parade”, which is to feature a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. While the other union leaders stopped short of saying the talks had broken down, they were indeed focused on preparing for the parade. Some of them met the Delhi police commissioner in the evening to chalk out the route. According to Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, a route map the police have suggested will be discussed with other union leaders on Saturday. Explaining why the farmers had refused the latest offer, Yadav said the question was what would happen after the 18 months were over. He also cited how the farmers had time and again rejected the idea of referring the dispute to a committee. “Once we lift this protest, it will not be easy to build such a movement again. And then the government can, after 18 months, implement these very laws saying the committee had said all was well with the laws,” Yadav said. The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) questioned the legal basis for the proposal, underlining that the Constitution had no provision for keeping a law in abeyance after the date of implementation had been notified and the rules framed. Former Lok sabha secretary-general P.D.T. Achary endorsed this view to The Telegraph. Bureaucrat turned politician Yashwant Sinha too tweeted: “Govt does not have the power to keep a law passed by Parliament in abeyance specially when its rules have been notified. Such a law can only be repealed.” However, a union leader said the impression the ministers had given while making the offer on Wednesday was that the government would either furnish an affidavit in court on the 18-month freeze or appeal to the court to extend its stay on the laws’ implementation.AIKS president Ashok Dhawale and general secretary Hannan Mollah asked why, if the government could agree to keep the laws in abeyance for 18 months, it could not agree to repealing them and enacting new laws to protect farmers’ interests. Now that the government has managed to create a slight difference of opinion among the unions with its offer, the farmer leaders feel, the ministers have hardened their stance hoping to drive a further wedge into the movement. Of the 32 Punjab unions, 15 were in favour of considering the offer but with different caveats, with some favouring a longer period of suspension. Most were, however, agreed that the offer could be accepted only if an ordinance was issued guaranteeing a minimum support price for 23 crops. Given the enthusiasm across Punjab for the farmers’ Republic Day parade, union leaders feel they can paper over these differences for now, especially since the groundswell of support for the movement would make it difficult for any leader to break away. Even the dissenters say they are ready to go along with the majority view, which favours rejecting the government’s offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Criticise Nitish Kumar govt on social media, land in jail ||Criticising the state government, ministers, MLAs, MPs or officials on social media can now cause people to be arrested in Bihar, courtesy a recent executive decision. Nitish Kumar’s administration has brought under the ambit of cyber crime “objectionable comments” by individuals or organisations against the government and its functionaries and lawmakers, provoking Opposition charges of curbing free speech. The move comes six years after the Supreme Court struck down Section 66A of the IT Act, which criminalised “offensive” online comments, on the ground that it violated the constitutional right to free expression. On Thursday, the economic offences unit (EOU) of Bihar police, which is also the nodal agency to tackle cyber crime, asked senior government officials to provide detailed information if they come across “objectionable comments made by undesirable persons or organisations against the Bihar government on the social media or the Internet, so that effective action could be taken against them as per the law”. “Such information are continuously coming to light that some persons or organisations are making objectionable or indecent and misleading comments against the government, honourable ministers, MPs, MLAs and government officers,” says the letter from EOU additional director-general Nayyar Hasnain Khan to principal secretaries and secretaries. “This is against the law and comes in the category of cyber crime. It seems appropriate to take action against such people and groups in accordance with the law.” Khan told The Telegraph the move had become necessary because of the increasing “misuse” of the social media. Asked who would decide whether a remark was objectionable or indecent, Khan said: “There are clear-cut provisions in the IT Act about social media abuse. We will also use the Indian Penal Code sections. The EOU will investigate the complaints on the basis of these laws. The complaints will be routed through the departmental heads (principal secretaries or secretaries).” The EOU comes under the home department, currently held by Nitish. The chief minister has been facing criticism from the public over the worsening law and order. Apart from protesting the threat to freedom of expression, Opposition leaders have expressed concern that a police force widely seen as biased and corrupt would now investigate netizens complaining against the government, lawmakers or officials. “Nitish Kumar is walking in the footsteps of Hitler. He is a creator of 60 scams, the patron of infamous criminals and a weak head of an unethical and illegal government,” RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said on Friday. “The Bihar police sell liquor, protect criminals and implicate the innocent. I challenge the chief minister to arrest me under his latest order.” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the EOU letter had shown up “a government that is afraid of criticism and is worried over its failures”. “Critics will be jailed and the police, who cannot catch criminals, will be misused. We don’t support indecent comments but 90 per cent of BJP leaders and many JDU leaders will have to be imprisoned for making derogatory remarks if proper action is taken.” Deputy chief minister and BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad defended the government move. “Many negative things are being circulated on social media that are wholly unconnected with reality. We must curb them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||1.2 lakh to sit for national Bar exam to be held on January 24||The Bar Council of India (BCI), the regulatory body for legal education and advocates, on Friday announced that approximately 1.2 lakh advocates would appear for the All India Bar Exam to be held on January 24. The examination is to be held at about 154 centres in 52 cities. The AIBE is mandatory for all advocates who have passed out after 2010 to begin legal practice. The exams are held to weed out non-serious advocates and ensure that they have a minimum standard of advocacy skills. Exams at nine centres had been cancelled last time because of the use of unfair means by candidates. This time, the candidates who had appeared from those centres have been allowed to take the test from other centres. No fees have been charged. The use of mobile phones and other electronic gadgets are not allowed during the exam. As an additional measure, signal jammers shall be used at approximately 50 centres to ensure that no one in the vicinity is able to use phones or gadgets, BCI secretary Srimanto Sen said in a statement on Friday. Owing to the pandemic, he said, the period between March 24, 2020, and March 31, 2021, has been exempted from the two-year period from enrolment within which an advocate has to appear in the exam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Centre tells SC: no extra chance for civil service aspirants||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday that it would not be possible to offer an “extra chance” to those who could not appear for the civil services exams last October, dealing a blow to aspirants who could not take the tests because of the pandemic. “Yesterday night, I received information from the government that they are not agreeable. I would want to put this on affidavit in a week,” additional solicitor-general A.V.S. Raju told a bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. The bench, while directing Raju to place the stand through an affidavit, posted the matter for further hearing to Monday. The Centre’s stand has belied the expectations of hundreds of aspirants as the government during the earlier hearings had given the impression that a positive approach would be adopted. On December 18, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta had informed the court that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) was in the process of examining the plea for the conduct of a second round of IAS, IPS and IFS exams for those candidates who could not appear on October 4 due to Covid-19-related problems. The bench had recorded an undertaking from Mehta while dealing with a petition filed by some aspirants seeking the conduct of fresh exams. “Learned solicitor-general, on instructions, submits that the central government as well as the Union Public Service Commission are in the process of taking appropriate decision in respect of proposal in reference to the sentiments expressed by this court in an order dated 30.09.2020…. List the matter on 11th January, 2021,” the bench had said in an order. On September 30 last year, the court had asked the government and the UPSC to consider the plea of some candidates for a fresh round of exams for the affected students but had permitted the UPSC to go ahead with the October 4 civil services exams, rejecting the appeal of a batch of students for postponement of the exams by two-three months. The court had, however, directed that the authorities adopt all precautionary steps and standard operating procedures (SoP) evolved by the health ministry, including ensuring that no Covid-positive candidate is allowed to take the exams and limiting the number of candidates per centre to 100. The bench had also rejected the plea of the candidates for merger of the 2020 civil services main exams with the 2021 preliminary exams, which is tentatively scheduled for June 27. The UPSC had earlier turned down a plea for the cancellation of the 2020 civil services exams on the ground that the government had incurred an enormous expenditure for the conduct of the exams at 72 centres and over 2,500 sub-centres across the country and taken all necessary precautions. While accepting the UPSC’s plea, the court had, however, suggested that the commission and the Centre consider the idea of giving an additional chance to those candidates who would miss their last attempt owing to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata hits out at Centre on Netaji’s birth anniversary||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday hit out at the Centre for abolishing the Planning Commission, which, according to her, was conceptualised by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Addressing a programme at Netaji Bhavan in Calcutta on his 125th birth anniversary, Mamata described Bose as an icon who had advocated unity among all communities in the country. She also demanded that Netaji’s birthday on January 23 be declared a national holiday. “Why was the national Planning Commission, which was conceptualised by Netaji in independent India, dissolved? Why is the demand for a holiday on Netaji’s birthday by our government not yet met,” the chief minister said. The Narendra Modi government disbanded the Planning Commission in 2014 and had formed the Niti Aayog. Banerjee said, “We don’t remember Netaji before the elections. He is in our hearts for 365 days. We are in touch with his family.” She also said Netaji was described as ‘Deshnayak’ by Rabindranath Tagore. “We are celebrating his birthday day as Deshnayak Diwas,” she added. “What is the meaning of ‘Parakram’? They may dislike me politically but could have consulted with me. They could have consulted with Netaji’s great-grandsons Sugata Bose or Sumantra Bose on choosing a word,” Mamata said. She also asked, “Who has given the name ‘Parakram’,” she added. Days ago, Narendra Modi declared that Bose’s birth anniversary will be celebrated as ‘Parakram Diwas’. The Prime Minister landed at Calcutta on Saturday. Earlier in the day, Mamata kicked off a grand procession here to pay tribute to Netaji. Before the commencement of the procession from Shyambazar area in the northern part of the city, she blew a conch shell and a siren was sounded at 12.15 pm, the time when Bose was born on this day in 1897. The seven-kilometre procession culminated at Netaji's statue on Red Road. There, the chief minister said India should have four capitals on a rotation basis and sessions of Parliament should be held in different locations in the country. “During the British-era, Calcutta was the capital of the country. I think we must have four capitals on a rotation basis. Why does the country have only one capital? And the sessions of Parliament should be held in different places in the country. We will have to change our concept,” she said while addressing the gathering after the rally. Hundreds of people, several senior leaders of Trinamool Congress and MLAs joined the procession to pay their tribute to the freedom fighter. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and other bureaucrats of the state government were also present in the rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
23-01-2021||West Bengal||160,000 doses of Covaxin land in Bengal carrying riddles||Around 160,000 doses of Covaxin, the home-grown Covid vaccine, landed in Bengal on Friday, carrying with them multiple riddles that have landed state officials in a dilemma. Some of the questions that awaited answers on Friday evening: ⚫ Bengal now has vials both of Covishield — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine — and Covaxin. Who will decide which recipient will be given which vaccine? ⚫ What should be the response if someone refuses to take either of the two versions? Considerable misgivings have already crept in about the home-grown version because of a lack of transparency on the part of the Centre. ⚫ The central drug authority feels the two vaccines should be treated on a par. Does the lack of choice mean a potential recipient sceptical of Covaxin will be denied Covishield? The questions have left Bengal officials undecided for now about how to distribute the Covaxin. The state health department is likely to write to the Centre seeking clarifications before releasing the Covaxin vials, said an adviser after a departmental meeting on Friday evening to discuss the option to expand the immunisation drive using Covaxin. In keeping with the Centre’s advisory to the states not to interchange vaccines, Bengal has decided to complete the inoculation of its healthcare workers with the available Covishield doses before selecting the next lot of recipients for Covaxin. Bengal has so far received close to 14 lakh doses of Covishield. The state has around six lakh healthcare workers. Inoculations with Covishield took place on Friday at over 330 vaccination centres across 23 districts. “We have enough Covishield stocks for the healthcare workers. Another two to three weeks without interruptions would be enough to complete the first round,” said a senior health department official at Swasthya Bhavan. “The volume of Covaxin that reached us on Friday is way too little for any plan to be drawn up immediately. Hopefully we will get another consignment soon.” Health department officials are also concerned whether the frontline workers – next in line for the vaccination after the healthcare workers -- would be keen on Covaxin, which has been released only on the basis of its safety and immune responses without efficacy data. Advisers to the state health department have flagged certain concerns about the implementation plan to be followed for Covaxin, which they say require clarifications from the Centre. “One question discussed today was how do we decide who should be offered Covishield and who should get Covaxin,” said one of the advisers. “It is not clearly specified whose responsibility it is to administer the informed consent process. Recipients who decline Covaxin run the risk of not receiving any vaccine in its place. Given the pandemic situation, is that acceptable? Would this not be viewed as an indirect coercive strategy?” Covaxin has already been rolled out in 12 other states, each of which received about 20,000 doses of the home-grown vaccine before the start of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on January 16. The national health mission director in one state that had received both Covishield and Covaxin told The Telegraph that a decision had been taken to distribute Covaxin to “certain medical colleges” without too much debate on the differences between Covishield and Covaxin. “A decision was taken by the central drug regulatory authority and other authorities in Delhi that both vaccines should be treated equally. We do not have the scientific capacity to examine or question that decision,” the director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
23-01-2021||West Bengal||District police chiefs’ shift tied to poll panel order||The Bengal government on Friday shifted two district police chiefs, a day after the full bench of the Election Commission had purportedly recommended their transfer to keep them away from the Assembly poll process. Birbhum superintendent of police Shyam Singh and Purulia SP S. Selvamurugan were transferred to the traffic department and the state CID, respectively. In their new postings, they won’t have any direct involvement in the polls. Meeraj Khalid, who was posted as deputy commissioner (central) in Calcutta police, has replaced Singh as the new SP Birbhum. Biswajit Mahato, who was deputy commissioner in Asansol-Durgapur police commissionerate, has been made the Purulia SP. Both Singh and Selvamurugan had been shifted out of their chairs by the EC before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls also. They were shifted amid allegations of bias towards the Trinamul Congress. Singh was posted as SP Birbhum in 2019, while Selvamurugan was SP Diamond Harbour. Both were reinstated in their posts by the state government after the poll results had been declared. Sources said the Election Commission had also recommended the transfer of at least one IAS officer holding a key post in the state administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Central forces to be deployed in Bengal before elections||The chief election commissioner of India, Sunil Arora, on Friday said central forces would be deployed in Bengal before the poll process began. The declaration has come as a shot in the arm of Opposition parties in the state as they placed representations with Nirvachan Sadan that central forces be deployed as soon as the model code of conduct comes into effect. “Central forces shall be deployed and shall be deployed in advance,” said Arora while replying to a question during a news conference at a hotel here on Monday. While Arora did not say from when and how many companies of central forces would be deployed in the state, senior government officials, with whom he had held a series of meetings over the past 48-hours, were apparently given a hint that comparatively larger quantum of paramilitary personnel would be posted in the run up to the polls. “The model code of conduct comes into effect as soon as the election dates are declared, which is usually done 45 days ahead of the first phase of the voting. The CEC did not mention when the poll dates would be declared and when central forces would be sent to the state, but he gave enough hints that paramilitary personnel could be sent for confidence building measure within a few days of the dates being declared,” said a senior government official. If this happens, it will be unprecedented as only 25 to 30 companies of forces are normally sent to the state for confidence building about 15 to 20 days before the polls. “But it seems there will be more central forces in the state and they could undertake confidence building measures for about a month before the polls,” said a district magistrate. As polls in Bengal have a history of violent incidents, the Opposition parties had been sending representations to the EC for the past few months demanding deployment of central forces in the state much before the voting. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, who led his party’s representation to the EC full bench on Thursday, said they had demanded deployment of central forces ahead of the polls. “We have asked the EC to deploy central forces as soon as the MCC comes to effect,” another party source had said on Thursday. Sources in the administration said the series of instructions given by the full bench during its two-day visit to the state made it clear that the poll panel was taking the complaints lodged by the Opposition parties seriously. First, the EC made it clear that there would be no motorcycle rallies in the state as soon as the MCC comes into effect. Second, the EC gave a clear direction to the top brass of the administration that no civic volunteers or green police would be engaged in poll-related duties. Third, officers who would conduct the polls have been given a clear direction that any kind of complaints of dereliction of duties would affect their career. Sources in the home department said deployment of central forces would completely depend on the availability of forces once the polls were declared. “But it appears the Centre would be able to send more forces to Bengal this time because Assembly elections would be held in five states only. In case of Lok Sabha polls, it was tough to send more forces to Bengal,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP booth plea bares chinks||The BJP has requested the Election Commission to allow any voter of Bengal, irrespective of where they are enrolled as voters, to be deployed as polling agents anywhere across the state. The plea, BJP insiders conceded, exposed the organisational weakness of the party at the booth level. “If the candidate doesn’t need to be a voter of the Assembly he or she is contesting from, why should there be specifications for the agent?” asked BJP leader Sisir Bajoria, who was part of the team of representatives from the party that met the Election Commission full bench on Thursday. According to him, the request to change the existing rule, which makes only a voter of an Assembly segment eligible as a polling agent at booths, has been placed in front of the EC that met representatives of all political parties during its visit to Bengal. BJP sources said the party’s leadership believed that only if the condition was relaxed and any voter of the state was allowed to work as a polling agent anywhere, it would be easier for the party to depute polling agents across booths in the state. “We hope the EC will listen to our demand.... But we cannot deny the fact that we are still weak organisationally and do not have booth levels workers to post them as polling agents at over 1lakh voting stations across the state,” said a source. According to a BJP office-bearer, even after winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal in 2019, only 66 per cent of the booths have been covered in the past two years. “We still don’t have a proper organisation in around 34 per cent booth areas,” this person said. The Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the EC to restrict the number of voters per booth to not more than 1000, instead of 1,500 earlier. Hence, the number of booths has gone up to 1,01,790 from 78,903 previously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 493 recoveries from Covid-19||Bengal on Friday logged 493 recoveries from Covid-19, 406 infections and eight deaths as the drop in total active cases continued for the 88th consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami last year. The total of active cases fell from 37,190 on Dashami (October 26) to 6,470 on Friday. The recovery rate rose for 91 consecutive days to touch 97.08. “We have achieved such a great deal of improvement in these three months since the end of Puja. Even our most optimistic assessments did not put us here at this stage,” said a Bengal minister. The state now has nearly 5.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, including around 5.51 lakh recoveries and 10,097 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November showed that the court’s instructions were effective. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure that the outbreak did not worsen over the New Year celebrations — a goal the state government believes has also been achieved. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.29 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent 63 days ago. Bengal’s total test count, including the examination of 28,171 swab samples logged on Friday, is over 77.79 lakh now. The tests per million people are 86,443. The state attributed 8,472 (83.9 per cent) of the total deaths to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.77, compared to the 1.44 per cent nationally. “There has been enough improvement for us to give up several hundred more beds, requisitioned from private hospitals. We could also dismantle more quarantine facilities, going forward. We have this under control now,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee quits, Baishali expelled from state cabinet||Mamata Banerjee on Friday expelled Rajib Banerjee from her cabinet, soon after he had submitted resignation letter to the chief minister’s office “without following procedural norms”. Rajib Banerjee, who was the forest minister, had been keeping away from cabinet meeting. The Howrah leader met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan also on Friday and submitted his resignation. The Domjur MLA is the third minister to exit Mamata’s cabinet after Suvendu Adhikari and Laxmi Ratan Shukla in less than two months. Adhikari is the only one who has formally joined the BJP so far. Sources said Rajib had handed to Mamata’s office at her Kalighat residence the resignation letter. Citing procedural lapses in the resignation, the chief minister recommended to the governor Rajib’s ouster from the cabinet and the Raj Bhavan accepted it. Another Trinamul Congress leader in Howrah, Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya, welcomed Rajib’s resignation and the party’s disciplinary committee soon expelled her. The possibility of defection to the BJP by a battery of Trinamul’s Howrah leaders, including Banerjee, Dalmiya, Howrah North MLA Shukla, Shibpur MLA Jatu Lahiri and Howrah MP Prasun Banerjee, has been deemed strong by the ruling party for months. Sources said the Howrah mutineers were likely to join the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s likely visit to Bengal at the end of this month. “A couple of days ago, there was a social gathering in Howrah, where many of them sat with Suvendu. Of course, Rajib and Baishali were there. We have been aware of things they have been up to, for a while now…. She (Mamata) has a zero-tolerance policy for such behaviour,” said a senior Trinamul MP. Banerjee claimed he had been forced to take the decision after “humiliation” from a section of the leadership. He alleged a lack of “courtesy” towards him by the chief minister two-and-a-half years ago when he had been unceremoniously removed from the irrigation department. The department was then handed over to Adhikari. Fellow rebel Dalmiya, who had been repeatedly attacking the party in public, issued a statement of firm support for Rajib. Hours later, the 52-year-old daughter of deceased cricket administrator Jagmohan Dalmiya, was expelled. Agri-marketing minister Arup Roy, a senior Howrah leader that the rebels were allegedly opposed to, was critical of the mutiny. “Well, when the party was founded in 1998, none of them was there anyway. There was this lingering feeling, for sometime, that this was going to happen…. These are but a few leaves falling off a giant tree,” said Roy. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “I have been saying for weeks that it is only a matter of time before just two people in Kalighat (Mamata and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, her heir-apparent) remain in the party…. All these people are welcome to approach us and we will consider it, if they want to join.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Army relaxes educational qualification for Gorkha recruits||The defence ministry has relaxed the education qualification needed for Gorkhas to join the Indian Army after reports that the number of recruits from the community in the force had been decreasing for many years. In a letter dated December 21, 2020, to Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “It is informed that the educational qualification requirement in respect of all Gorkhas for recruitment in Indian Army has been amended in Sep, 2020 and is applicable till 31st March, 2023.” The Telegraph had in its November 14, 2020, edition reported that many Gorkha veterans were of the opinion that the change in recruitment criteria and also socio-economic factors were behind the dip in the recruitment. Unlike their fellow compatriots, Indian Gorkhas have always been given relaxation in the minimum qualification requirement. “In 2001, while fellow Indians needed to be Class X pass with a minimum aggregate of 45 per cent, Gorkhas only needed to be Class VIII pass,” said Col. (retd) Keshab Rai, who was one of the veterans to flag the issue before the defence minister. Over the years, there were many changes in the qualifications required for the Gorkha recruits. In 2019, a Gorkha needed to pass Class X with 45 per cent marks in aggregate and 33 per cent in each subject. “The problem (of low intake) started in the beginning of this decade and reached a problematic stage from 2017 onwards….the tinkering in the established system was carried out because of over-emphasis on All India All Caste (AIAC) and Recruitable Male Population (RMP) concepts by some staffs of the Recruitment Department,” Col. (retd) Rai had stated in his letter to the defence minister. Rajnath Singh in his letter to Bista said he had the “matter examined,” after the Darjeeling MP had raised the issue with him on September 28, 2020. “The current educational qualification for Soldier (GD) is class 10th pass and for soldier Tradesman is Class 8th pass respectively,” said Singh. The relaxation has come as a boon for the Gorkhas but army veterans have attributed to other factors like drop in physical standards to the low recruitment. Even though there is relaxation in height and educational qualifications, there is no exception in the standard of recruitment test that a Gorkha has to undergo. “The first test is a one mile race and one has to complete it in 5.40 minutes. One has to run like a horse and even if you jog for 10 paces, you are finished,” Lt. Gen. (retd) Shakti Gurung, a former director general (recruiting), Indian Army, had earlier said. The Indian Army has seven Gorkha regiments with approximately 40,000 personnel. While 60 per cent of the vacancies are reserved for citizens of Nepal, the remaining 40 per cent are allotted for Indian Gorkhas. There is no dearth of recruits from Nepal but the Indian Gorkha vacancies are being under-subscribed. The association of Gorkhas — even from Nepal — with India is over 200 years old. The steely grit of Gorkhas was first internationally recognised during the Anglo- Nepalese war (1814-16) between East India Company and Gorkha Kingdom. Even though the Gorkhas lost the war, the valour of the community impressed the British to the extent that they decided to recruit “Gurkhas”. At the time of India’s independence, the British had 10 Gorkha regiments, which has served with distinction in all major wars that the British fought. After India gained Independence in 1947, a pact generally called “Tripartite Agreement (TPA)” was signed the same year among the UK, India and Nepal, in which Nepal agreed to allow Gorkha troops in the armies of the UK and India. Following the agreement, six out of 10 Gorkha regiments became part of Indian Army and the remaining four went with the British army. However, some Gorkha soldiers refused to join the British Army. To retain them, the Indian Army made the decision to raise the 11 Gorkha Rifles. The UK still recruits “Gurkhas” but only Nepal citizens are eligible for their force. Also, the number of recruits for the “Gurkha regiment” are far less than the Indian Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Two back-to-back festivals await north Bengal in February||Come February, residents of north Bengal will gear up for two back-to-back festivals which would be held at different locations across the region. Uttarbanga Utsav, the annual cultural extravaganza that is hosted by the state government, will start on February 1 and continue till February 10. On the other hand, the state tourism department, in association with stakeholders of tourism industry, will host the Bengal Himalayan Carnival — a three-day-long tourism carnival that will be held in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Gajoldoba from February 5 to 7. “The Uttarbanga Utsav will be organised throughout north Bengal for 10 days. In Siliguri, there will be cultural functions at Baghajatin Park and a colourful procession to mark the event. Over 200 folk artists will perform at the procession,” said state tourism minister Gautam Deb here on Friday. He was speaking on the sidelines of a preparatory meeting held at Mainak Tourist Lodge Complex for the fest. “In Darjeeling district, cultural functions would also be held in Kalimpong, Darjeeling and Bidhannagar,” he added. Sources said the organisers are planning to get chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the inauguration of the festival. On February 2, Mamata is supposed to arrive on a two-day visit to Alipurduar district. “Appropriate communications have been made with the chief minister’s office. However, we are yet to receive any confirmation,” said a source. The carnival — which is the first of its kind event to be held to promote tourism in the region — will have a series of activities and events like heritage walk, performance of music bands, photography exhibition and display of local handicrafts in three different locations. “Also, people can experience the local cuisine at these locations. They can join boat rides and bird-watching competitions in Bhorer Alo, the mega tourism hub at Gajoldoba (located around 25km from Siliguri),” said one of the organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||West Bengal||Violence racks three districts of north Bengal||Sporadic incidents of political violence were reported from at least three districts of north Bengal in the past 24 hours. While four offices of political parties were ransacked, elected representatives and party supporters had to face attacks at different locations. In Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, a group of miscreants attacked Atiar Rehman, deputy head of the Trinamul-run Sanyasikata panchayat, while he was returning home on Thursday late evening. “Around 8.30pm, I was returning home from Rajganj with three party workers. As we reached Kayetgach (a village en route), a group of miscreants attacked us and ransacked our car. All four of us have suffered injuries. We suspect the BJP is behind the attack,” Rehman said. Khageswar Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Rajganj, also blamed the BJP. “The police should arrest all those who were behind the attack,” he said. BJP leaders, however, denied the charges and said the incident was the fallout of inner differences in Trinamul. In Cooch Behar district, suspected Trinamul supporters ransacked a BJP office at Bhetaguri in Dinhata. “A group of Trinamul supporters attacked our office. They ransacked the furniture and torched posters and banners. We want the police to arrest the attackers within three days or else, we will raise an indefinite blockade on the Dinhata-Cooch Behar road,” said Anowar Hossain, a leader of the BJP’s minority cell. In Mathabhanga, suspected Trinamul workers attacked the house of a BJP leader at Gopalpur and ransacked two offices of the saffron party in Goplapur and Majherbari. “Trinamul-backed miscreants organised an attack on my house. Later, they also vandalised two offices of our party. If such attacks continue, we would be forced to launch a demonstration at the local police station,” said Ranjan Burman, the BJP leader. Trinamul leaders countered the charge and instead alleged that BJP workers had  beaten up one of their supporters. In South Dinajpur, a CPM office at Dipalinagar in Balurghat town was ransacked by miscreants on Thursday night. Parimal Sarkar, a CPM leader, has blamed Trinamul and BJP for the attack. “For past few weeks, we have been organising different political programmes. That is why we suspect Trinamul and BJP have ransacked our office,” said Sarkar. Trinamul and BJP leaders have denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-224
23-01-2021||North East||Six miners killed in Meghalaya||Six miners were killed while working in a remote coalmine in Meghalaya on Thursday evening after a machine malfunctioned, according to a statement issued by the police. Five of the victims were from Assam, four from Karimganj and one from Cachar district. One of the deceased is yet to be identified. The bodies were recovered on Friday. The mine is located in East Jaintia Hills district’s Sorkari Dienshalu area, over 12km from the district headquarters. The police said prima facie it seems that a “machine at the mining area had malfunctioned, which may have unfortunately led to the untimely demise of the six persons”. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem likely to be completed by Saturday afternoon. When asked whether the mine was an active or an abandoned one, an official said that there were no traces of coal at the site. Another official said they could have been involved in coal or stone mining. The last major mine mishap in the district had claimed the lives of 15 miners in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
23-01-2021||Opinion||Will the vaccines protect us from new strains of the novel coronavirus?||It was just a year ago, in December 2019 that we first got to know about this new guest to this planet, the novel coronovirus SARS-CoV-2. During the last 13 months scientists worldwide have accomplished an unbelievable feat. This is for the first time that not one but several vaccines have been approved for an infection which started just a year ago. It’s true that scientists haven’t had enough time to fully characterise the nature of protection and especially the duration of protection offered by the vaccines, as the passing of time is the only way to derive that kind of data. Nevertheless, a number of these vaccines have been meticulously shown to induce an efficacious immune response against the virus and till the time they were followed up in the respective phase 3 trials they offered recipients considerable protection from natural infections. Most vaccines are designed to target the spike protein of the virus. For example the Oxford vaccine Chadox1 nCoV-19, or its Indian avatar Covishield, uses an adenovirus and introduces the SARS-CoV-2 spike gene into it. The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine BNT162b2 and the Moderna vaccine mRNA-1273 use modified RNA molecules encoding spike protein encapsulated in sub-microscopic bags made of lipid. These vaccines are expected to train the recipients’ immune system to recognise this protein and to mount a response in the form of producing antibodies to it, which can block the spike protein of the virus during a natural infection and prevent the virus from infecting human cells. The vaccines are also expected to generate a potent T cell repertoire, another arm of the immune system, which can also recognise the virus and eliminate the infected human cells, to stop propagation of the virus within the body. Unfortunately at the same time, just a year from first encounter with the virus, on December 21, 2020, health authorities from United Kingdom published a technical briefing document that reported cases of infections in southern England by SARS-CoV-2. But there was an alarming change: this was a different strain of SARS-CoV-2, or the so-called ‘UK strain’. A number of other strains have also been notified from different parts of the world. Mutations in viruses are very common. Replication of a virus inside human cells involves copying the genetic material with random accumulation of errors, which are largely corrected by inherent proofreading mechanisms. When these fail the errors stay back as mutations. For RNA viruses, like SARS-CoV-2 (with its genetic code being written on a molecule called RNA), the proofreading mechanisms are characteristically weaker and the chances of such errors are greater. The only notable change in the UK strain was an increased transmission, causing the infection to spread more rapidly. This is also scary as a faster spread of infection means a rapid influx of patients that can potentially overwhelm healthcare facilities. But for India the rate of accumulation of new cases has declined considerably so this should not create much of a problem for some time now. Available data assert that the mutations in these new strains are not enough to make the virus change the way it affects the human body or cause disease. But a more recent report has raised concerns about a slightly number of case fatalities. The final word on this is not yet out and will come only after a larger study is available. There’s no evidence yet to indicate a change in severity of the symptoms or outcomes. But a number of mutations encountered in these new strains of SARS-CoV-2 affected the spike protein. And this has raised concerns about the efficacy of the available vaccines against the new strains. As I explained the vaccines primarily are expected to generate antibodies to spike, as it was in the original strain. Whether these antibodies may fail to recognise the mutated spike is the question. Let me explain a little bit why it may happen. The spike protein, like any other protein, is made of a chain of molecules called amino acids. Imagine you have a necklace of coloured beads on your palm. You close your fist and the necklace folds onto itself in a complex structure. Now imagine that there are rules that ensure even in that apparent free-form complexity only specific coloured beads can only come close to each other, thus restricting shape options for the folded necklace. Proteins are similar necklace-like molecules with chemicals called amino acids as the beads. The immediate environment of the protein molecule (especially water present in the immediate environ) acts as the closed fist. Now if a few beads are removed or changed in colour, its shape also changes. Antibodies do not recognise the actual sequence of amino acids in a protein. They actually recognise the surface elements or topology, e.g. specific grooves, folds, loops or pockets on a protein. Any change in this surface topology of spike could result in the antibody not recognising the protein. Of note here, not only vaccines, the much used convalescent plasma therapy is also based on this recognition of viral proteins by antibodies that block its function and thus prevent the virus from infecting human cells. Mutations reported in the new strains do change the sequence of amino acids in SARS-CoV-2 spike. More importantly some of these changes affect a part of the protein which is usually targeted by the neutralising antibodies, known as the receptor binding domain or RBD. For example strains reported from UK and South Africa both have a mutation called N501Y (in simpler terms the 501st amino acid is changed, as per my allegory the bead in that position has changed colour) in that crucial part of spike protein. The South African variant has additional mutations E484K and K417N in the same region. A variant reported from Brazil was found to have mutations for both N501Y and E484K. Thus it raises the concern of substantially changing that crucial region of spike, so as to modify its structure and surface topology. Will the antibodies fail to recognise this changed face of spike? There are indeed chances this could happen. A similar phenomenon has recently been reported in a study, where scientists found that in the case of another coronavirus (called 229E), neutralising antibodies present in convalescent plasma against earlier strains failed to show activity against later strains. In the case of SARS-CoV-2 too, with the Brazilian E484K variant it has been shown that plasma from convalescent donors, who recovered from infection with the original SARS-CoV-2 virus, was less efficacious to neutralise LATER variantS. Fortunately for the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine we have relevant data available that shows the N501Y mutation cannot evade the immune response to this vaccine. Similar data generated with the other vaccines will be more reassuring and needs to be generated. These mean that even if vaccines are there and we are really excited about that, we should be vigilant and keep on following the protective drill of social distancing and mask usage. On the other hand, major effort should go into sequencing a large fraction of new cases for detecting any new variants that may arise. More importantly, independent research efforts should be taken up to monitor the recipients of all different vaccines, so that any case of vaccine failure (reinfection in a vaccine recipient) is notified. A comprehensive post-vaccination immune monitoring will also help us gather valuable insights on the nature of immune protection these different vaccines are capable of offering, especially in terms of duration of such protection and vulnerability of that protection to new variants, if any. Dipyaman Ganguly is a physician scientist and immunologist at the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta. He is actively engaged with research on patients with COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||The Covid Effect: Screen and the world||It is called “The Covid Effect”. A company that tracks the use of digital devices by children of four to 15 years of age found an enormous increase in screen hours not just from pre-lockdown times but from month to month too, as the year of the pandemic wore on. Relaxing limits on screen time just a little would have been natural for parents at first when schools closed; things got more difficult after that. Youngsters of all ages continued to stay at home and have lessons online while parents often worked from home as well, juggling housework and office within the same confines. Family togetherness has its charms, but they can wear a bit thin when there is too much of it — and nothing else. Amid a change in work-life equations and social isolation that started abruptly yet began to seem endless, it was inevitable that disciplining children for turning to the screen to talk to friends, to play or amuse themselves would no longer be possible. Or even fair. The virus caused more than the deadly infection. There had already been serious worry and bleak research findings about addiction to digital devices and social media among children and young adults. From disrupted sleep patterns to hurt egos, from anxiety and depression to diminishing attention spans and reliance on constant mood-boosts — the harm was both physical and mental. In spite of the new routes of creativity and widening horizons of knowledge that the online world can offer, for children closeted with the screen for most hours of the day for months on end, some of the damage feared earlier seems unavoidable. A certain attenuation of the free-ranging imagination is also a possibility with the attention fixed on a quickly responding screen. Additionally, staring at it also means straining the eyes while confinement puts an end to strenuous outdoor games. Enforcing old physical habits, such as going to school again, playing together, going cycling, swimming or climbing, may not be too difficult when the pandemic passes, as youngsters may be longing to be freed of fear and isolation. But mental habits are not as easy to break. The feedback from digital devices may seem much smoother, more predictable, and less troublesome than from real-life situations in which interactions with other people and dealing with immediate tasks turn out to be too challenging to be worth bothering about. The quasi-protective shell offered by the screen is dangerous to developing minds and personalities. But again, the fact that young minds are impressionable is also the reason for hope. They can be made to change — with grown-ups consciously helping them to do so — or they can wish to change themselves. The screen generation is also a wise generation in many ways. The worries and the research come from adults who have made a fair mess of the world. Youngsters might yet show them their place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||True power: Kamala Harris takes oath as first woman vice-president||Sir — The inauguration ceremony of the 46th president of the United States of America was historic in more ways than one. Not only did Kamala Harris take oath as the first woman vice-president — as well as the first person of Indian and black origin to hold that office — but Amanda Gorman, also a black woman, became the youngest poet to perform at a presidential inauguration. Her powerful poetry recital enthralled the audience present as well as viewers around the world. One hopes this appreciation of diversity and recognition of women and people of colour continue to be reflected in the policies framed by the new US administration. Alicia Rozario,Mumbai Miracle workers Sir — The Indian men’s cricket team scripted history by soundly defeating the Australians in their own backyard at the Gabba in Brisbane. By doing so, it won the Test series 2-1, and retained the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. This series win will always remain memorable for India’s gallant fightback after having suffered a humiliating defeat in the first Test of the series at Adelaide. In that match, the team achieved the dubious distinction of getting bowled out for the lowest-ever score of 36 runs in the second innings. Cricket pundits all over the world had written India off for the rest of the series, with many predicting a 4-0 result in Australia’s favour. Moreover, after the debacle at Adelaide, the skipper, Virat Kohli, flew back to India on paternity leave. The captain’s baton was passed on to Ajinkya Rahane. Meanwhile, many of the front-line players suffered injuries one after the other, thus ruling out their participation in the rest of the series. India was truly playing with what many called its ‘B-team’. However, Rahane, who is known for his calm and composure, marshalled all his available resources into recovering from the first Test. He himself scored a century in the second Test at Melbourne, and led the depleted team, mostly comprising rookies, from the front to win the Test and level the series. Hanuma Vihari and Ravichandran Ashwin batted resolutely throughout the fifth day of the Third test at Sydney to ensure a draw. The series-deciding fourth Test had a thrilling finish for India. Shubman Gill’s elegant batting, Cheteshwar Pujara’s grit and fortitude, Washington Sundar’s fightback, Rishabh Pant’s intelligent blending of aggression and caution and, crucially, the steely determination of Mohammed Siraj and Shardul Thakur helped India end Australia’s 32-year-long stint of being unbeaten at the Gabba. This was one of India’s finest overseas wins. Tapash Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — Team India stunned the world with its act at Brisbane. Even staunch supporters of the team would not have expected the miracle that unfolded, especially after India’s abject surrender at Adelaide. Perhaps the team was not adequately prepared to play the pink ball in a day/night match, which is what the Adelaide Test was. However, the Indians slowly got their bearings, and by the time they reached Sydney, the series became more competitive. The icing on the cake was the victory at the Gabba. The team, written off as underdogs, had 328 runs to get. The players rose to the occasion: Washington Sundar and Shardul Thakur did not waste the opportunity given to them and put up an all-round show. Both T. Natarajan and Mohammed Siraj were impressive with their bowling of the new ball. There is no substitute for hard work; a combined team effort helped the men reach a tough target. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — India’s incredible victory at the Gabba — known till now as the ‘fortress’, since Australia had not been defeated there for over three decades — was deeply satisfying not just because of the stellar quality of cricket played by a ‘B-team’ but also because they served as fitting responses to the spectators at Sydney and Brisbane who made the Indian cricketers, especially Mohammed Siraj, targets of vile racial slurs. Visiting teams to Australia — and, indeed, minorities residing there — are no strangers to such racist abuse. One hopes that Cricket Australia and the Australian government will pay heed to this. Aniket Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||Rich pickings: Wisden 2021||Wisden 2021 will be a collector’s item. For a cool assessment of the just concluded India-Australia series, I turned to Lawrence Booth, editor of Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack. “The 2021 edition comes out in early April,” he tells me. “I am still editing it.” He will be grateful that the “thrilling” India-Australia series has provided him with so much drama in a year notoriously short of first-class cricket. The cricketers’ bible, rich in statistics and match reports, is now brought out by Bloomsbury — Wisden 2020 cost £55. Still, I suspect the 2021 edition will become a collector’s item for Indians to be bequeathed as a family heirloom to be savoured by generations. I still have an evocative photograph that I took of the late Dicky Rutnagur, doyen of cricket writers, with shelves packed with past copies of Wisden. “I thought India’s win was one of the most remarkable in Test history,” Booth sums up. “They were completely written off after being bowled out for 36 in Adelaide, especially with Virat Kohli going home on paternity leave. And they then suffered a miserable run of luck with injuries, not to mention the racial abuse from spectators in Sydney. To then chase 328 at Brisbane, where Australia had not lost since 1988-89, was nothing short of miraculous. Hats off to them!” I expressed surprise that Steve Smith was not banned again for roughing up Rishabh Pant’s guard on the final day of the Sydney Test but Booth is more relaxed: “I wasn’t greatly bothered by what Smith did. I think it was more of a nervous tic than anything, though he’d be better off not attracting any kind of adverse attention after the sandpaper fiasco.” Role model Priyanka Chopra, now famous for being famous, has come a long way since 2000 when the 18-year-old won the Miss World beauty pageant at the Millennium Dome in London — I know because I was there and interviewed her the following morning. Earlier this month, The Sunday Times Style magazine put her on the cover: “The Power of Priyanka. Can the former Miss World change the face of Hollywood? (Yes, she can!)” No wonder British Indian girls see her as a role model. Incidentally, it was alleged in a separate news story that PC had broken Covid-19 rules in London by going to a hair salon but she convinced the police that getting her hair done was essential “work” before filming.What not to wear Dicky Rutnagur once told me that for the first day of the Lord’s Test, he would pay due reverence to the status of the game and the hallowed turf at the “home of cricket” by putting on his best suit and tie. I mention this because the BBC’s cricket correspondent, Jonathan Agnew provided “live commentary” of the England-Sri Lanka series from the attic of his home in Belvoir, Leicestershire. That he was doing so for Test Match Special on Radio 4 in his dressing gown itself became a talking point. “Lord Reith,” said an outraged listener, referring to the BBC’s very first director-general, “will be turning in his grave.” At 4.15 am on a bitterly cold and dark morning in England, Agnew did not pretend he was in warmer climes: “We are scattered here and there bringing you commentary of this series from Galle but not in Galle because all media have been banned from travelling there... and naturally I am here in the Belvoir. We do, of course, have pictures from Galle — we can bring you all the news of what’s going on there.” Here is Lawrence Booth on sartorial trends: “I hope broadcasting from bedrooms is not the future, and I suspect it won’t be, if and when the world returns to some kind of normality.”Risky waters The United Kingdom is lucrative territory for Bollywood, where the Hindi film industry is promoted as glamorous and seductive. Unsurprisingly, many young British Indian girls dream of making it big in Bollywood. Assisted by her mother Rabiya Khan, London girl, Nafisa Rizvi Khan, taking the name Jiah Khan, got her first break in her late teens, and soon after starred opposite Amitabh Bachchan in Nishabd. A harrowing three-part drama on BBC TV, Death in Bollywood, ponders whether her death in 2013 was suicide or murder. Rabiya blamed Jiah’s boyfriend, Sooraj Pancholi: “My daughter has been killed — my first suspect has been Sooraj Pancholi.” Sooraj insisted he was innocent, revealing that Jiah had told him she had been raped in London when she was a teenager. Paul Cheston, Evening Standard’s court reporter, confirmed that the case came to the Old Bailey, where her alleged assailant, “the son of a very, very wealthy business mogul”, was acquitted after the defence produced letters written by Nafisa, indicating “there was a relationship” between the couple.The programme showed what appeared to be a newspaper report: “Soon afterwards, she slashed her wrists. She attempted suicide again by taking pills, and had to be taken to hospital to be resuscitated.” What the documentary did establish is that British Indian parents should discourage children, especially girls as vulnerable as Jiah who are not backed by dynasty heavyweights, from taking risks in Bollywood.Footnote Even Churchill College, Cambridge, which is named after Britain’s great wartime prime minister, has launched a “year-long programme... to engage with the facts surrounding Sir Winston Churchill’s words, views and actions relating to empire and race”. Many British people fear his reputation is being shredded by his academic enemies. On February 11, there is an invitation to “[j]oin Professor Priya Gopal in discussion with Professor Kehinde Andrews, Dr Madhusree Mukerjee and Dr Onyeka Nubia”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||Resistance map||As the last year winded towards its end, two sets of events defined the state of the country. One was the series of attacks on mosques in Madhya Pradesh, where Hindutva mobs set out to terrorize Muslim communities encouraged by a tame police force. The second was the ‘love jihad’ law passed by the Uttar Pradesh government that was followed by scores of arrests of young Muslim men on flimsy charges. At their base, both are products of the pervasive Islamophobia that has reached epidemic proportions in our country. The reason the Bharatiya Janata Party finds it politically beneficial to ramp up its anti-Muslim campaign and Opposition parties are meek to challenge it is that Islamophobia has gained popular acceptability. The constant drib of Islamophobia injected in our societal bloodstream since, at least, the Ramjanmabhoomi movement has now become an ever-accelerating spurt, spread by a formidable apparatus composed of the dominant political party, the mainstream media, social media, and millions of sangh parivar karyakartas. To counter it, the moment requires us to go beyond op-eds and social media posts and build an anti-Islamophobic movement. In the absence of any serious countervailing force to check it, rising Islamophobia will not only lead to the further brutalization of Muslim citizens but also serve as the fuel to eat away at the remains of our democratic freedoms. Yet, unlike an anti-caste movement, we have never had an anti-Islamophobic movement. The Ambedkarite movement has transformed our political culture over many decades to the extent that every political party is pushed to swear by Ambedkar and take rhetorical positions against the oppression of Dalits. But there has never been a similar programme to reverse anti-Muslim prejudice, with its own tools, vocabulary and iconography. This partly explains why even the anti-CAA movement, although it did take some hesitant steps to address Islamophobia, often fell back on Ambedkarite and nationalist symbols — with resistance articulated through cries of ‘Jai Bhim’ and the ubiquitous portraits of Ambedkar on the one hand and the national flag and the Constitution on the other. Even the concept of Islamophobia has rarely made an appearance in our public discourse, couched under the broader rubric of communalism. The stated answer to communalism has historically been a staid secularism, guarding the encroachment of strident religion into the public sphere, while largely leaving society alone to its prejudices. To the extent society is addressed, it is in the form of glib bromides about being ‘Indian first’ and Indians being ‘brothers and sisters’. This passive, anodyne, largely elitist concern for secularism has been shown to be impotent to halt the steady march of Hindutva and anti-Muslim prejudice. In the same way an orientation of caste agnosticism can never be the answer to casteism, which requires an active stance of anti-casteism, an inert secularism cannot be an answer to the all-pervasive Islamophobia. Hence, an anti-Islamophobic movement becomes necessary. What will such an anti-Islamophobic movement look like? For one, the article calls for a movement more of the civil society than of political parties. Opposition political parties will always be constrained by the logic of votes until anti-Muslim prejudice starts to wane in society. Fundamentally, Islamophobia is based on a bundle of stereotypes and prejudices against Muslims that have established deep roots in our culture. To reverse this, one would require concerted participation of prominent members of the Hindu civil society that shapes culture — journalists, academics, lawyers, writers, intellectuals, and artists. There are six steps secular civil society actors can take to build the foundation of an anti-Islamophobic movement. First, recognize the extent of India’s Islamophobia problem, its deep roots, and discard the myth of a uniquely tolerant Hinduism. In her book, My Son’s Inheritance: A Secret History of Blood Justice and Lynchings in India, the historian, Aparna Vaidik, argues that many Indians (including liberals) are indifferent to Hindutva violence against Muslims and Dalits because their privilege prevents them from seeing it. “This violence is invisibilised because it comes secretly embedded in our myths, folklore, poetry, literature, and language. Moreover, what keeps us from seeing the violence, especially caste violence and the abuse of minorities, is our privilege,” Vaidik pointed in a recent interview. In place of the narrative of minority appeasement, which even many secular intellectuals have lent credibility to, civil society actors need to bring ‘Hindu privilege’ and the issue of intolerance in the Hindu community to the front and centre of the public discourse along with a belated recognition that Hindutva is not a fringe movement and that it is now the mainstream Hindu political philosophy. Second, since Islamophobia is a problem of image, its antidote lies in Muslim visibility. In order to present a real image of Muslims, the country requires more Muslims in leadership positions in civil society organizations. In academia, media, NGOs, publishing, art houses, there needs to be an active effort, including affirmative action, to diversify these spaces by including more Muslims. In place of words eulogizing secular India, there needs to be concrete actions to ensure that Muslims get a seat at these tables proportionate to their numbers and have a voice in how they are run. A preference can be given to backward class and caste Muslims to ensure that these benefits are not monopolized by elite Muslims. Third, the representation of Muslims in art needs to undergo a fundamental transformation. Movies and literature need to junk hackneyed tropes like the ‘good Muslim/bad Muslim’, ‘nationalist/traitor Muslim’, ‘skullcap wearing Muslim fundamentalist/terrorist’. These tropes serve to underscore the insidious tension between the Indian nation and Muslim identity. Along with it, the tokenistic and stereotypical portrayal of the ‘Muslim shayar’, the ‘hot-headed Muslim friend’ and the ‘Muslim criminal’ need to be replaced by a realistic portrayal of ordinary Muslims. In the America of the 1990s, particularly with films of black directors such as Spike Lee, a realistic picture of the Black experience was provided to a mainstream audience of millions of Americans who had, heretofore, only seen them through the prism of crime, drugs and violence. Similarly, literature around the everyday experiences and challenges of Indian Muslims needs to be encouraged and translated into local languages. If Premchand’s “Idgah” is all that most Hindi-speaking Indians are acquainted with in terms of Muslim characters, it’s a problem. Fourth, the much-diminished liberal end of journalism needs to adopt an anti-Islamophobic stance in presenting news of crimes against Muslims. In the case of ‘love jihad’, the media-fuelled the myth by not explicitly presenting it as a concoction of the right-wing. In beef-lynchings, even the supposedly liberal media harp on the alleged crime of Muslims — whether or not they ate/transported beef, rather than presenting it as an unequivocally shameful act of terror. Fifth, secular Hindus must not merely proclaim the virtues of secularism in their echo chambers; they can start working on their families, and then maybe their neighbourhoods. Hindutva is not a Hindu-Muslim problem; it is a Hindu problem that needs to be fought in Hindu spaces. Starting points can be the family and neighbourhood WhatsApp groups that are rife with Islamophobia. Even decent people baulk at contesting Islamophobic messages on message groups to avoid ‘pointless’ confrontations. One of the reasons Islamophobic prejudice has skyrocketed in the public sphere is because it has broken free of the shame associated with it. This shame can be reconstructed, one courageous intervention — digital or face-to-face — at a time. Sixth, a new Muslim intelligentsia must emerge, and must be encouraged to emerge, which can define the vocabulary and iconography of resistance to Islamophobia. We saw the seeds of this younger, more assertive, intelligentsia during the anti-CAA movement where young students and activists faced down the apparatus of State repression to organize an unprecedented nation-wide movement. Now, many of these students and activists find themselves in jail. We don’t find civil society clamouring for their release in the way it has got behind the ‘safer’ movement of farmers. If we are serious about fighting Islamophobia, the first order of action would be to tirelessly work for their release. The reversal of Islamophobia is not just in the interest of Muslims; it is in the interest of all Hindus who are invested in the democratic freedoms of this country. However, merely participating in conclaves about secularism in elite spaces and harkening back to an imagined secular India won’t reverse Islamophobia. It would require concrete actions. The aforementioned steps can be a start. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||So what there's bird flu, says girl after saving pigeon ||Jharkhand has been panicking due to the emergence of bird flu in several states of India, for quite some time now, keeping a safe distance from poultry products. But for young Divya Rashmi, saving an injured pigeon from attacking dogs became the priority on Thursday, while she was heading to the gym. Divya said it was her neighbour who had spotted the bird first in distress, about to grovel on the ground,  with a few stray dogs getting ready to devour it. However, he refused to go near it due to the fear of Avian Influenza. “I was in two minds then. I had to go to the gym. But I thought if I didn’t rescue this pigeon she would be eaten by the dogs,” she told The Telegraph Online. It was then when she picked up the bird, which had injuries on its wings, and carried her all the way to the gym. “A few visitors of the gym saw the bird with squint eyes. Some had disapproval in their eyes,” Divya said. Thereafter, she took the bird to her home, where it was treated by her father B.N. Mishra, who is a doctor, and her mother Veena Mishra, who is a lawyer. They gave it boiled rice and lots of fresh water. She said the pigeon made a spectacular recovery and on Saturday it took a flight from her Belwatiker house to test its flight capability. “Birds deserve our love and care and there is nothing to fear about them even in times of Avian Influenza,” said Divya, who works in the district social welfare office in Daltonganj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||At Dalma sanctuary, watering holes are already full||Elephants and other animals will have ample water at Dalma sanctuary this summer which will not necessitate forays into neighbouring villages to quench their thirst. As many as 25-odd check dams and around a dozen watering holes are nearly full owing to a satisfactory monsoon and a mechanism that doesn’t allow water to run off. Generally water bodies inside the elephant abode, 30 km from Jamshedpur, go dry in April and May. But this time it’s different. “There is plenty of water in check dams and watering holes. There would be no shortage of water during summer,” said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. Some of the 16 new check dams have come up on natural drains within the sanctuary. This has helped rainwater from flowing down into the Subarnarekha river and Dimna Lake from the Dalma hills. The check dams built near Badka Bandh, Nichla Bandh, Chotka Bandh, Rajdohaand Bijli Ghati have helped to maintain the water level at these watering holes. A forester said elephants were on their way home from the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in Bengal. Now, they were positioned on the periphery of the sanctuary. "The jumbos may slip in any day. Adequate water at the sanctuary would prevent elephants and other animals from venturing into the 80-odd villages and hamlets dotting the sanctuary. We have worked hard to conserve water inside the sanctuary,” the forester said. Another forester said there was no issue related to food availability. “Food is available in plenty. Bamboo stems (favourite of the jumbos) near watering holes have grown and present a green look to the water sources,” he added. Abundance of water will also help maintain the groundwater level at Pinderbera forest guest house, located around 14km from the main entry gates at Makulakocha. Though the Pinderbera facility is not being let out to tourists currently, the four staff quarters there are being let out. The sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary is presently out of bounds for tourists since March due to the pandemic. However, whenever it opens, a rush of tourists is inevitable. Availability of adequate water at the four plush air-conditioned cottages and non-AC rooms at Makulakocha will ensure tourists don’t complain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamtara uses books to fight cybercrime ‘capital’ tag||The state government has been opening public libraries in villages of Jamtara district, which has won infamy for being the cybercrime capital of India, in an attempt to motivate the youth to take up studies, district authorities said on Saturday. Young boys and girls of the district, who fell prey to the lure of easy money and turned cyber fraud, will now read the best of books free of cost at the public libraries and help Jamtara drop the tag of being a district that has bred several notorious cyber frauds, officials said. “The government has started public libraries in Lalchandih, Mahtodih and Karmatand blocks of Jamtara. Some of the libraries have been set up at panchayat bhawans in order to provide easy access to books to the youth of the district,” said Jamtara deputy commissioner Faiz Ahmed Mumtaz. Public libraries have started operating in at least 33 of 118 panchayats in the district, and the government aims to build at least one library in each of the 118 panchayats in Jamtara, officials said. The libraries already offer books like the Discovery of India, Indian Economy and India After Gandhi. “By reading books, children will not only enhance their knowledge, but also develop the urge to contribute to society and work for their country,” the deputy commissioner said. Besides preventing youths from joining gangs of cyber criminals, the libraries are also expected to help children prepare for their class 10 and class 12 board exams this year, he added. Jamtara is home to several gangs of “Panchvi Fail” cybercriminals, who have duped several rich and educated people living in metros, say police. Around 200kms north of Ranchi, Jamtara is said to be the Indian equivalent of the Romanian town of Râmnicu Vâlcea, dubbed Scamville, which is the global capital for cyber criminals. Last year, Netflix released a web series on the cyber criminals of Jamtara and named it ‘Jamtara – Sabka Number Ayega’. According to police, cyber criminals in Jamtara are most dependent on phishing, a procedure in which cyber frauds disguised as trustworthy representatives of banks and finance companies over phone calls, extract  personal details of their target. Teenagers in the district often learn phishing and minor cyber frauds from their older counterparts and this trend has gradually led to Jamtara becoming a hotbed of cybercrime, say local sources. Cyber crime gangs have also spread their reach to the neighbouring districts of Deoghar, Dumka, Giridih and Dhanbad, as per records with the state police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Coaching centre operators observe fast, stage dharna at Ambagan||Coaching centre owners and operators staged a day-long hunger strike at the Ambagan ground in Sakchi here on Saturday to demand the reopening of coaching institutes shut down ever since the Covid-19 induced lockdown was imposed in March last year. The gathering, comprising owners, directors and teachers, was held under the  aegis of Jamshedpur Coaching Association. "Coaching institutes should be allowed to reopen given that the state government has allowed schools to start functioning. Even in neighbouring Bihar, private tutorial houses have been allowed to function from January 4, " pointed out Krishna Banerjee, a member of the association and director of a Sakchi-based engineering coaching centre. Banerjee said that during the last 10 months, they have all been abiding by government directives. Another association member, Vinay Singh, said that prolonged closure of coaching institutes was adversely affecting the livelihood of numerous professionals associated with them. "It is also affecting students preparing for engineering and other competitive examinations,” he said, adding that all the coaching institutes were incurring huge losses. Another private tutorial owner said, “It is beyond our understanding why coaching centres not allowed to function when schools can. Allow us to also function with similar conditions. We will abide by every protocol set by the government to curb the spread of the virus.” The association members said that they would not hesitate to launch a state-wide agitation if their appeal were ignored. They also threatened to intensify their agitation. Later, the members of the association handed over a memorandum to state health minister Banna Gupta, who also looks after the disaster management portfolio, asking that their concerns be looked at “sympathetically”. The minister was at the venue to attend a function to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city sets up two more vaccination centres||Two more hospitals will join the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the steel city from Monday, thereby increasing the number of centres to four. The two health hubs where vaccination will start are Tata Motors Hospital in Telco and Sadar Hospital at Khasmahal in Parsudih are the new health facilities where Covishield shots are to be given in addition to MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, where the drive began on January 16. As decided earlier, 100 health workers would be vaccinated at each centre everyday. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said they decided to increase the number of vaccination centres after a fresh lot of Covishield vaccines reached here on Thursday. "We are providing Covid-19 vaccination to health workers, including doctors and nurses.  As more vaccines come, we will increase the number of vaccination facilities," said Jha. The civil surgeon said during the past five days of vaccination at MGM Medical College and Tata Main Hospital, 695 health workers had been given the shots. "While at MGM Medical College, 349 people were vaccinated, the number was 346 at Tata Main Hospital. But our target was to vaccinate 1,000 people," he said, adding that the district has over 9,000 health workers. A senior official at Tata Motors Hospital said they carried out a dry run of the vaccination procedure on Saturday. "We have made all arrangements for starting the vaccination programme at our hospital from Monday. We have also carried out a dry run,” said the senior official while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||CIMFR conducts mushroom cultivation programme for self-employment||The Central Industrial Mining and Fuel Research  (CIMFR) has been conducting training in mushroom cultivation and processing, with an aim to make common people self-reliant through this mode of employment. The free of cost training also intends to put up stalls under the CIMFR banner so that the produce of the beneficiaries can be marketed. As many as 17 people from different parts of the district recently underwent a theory and practical session at  the institute from January 17 to 22. This was conducted under the guidance of the Head of the Cleanliness, Sanitation and Horticulture Department D.B. Singh. “The theory classes are being conducted for all beneficiaries from 11 am to 1 pm while the practical training is being imparted on the CIMFR ground from 2 pm to 4 pm,” Singh told The Telegraph Online. The training was launched on October 23 and the first round was conducted till November 3, he said. “We selected the interested trainees on a first come first serve basis and this is the second batch of our mushroom cultivation training,” he added. The training programme was launched at instruction of CIMFR Director P.K. Singh as per the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to research institutions to contribute to the self-employment drive of the Centre. “During the practical training we are providing all kinds of on-site training for production, sterilisation, spawning, bag-hanging, and plant protection” said Sin In order to ensure that only serious applicants get training, Singh said they would impart the second phase of training only to such beneficiaries who bring the cultivated mushrooms as per the first phase of instructions. “We have already provided the training of biscuit production from mushroom during the first phase and will ensure the utilisation of mushroom in samosa and momos as part of our value addition exercise,” he added. “Though at present it is being imparted free of cost, we will propose to fix some nominal charges to avoid the intake of non-serious trainees for the programme,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ailing Lalu to be shifted to AIIMS in Delhi ||Jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad will be shifted to AIIMS-Delhi after his health condition deteriorated while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ranchi, officials said on Saturday. Prasad (72), convicted in fodder scam cases, is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) here for multiple ailments. "Lalu Prasad is having trouble breathing for the last two days. On Friday, he was found to be having pneumonia. Considering his age, we have decided to shift him to AIIMS- Delhi on the advice of doctors for better treatment," RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad told PTI. "He is likely to be shifted to AIIMS today. We have already spoken to the experts at AIIMS," he added. Dr Prasad further said that the authorities and his family are arranging for an air ambulance to shift him to AIIMS-Delhi. An eight-member medical board is examining Prasad's health and he is likely to be shifted to AIIMS as soon as the experts submit their report. To send Prasad to Delhi, the jail authorities will also have to seek approval from the CBI court. On Friday, Prasad's wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti, sons Tej Pratap and Tejashwi reached Ranchi on a special plane after being informed of the veteran leader's deteriorating health. The family met Prasad in the night. After meeting his father, Tejashwi told reporters that his condition was worrisome. Tejashwi also met Chief Minister Hemant Soren at his residence during the day to seek cooperation of the state government in arranging to take his father to Delhi. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday heard about the violation of the jail manual by Lalu Prasad while he was admitted at RIMS, pulling up the hospital authorities, the jail administration and the state government. The case will be next heard on February 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Four die in mica mine collapse in Jharkhand||Four persons were buried alive after the roof of an illegal abandoned mica mine collapsed in a forest area in Jharkhand’s Koderma district on Thursday night. The incident occurred at Ghatarwa in Phulwaria village under Koderma police station, around 166km north of state capital Ranchi. A police team, led by Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib and sub-divisional police officer Rajendra Prasad, managed to recover the bodies around 4.30pm on Friday. “We managed to retrieve the body of four villagers who were engaged in illegal mining by certain persons. We have asked the officials of Koderma Wildlife Sanctuary (since the area falls under forest division) to lodge an FIR against unidentified persons responsible for operating such illegal mines deep in the forest area and misleading poor people to extract mica scrap. We have been conducting raids acting on a tip-off against such illegal mines and will again step up action against them,” the SP said. The deceased have been identified as Mahendra Das, 54, Chandan Das, 57, Parvati Devi, 50, and Lakhan Das, 50, all from nearby Purnanagar village under Koderma police station. Villagers managed to rescue two persons, Rajesh Singh Ghatwar and Sanjay Singh Ghatwar. According to Prasad, they got information about the incident at around 5pm on Thursday and soon after arranged local rescuers and excavators for the rescue operation. “The villagers were buried under debris of mica scrap and sand. We heard that locals had managed to rescue two persons and admitted them in a hospital for treatment,” Prasad said. Mica extracted from such illegal and abandoned mines are sold to intermediaries and then exported to big cosmetic manufacturers as it is used to add glitter to natural cosmetics and is a key ingredient in products such as face packs, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick and nail polish. The mines have been shut down but people are often engaged in scrap mining at a risk to their lives with the threat of roof or mine wall collapse looming over them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
23-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad, Gomoh to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji ||As the nation gears up to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the coal town of Dhanbad and a railway station in Jharkhand named after him still reminisce their association with the legendary freedom fighter. “They (January 23 and January 18) will remain special days for us in our family. I do not know about the future generations but for us we feel proud that a great son of the soil had stayed in our ancestral house on several occasions. We do not want to exhibit our patriotism to anyone but are happy that our family served one of the greatest fighters for Independence of our country,” said 69-year-old Sheikh Mohammed Hasibullah, a shopkeeper in Loco Bazar area of Gomoh. Hasibullah’s grandfather Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah, an advocate, was associated with Netaji and had hosted the leader at their house in Abdullah Colony, barely 500 metres from the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose railway junction (then Gomoh Junction). Gomoh Junction, which falls under the Dhanbad division of East Central Railways, was the station from where Netaji had boarded the Howrah-Kalka Mail (then known as 63 Up Howrah-Peshawar Express and renamed as Netaji Express a few days ago) for Pathankot in Punjab on January 18, 1941. It was the last time that Netaji was seen in India. Hasibullah further recalled his grandfather’s stories on how Netaji had come to their home dressed as a Kabuliwallah. “He had worn the attire of a Kabuliwallah from Jabalpur to escape the Britishers as there were several British men in Dhanbad at the Eastern Coalfields and also at Gomoh station. He had spent the night at our house,” said Hasibullah, son of Sheikh Mohammed Asadullah. Residents of Dhanbad still recall several visits of the man who founded the Azad Hind Fauj to the city between 1930 and 1941 as the founder president of Tata Colliery Mazdoor Sangathan in 1930. “We have heard from former officials of Bharat Coking Coal Limited about the visit of Netaji. We founded the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Smarak Udyan in 1997 which houses the Sisir Kutir (Netaji’s nephew Sisir Bose’s house whose father Ashok Bose was a chemical engineer at BCCL), a stone epitaph engraved with the history of Netaji, his statue and a stone epitaph with the signature of Netaji and another stone epitaph with the names of the 32 leaders of the Azad Hind Fauj. We want to continue hosting the programme on January 23 and also on January 18 so that the current generation learns about the contribution of Netaji and also his association with Dhanbad,” said Gopal Prasad, 69, founder patron of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Smarak Udyan. The park is located near the now defunct Barari Coke Plant of the BCCL in Dhanbad. Prasad also said that several relatives of Netaji have attended his birth anniversary functions at Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-164
