24-01-2021||Calcutta||Netaji aide, who coined the slogan 'Jai Hind', posthumously honoured ||Abid Hasan, aide to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and the man who coined the slogan “Jai Hind”, was posthumously honoured at an event here on Saturday that resonated with messages of unity and secularism. Hasan, who was a major in the Indian National Army (INA) and served the country as a diplomat after Independence, was conferred with the Netaji Award 2021 by the Netaji Research Bureau at Netaji Bhavan. Bureau chairperson Sugata Bose, Netaji’s great-nephew and a Harvard history professor, delivered a speech on “Netaji, Abid Hasan and the Unity of India” that was peppered with anecdotes and highlighted the emphasis Netaji and his comrades laid on inclusiveness and secularism. Excerpts from the speech by Sugata Bose: It was 51 years ago, January 1970. You can imagine the thrill of a boy just entering his teens to be told that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s sole Indian companion on his perilous 90-day submarine voyage from Europe to Asia in 1943 was coming to stay with his family. We happily vacated the children’s room as we were duty bound to do whenever Netaji’s close associates visited Calcutta. The room on the ground floor at 1 Woodburn Park was better known as “Nehru’s Room” because that was where Jawaharlal stayed as Sarat Chandra Bose’s guest during his visits to Calcutta during the freedom struggle. We were familiar with Abid Hasan’s photographs with his leader on the deck of the German submarine and their transfer together in mid-ocean on a rubber boat to the Japanese submarine. They were prominently displayed at the museum in Netaji Bhavan. His hair had greyed, but it was easy to recognise Netaji’s comrade-in-arms when he arrived at our home with a smile on his lips and a twinkle in his eyes, and in an instant endeared himself to us. Uncle Abid’s room had a door leading to the beautiful curved southern veranda of 1 Woodburn Park. That is where we gathered around him as he sat on a cane chair, looking at the eucalyptus tree in the distance, to hear him narrate his adventures with Netaji in Europe, the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, and Asia. The devotion and loyalty that Netaji elicited from his followers had to be seen to be believed. As with most other men and women of the INA I have met, Uncle Abid wept profusely as he remembered his leader. He had not yet written his oration when he arrived in Calcutta. He was provided with a desk and a chair along with my mother Krishna Bose’s Olivetti typewriter in one corner of the veranda. My mother was pleased to find someone who could beat her in the art of slow typing. After composing a passage, Uncle Abid would give us a shout and we would rush to hear what he had written. After reading a few sentences, his voice would choke with emotion. He became concerned that he would not be able to deliver the oration before the public. “How embarrassing it would be if I break down like this,” he kept saying. My mother tried to boost his morale with a steady supply of good food and music. He enjoyed Bengali cuisine, supplemented by a bowl of green chillies placed before him. I watched him sitting at the oval marble table in our dining room with beads of sweat appearing on his forehead as he munched the chillies. On the morning of January 23, 1970, at Netaji Bhavan, Abid Hasan delivered his beautifully crafted and deeply moving Netaji oration, titled “The Men from Imphal”, in a somewhat monotonous voice, struggling not to be overcome by emotion. Abid Hasan then flashed back to October 1943, telling the story of Netaji’s visit to the Chettiar temple in Singapore. He (Netaji) had turned away the head priest, saying: “What! Come to your temple where even Hindus of other castes are not permitted entry, not to speak of members of other communities who are equally near and dear to me?” He agreed to go when the high priest returned with an invitation to “an Indian national demonstration”. “When we came to the temple,” Abid Hasan remembered, “I found it filled to capacity, with the uniforms of the INA officers and men and the black caps of south Indian Muslims glaringly evident. The memory I retain is one of an invigorating music — as that of a symphony dedicated to the unity of the motherland.” That music sustained him during his travails on the battlefield. The extended interview with Abid Hasan that formed the basis of Krishna Bose’s long-form article Sainiker Smriti, later published as A Soldier Remembers in the Netaji Research Bureau’s journal, The Oracle, was conducted day and night between March 13 and 15, 1976. Uncle Abid was an indifferent public speaker but a very engaging conversationalist. Puffing an endless chain of cigarettes and sipping cold beer, he transported us to the military camps of the Indian Legion in Germany, the rehearsal of the national greeting “Jai Hind” with Netaji, the drama and discipline of the submarine voyage, the tumultuous public events and the intimate private moments with Netaji during the Azad Hind movement in Southeast Asia, and the saga in Imphal. Netaji had asked his followers in Europe to help him find a common national greeting that would have a nice ring to it and be acceptable to all religious communities. One day Abid Hasan heard some Rajput soldiers greet each other with “Jai Ramji ki”. It seemed to have a musical quality and Hasan changed it to “Jai Hindustan ki”. That did not quite work but the abbreviated form, “Jai Hind (Victory to India)”, sounded perfect and Netaji enthusiastically embraced it as India’s national greeting. Always conscious of the need to foster unity among religious communities, Netaji had toyed with the idea of taking a Hindu, a Muslim and a Sikh on his journey to Asia. Once the German naval authorities told him that he could take only one aide, he picked Abid Hasan to be his companion. N.G. Swami and four others with advanced training in wireless telegraphy, secret inks and sophisticated radio transmitters were to follow on a blockade-runner in March. Abid Hasan was simply told to pack his bags for a long journey without any inkling of his destination. He thought that he might be sent to Mecca as part of a scheme to find anti-colonial recruits during the Haj. It was only when he met Netaji at Lehrter Bahnhof (a railway station in Berlin) that he realised he would be accompanying his leader. On the train from Berlin to Kiel, Netaji asked Abid Hasan: “Now, do you know where you’re going?” “Yes, sir,” Hasan replied, “I know where we’re going.” “Where are we going?” Netaji enquired. “We are both going to perform Haj,” Abid Hasan commented wryly, eliciting from his leader peals of laughter. He had truly become Netaji’s only companion on a pilgrimage to freedom. We never forgot him, but India’s younger generation needs to be taught about the forgotten vestiges of our freedom struggle. Faced with the threat of unequal citizenship from the forces of religious majoritarianism, Krishna Bose wrote her last article, published on February 1, 2020, on the values represented by Abid Hasan before her own passing weeks later on February 22, 2020. Fifty-one years ago, Abid Hasan had in his Netaji oration referred to “these frustrating times when India again seems to be a house divided against itself”. The times have turned even more ominous now and the “inhuman acts” that Abid Hasan deplored are becoming an everyday reality in today’s India. His oration was in Sisir Kumar Bose’s words “a moving affirmation of the revolutionary faith given to us by our leader”. Abid Hasan had closed his oration with a message of hope: “The people of India will accept any leadership provided the call remains the same and the call cannot be but — ‘Forget not that the grossest crime is to compromise with injustice and wrong’.” Can India defeat today’s divisive policies and bind its diverse people together once again, as Netaji and Abid Hasan had done, with a garland of love? As for our national greeting that Netaji gave us with Abid Hasan’s help, the inspiration that it gave to the Azad Hind Fauj must be rekindled today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC to double storage capacity in Mukundapur reservoir||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will increase the storage capacity in Mukundapur booster pumping station by more than double, reducing the dependency on underground water pulled up through deep tube wells for supply to residents. The work to build the additional capacity will begin from next week, said a senior engineer of the civic body. The current storage capacity of the reservoir at Mukundapur station is 0.5 million gallon. Two more reservoirs — one semi-underground and one elevated — with a combined storage capacity of 0.75 million gallon would be built, said the engineer of CMC’s water supply department. “The deadline to commission the two reservoirs is 18 months,” said the engineer. Several residents of ward 109 — including areas like Mukundapur, Nayabad New Garia and Panchasayar —would benefit once the storage capacity is doubled. The residents now receive a mix of water supplied from the Dhapa water treatment plant and water pumped up from underground through deep tube well. A resident of Nayabad’s 1B bus stand neighbourhood said the water they receive from the CMC’s network was turbid. “If we do not clean the reservoir once in two months at least, a lot of dirt flows through the tap,” said the resident, who is a state government employee. Asis Majumdar, the director of School of Water Resources at Jadavpur University, told Metro that underground water could have arsenic and fluoride as contaminants. “The underground water in Calcutta’s eastern fringes has very high amount of to- tal dissolved salts. This makes the taste of the water very salty...,” Majumdar said. The existing station at Mukundapur was commissioned in 2013. Treated water from the Dhapa water treatment plant is stored in the reservoir of the station. It is then pushed into the distribution with added force by the pumping station. The CMC engineer said that the existing storage capacity in the booster pumping station was commissioned with the hope that treated water would reach all households in the area. A Nayabad resident said that they received good quality water in the initial days after inauguration of the booster pumping station, but within a year and half the pressure reduced. “This happened because the population growth in the area exceeded expectation and the storage capacity at the Mukundapur booster pumping station was not enough to supply the demand of the increasing population,” said the CMC engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission online programme to celebrate patriot||The values that Netaji stood for need to be celebrated and that will be a tribute to the patriot, said the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama Narendrapur, Swami Sarvalokananda, while addressing students, parents and teachers at a programme to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “There is an ongoing research on whether India would have gained independence sooner or later had Netaji been alive… I think in the current situation, instead of going into these complexities, what will be more important is if we could nurture Netaji’s values of courage, honesty and patriotism and take India ahead,” said Swami Sarvalokananda. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya organised the programme that was streamed on the school’s YouTube channel on Saturday evening. On Netaji’s birthday, one should not stop by only garlanding him and expressing respect for some time. “That is not how it should be... Given our country’s situation, it has been noticed that patriotism has sunk to the bottom... We have forgotten to love our country… and whatever unpleasant is happening is primarily because we have forgotten to respect our motherland,” Swami Sarvalokananda said. He said that Netaji had got his values of patriotism from Swami Vivekananda. Swami Sarvalokananda later told Metro that “there is a difference in the brand of politics that Netaji practised and that of today’s”. “During Netaji’s time the country came before self,” he said. The one-and-half-hour programme included songs, recitation, speeches and episodes from Netaji’s life by students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya. Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Bengal’s chief secretary, and Jayanta Ghoshal, the state government’s information and development officer, were the keynote speakers. “To celebrate this day despite it being an online programme we wanted to engage students and not just today, we will have celebrations round the year. The students need to imbibe the values that Netaji stood for,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya, the headmaster of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya. Around 500 men, women and children donned their running shoes and hit the streets of New Town on a wintry Saturday morning. The Newtown Green Run 2021 was organised by Hidco and Sports Development Foundation in association with West Bengal Athletic Association to mark Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. The run was flagged off at Eco Park by Debasis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, table tennis player Subhajit Saha and Olympian and shooting coach Joydeep Karmakar. Participants ran down the ring road behind Eco Park, parallel to the 112-acre water body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Calcutta||Coronavirus outbreak: consent form for Covaxin recipients||Recipients of Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, would have to sign informed consent forms before they are administered the vaccine, the Centre informed officials of the state health department on Saturday. The state health department or the vaccinating site has to call the person after seven days and again after 28 days to enquire about the person’s health. The recipient must also fill up a form if they experience any serious events after receiving Covaxin, said Ajay Chakraborty, the director of state health services. Simultaneously, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday that Bengal would be among seven new states that would begin administering Covaxin next week in addition to 12 states that started administering the vaccine last week. Till now Bengal had been administering only the Covishield vaccine, which is developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. India has vaccinated 15.37 lakh healthcare workers since the nationwide campaign started on January 16. Bengal received its first batch of 1.6 lakh Covaxin doses on Friday. During a video conference on Saturday, the state health department officials were told by officials of the health ministry that recipients of Covaxin must give a written consent that they have agreed to take the home-grown vaccine. There is no such requirement for administering Covishield, manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The state has received 13.88 lakh doses of Covishield and is administering the vaccine to all healthcare workers. Senior officials of the state health department held a meeting among themselves on Friday where many raised concerns what would happen if recipients refused to be administered Covaxin doses. During Saturday’s video conference, officials of health ministry told the state officials that there was no possibility of taking back the Covaxin doses. “The Centre will send us a consent form where recipients have to sign before they are administered the vaccine. They will give their informed consent before they are inoculated with Covaxin,” said Chakraborty, the state health services director. He said the consent was required since full data of phase-III trial of Covaxin is still not available. “There would have been no requirement of a consent form if phase-III trial results were available. But this is just an added precautionary measure. Covaxin has passed the safety trial and there is no reason to be afraid. The vaccine has been prepared using a time tested technology, which is using an inactivated virus,” he added. State health department officials did not have clarity on the content of the consent form till Saturday. The fact sheet supplied with Covaxin — which contains general information about the vaccine — mentions that the vaccine is undergoing efficacy trials. “A phase III efficacy study is ongoing in 25,800 participants and administered with first dose of vaccination with Covaxin, no vaccine related adverse events were observed”. Chakraborty added that the phase-III trial results of Covaxin will be available only after at least another three of four months. “But we cannot solely depend on Covishield because that will slow down the vaccination programme,” he said. Dipyaman Ganguly, an immunologist with the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, explained the three phases of trial. “The phase I trial assessed whether the vaccine is safe to administer to a person. In case of Covaxin, phase II trial only assessed if the vaccine generated immune response in the recipient. The phase III trial will assess whether the vaccine has efficacy in preventing the disease for a considerable period of time,” he said. The Covaxin fact sheet also mention that those with fever or severe infection, pregnant and lactating mothers, individuals below 18 years and those who are sensitive to the ingredients of the vaccine should not take it. “Covaxin should be administered as two doses on Day 0 and Day 28,” the fact sheet added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
24-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: real estate hopes for a boost||Budget 2021 is expected to lay key emphasis on the real estate sector. Home buyers and developers are looking for a higher tax relief to spur demand. The cap of Rs 2 lakh on housing loan interest under income tax deductions should be extended up to Rs 5 lakh. Experts feel the government should relax the fundraising norms and ensure the implementation of alternate investment funds to ensure enough liquidity for the sector. More importantly, the government should incentivise the private sector to invest in affordable housing. Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, NAREDCO, said: “To promote rental housing the deduction of 30 per cent from the annual rental income (for purpose of maintenance) should be increased to 50 per cent.” Industry body CII has called for a special focus on low-cost housing and an extension of the interest subvention scheme so that it can cover total housing cost of up to Rs 35 lakh. There has also been demand to raise allocation under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) from the Rs 27,500 crore allocated in the Union Budget 2020-21 to ensure every Indian has a home in the near future. “To provide relief to stressed homebuyers, funds could also be set aside for the National Building Construction Corporation to complete stalled projects which have been stuck due to fund shortage. This would boost consumer sentiment and rev up the demand cycle. There could be a provision to recover the costs involved once the project is completed,” said CII in its proposal. The industry body has also called for increase in the rebate on housing loan to help boost demand for housing and push construction activity. While the rebate of interest paid on housing loan (for self-use) has not been revised since 2014 when it was raised to Rs 2 lakh from Rs 1.5 lakh, CII has called for an upward revision given the rise in the capital value of houses. Sharad Mittal, Director and CEO of Motilal Oswal Real Estate, said in a note that residential real estate witnessed a strong recovery in the current financial year owing to low interest rates, pent-up demand, developer discounts and temporary stamp duty waivers. "Over the last six months, residential real estate has witnessed a strong recovery wherein almost all top cities are clocking record sales as compared to previous years. Customers and investors who had stayed away from residential real estate over the last 4 to 5 years are returning to the sector. Return of this lost demand is imperative to the revival of residential real estate, which has been going through several challenges over the last 4 to 5 years due to a spate of regulatory reforms and funding crises," Mittal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||UltraTech net profit goes up two-fold in the December quarter of 2020||Aditya Birla group firm UltraTech Cement on Saturday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,584.58 crore in the December quarter of 2020. The leading cement producer had posted a net profit of Rs 711.17 crore in the October-December quarter a year ago. Its revenue from operations stood at Rs 12,254.12 crore, up 17.38 per cent, during the quarter under review from Rs 10,439.34 crore a year ago. UltraTech Cement’s total expenses were at Rs 10,190.03 crore against Rs 9,611.08 crore, down 6.29 per cent. During the quarter, its volumes rose 14 per cent to 22.82 million tonnes, it said. “Recovery from Covid-19 led to the disruption of the economy. This has been fuelled by quicker demand stabilisation, supply-side restoration and greater cost efficiencies,” UltraTech Cement said in a post-earning statement. While rural and semi-urban housing continues to drive growth, pick-up in government-led infrastructure aided incremental cement demand. “Pent-up urban demand is expected to improve with the gradual return of the migrant workforce,” it added. Though fuel prices have increased in recent months, operational efficiencies and tight control over costs are reflected in the company’s 26 per cent operating margin. “Focus on reducing debt continues. Net debt reduction during Q3 of FY21 was Rs 2,696 crore and year-to-date, it was Rs 7,424 crore,” it said. During the quarter, UltraTech’s board approved a capex of Rs 5,477 crore towards increasing capacity by 12.8 mtpa (million tonnes per annum) with a mix of - brownfield and greenfield expansion - in the fast-growing markets of the east, central and north regions of the country. “This expansion is in addition to the company’s 6.7 mtpa capacity addition that is currently underway in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar and Bengal, which has picked up the pace and is expected to get commissioned by financial year 2022, in a phased manner,” it said. After completion, UltraTech’s capacity will grow to 136.25 mtpa, reinforcing its position as the third-largest cement company in the world, outside of China. Over the outlook, the company said: “With strong rural growth, revival in manufacturing sentiment, buoyancy in GST and tax collections, UltraTech expects demand to grow on the back of the government's push on infrastructure projects.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||Coal India seeks offtake plan||Coal India on Saturday said power plants need to inform the subsidiaries of the miner their programme for fuel sourcing to avoid any shortage during peak demand. The peak power demand, which is the highest supply in a day, reached a record 187.3GW on January 22, 2021, surpassing the previous high of 185.82GW on January 20. “If this continues, we could expect our supplies to the power sector going up. Power plants need to submit a programme to avoid any shortage as demand has started peaking,” said a senior CIL official. Of the 3.906 billion units (BU) generated, coal fired generation accounted for 3.072 billion units. The average coal-based power generation per day was 2.795 BU till January 22, which breached the 3BU mark on Friday morning. This increased power demand has prompted the public sector miner to ask power plants to programme their offtake. Around 63 million tonnes of coal is stocked up at the pitheads, which Coal India officials said would help in meeting any surge in demand of the dry fuel. The public sector miner is focussing to ramp up its supplies to pithead-based power plants. Coal transportation cost to pithead-based power plants is comparably lower than plants at longer distances, making the landed cost of coal lower. Coal India’s offtake to the power sector was 117.8mt during the third quarter ended December 2020, against 116.07mt in the corresponding period a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||Birla Corporation Ltd posts 82% jump in net profit||Birla Corporation Ltd posted an 82.1 per cent jump in  net profit for the third quarter compared with the same period last year even as it could not maintain the profit and the margin recorded in the preceding three months. Net profit of the Harsh Vardhan Lodha managed company stood at Rs 148.42 crore compared with Rs 81.49 crore in the third quarter of the previous fiscal and Rs 166.62 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal. Birla Corp attributed the sequential deceleration to the cost push. “In the December quarter, the company witnessed an increase in raw material, power and fuel costs. Also, cement prices remained relatively weaker in the quarter compared with the preceding three months and together they led to the softening of EBIDTA per tonne on a sequential basis,” it said in a note. Revenue grew 5 per cent year-on-year to Rs 1,822.82 crore from Rs 1,735.39 crore. The revenue was Rs 1,675.41 crore in the preceding quarter. Cement sales by volume stood at 3.55 million tonnes, representing capacity utilisation of 92 per cent compared with 88 per cent in the corresponding period last year. Birla Corp said it tackled the cost push by reducing operational and borrowing costs and increasing the sale of premium cement. The overall borrowing cost came down to 7.82 per cent for the December quarter from 9.26 per cent last year. Despite drawing Rs 732 crore on account of the Mukutban project, the company’s gross debt stood at Rs 4,099 crore compared with Rs 4,172 crore a year earlier. Birla Corp said the 3.9-million-tonne capacity of the Mukutban plant in Maharashtra would be commissioned in the third quarter of the next fiscal. By focusing on independent home builders, sales of premium cement in the in the December quarter were up 29 per cent by volume and accounted for 53 per cent of the sales through the more profitable trade or retail channel. It also maintained its sales of high-yielding blended cement at 91 per cent in the December quarter. The jute division also made cash profit in the third quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||Business||Sitharaman launches the 'Union Budget Mobile App'||The countdown for the Union Budget 2021, to be presented on February 1, began with the traditional ‘Halwa ceremony’ in the North Block on Saturday. A customary Halwa ceremony is performed every year before the “lock-in” process of the budget preparation begins. However, this year the budget documents will not be printed but will be uploaded on a website. This would be the first time since Independence that the budget documents and the Economic Survey, to be tabled on January 29, would not be printed. However, to upload the documents, 30 to 40 finance ministry officials would be required to stay at the North Block compared with other years when over 100 officials would stay inside the basement of the North Block where the press is located. On the occasion, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman launched the “Union Budget Mobile App” for access to budget documents by members of Parliament (MPs) and the general public. The general feeling among experts this year is that the budget should focus on demand side issues as the government has been busy fixing supply side concerns since March 2020 when the pandemic began to pummel the economy. “It is high time to change gears and focus on the demand side as well, lest the ongoing recovery begins to lose steam. There is nothing wrong in addressing the supply-side issues, as it was necessary to augment the broken supply chains. But, lack of adequate demand may jeopardise the recovery and may even lead to a second-round impact,” Sunil Kumar Sinha of India Ratings warned in a note. Sinha warned that even if the supply-side bottlenecks get restored on account of various government/RBI measures it may soon run into difficulties due to the lack of adequate demand for goods and services. “The economy has shown some green shoots with several high frequency indicators reaching the pre-pandemic level of production, bolstered by a combination of festive/pent-up demand. But, after two consecutive months of positive growth, the factory output contracted in November, showing the fragility of the recovery. Therefore an appropriate demand-side measure therefore is as important as supply-side measures,” he said. Expecting the Budget, to be tabled on February 1, to focus on boosting aggregate demand, expenditure reprioritisation and mobilising higher non-tax revenue, Sinha lists the following priorities. During this period of isolation, the officials are not allowed to contact their families through phone or any other form of communication, such as e-mail, texts. Only very senior officials in the finance ministry are permitted to go home. Mobile phone jammers are installed to block phone calls. Internet connections of staff and senior officials are cut. Phone calls made through landlines installed are closely monitored. They will only emerge once the Finance Minister presents the Budget in Parliament. During the "lock in" period, visitors are normally not allowed in the North Block, and if permitted, they are escorted by security personnel to the officer they wish to visit. Departments, which deal with taxation policies and which form the heart of the budget-making exercise, are kept under strict armed guard. A team of senior intelligence bureau officials keep watch on the denizens of the North Block and their visitors as well as on the regular security personnel. Corporate lobbyists usually target the officers of the Central Board of Direct Taxes and the Central Board of Excise and Customs who work on the complicated number crunching and tax structure. Cyber security and spyware ensures there is no eavesdropping. Indications are that Bahi khata, the red bag reminiscence of the traditional account books, would give way to the laptop, symbolism of new digital India. She had in 2019 July discarded the colonial legacy of carrying the budget documents in a briefcase. The word ‘budget’ has its origin in the French word Bougette, which means leather briefcase. Sitharaman also launched the “Union Budget Mobile App” for hassle-free access of Budget documents by Members of Parliament (MPs) and the general public. “The mobile App facilitates complete access to 14 Union Budget documents, including the Annual Financial Statement (commonly known as Budget), Demand for Grants (DG), Finance Bill etc. as prescribed by the Constitution,” a finance ministry release said. The Budget documents will be available on the Mobile App after the completion of the Budget Speech by the Finance Minister in the Parliament. “The App has a user-friendly interface with embedded features of downloading, printing, search, zoom in and out, bidirectional scrolling, table of contents and external links, etc. It is bilingual (English & Hindi) and will be available on both Android and iOS platforms,” the official release said. The App can also be downloaded from the Union Budget Web Portal (www.indiabudget.gov.in) and has been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) under the guidance of the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA). The Budget for FY22 will come against the backdrop of an economic contraction of 7.7 per cent, the first time in the history of independent India. So, all stakeholders have great expectations from the upcoming Budget, which could provide a healing touch to the pandemic-battered economy and push growth. Even the Finance Minister last month promised a ''never before'' like Union Budget to the people of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
24-01-2021||India||PM Modi: need to defeat ‘network of lies’ COVID-19 vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday stressed that the Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the COVID-19 vaccine and “now we have to fulfil ours” by defeating lies and rumours related to the vaccination programme by spreading the right information. Addressing tribal guests, National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets, National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers and tableaux artists who would be a part of the upcoming Republic Day parade, Modi said such youth organisations have always played a role in dealing with challenging times. “In COVID times also, the work done by you is laudable. When the government and administration needed it, you came forward as volunteers and provided help,” he said at the At Home’ event. “Whether it was spreading awareness about the Aarogya Setu App or coronavirus infection spread, the work done by you was praiseworthy,” Modi said. The prime minister said the youths should now step forward to assist in the COVID-19 vaccination programme by providing the right information to the people. “You need to take it to the next level now. Your reach is in all parts of society. I request you to come forward to help the country with the COVID-19 vaccination programme. You have to provide the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public,” Modi said. “Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the coronavirus vaccine and now we have to fulfil ours. We have to defeat every network spreading lies and rumours with the right information,” Modi said. He also mentioned that India will achieve self-reliance by the actions of the youth who have to be armed with necessary skills. “India will not become ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) just by somebody saying so, it will become so by the actions of youths like you. You will be able to do this better when you will have the necessary skill set,” Modi said. Realising the importance of this, the ministry of skill development was formed when his government came in 2014 and more than 5.5 crore youths have been given training for different skills till now, Modi said. Under the skill development programme, not just training, but also help is being provided for self-employment and employment, the prime minister said. The aim is that the youths in India get new employment opportunities based on their skill sets, Modi said. This focus on skill development is evident in the new National Education Policy where the application of knowledge is stressed upon, he said, adding that flexibility in choosing subjects is a key aspect of the policy. The policy marks the first serious effort to bring vocation education into the mainstream of education, Modi said. From class six onwards, students will have the option of selecting a course in line with their interests and local needs and business, he said. Later at the middle level also, an integration of academic and vocational subjects are proposed, the prime minister pointed out. Modi told his young guests that India is an embodiment of the collective strength of the aspirations of its countrymen. He said India means “many states-one nation, many communities -one emotion, many paths-one goal, many customs-one value, many languages-one expression and many colours-one tricolor”. Modi appealed to the young guests from various parts of the country to work towards raising awareness about each other's customs, cuisine, languages and art. The prime minister said that ‘Ek Bharat-Shreshth Bharat’ sentiment will give strength to the local for vocal movement. “When one region will feel pride in the product of the other region and will promote it, only then the local product will have a national and global reach. The success of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘Aatamnirbhar Abhiyan’ is dependent on our youth,” Modi said. The prime minister said the participation of the tribal guests, artists and the NSS and NCC cadets in the Republic Day Parade fills every citizen with energy and their display of the country's rich diversity evokes a feeling of pride. The Republic Day Parade is a tribute to India’s great socio-cultural heritage and to the Constitution that gives life to the world’s biggest democracy, Modi said. He noted that this year India enters the 75th year of independence, celebrates the 400th Prakash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur and also marks the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “These events inspire us to rededicate ourselves to the cause of the country,” the prime minister said. Union Ministers Rajnath Singh, Arjun Munda, Kiren Rijuju and Renuka Singh Saruta were among those present. “Today, very special people came to 7, Lok Kalyan Marg. Had a wonderful interaction with NCC Cadets, NSS Volunteers, Tableaux Artists and youngsters from tribal communities,” the prime minister tweeted after the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||Many ‘khaps’ from Haryana to join farmers’ R-Day tractor parade in Delhi||Several khap panchayats have decided to join the proposed farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. Over thousands of tractors have been spotted leaving various caste councils’ villages for the national capital on Sunday. About 1,500 tractors from villages under the Kandela khap set out on Sunday for the ‘tractor parade’ in Delhi, Khap head Tekram Kandela informed. “We have started from Jind. We will be proceeding in a peaceful and orderly manner and follow the route allotted by the authorities for the parade,” Kandela said. The Kandela khap, which had spearheaded a farmers’ agitation in Haryana nearly two decades ago, has lent its support to farmers against the new farm laws. It’s not just Kandela, several other khaps’ too have extended their support for the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Tekram Kandela maintained that his Kandela khap had recently adopted four resolutions at a khap panchayat for repealing the three farm laws, giving a legal guarantee of crop MSP, waiving the farm loans and implementing the Swaminathan Commission recommendations. Independent MLA from Dadri in Haryana, Sombir Sangwan, who also heads the Sangwan khap said thousands of farmers in their tractors were starting for various border points of Delhi to take part in the ‘tractor parade’. Sangwan said about 200 ‘khaps’ from Haryana and elsewhere have lent their support to make the ‘tractor parade’ a success. “Several khaps are taking part in the tractor parade. They are actively involved and farmers have their full support,” he said. Sangwan, who recently withdrew his support from the Khattar government over farmers’ issue, said, “The Centre should repeal the laws and agree to the farmers demands.” Apart from Punjab, thousands of farmers from Haryana on Sunday set out in their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles to take part in the proposed tractor parade. In addition to the flag of their farmers’ union, many tractors were sporting large-size national flags too. A few villages in Jind, Kurukshetra and some other districts have said farmers of their villages would cover any loss caused by damage to tractors while they participate in the ‘tractor parade’. Thousands of tractors were seen on Haryana’s highways on Sunday as a large number of farmers from Punjab are also on their way to Delhi's border points to take part in the tractor rally. A 71-year-old Ludhiana resident, Mahender Singh, also known as ‘marathon man’, was seen on Saturday marching on the Patiala-Jind national highway on his way to Tikri border protest site. “I am a common man, but I thought if we don’t raise our voice today, then coming generations will curse us. We have to put pressure on the government to repeal the farm laws,” Singh told reporters, while on the march with a ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ poster. I have told my family that I will return only after these laws are repealed, said Singh. With various groups of farmers taking breaks at various places on way to Delhi, volunteers served tea and eatables to them. Serving tea to farmers since Sunday morning, a volunteer in Bahadurgarh said thousands of farmers with tractors were reaching for the tractor parade. Many farmers’ leaders said the proposed tractor parade would be massive. There would be few lakh tractors in this parade, but I cannot give any estimate as still so many are starting from their villages, he said. The farmer unions protesting the Centre’s farm laws had said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on the Republic Day. Earlier, at many places in Punjab and Haryana, tractor marches were taken out to mobilise more people for the tractor parade. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi's borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. They claim that the new laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre says the MSP system will remain and the new laws only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||300 Twitter handles generated in Pak  to disrupt tractor parade: Delhi police||On Sunday Delhi Police while granting permission to the protesting farmers to go ahead with the proposed tractor rally, claimed to have identified over 300 Twitter handles that have been generated from Pakistan to disrupt the tractor rally proposed by protesting farmers on Republic Day. Detailing the plan for the tractor parade, Deependra Pathak, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) mentioned that the Tuesday rally will be conducted amid tight security after the Republic Day celebrations conclude. While addressing a press conference, Pathak said, “Over 300 twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan during January 13 to 18 to disrupt the farmers’ tractor rally by misleading people. There are inputs about the same from different agencies too. It will be a challenging task for us but the rally will be conducted amid tight security after the Republic Day parade is over.” Since November last year, farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the Centre’s three new agriculture laws at several Delhi border points, including Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, demanding that the legislations be repealed. While police tried to convince the farmer leaders to hold their tractor parade outside the national capital, they were adamant on holding it on Delhi’s busy Outer Ring Road. It was during the fourth round of meeting which was held on Friday, between the farmer unions and police officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, that both the sides reached an agreement. However, with the Delhi Police giving permission for the Kisan tractor rally despite underlining the possibility of Pakistan disrupting the proposed rally, more batches of farmers from Punjab on Sunday set out for Delhi to participate in the tractor parade on January 26. A batch of 500 tractors-trolleys left Amritsar and several groups of growers from Phagwara, Hoshiarpur and other places of Punjab moved towards the national capital to take part in the tractor parade, farmer leaders claimed. Kisan Sangharsh Union leader Baldev Singh Verka in Amritsar said, “Today as many as 500 more tractor trolleys left for Delhi to join the tractor parade. Each tractor-trolley will carry 20 persons along with bedding and eating arrangement for a fourteen hour-long journey to Delhi.” According to Gurbachan Singh Chabba, spokesperson of the Kisan Sangarsh Committee around 12,000 tractors and trolleys had already left Amritsar and Tarn districts. While most of the tractor convoys from Doaba region had left for Delhi on Friday and Saturday, many left on Sunday also to take part in the tractor parade, said Satnam Singh Sahni, General Secretary Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba). Sahni, who returned here from Delhi's Singhu border on Saturday night to further mobilise farmers for the parade, maintained that a total of around 10,000 tractors from Doaba region will be joining the parade to highlight the agitating farmers’ demands and the "stubborn" attitude of the central government towards them. “It will also be a show of strength by farmers and farm workers,” said Sahni. Arrangements for ‘langar’ have been made at several places on the national highway for the farmers travelling to the national capital. A sea of tractors could be seen on the highway as they carried the Tricolour and flag of farmers’ unions. The protesting farmers claim that the new farm laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre has assured that the MSP system would remain while the new laws would only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Sign language: connecting participants of R-Day camp||A form of talking to one another, just without the voice. Sign language has worked as a bridge of communication for not only people with hearing and speech disabilities over the years, but also for those who can speak and hear, at a time when masks have hidden facial expressions and social distancing is the new normal. To honour its potential, the language of hand gestures will be used by various contingents at this year’s Republic Day Parade in New Delhi, along with Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil, Ladakhi, Assamese and other such Indian languages. A group of 12 youngsters from the Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre (ISLRTC), in their matching blue uniforms, can be seen interacting with each other and with members of other tableaux contingents on the premises of the camp at Delhi Cantonment. Delhi-based ISLRTC, under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, conducts courses for developing Indian sign languages interpreters and teachers and provides interpretation services for various events. "This year, the ministry's tableau will represent our institution and all the boys and girls who are part of it are very excited. They may not be able to tell that verbally, but through non-verbal gestures they have conveyed their joy," said Shavita Sharma of the institution. While craftsmen are giving finishing touches to the ISLRTC's tableau, which has huge models of a few hands folded in interpretive gestures, letters and other elements, its members are using the camp time to bond with others, transcending all linguistic barriers. The theme of the tableau is 'Bharatiya Sanketik Bhasha: Ek Rashtra, Ek Sanketik Bhasha'. Pankaj Kumar, who hails from Dholpur Rajasthan, was doing his course at ISLRTC online due to Covid-19 restrictions and was happy to physically attend the camp and experience the country's diversity in one place. Gargi, 21, who has finished a course in D.Ed (Hearing Impairment), helps him and others with hearing disabilities in communicating with people who can hear. "I am getting trained at the institute and it's a very different experience, sometimes the language is not that we can hear, but we can feel. We may speak a language very fluently, but the society also needs a language of empathy for people with any disability," she said. Gargi, even while interacting with staff at the camp canteen, uses sign language along with verbal communication. She is getting trained in sign language by persons with hearing disability at the institute. "It's also my language now and I am proud of it. Gestures speak when words fail," she told PTI. Sharma of the ISLRTC said due to COVID-19 everyone is wearing a mask and so it is difficult for those with hearing disabilities to communicate as "they can't see facial expressions". "So, at many places outside, transparent masks were introduced so they could understand and interpret the lips movement and facial expressions," she said. The camp has a diverse set of contingents and at times language becomes a barrier between people from different regions of the country when it comes to communicating thoughts. "But sign language is universal. Two deaf persons from foreign countries can immediately talk to each other, but say an Indian and a Chinese person may need help of an interpreter. And even members of other states and other tableaux contingents have bonded with our students, especially the CRPF personnel, who also sometimes use non-verbal communication," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||EC to launch downloadable e-version of voter card on Monday||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will on Monday launch the electronic version of the voter identity card which can be downloaded on a mobile phone or a personal computer. The e-elector photo identity card is a non-editable digital version of the elector photo identity card and it can be saved in facilities such as digital locker and can be printed in the PDF format, Election Commission officials said. "Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch the e-EPIC programme and distribute e-EPICs and Elector Photo Identity Cards to five new voters," a Commission statement said on Sunday. The physical card takes time to print and reach the voter, and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document, the statement said. The Aadhaar card, Permanent Account Number (PAN) card and driving licence are available in digital mode. Introduced in 1993, the elector photo identity cards are acceptable as proof of identity and address. The e-version of the voter card is being launched to mark the anniversary of the Election Commission. The EC came into being on January 25, 1950, a day before India became a republic. For the past few years, January 25 is also observed as National Voters' Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Maharashtra farmers mobilise to reach Mumbai for rally||Thousands of farmers from different districts of Maharashtra have started their journey to state capital Mumbai, to participate in a rally at the Azad Maidan in Mumbai on Monday against the Centre’s three new farm laws. The All India Kisan Sabha’s (AIKS) Maharashtra unit in a statement said around 15,000 farmers set out for the state capital from Nashik on Saturday in several tempos and other vehicles. On Monday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and some other prominent leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the state will address the rally, the release said. Police have stepped up security at the venue in south Mumbai and personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have also been deployed there. Drones will also be used to keep an eye on the event, a police official said. The state Congress unit, which is an ally of the MVA, has already extended its support to the protest. Farmers from various places gathered in Nashik and left from there on Saturday. Many peasants also joined them on the way, the AIKS said. They halted at Ghatandevi near Igatpuri hill town for overnight stay. On Sunday morning, a number of peasants marched down the Kasara Ghat to head for Mumbai, while many left in vehicles. “The rally is being held to support and expand the two-month-long farmers' struggle in Delhi for a repeal of the three farm laws and for a central law to guarantee a remunerative Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement all over the country,” the statement said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a pro-farmer body, has given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans (governor houses) in states. Accordingly, over 100 organisations came together and formed the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), Maharashtra, in a meeting held in Mumbai on January 12. The SSKM has called for a joint sit-in at the Azad Maidan here from January 24 to 26. On January 25, there will be a public meeting at 11 am, the release said. Besides NCP chief Pawar, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, and Shiv Sena leader and state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray will also address the rally, it said. Later, the protesters will march to the Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to Governor B S Koshyari. The main demands of the protesters include repeal of the three "anti-farmer" laws, and a central law guaranteeing remunerative MSP and procurement, the release said. The protesters have also decided to hoist the national flag at the Azad Maidan on the occasion of the Republic day on January 26, and take a pledge to make the struggle of peasants and workers successful, it added. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up at the venue ahead of the rally, a police official said. Apart from personnel of the Mumbai Police, nine platoons of the SRPF are being deployed at the Azad Maidan, he said, adding that drones will also be used. Additional police force, including 100 officers and 500 constables, will also be deployed at the venue, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||BJP committed to protect culture, language of Assamese communities, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that the Bodoland Territorial Region Accord (BTR), inked a year ago, has initiated the process of ending insurgency in the northeast. Political rights, culture and language of all communities of Assam are secure under the BJP government, he insisted. "The prime minister was in Assam on Saturday, and he distributed land pattas (certificates) to more than one lakh indigenous people. The state government has already made Bodo the associate language of Assam. "Several measures have been taken to protect, preserve and promote the rich culture, language and heritage of all communities of the state," the Union minister said. Only the BJP, under the leadership of Narendra Modi, can make Assam corruption-free, terrorism-free and pollution- free, Shah maintained. Attacking the Congress, Shah said that the grand old party had signed many agreements with different militant outfits in the past, but failed to keep the promises it made.  "I have come here to iterate that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP are committed to fulfil the clauses of the BTR Accord, which will pave the way for peace and development in the region. It marks the beginning of the end of insurgency in the region. "As the Home Minister, and a representative of the prime minister, I assure you all that the region (Bodoland) that once witnessed killings, kidnappings and violence will emerge as the most developed part of Assam," Shah said. The Congress, during its rule, could not quell violence and bring peace, "but it would not refrain from giving us advice", the top BJP leader said during his address here on the occasion of BTR Accord Day. "I want to ask the Congress what did it do during its tenure to bring peace and development? The PM (Modi) makes promises and fulfils it. We have had enough of violence, now it is time for peace and development," he said. In Jammu and Kashmir, "we abrogated Article 370 and Article 35(A) to end insurgency once and for all, with many expressing apprehension that it will lead to more bloodshed. "Not a single bullet was fired during the recent panchayat elections," he said. Similarly, the recent violence-free BTC polls, with 80 per cent voter turnout, has proved that those who created division and sowed poison to create rift between the Bodos and the non-Bodos have no place in the state. "The presence of all communities in today's rally is a befitting reply to the ones who had indulged in violence and bloodshed in the Bodo areas as the people here have proved that they are all children of Mother India," Shah insisted. The BTR Accord, designed to usher in peace in the region, was signed on January 27 last year by the Centre, the Assam government, all four factions of the National Democratic Front of Boroland and the then Bodoland Territorial Council chief Hagrama Mohilary. Shah also said that a package of Rs 500 crore has been sanctioned for the development of road network in the BTR. "I had assured now BTC chief Promode Bodo that all promises made in the accord and also those made verbally will be kept, as the prime minister's dream of New India and 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) Bharat cannot be realised without a new and 'atmanirbhar' Bodoland, he said. He exuded confidence that the saffron party will comfortably win the assembly polls. "Now that the United Peoples' Party Liberal (UPPL) has become a part of NDA, we are sure that we will win the Assam assembly polls with a thumping majority. The BTC polls were a trailer ... I have come to appeal to you that just as we were made victorious during the semi-final, we must be triumphant in the final too," he said. Listing the steps taken so far in accordance with the Bodo accord clauses, the Union minister said a committee has been formed to survey tribal-dominated areas, and the number of seats in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) has been increased to 60. A Bodo kachari welfare council has also been constituted for the benefit of people from the community who do not live anywhere near BTR, he said. Shah also recalled that shortly after the Bodo Accord was inked, another Bru-Reang Agreement was signed, with 700 people from eight militant outfits depositing their arms and ammunition, and stressed that "these are the initiatives that will take us forward on the path of development". He distributed rehabilitation packages among a section of surrendered militants during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||India administers one million Covid-19 vaccines in six days||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday claimed that India took just six days to administer one million Covid-19 vaccine doses as the number of beneficiaries who have received the anti-coronavirus shots inched close to 16 lakh. The count is higher than that of richer and more developed countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry said. “As on January 24, till 8 am, nearly 16 lakh (15,82,201) beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccination.In a span of 24 hours, close to 2 lakh (1,91,609) people were vaccinated across 3,512 sessions. A total of 27,920 sessions have been conducted so far,” it said. India took only six days to roll out one million vaccine doses. This count is higher than countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry highlighted. In a testament to the successful test-track-treat-technology strategy, India continues on its steady trajectory of reporting a sustained downfall in the daily new cases and consequential decline in the active cases, the ministry underlined. India’s active cases on Sunday stood at 1,84,408 which comprises 1.73 per cent of the total cases. With 15,948 recovered cases in a span of 24 hours, a net decline of 1,254 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload during the same period. Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal account for 75 per cent of the total active cases in the country. The total recovered cases have surged to 10,316,786, the ministry said adding 84.30 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,283 recoveries. Maharashtra follows with 3,694 new recoveries. The ministry said that 80.67 per cent of the 14,849 new Covid-19 cases recorded in a span of 24 hours are concentrated in six states and UTs. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 6,960 in a day. Maharashtra has recorded 2,697 new cases while Karnataka registered 902 new cases yesterday. Seven states and UTs account for 79.35 per cent of the 155 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra reported 56 deaths. Kerala and Delhi follow with 23 and 10 new deaths, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||CBSE to restructure affiliation system||Officials of the CBSE said that the board is restructuring the affiliation system for schools and making the process completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention. The new system of the Central Board of Secondary Education will be introduced from March 1, as per various recommendations for systemic reforms laid down in the new National Education Policy (NEP). “The board is restructuring the affiliation system and process as per recommendations of education reforms in the NEP. Although the CBSE affiliation system has been online since 2006, the restructured system will be completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention,” CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said. “The restructuring will help in establishing ease of doing business in the CBSE affiliation system, attaining the goal of minimum government, maximum governance, automated and data driven decisions, achieve transparency, bring more accountability in the entire systemic processes and achieve quick and time-bound disposal of all applications,” he added. Tripathi said the board will soon come out with detailed guidelines on the restructured system. “A detailed document on the CBSE affiliation system containing the restructured online procedure for affiliation, documents required for affiliation application, modalities and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for inspection, guidelines for the inspection committee, videos for various processes, will be released soon,” he said. The board has also revised timelines for the application process as per the restructured system. As per the revised timeline, every year the application window for fresh affiliation and upgradation of affiliation will open three times -March 1 to 31, June 1 to 30 and September 1 to 30. “The application for extension of affiliation will be accepted from March 1 to May 31 every year. Other applications such as those for additional subjects, section increase, change of name of school, change of society or trust, will be accepted through the year,” Tripathi said. Procuring digital signatures of a school from authorised service provider or AADHAAR-based signatures; uploading mandatory documents such as no objection certificate, land certificate, safety certificate and certificate by district education officer, are among the prerequisites for application for affiliation. “After the online submission of application, details submitted by the school will be analysed in accordance with the CBSE by-laws and inspection committee will be constituted immediately for the purpose of inspection. Schools will be able to get inspection done on any of the dates mentioned in the letter,” he said. The CBSE had introduced a facility for virtual inspection of schools for upgradation of affiliation in August last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board is also in the process of setting up a facilitation centre to address queries, and problems of schools and inspection committees related to the virtual inspection. The board had revamped its norms in 2018 for granting affiliation to schools, leaving the onus of the infrastructural audit on states and limiting its own role to academic quality monitoring. The CBSE has 24,930 schools affiliated to it across the country and abroad, with over 2 crore students and more than 10 lakh teachers. The affiliation by-laws were formulated in the year 1998.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||India, China hold ninth round of talks on border situation at eastern Ladakh||The Indian and Chinese Armies on Sunday held the ninth round of  Corps Commander-level talks, after a gap of nearly three months, sources said. The talks were aimed at moving forward on disengagement of troops from all friction points in eastern Ladakh. This round of military talks began at 10 am at Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6, during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. The Indian delegation at talks is being led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. The seventh round of Corps Commander-level talks had taken place on October 12 during which China was pressing for withdrawal of Indian troops from a number of strategic heights around the Southern bank of Pangong lake. However, India insisted that the disengagement process has to start simultaneously at all the friction points. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. However, no concrete outcome emerged from the talks. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. In an interview to Times Now, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had on Friday said India will not reduce the troops at the border unless China initiates the process. He said the country is developing its border infrastructure, some of which has been objected to by China, at a “very fast rate”. However, he expressed confidence that the situation can be brought under control through talks. When asked about the dialogue process to disengage troops, Singh had replied, “There is no deadline when it comes to matter like the ongoing standoff. You can't fix a date. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Modi, Shah, ministers salute ‘Desh Ki Beti’ on National Girl Child Day||The central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on National Girl Child Day on Sunday. India celebrates the National Girl Child Day, an initiative of the ministry of women and child development, every year on January 24. “On National Girl Child Day, we salute our #DeshKiBeti and the accomplishments in various fields,” Modi said in a tweet. The central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child, including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, he said. “Today is also a day to specially appreciate all those working towards empowering the girl child and ensuring she leads a life of dignity and opportunity,” the prime minister said in another tweet. Home Minister Amit Shah praised Modi for campaigns like ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’, aimed to empower girls in the country. Taking to Twitter, he said, “On Prime Minister @narendramodi’s call, 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' was made a public campaign by the country, which led to an increase in enrollment of girls in schools and unprecedented improvement in the sex ratio.” “On National Girl Child Day, we reiterate our commitment to make our #DeshKiBeti Aatmanirbhar,” he added. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani also tweeted on the occasion. Posting a picture with her two daughters, she tweeted, “My daughters are my pride who have set out onto different frontiers with determination and confidence. Give a shoutout to a #DeshKiBeti and celebrate their achievements.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Nearly 15,000 Covid-19 cases, 152 deaths in India||India's Covid-19 caseload has gone up to 1,06,54,533 with 14,849 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,03,16,786, according to the health ministry.  The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 1,53,339 with 155 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,16,786, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.83 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent.  The active Covid-19 caseload of the country remained below two lakh for the fifth consecutive day.  There are 1,84,408 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which account for 1.73 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16.  It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 19,17,66,871 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 7,81,752 on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Delhi temperature rises as dense fog shrouds capital||A thick blanket of fog shrouded Delhi on Sunday, lowering visibility to 100 metres and affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.  Dense fog reduced visibility to 200 metres at Safdarjung and 100 metres at Palam.  According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres.  Dense to moderate fog is predicted in Delhi for the next four days, the IMD said.  The city's minimum temperature, however, rose to 8.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, due to easterly winds and a cloud cover over the city, an IMD official said.  Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature.  The mercury is predicted to drop to four degrees Celsius by Tuesday as dry, icy winds have started blowing from the snow-clad western Himalayas towards the plains, the IMD official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||The business of speaking out when few others do||An industrialist has uttered in public what Arnab Goswami would hear out in private but did not dare declare from his TV pulpit. “Out of 7 crore entrepreneurs, MSMEs (micro small and medium enterprises), 30 per cent are almost dead. What is 30 per cent? 2.1 crore…. That 2.1 crore give jobs for almost 20 crore people. They are not bothered,” K.E. Raghunathan told Rahul Gandhi at an interaction in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, on Saturday. “We are seeing only the balance 60 per cent and saying ‘greenshoots’. I am seeing shooting myself as an entrepreneur. How are we progressing? What answer will I give to my children?” added Raghunathan. “You are the only voice for us. Don’t forget it,” he told Rahul. Raghunathan is the convener and spokesperson for the Consortium of Indian Associations that he said represents over 3.5 lakh industrial units. Since the lockdown was gradually eased, the Modi government has been claiming to have spied “greenshoots” of recovery on an otherwise bleak economic landscape. Few industrialists, barring Rahul Bajaj, have voiced so bluntly the concerns of industry although many businessmen and corporate chiefs are known to be candid, if not withering, in private and all praise for the government in public. The double standard was on display last week when purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV managing director Goswami and the then BARC chief Partho Dasgupta became public. In one set of chats on the eve of the 2019 general election, a purported message from Dasgupta tells Goswami: “NM/AS should first rejig finance ministry in the second term — the economy is screwed — no matter what we tell outside.” Goswami, usually quick on the draw to duel on behalf of the Modi regime, did not only not challenge Dasgupa but agreed “totally” with the ratings boss that Arun Jaitley, the then finance minister, was “their biggest failure”. In Coimbatore on Saturday, Raghunathan, who came from Chennai for the programme, did not pull any punches when his turn to speak came. “What are we witnessing today in this country? We moved from Skill India to Digital India to Make in India to Atmanirbhar now. And finally ended where? Fund India. What is Fund India? FDI… asking others to give us money,” he said, drawing applause from the rest of the audience. As high as 98 per cent of these industries are micro units, which he defined as small businesses run by groups of self-employed people with an annual turnover of less than Rs 5 crore. But today, the dreams of the start-ups are “shattered”, he said, adding: “We are losing them.” Asserting that micro industries were not on an equal footing with small and medium industries, Raghunathan said a separate ministry for micro enterprises was a must. He put in a nutshell the key problems being faced by entrepreneurs: “3M” or lack of “money, manpower and material”. “Banks are chasing us, the NBFCs (non-banking finance companies) are chasing us,” said Raghunathan. The MSMEs were left high and dry after the economy was rocked by the Covid-19 pandemic as banks were reluctant to lend to borrowers whose fortunes had turned uncertain. The Centre announced a collateral-free loan scheme for MSMEs as part of the Atmanirbhar package  and the initial plan was to limit it to 45 lakh units. Raghunathan  is basically complaining that the MSME universe has more than 7 crore establishments and the provision of collateral-free credit to 45 lakh borrowers would only scratch the surface of the problem. The MSMEs provide large-scale employment in the country and their survival is crucial to tackling unemployment  — a problem that the Modi has failed to address in the six and a half years he has been at the helm of the Union government. Raghunathan later told The Telegraph over the phone that he had taken part in the interaction “to draw the attention of the government to these burning issues”. “Rahul Gandhi is a national leader who can understand the gravity of the situation,” he said. Raghunathan, former president of the All India Manufacturers Organisation, added: “Rahul gave me a patient hearing and, during lunch, told me that he was touched by my statement. Entrepreneurs cannot cry openly, for if they did, nobody will give business. But everybody is crying today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||India, China to hold military talks on Sunday||India and China will hold the ninth round of military talks on Sunday to defuse the border standoff in eastern Ladakh, sources in the defence ministry said. The corps commander-level talks will be held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May last year. Eight rounds of military talks so far have failed to find a breakthrough.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Diversity tied to economy: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s poor understanding of the importance of diversity in India, arguing that economic growth was not possible without social harmony. In a conversation with representatives from the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore, the Congress leader said the economic slide began much before the pandemic struck, citing as reasons the demonetisation and the faulty GST rollout apart from the atmosphere of social disharmony which is not conducive for business. “You cannot have disharmony and economic growth together,” he said. Responding to a question about the “role of diversity”, Rahul said: “What will happen if somebody says you can’t speak Tamil? What will happen if somebody goes to Manipur and says you cannot follow your customs? Economic activities will cease. The foundation of economic growth in India is diversity. Without diversity, you won’t have economy. You won’t have India either. India itself is an idea of diversity.” The Congress MP explained: “The notion that the Prime Minister has that he can reduce diversity and grow faster is ignorance. It is lack of understanding. Also, lack of respect. When I come to Tamil Nadu, I view your language, your culture, your tradition as an asset. The current dispensation views this as a liability. They believe power should be centralised, that one man and one organisation should control everything.” Insisting that social harmony is an imperative for business, Rahul said: “You can see the Prime Minister came with huge announcements. What happened? What has happened to the economy, what has happened to the level of violence in the society, what has happened to creation of jobs? Harmony is the central thing. The current government has created a huge amount of disharmony.” Rahul was asked about the frequent protests in the country. He replied: “Protests are happening because there is an attempt to impose one idea, one ideology, to force this country to do what it doesn’t want to do. There is an attempt to capture institutions… we are heading in a dictatorial direction. “Instead of conversations about how to solve problems, the government thinks it can impose its views. They will soon find out this is not possible. Farmers are not listening. Tamil Nadu has questions, the Northeast has questions…. It is about style of governance. You have to talk to people with respect, kindness, love and affection.” Claiming that the GST was not a case of faulty implementation alone as it was designed to harm small businesses, Rahul said: “The government’s entire focus is on the largest players while the need of the hour is to do hand-holding of MSMEs, which is the future. We can’t compete with China without empowering the MSMEs. You talk of ‘Make in India, five big industrialists are there. Talk of telecom, defence… and the same five fellows. Now agriculture, the same people. Banks are working for 10-15 big industrialists,” Rahul said. Participants bitterly complained about the GST and the economic slide, lamenting that over 30 per cent of micro industrial units had died during the lockdown, affecting over 20 crore people. Later in the evening, interacting with industrial workers in Tirupur, Rahul alleged that the demonetisation and the faulty GST rollout were not mistakes but done on purpose to break the backbone of India’s workers and small businesses. This was a systemic and organised assault on workers, Rahul said, adding that even the inadequate response to Covid-19 was on purpose and now farmers were facing a similar fate. “Modi is an arrogant person. He does not understand the power of poor people. Our job is to make him understand the power of the poor. I can sense you don’t believe the nonsense that the Prime Minister speaks,” Rahul said. On a question about joblessness, he said: “This is because the economy is stuck, like the traffic that doesn’t move in a jam. This has happened because Modi gave thousands of crores to 10-15 largest businessmen and waived those loans instead of taking the money back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Breathless Lalu shifted to AIIMS  in Delhi||RJD chief Lalu Prasad was flown to AIIMS, New Delhi, in a chartered flight on Saturday evening after he complained of breathing discomfort caused by pneumonia. Lalu, the former Bihar chief minister who is serving a jail term in fodder scam cases, had been receiving treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) in Ranchi. After a medical team advised better care, the 72-year-old leader was flown to Delhi around 6pm, Jharkhand inspector-general of prisons Birendra Bhusan told The Telegraph. “It was on the recommendation of the eight-member medical team that we decided to shift him for better treatment to AIIMS, Delhi. He was flown to Delhi in a chartered plane, accompanied by a doctor from RIMS. Medical experts at Ranchi expect him to recover in a fortnight,” Bhusan said. Sources at RIMS, where Lalu had been undergoing treatment for more than a year, said the leader had been suffering from a kidney ailment and diabetes, and his health worsened on Friday when a bout of pneumonia caused breathing discomfort. “We constituted a medical team and decided to recommend that he be shifted to AIMS in Delhi for better treatment considering his comorbidities and age. We have sent a senior doctor from the medicine unit with him. He will accompany Lalu Prasad till his admission at AIIMS,” said RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad. Lalu had been receiving treatment at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda central jail since December 2017 after his conviction in the multi-crore fodder scam. He had been shifted to RIMS in 2018. On Friday night, Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti and younger son Tejashwi met him in Ranchi. Tejashwi, the leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, had on Friday told the media that his father’s condition was serious. He met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday with the request of facilitating better treatment in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy pens letter on plight of other undertrials ||He is 83, ill, and has spent more than 15 weeks in jail. But Father Stan Swamy’s latest letter from Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail speaks not of his sufferings but of the plight of other undertrials and how he has been deriving inspiration from their spirit of solidarity. “But we will still sing in chorus. A caged bird can still sing,” the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, who completed 100 days in custody on January 16, wrote. Father Stan, a Parkinsonism patient who cannot hold a glass of water steadily enough to drink from it, has taken the pains to write the letter in his own hand, the Bangalore-based Jesuit priest who has received it told The Telegraph. The priest, who wished to remain anonymous, said he had released the letter among fellow Jesuits, Father Stan’s supporters and the non-government National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations (NCHRO) on January 22. Father Stan had earlier too sent out two letters from jail but they had been dictated to a co-accused. These letters had revealed his travails but only to emphasise the help he was receiving from fellow prisoners. “Many of such poor undertrials don’t know what charges have been put on them, have not seen their chargesheet and just remain in prison for years without any legal or other assistance,” the letter says. “Overall, almost all undertrials are compelled to live to a bare minimum, whether rich or poor. This brings in a sense of brotherhood and communitarianism where reaching out to each other is possible even in this adversity.” Father Stan, arrested by the National Investigation Agency from his Ranchi home on October 8, stands accused with 15 other rights activists, lawyers and writers in the Bhima Koregaon case, which relates to caste violence and an alleged Maoist conspiracy. “The 16 co-accused have not been able to meet each other, as we are lodged in different jails or different ‘circles’ within the same jail,” his letter says, before adding  the line about caged birds singing. The arrest memo issued by NIA inspector Ajay Kumar Kadam against Father Stan on October 8 mentions charges under Indian Penal Code sections 153A, 505(1)(B), 117, 120B, 121, 121A, 124A and 34 as well as several sections of the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The IPC sections deal with offences ranging from sedition and waging war against the state to promoting enmity between groups, incitement and criminal conspiracy. The NIA chargesheet accuses Father Stan of being part of a plot by the banned CPI Maoist to take on the Narendra Modi government with the help of an armed militia of Dalits and Muslims. Father Stan’s supporters say he has been arrested and maligned because of his campaign for the implementation of laws Parliament has passed to safeguard tribal people’s rights. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had at a meeting with three cardinals in Delhi on January 19 refused to intervene with the NIA on behalf of the octogenarian priest. Award The NCHRO has selected Father Stan for an award conferred in honour of the late Mukundan C. Menon, journalist and founder of the human rights organisation People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The award ceremony will be held virtually on Sunday. Father Stan told the NCHRO in a letter on January 10 that the prize money of Rs 25,000 should be donated to a fund set up to meet the court expenses of all the 16 Bhima Koregaon accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Republic Day tractor parade plan inches forward ||The protesting farmers on Saturday claimed a breakthrough in talks with police over finalising routes for the kisan parade on Republic Day amid indications from Delhi cops that the tractor rally would be allowed to enter the national capital, but there was no official confirmation. The official announcement is expected to be made on Sunday once the final contours of the agreement are drawn up. Delhi police sources said the tractor rally would be permitted after the main Republic Day parade but not in New Delhi and central Delhi areas. The protesting farmers had always maintained that they only wanted to move along the Outer Ring Road, and not disrupt the main parade. From the day they announced their parade on January 2, the farmers have said that they would bring out their tractor rally only after the main parade is over. Also, the police said the farmers would have to give a written undertaking about their programme before permission is granted. Delhi police have also told farmers that medical services will be provided to them on the designated routes. Earlier, in a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the farmers’ protest against the new agriculture laws is being held — said: “In a breakthrough with police officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, SKM leaders were able to jointly finalise routes for the Kisan Republic Day Parade. Preparations are on in full swing for disciplined conduct of the same.” Some farmer union leaders said the parade would be allowed to enter Delhi from five borders and move along a route designated by Delhi police without going on to the Outer Ring Road. Essentially, the farmers and the police have met halfway with the SKM giving up the insistence on going along the Outer Ring Road if the farmers are allowed to enter Delhi on Republic Day. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha — both constituents of the SKM — said there was broad agreement on the routes and they would be made public on Sunday. The police have said the barricades at the border points to Delhi will be removed, Mollah added. Since the Supreme Court earlier this week refused to step in to take a decision on the farmers’ proposed parade, Delhi police have been in regular contact with the SKM leadership. The police at first tried to persuade the farmers to give up their plan to enter Delhi, taking the plea that the security set-up will be as it is strained on January 26 owing to Republic Day events. Farmers, too, have been working overtime to not only make their parade a success but also ensure that it remains peaceful. The SKM has made it clear that only the national flag and flags of the various farmer unions can be placed on the tractors, strictly barring flags of political parties. Further, they are dissuading participants from trying out stunts during the parade. Going by videos flooding social media and intelligence reports received by the security agencies, the participation for the parade is likely to be even more than anticipated. The highways leading to Delhi from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are already witnessing a steady stream of bedecked tractors heading for Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Odisha remembers Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary||Odisha and in particular Cuttack remembered its greatest son Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary on Saturday. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and a number of dignitaries visited Netaji’s parental home Janakinath Bhawan at Odia Bazar in Cuttack, which has been converted into a museum, and paid their tributes to the son of the soil. Naveen also announced that a year-long celebration programme will be held to commemorate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary. “Netaji is a son of Cuttack’s soil. He was born and brought up here. This sacred soil of Cuttack inculcated in him the mantra of service, struggle and sacrifice. Hence, the state government has decided to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji,” the chief minister said. Later Naveen tweeted a number of pictures of Netaji on his Twitter account where the number of his followers have crossed 3 million. As a mark of respect to Netaji, Naveen on Saturday laid the foundation stone of a new bus terminal in Cuttack, which will be developed as a model bus stand of the country. The bus terminal, named after Netaji, will be developed over 12 acres at a cost of Rs 65 crore. The terminal will have all basic facilities and amenities like a food court, rooftop rainwater harvesting and an integrated information management system for the benefit of passengers. The terminal will display motifs and paintings from Netaji’s life and his sacrifice for the country. Besides Naveen, many other leaders, including minister Pradhan, visited Netaji’s parental home and offered floral tributes to one of the nation’s greatest martyrs. Several paintings depicting Netaji’s life and his role in the freedom struggle have been put on display at Janakinath Bhawan which has been converted into Netaji Birth Place Museum. The museum houses 13 galleries displaying rare photographs of Netaji’s early life, his time with Indian National Army (Azad Hind Fauj), provisional government of Azad Hind Fauj and Azad Hind Radio. It also has a collection of more than 500 books. Pradhan, who garlanded Netaji’s statue in the presence of other dignitaries, later tweeted: “Paid tribute to one of India’s greatest patriot Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Jankinath Bhawan, his birthplace in Cuttack. Celebrating this day as #ParakramDivas is a befitting tribute to Netaji and a just honour for his stellar contribution in the freedom struggle of our nation.” Sand artist Sudarshan Patnaik created a sand sculpture of Netaji at Puri beach on the occasion which drew a huge crowd. Odisha also celebrated the 213th birth anniversary of another legendary freedom fighter and martyr Veer Surendra Sai. Pradhan unveiled a life-size statue of Sai in front of the Veer Surendra Sai airport in Jharsuguda district of western Odisha. Union parliamentary affairs, coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi attended the unveiling through the virtual mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Ghazipur’s protest encampment has doubled in a week||A balloon has gone up. It can be seen from kilometres to the east and the west. To the west is the Indian capital, Delhi. To the east is the state of Uttar Pradesh. At the point where the balloon is tethered, Ram Charan Tripathi, a farmer and farm worker (labourer), is sitting on a separator on the Expressway – South Asia’s widest – and he is telling The Telegraph Online on Saturday evening that he lost his son on November 2 (2020). Ram Charan Tripathi says he is 78 years old. Weatherbeaten face, red turban, a bristly grey moustache, a grey stubble on sunken cheeks. “I had three sons. Now I have two”, he says. “Sukesh died on November 2nd. I am here since November 28. I have an acre-and-a-half of land that was to be divided among them.” The conversation is disturbed by a tractor with blazing lights and a Punjabi rap blaring over loudspeakers. It is driving up the flyover from the UP side. “I cannot afford a tractor. So, the first time I walked here”, Ram Charan says. “I have been back home twice since I first came here. Kheti bhi toh karni hain.” (I also need to farm). The tractor with blazing lights and stereophonic music is not what he has. Ram Charan reaps a harvest, at most, of 20 quintals of wheat from his farm. Last year, the government-ordained minimum support price (MSP) for it was Rs 1,868 per quintal. He has to hire a tractor to churn the soil, hire a submersible pump to irrigate the land from a neighbor at a rate of Rs 150 per bigha. His land totals about 10 bighas. That makes it Rs 1500.  He has to do it at least four times in the Rabi season to sow. These last few weeks, the unseasonal winter-rain were a relief. It spared him a round. In addition, he has to pay for urea, the fertilizer, and for pesticides. The shrunken man on the UP –Delhi border tells me that in the Rabi season he has to spend about Rs 31,000 to reap 20 quintals of grain (wheat). But because the government has not granted the MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal, and has reduced it by Rs 125, he will make only Rs 35,000. “In all my life, I have never been free from debt”, he says. Even Brahmins feel pangs of hunger. Ram Charan Tripathi is clearly a Brahmin, the elite in the hierarchy of the Hindu caste hierarchy. His village Shailendranagar in Gosai block of Amroha district is a mix of prosperous Jat and poor farmers. To make up for the rest of the year, he also works in the lands of the prosperous farmers – the ones who are here with stereophonic tractors – at the rate of Rs 300 per day – the mandated daily wage. “Why do you think the people of Eastern UP and Bihar are not able to come here? It is not only because the trains are not running as they should. It is because the labour is rarely getting Rs 100 per day,” Ram Charan explains. He is sitting on a separator on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. “Wahan jaiye”, he waves to his right. “Dekhiye Dilli sarkar kya kar rahin hain. (Go see what the government in Delhi is doing).” This is what the Government of India seated in New Delhi is doing: On the flyover that connects UP with the national capital this evening, January the 23rd, a remarkable date because it is the 125th anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose that the farmers here are observing, there are barricades being put in place by the Delhi Police. The Delhi Police is doing it on orders from the Union home ministry, not the government of Arvind Kejriwal who is the supposed chief minister of Delhi. The barricade here, as we walk to the top of the flyover, is 1,400 paces in width. It is layered from east to west with concrete blocks that the Delhi Police sub-inspector who stopped me from taking pictures described as “stone pillars”. They are actually concrete blocks. Their purpose is to separate the Expressway lanes from the service lanes. Each concrete block is four feet in height and five feet in length. I measured them. They are being put in place horizontally across the road. They were meant to be put horizontally in a longitudinal manner. Two cranes lift each block and place them at the point the Delhi Police marks with limestone chalk. India’s capital is safeguarding itself from the country it headquarters. Under the flyover is the camp of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, a son of Mahendra Singh Tikait (who led a farmers’ movement to New Delhi in 1988). The BKU has many factions. There is a buzz that the Centre may permit the Kisan Tractor Rally on January 26, India’s Republic Day (the day in 1950 when its Constitution was adopted). As it turns out later in the evening, the farmers’ front has put out a press release that tractor rally scheduled for the 26th has been given conditional permission by the Delhi Police. On the flyover, Bhanu Pratap Singh, a lawyer who leads separate faction of the BKU, says diesel prices are soaring. He is suited, booted and wears a tie. He is usually primed to address a dress circle of cameras and microphones. Under the flyover, in a service lane, pakodas (fritters) are being fried – one Sardar from Pilibhit (Maneka and Varun Gandhi’s constituency) on the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border – says “Modiji, isi ko GDP growth maante hain (Modi thinks this is economic growth)” – a reference to when the Prime Minister said in 2017 that streetside hawkers are also engines of economic growth. In the time between last week and now, the length of the protest encampment in Ghazipur on the UP-Delhi border has more than doubled. In the women’s quarters marked with yellow tarpaulins and a poster, Harinder Singh says she has no issues coming on camera after the regulation evening check. “We have laid out mattresses for 250 women. Because it is cold, we thought people will keep warm despite Corona (the virus). But it looks like we should have thought for 500”. Women are queuing up in the storefront cut into an edge of a yellow tent where everything is being sold of a Rs 2 donation. Those who cannot afford to donate are told they can take what they want, free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||POWERPLAY INC.||Should the goods and services tax be done away with? Should soldiers be allowed to express dissent publicly? Should gau-raksha diwas or cow protection day be a national holiday? Those are questions from Shasn, a multi-player political board game. The responses to these questions determine the political ideology that players adopt — idealist or showstopper, supremo or capitalist. Zain Memon, the creator of Shasn, explains, “It provides an immersive role-playing experience wherein every player takes on the mantle of a politician in the midst of a high-stakes election.” At the end of it, the winner takes all, but it is about who wins and how. Zain adds, “One is no longer sitting on the sidelines wondering why politicians make the decisions they do.” Well-crafted and engaging, many of these political board games seem to have their way of starting a conversation about policy, politics and politicians. “The conversation of politics has seeped into our lives so much that they had to seep into games at some time,” remarks Anuja Pitre, who is the co-founder of Mantri Cards. Not all of it is limited to India. The Shasn set, for instance, allows one to play five different political scenarios: Indian, American, Brexit, the Roman Empire and Politics of the Future. The game Manifesto can be played by two to six people. “We thought of creating a game that would be the Monopoly of politics... A game that would make policy and governance a feature of daily household conversations,” says Manifesto co-creator Soumya Aggarwal. In this game, individual players assume the role of political parties. At the start of the game, each party has to build a manifesto by drawing policy cards from a stack with the objective of winning constituencies with a combination of action and vote cards. Demography, ideology, caste and religion, law and order, and infrastructure cards affect voters’ decisions. The game also has scam and model code of conduct cards, which can bring about dramatic twists and turns as the game gets along. Then there is The Poll: The Great Indian Election Game. It mimics the Indian electoral process. Players get campaign cards, cadres and money and then have to get about convincing other players that their policy and their manifesto is what they need. “You can campaign and convince people, cut each other’s votes or field a star campaigner using a caste-class combination. Or you could even spread fake news,” says Abeer Kapoor who came up with this game. Girish Krishnan, who is an alumni of the National Institute of Design’s Toy and Game Design programme and founder of the board game company Magic Circle, explains the popularity of board games thus: “A mounting thirst for screen-less fun activity post pandemic.” He adds, “There is one set that is aware of modern European and American games, play them and will pay for a well-designed game. Another set prefers paying for games with a development or educational spin. Both are causing an increase in demand for board games.” There is a thrill when you play these games that I can’t explain,” says Mumbai-based Lakshya Joshi. For him, it all started when he and his wife attended the first edition of Meeplecon — India’s first and only event dedicated to board games — in 2017. For Rahul Vaidya, board games were his way of making friends in a strange city when he moved from Jaipur to Bangalore with a job. He says, “I have always been interested in board games and when there was an intimation of a board gaming workshop, I went ahead and attended it.” Eventually, he joined a board-gaming meet-up, where, pre-coronavirus outbreak, people 20 years and upwards met once a week to play newly-launched board games and even have friendly contests. A lot of cafes in Bangalore also started to host board game meets. Says Rahul, “Most of us in the meet-up were working professionals, coming from different streams. For the first time, through these games we were learning more about how politics works.” One advantage of the game meets is that one can sample games one can never afford to buy. Lakshya and his wife save a part of their salary only to buy board games. Says Lakshya, “We have around 38 board games, right from Risk (a strategy game) to Secret Hitler (a social deduction game set in the 1930s Germany). And in the last few years, these new political games coming from India have put us on the world board game map, which was much needed.” Last Diwali, the Joshis gifted Mantri Cards to a few friends. Mantri Cards are a lot like the olden trump cards. Each card contains real and verifiable data submitted by MPs of the current Lok Sabha — age, education, criminal cases, assets declared, number of terms, and vote share. There are 108 cards in the deck — 100 MP cards and 8 power cards — and the rules are simple. Shuffle and deal; the player who has the Narendra Modi card starts the game. The objective is to amass the maximum number of cards. There are challenges aplenty, though. For instance, if you have the power card called Indira Gandhi, you can jail one player for two rounds. Then there is an Atal Bihari Vajpayee card that gives the player power to start three consecutive rounds. The Judiciary card gives a player power to change the rules of the game entirely. Anuja of Mantri Cards tells The Telegraph, “It doesn’t matter who you support, you should know who is what.” Once again, pre-Covid, Shasn Cups were hosted in India and the US. Abeer did playtests — basically trial runs of games — of The Poll at Lucknow University, in Nasik and in Trichi. Moiz Bookwala, who is the co-founder of Bored Game Company, an online marketplace for board games, says he has seen his online sales soar post the Covid outbreak. His retail outlet in Pune is also doing brisk business. Says Girish, “Board game designers come from the arts, design, marketing, advertising...” The varied sensibilities and sensitivities of the makers imbue the games. Abeer, who has been a journalist and covered elections, says, “Earlier, there was a certain articulation of India where you had the adda, old and young talking about issues and politics, and you had differences but you weren’t pointing knives at each other’s throats. That is what we wanted to bring back.” These games have not been randomly thrown together. The makers of the Mantri Cards were supported by the Association for Democratic Reforms for data appearing on submitted affidavits of candidates, and PRS Legislative Research for data on Lok Sabha/ MP performance. Abeer says he sourced information for the policy cards of The Poll by combing through manifestoes of actual political parties. The Friedrich Naumann Stiftung Foundation for Freedom supported the production of The Poll. For Shasn, Zain says he roped in futurists and historians to design a competitive strategy gameplay at the intersection of political thinking, systems theory, and narrative storytelling. There is also a subtle critique woven through these games, should you care to look for it. In The Poll, there are cards called hate speech, black money and fake news. Usage of such cards invites penalty. There are also risk cards that can change a situation. For instance, if someone pulls out a riot card, then everyone must play with caste cards only. “The dream and aim of this pursuit was to engage youngsters, who somehow choose to remain oblivious to political goings on, and get them interested in present day politics,” Abeer points out. That said, a lot of the games are designed such that anyone from eight years and upwards can play them. The games don’t require you to have prior knowledge of politics and political systems. And there are adult-only games too. The descriptor for Cards vs Sanskaar runs thus — “A party game the nation wants to play”. The goal of the game is not to eliminate players or accumulate high scores, but to rake in laughs. For instance, the black cards are really questions or prompts. Sample 1. Rahul Gandhi: Politics is in BLANK. Sample 2. In some parts of UP, BLANK is considered a status symbol. Orange cards are punchline baiters. Sample 1. Denying minorities their rights. Sample 2. Electing a dictator. Sample 3. Hindi Imperialism. Karan Dilip Worah and Adrita Das, the makers of Cards vs Sanskaar, say, “We took a step back and decided to make a laidback game with a satirical point of view.” Abeer talks about how there are a dozen ways in which one can be part of the political discourse without fighting an election. “For me, getting people to be more interactive by role-playing in a board game is that meaningful way,” he says. Anuja says she knows of NGOs who bought her game for school students. “These kids spun the game around. They play weekly games to decide who will be the class MP or class monitor.” Abeer recalls one time when he introduced the students of Growell School in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, to The Poll. He says, “One girl came to me and said, ‘Can I become a politician? I played your game and I think I know now how to be one’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata trying to appease only 30 per cent of voters: Vijayvargiya||Mamata Banerjee refused to deliver her speech on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji after being greeted with ‘Jai Sri Ram’ slogans, because she wants to please a section of people, BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya said Sunday. Vijayvargiya, the saffron party’s national general secretary, alleged that the chief minister of Bengal  has only been sensitive to the needs and the interests of ‘30 per cent’ of the state’s over nine crore people. “Jai Sri Ram is used to greet people. It was chanted when Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived, and also when he was leaving the Netaji Research Bureau. Why did Mamata didi feel insulted? Why did she feel upset on hearing ‘Jai Sri Ram’ or ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ chants,” he told reporters at Jalpaiguri, where he is scheduled to attend a party programme. Asserting that Banerjee's move was aimed at "appeasing 30 per cent of the voters in the state", Vijayvargiya, who is also the BJP’s Bengal minder, said “for the remaining 70 per cent, it has always been a tale of neglect”. Minorities, especially Muslims, constitute 30 per cent of the state’s population. “People of Bengal will give a befitting reply to her in the next elections," the BJP leader added. The chief minister on Saturday declined to speak at an event, organised to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, after ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans were raised there, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The TMC supremo said such “insult” was unacceptable. Lauding Banerjee, TMC MP Mahua Moitra said on Twitter, “Never have I been prouder to be part of Mamatadi’s team. In an ocean of monkeys she stands out as the lone lioness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Netaji event marred by 'Jai Shri Ram' chants||“Jai Hind, Jai Bangla.” With these words, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday reminded the Narendra Modi government of a basic lesson in civility that Indians raised on the philosophy of Atithi Devo Bhava should be well familiar with: You do not insult your guest. A section of the audience at an event hosted by the Union culture ministry at Victoria Memorial to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had erupted in chants of “Jai Shri Ram” as Mamata was invited to speak. The chanters ignored appeals from the emcee to “calm down” and allow the chief minister the “opportunity” to say a few words on this “auspicious occasion”. Mamata went up to the lectern and said in Hindi: “I think there should be some dignity to a government programme. This is a government programme, not that of a political party. This is a programme of all parties and of the people.” The sloganeering continued as she spoke. “I thank the Prime Minister and the Union culture ministry for holding this programme in Calcutta,” the chief minister said. “But it is unbecoming of you to invite someone and then insult them. In protest, I am not speaking any more. Jai Hind. Jai Bangla.” Mamata then returned to her seat, near that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who sat impassively. Union ministers Prahlad Patel, whose department had hosted the programme, and Babul Supriyo were also on the dais. The heckling should have upset the Prime Minister and his colleagues on several counts. In a culture that prides itself on treating the “atithi” (guest) as “deva” (a god), to insult a guest should be sacrilege; the slogan-shouting had disrespected the memory of the national icon whose anniversary was being celebrated; and it had shattered the dignity of a programme hosted by the Government of India. Not a word from PM If Modi was upset, he did not show it. Anyone who had expected the Prime Minister to condemn the boorish behaviour of his supporters or to apologise for it to Mamata, who was a guest at his government’s programme, would have been disappointed. In his 30-minute address, Modi uttered not a word on the subject. He spoke of Atmanirbhar Bharat and contended that his pet theme bore the imprint of Netaji’s philosophy. Mamata sat through the one hour that remained of the programme, occasionally looking up at the clear January sky. Not once was the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan heard after she spoke, making it clear the intent was only to heckle her. The BJP is known to use the chant variously as a greeting, a war cry and a taunt. Sources close to Mamata said she had initially been in two minds whether to attend the programme because she had had a busy day that began at 10.30am with a visit to Netaji Bhavan on Elgin Road. She later led a colourful procession through 7.5km from Shyambazar to Esplanade as part of the state government’s celebrations of the 125th anniversary of the icon from Bengal. Mamata eventually decided to go, joining Modi in inaugurating an exhibition on Netaji and then escorting him to the main venue on the Victoria Memorial lawns. “Despite her pressing schedule, she went to attend the central government programme…. But see the reception she received at the programme,” a source close to the chief minister said. “The BJP supporters proved once again that they don’t know Bengal’s culture,” said senior Trinamul leader Partha Chatterjee. ‘Like a party event’ That something like this might happen was clear the moment Modi reached the venue at 4.28pm. As the Prime Minister’s image flashed on the giant screens, cries of “Jai Shri Ram” filled the air, much to the surprise of some in the audience who had received the invitation from the Union culture ministry. Sources in the BJP said that though it was a government programme, the state BJP unit took the lion’s share of the invites and distributed them among party leaders and loyalists. Party leaders were seen waiting at the south gate of Victoria Memorial, from where most of the invitees entered, with bunches of invitation cards and distributing them. When BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was entering the venue, most of the people waiting in the queue greeted him with “Jai Shri Ram”. “I see our people all around…. It’s like a party event,” a middle-aged man in a saffron bandhgala was overheard telling a man who claimed he had been to the airport to receive Modi. The same man was among those who raised the “Jai Shri Ram” chant when Mamata spoke. Asked why, he said: “Chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is part of Indian culture…. If she (Mamata) has a problem with it, we can’t help it.” He refused to identify himself. But the state BJP was in two minds whether to endorse what happened in Victoria Memorial. “Such slogan-shouting at the programme was unfortunate,” said party spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. Kailash Vijayvargiya, the BJP’s Bengal minder, however tweeted: “Greeting someone by Jai Shri Ram is considered insult by Mamata-ji. What kind of politics is this!” The peals of laughter from the audience after the chief minister returned from the podium without speaking left no one in any doubt about the intent of the sloganeers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Icon who believed in pluralism: Mamata||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s philosophy of inclusiveness, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi completely ignored, was the theme of Mamata Banerjee’s three public addresses in Calcutta on Saturday — at Netaji Bhavan, Shyambazar five-point crossing and near Netaji’s statue on Red Road. The chief minister’s stress on the icon’s faith on India’s pluralistic culture on his 125th birth anniversary was clearly aimed at countering the BJP’s narrative in the run-up to the Bengal polls. “Netaji was a firm believer in unity. He always spoke about solidarity among all religions. Just see the composition of the Indian National Army, which had Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and people from all religions. It had people from Gujarat, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and all across India as he believed that since he was fighting for the country, everyone should be part of the force,” said Mamata while delivering an address at the end of a 7.5km rally that she led on Saturday afternoon. “The British believed in divide and rule, while Netaji wanted to unite the country,” she added, before announcing that her government would carry on with year-long celebrations and spread his ideals among the young. The underlying message in her address could not be missed in poll-bound Bengal, where the saffron camp is banking on a polarisation among voters on religious lines to wrest the seat of power. With inclusiveness on her lips, Mamata tried to send out a message that she was a believer in Netaji’s philosophy while the saffron party’s agenda was that of dividing people. “What should be the qualities of a leader? That person should be like Netaji, who believed in taking everyone along…. Netaji never said that the country should broken down into pieces...,” said Mamata. As Bengal nears the polls, an intense battle has broken out between Trinamul and the BJP over appropriating Bengali icons like Netaji, Rabindranath Tagore or Swami Vivekananda. On Netaji’s birth anniversary, the battle intensified. Mamata announced on Twitter that the state government would build an Indian National Army memorial in Rajarhat and set up a university after Netaji’s name. Through the day, Mamata rolled out example after another to establish that the BJP was far from Netaji’s principles. After elaborating on Netaji’s inclusiveness different from the saffron camp’s divisive politics, she focused on how Netaji’s idea of governance was different. “Netaji had envisioned the Planning Commission and the Indian National Army much before Independence…They (the Centre) claim to idolise Netaji but (they) scrapped the Planning Commission and formed NITI Aayog. No harm in setting up NITI Aayog, but why scrap the Planning Commission?” she asked. Mamata repeatedly said in the past that the BJP government’s decision of disbanding the Planning Commission was part of an agenda to reduce the power of states and an assault on federalism. Quoting the BJP’s oft repeated slogans, she said, “The attitude needs to be changed… One leader, one nation, one ration card, ... One political party, one nation. Why this?” Giving a new dimension to her federalism argument, she questioned why India should have only one capital in Delhi and suggested there be four rotating capitals in different parts of the country. “Why shouldn’t Calcutta be the capital of the country, I am saying this because of our contribution to the freedom struggle... I will again urge the Centre that India should have four capitals, one in south, one in north, one in east and in northeastern,” the chief minister said. The BJP state leaders were quick to rubbish the demand as “absurd”, but Trinamul insiders said they would keep repeating the demand in the run up to the polls to strike a chord with voters in Bengal. Mamata also explained why her government celebrated Netaji’s birth anniversary as Deshnayak Dibos while the Centre celebrated the day as Parakram (valour) Diwas. “Rabindranath Tagore was the first to bestow the title of Deshnayak (national hero) on Netaji...,” Mamata said at Netaji Bhavan. Additional reporting by Debraj Mitra||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Modi ties Netaji’s vision to govt slogans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday strenuously attempted to associate the vision of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose with the “achievements” of his government, steering clear of the secular hero’s inclusive philosophy. Quoting Netaji repeatedly in laboured Bengali, the Prime Minister allowed saffron to paint what was to be an apolitical event of the ministry of culture at the Victoria Memorial Hall lawns on Saturday, not unlike his January 12, 2020 address at Belur Math, where Modi had used the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary to defend the controversial amended citizenship law. Modi — in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee — went to the extent of raising his party’s pitch for its Assembly poll campaign, urging people in the name of Netaji and his legacy not to rest till “Sonar Bangla” was achieved. “Netaji Subhas, along with Atmanirbhar Bharat, is the greatest inspiration for Sonar Bangla. The role he played towards India’s Independence, Bengal must play that role in Atmanirbhar Bharat…. Bengal must come forward, add to its own glory, and that of the nation. Like Netaji, we must also not stop till we achieve the goals we have set for ourselves,” he said, towards the end of what virtually became a BJP campaign speech. Modi’s speech was replete with attempts to underscore Netaji’s Hindu background — such as references to how Netaji supposedly carried a copy of the Bhagvad Gita with him, how he sent a niece to seek blessings for his mission from the Dakshineswar Kali Temple — while keeping mum on the icon’s secular, tolerant, humanist worldview. Referring to Netaji’s request to nephew Sisir Kumar Bose — “Amar ekta kaj kortey parbey (Can you carry out a task for me)?” — for help with the historic escape from under British surveillance from his Elgin Road residence in January 1941, which paved the way for his epic transcontinental war effort for India’s Independence, Modi launched into a series of associations between Netaji’s aspirations and the things attempted by the present central government. “Today, if every Indian puts his hand to the chest and experiences Netaji once again, everyone would hear that (request to Netaji’s nephew)…. That task, that goal is of making Atmanirbhar Bharat…. There is no power in the world that can stop India from achieving Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Modi said. “It pleases me that this country now is working tirelessly for the empowerment of the downtrodden, the exploited, farmers, women…. Today, every poor person is getting help for healthcare (apparent reference to Ayushman Bharat),” he added. “Farmers of the nation, from seeds to the markets, are being given modern aid...what they spend on agriculture, there are efforts underway to reduce that (apparent reference to the contentious farm laws),” he added. Adding the National Education Policy and even the acquisition of Rafale aircraft to the mix of things that, according to Modi, would have pleased Netaji, he broached the subject — albeit only in passing — to the conflicts with Pakistan and China. “Netaji is watching us, blessing us, loving us… the strong India he had imagined, today from the LAC to the LoC, that is the avatar of India that the world is watching. From wherever there is an attempt to challenge India’s sovereignty, today, this country responds fittingly,” said the Prime Minister. Modi, who in his very first year as premier, decided to replace Planning Commission envisioned by Netaji with the NITI Aayog, attributed to the icon his government’s propensity to commit to contentious policies despite opposition. “Something Netaji said that influences me, the relentless effort to achieve your own goal…. He taught me that if some idea is not simple, not common, has difficulties, despite that, there should be no fear in trying out something new...” “If you believe in something, you have to show the courage of starting it. It might seem that you are going against the tide. But if your goal is pure, there should be no hesitation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Total active Covid cases 6,396 in Bengal ||Bengal on Saturday logged 474 Covid-19 recoveries, 410 new infections and 10 deaths, as the state’s total active cases dropped for the 89th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. From 37,190 on Dashami, total active cases are 6,396 now. “We are now looking at a realistic target of total active cases becoming less than 5,000 by February-end,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate rose for 92 days straight to touch 97.09, from 87.44 per cent of October 22, the national rate being 96.8. However, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent, with India’s average being 1.43. The state now has nearly 5.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.51 lakh recoveries and 10,107 deaths. “Festival after festival came and went. Bengal celebrated all of them. Yet, we managed to keep the pandemic from worsening. It is a phenomenal achievement,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.27 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 64 days ago. Bengal’s total test count – including 28,242 tests on Saturday – is over 78.08 lakh now, at 86,756 tests per million people. The state attributed 8,482 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||PM welcome as PM, not politicians||A family member of Subhas Chandra Bose stood firm against the politicisation of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations, refusing to allow any member of the BJP to accompany Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the freedom fighter’s ancestral home at Elgin Road in Calcutta on Saturday. Sources said Netaji’s grandnephew Sugata Bose, a historian who chairs the Netaji Research Bureau, received a call from the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday afternoon that Modi wanted to visit Netaji Bhavan and that some BJP leaders would accompany the PM. Sugata — also a former MP for Trinamul — refused to allow entry to any politician other than the Prime Minister. He said that Modi was welcome as the Prime Minister, but the event shouldn’t be politicised. “Initially what was sent  (the itinerary) looked like he (Modi) would come with some political functionaries of his party. I said that it is the occasion of Netaji’s birth anniversary and (so) the PM should come as a PM,” Sugata told this paper. BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, the party’s minder for the state, and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta were present outside Netaji Bhavan to welcome Modi. They were joined by another grandnephew of Netaji, BJP leader Chandra Kumar Bose. However, only Modi entered Netaji Bhavan. None of the other BJP leaders entered the premises, and many waited outside. Vijayvargiya left soon afterwards. A few BJP supporters raised Jai Shri Ram slogans in front of Netaji Bhavan. A section of Bengal BJP said a family member of Bose snubbing BJP leaders would not send a good message ahead of the polls in Bengal. “Our leaders wanted to show their love for Netaji by accompanying the PM to Netaji Bhavan. What happened is a face loss,” a member said. Sugata said this was the first time a communication about the Prime Minister’s visit (to Netaji Bhavan) was announced a few hours before the event. “Whenever Prime Ministers have visited in the past, the PMO has always been in touch long in advance. This time, I directly heard from the PMO only a little before 1 o’clock today (Saturday).” According to his original itinerary, the Prime Minister’s first stop was supposed to be the National Library. Sources said a change was made to the itinerary late on Friday when it was decided that Modi would visit Netaji Bhavan. Chandra Kumar Bose claimed that he had placed a request with the PM “through appropriate sources”, requesting him to visit Netaji’s ancestral house. “I’m happy that the Honourable PM accepted my request,” Bose said, adding that the visit was a last-minute inclusion to the PM’s itinerary, ahead of the main event on Victoria Memorial lawns. The saffron brigade had also started a narrative that no Prime Minister other than Lal Bahadur Shastri and Modi had ever visited Netaji Bhavan on January 23. Refuting this claim, Sugata said that in 1995, then PM P.V. Narasimha Rao had visited the house on Netaji’s birth anniversary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||A family that worships a chair ||Amid the political noise in poll-bound Bengal on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a family in a Bankura village, 205km away from Calcutta, quietly showed their love for the icon by worshipping a chair Netaji had sat on, nearly 81 years ago. The patriarch of Deshuriya village’s Karmakar family, Niranjan Karmakar, 88, had, as an eight-year-old boy laid eyes on Netaji in April 1940. Netaji had come to Gangajalghati near Deshuriya for an event. “A sofa had been laid out for Netaji but he pulled up a humble wooden chair, which my father (village physician Ramrup Karmakar) had carried along with him to help with seating arrangements, and sat on it. As far as I recall, my father had bought the chair from Raniganj,” recalled the octogenarian on Saturday, a day that saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi flying down to Calcutta to pay tribute to the late freedom fighter. “Since then, my father said no one should sit on this chair, and it was put in our thakurghar (puja room). We worship it along with Netaji’s portrait,” said Niranjan, a retired government contractor. This year, Netaji’s birth anniversary has become a point of contention, with the Centre naming it Parakram Divas and the state, Deshnayak Divas. Far from all this, residents of this village paid their intimate tribute to Netaji at the Karmakar home and the local club. The story of the chair came to light on Saturday when Bankura University used the virtual platform to share this unique tribute to Netaji. “We came to know about this family and sent a student to video-record the chair and this tribute and share it virtually. It is very interesting,” said Kaushik Ghosh, who teaches political science at the varsity. In this tiny village, Netaji’s legend lives on from generation to generation. “I’ve heard how people here offered money and ornaments to Netaji for his Azad Hind Fauj,” said Prashanta Karmakar, now 50, Ramrup’s grandson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker ‘shot at’ in Belur, party blames TMC||A BJP supporter allegedly received bullet wound during a clash with Trinamul workers on Saturday morning at Belur in Howrah district. “Pramod Dubey, one of our workers, was shot in the leg by Trinamul goons and is admitted to the Howrah general hospital,” alleged Sanjay Singh, a state BJP general secretary. According to sources, the clash broke out on Friday evening when BJP supporters were attacked by goons at a social event organised by the saffron party at Belur’s Matwala Chowrasta. Singh alleged the clash spilled over to Saturday morning, when a BJP worker was allegedly attacked by Trinamul goons. “We took the party worker for treatment but on our return Trinamul goons attacked us with at least 30 crude bombs. At least 12-13 rounds of bullets were fired at us,” Singh said, adding that the incident happened before a school in the area. “Pramod was hit by a bullet on his leg.” Trinamul leader Kailash Mishra, also a councillor of the Howrah Municipal Corporation, denied these allegations. “BJP leaders had been extorting money from vendors of Matwala Chowrasta for their event. People protested and we joined in,” Mishra added. Howrah police commissionerate is probing if gunshots were fired during the clash. “A person is injured and hospitalised. We are investigating if he has suffered a gunshot injury,” said a cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Anit seeks consensus on relief fund use||Anit Thapa, the chairman of the board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), has decided to convene a meeting of “all stakeholders” to decide on using the GTA Chairman Relief Fund set up at the start of Covid-19 pandemic for tea garden workers. Over 11,000 donors have contributed around Rs 3 crore. The GTA will match the collected amount, making the total sum around Rs 6 crore. “I have decided to hold a meeting on January 28 with all stakeholders...(donors, politicians and trade union leaders) to discuss its utilisation,” said Thapa, adding the GTA will go by the decision arrived at through consensus. Political parties in the hills have in the past been raising the issue of the relief fund with some sections suggesting that Thapa might want to take political mileage through it. Thapa set up the relief fund on March 24, 2020, purportedly to take up the gigantic task of “paying the tea gardens workers during the lockdown”. The 87 tea gardens in the hills, which employ around 55,000 permanent and 15,000 temporary workers, were however shut only from March 25 to April 9, unlike other sectors, so the fund was not needed for the purpose it was meant for. With Opposition parties in poll-bound keeping an eye on the utilisation of the fund, Thapa, observers believe, does not want any controversy. “He probably wants to build a consensus regarding the utilisation of fund but it would be interesting to see how the invited politicians and trade union leaders look into the issue,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||West Bengal||Ladies of the Land||The languages we speak in, the very words we use, betray our seminal beliefs. In Bengali, for instance, there is a goalini for every goala (milkman), a methrani for every methar (scavenger), a naptini for every napit (barber), but no mahila sainik for every sainik (soldier) and no chashini for a chasha (farmer). The Hindi word kisan has no feminine form. The Gujarati word for farmer is khedut; but khedutani is not used as much. Between the fashioning of this vocabulary and now, whole contexts have changed. And that is why, when the Chief Justice of India appealed to “women” alongside children and senior citizens at Delhi’s farmers’ protests to return home, his statement elicited howls of protest. After all, the protesting women are at Singhu in their capacity as farmers as well. Indeed, a large percentage of Indian’s agricultural labour force constitutes women, no matter the gendered land ownership pattern. In Bengal, there is a new trend among women farmers. But first, farmlands here as compared to the rest of the country are small. This has to do with the aggressive land reform measures including ceilings on the upper limit of landholding implemented by the Left Front government. The average landholding size declined from 1.20 hectares in 1970-71 to 0.92 hectares in 1985-86, according to the agriculture census. There are no large farms except for tea plantations. Says Koushik Brahmachari of Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya, “The number of marginal farmers is large here and in places like Bolpur and the Sunderbans, the landholdings are on a homestead scale.” Saleha Khatun of Hariharpara in Murshidabad married Sahabuddin in 2012. She was barely 16 at the time. Her husband too was young and had not completed his studies. Saleha’s father-in-law owned a one-and-a-half bigha agricultural plot and Sahabuddin helped his father till the land. What they grew on the plot was barely enough to feed the family. There was nothing left to sell. Small holdings typically yield marginal farmers next to nothing and they are ultimately forced to sell their holdings to large landholders and turn into farmhands. But that did not happen to Saleha’s family. Soumyajit Das, who is the special secretary of the Comprehensive Area Development Corporation of the panchayat department, says, “Unlike states such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, where commercial agriculture is practised in large landholdings, in Bengal, we have fragmented landholdings that are used for backyard cultivation of vegetables, oilseeds, floriculture, fruits. Women are engaged in these.” Saleha’s mother-in-law, Sabira Bibi, was part of the Hariharpara Nilakar Mahila Samabay, a co-operative of self-help groups (SHGs) set up in 2000. Now, there are 8,65,000-odd registered SHGs in the state. About 30-40 per cent of these are involved in agriculture, says Partha Mandal, who is the deputy general manager of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development or Nabard. The Hariharpara co-operative has 4,000 shareholders, 400 SHGs, and a corpus of 15 bighas where shareholders grow coriander, cumin, onions and sundry varieties which they sell at a profit. The way it works is this — the smallest SHG comprises 10 women. Each of them contributes anything between Rs 10 and Rs 200 per month and a corpus fund is formed. This money is used by members of SHGs to cultivate vegetables or raise poultry individually or collectively. Whatever profit the group makes, members divide among themselves equally. When a group does well, it is granted credit linkage to banks by Nabard. This means they become eligible for loans. Typically, if a loan amount of Rs 1,25,000 is given to a 10-member group, each member gets Rs 12,500. They then engage in group agricultural activity on leased land. Like her mother-in-law, Saleha too has joined the co-operative. She explains, “About 75 per cent of the profit is distributed among the women who work and 25 per cent is split among the shareholders who give out loans or engage in other group activities.” The SHGs also offer other support. When Saleha wanted to complete her master’s and BEd, the group gave her an education loan at 2 per cent interest. In 2019, the Hariharpara co-operative cultivated 15 bighas of land and made a profit of Rs 29,000. The following year, it took out a year-long lease of 18 bighas of land in Samserganj, also in Murshidabad, from local farmers. Samserganj is at least 100 kilometres away from Hariharpara, but Saleha and many of her neighbours work the fields there. Saleha explains, “We women water the plants, sow seeds, cut paddy. Men plough the field with tractors.” The co-operative cultivates onions, garlic, ginger, vegetables, turmeric, coriander seeds, cumin seeds. It has also purchased its own grinding machine and packaging machine. It seems, apart from the Comprehensive Area Development Corporation, who is their biggest customer, they have other loyal customers. Manju Bala of Uttaran Bahumukhi Sangha Primary Co-operative Society Limited from Duttapulia in Ranaghat block of Nadia district has a different story to tell. It was the floods of 2000 that sowed the seeds of community cohesiveness among residents here. Says Manju, “About 8-10 families lived together till the waters receded. It was then that we formed a self-help group — the Seema Mahila Samity.” The women collected Rs 20 from every member. Says Manju, “In addition, we took a loan of Rs 5,000.” With that money, group members started their own businesses. She adds, “Some of us bought ducks and reared them to sell their eggs, some started a whole poultry farm, while a few of us started growing vegetables, and others, flowering plants.” Vegetables and flower nurseries turned out to be profitable businesses. In the meantime, Manju’s children grew up and she, too, found the time to pass the board exams. She says, “You can’t become a trainer or keep accounts in an SHG if you haven’t passed the boards.” Next, she formed her own cluster in 2007 — the Uttaran Bahumukhi. No matter what the Sabiras, Salehas and Manjus’ contribution to the Indian agriculture scene, agricultural holdings continue to be in the name of the men of the household. The SHG movement is aimed more at empowering women economically within the traditional societal structure. Manish Anand of Delhi’s The Energy and Resources Institute has co-authored a paper on enhancing the role of women in agriculture and allied activities and providing them institutional support. He says, “Women provide critical support to the health of farmlands... Being unpaid in nature, these efforts of women are dampened as they are not recognised as primary producers. They continue to face constraints in accessing land, credit, technology, agricultural inputs, services and market opportunities.” Anand draws attention to women’s groups in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu that have managed to work around these. He says, “Federated structures of women’s co-operatives have been largely successful in Kerala.” One day, for sure, this change afoot in Bengal will cover all of the state, it will spread across the rest of India too. The accepted vocabulary will be updated; and ways of seeing will change too — even from high places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-223
24-01-2021||North East||Modi vows to protect Assam, silent on CAA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday used a function to distribute land pattas (documents) in poll-bound Assam to target previous governments and highlight the “unprecedented” speedy development taking place in the state and the Northeast but remained silent on contentious issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the deportation of illegal Bangladeshis. Modi said the distribution of over one lakh land pattas to the indigenous population by the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government was a reflection of the ruling BJP’s commitment to protect the land, culture and language of the people of Assam, something the previous governments had allegedly not done. He ceremonially launched the distribution of land allotment certificates by giving away land pattas to 10 beneficiaries at Jerenga Pathar, around 5km from Sivasagar town. Jerenga Pathar is associated with 17th century Ahom princess Joymati, a symbol of sacrifice, courage and righteousness, who gave up her life to save her husband and future king Gadapani. The Prime Minister said that considering the importance of Sivasagar in the history of Assam, the government is taking steps to include the town among the five most important archaeological sites in the country. Paying tribute to Joymati and the venue of balidan (sacrifice), Modi said the distribution of land pattas has benefited over one lakh families and is connected with self-respect, independence and safety of the original inhabitants. Taking a dig at previous governments, he said even after so many years of Independence, there were lakhs of families deprived of land pattas. He said when the Sonowal government came to power in 2016, more than six lakh people had no papers to claim their land but his government allotted land pattas to more than two lakh families, reflecting its commitment towards protection of the rights of the indigenous people. Modi said the over one lakh beneficiaries on Saturday can now be assured of the benefit of many government schemes which they were deprived of like the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, Kisan credit card and crop insurance policy. “Not only this, they will also be able to get loans from banks,” he said. Modi said the rapid development and social protection of the tribals in Assam has been the commitment of the government, asserting many steps have also been taken to encourage Assamese language and literature. “Similarly in the last four-and-a-half years, efforts have been made to preserve places of historical and religious importance besides rapid steps being taken to free the encroachment and improve the Kaziranga National Park,” he said. Modi silence Though Modi said his government was committed to protecting the land, culture and language of Assam, he never once touched upon in his nearly 30-minute speech sensitive and contentious issues such as the CAA, the National Register of Citizens, deporting illegal Bangladeshis, Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, big dams and according Scheduled Tribe status to six communities of the state, which have dominated the public discourse in the run-up to his visit. Even BJP national president J.P. Nadda had harped on the ruling party’s commitment to protecting the rights of the natives but skirted the contentious issues, except granting ST status to the six communities which was also not factually correct. On Saturday, apart from listing out the benefits of the land patta move, Modi spoke mostly about the “unprecedented” development taking place in Assam and the region, a must for a self-reliant India. He highlighted the benefits extended to the people of Assam under the health, sanitation, banking, education, energy, transport, connectivity and power sectors. He also lauded the state government for its role in managing the coronavirus crisis and hoped it will once again excel with the ongoing vaccination drive. “Assam and the Northeast are instrumental in enhancing India’s connectivity with the East Asian countries. Assam is coming up as a major centre of Atmanirbhar Bharat due to its improved infrastructure,” he said. Modi said every region of Assam is on the path of peace and progress because of the policy of taking every tribe together, including the uplift of the tea community that suffered for a long time due to neglect. “With the historic Bodo agreement, a large part of Assam now has returned to the path of peace and development. The recent election to the Bodoland Territorial Council in the wake of the agreement will usher in new paradigm of development,” he said. Protests The run-up to Modi’s visit was marked with protests against his trip and news meets seeking answers on the promises made by the Prime Minister and the BJP-led government between 2014 and 2016 but remained unfulfilled. The All Assam Students’ Union and Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) had staged dharnas, around 5km and 3km respectively from Jerenga Pathar, against Modi’s visit and demanding scrapping of the CAA. The act makes it easier for non-Muslims from neighbouring Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship, something those opposed to the CAA say is a threat to the very culture and identity the ruling party vows to protect. The AASU and the Opposition Congress later questoned what was new in Modi’s address. “It was a routine speech. He did not talk about unfulfilled promises, of sending back Bangladeshis, the anti-Assam CAA, completion of the NRC or according ST status. He came to distribute land pattas which is a routine official procedure,” PCC chief Ripun Bora said. AASU president Dipanka Nath, participating in a three-hour statewide dharna in protest against Modi’s visit, said the Prime Minister did not utter a single word on the CAA or Clause 6 of the Assam Accord. “We are firm in our resolve to get the CAA scrapped and will continue to protest,” Nath said. Modi’s visit was followed by that of Union home minister Amit Shah, who chaired the 69th plenary of the North Eastern Council (NEC) in Shillong on Saturday. Shah reached Guwahati in the evening to launch the Ayushman Bharat scheme for central armed police forces. Shah will address two rallies in lower Assam on Sunday, his second visit since December. The BJP has set a target of winning 100-plus seats in Assam in the Assembly polls to be held in April-May and January has seen the ruling party stepping up its campaign to retain the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
24-01-2021||Opinion||Going bananas over fruit||Harry Houdini is no longer the unparalleled master of the vanishing trick. The Bharatiya Janata Party in Gujarat believes that it has pulled off a Houdini. The chief minister, Vijay Rupani, has renamed the dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam’, in the hope that this sleight of hand would purge this fruit of its symbolic connection with China — the fire-breathing mythical creature has had, in the public eye, the ‘Made in China’ tag embossed on it for ages. The disdain of Mr Rupani’s party for history is well-documented. There is now evidence that the BJP scoffs at geography too. The dragon fruit originated in Mexico, not China; the alteration of geographical borders by China could not be prevented under the BJP’s watch either. The failure, so far, to re-establish the status quo has forced the BJP — none should doubt its muscle-flexing or patriotism — to do the next best thing: indulge in futile, comical efforts to erase Chinese imprints, real or imagined, from India. Having run out of Chinese apps to ban, the party has now taken upon itself the formidable task of purifying the world of fruit. The party must march on undeterred, ridding other species of the purported Chinese signature. Why not rechristen the dragonfly next? Bengal, which is in the BJP’s political radar, could well figure in the scheme of things. Would Calcutta’s Chinatown be renamed Kamalnagar in the future? The belief in the power of new names to obfuscate inconvenient historical facts or narratives is neither novel nor new: it is a shared political trait. In recent times, the BJP has gone about renaming Allahabad to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai Junction to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction. In this, the BJP may have simply taken a leaf out of its political adversaries. The Congress changed Connaught Circus to Rajiv Chowk; among other renaming ceremonies that Bengal witnessed during the Left Front’s reign, Harrington Street in Calcutta, where the American embassy is situated, underwent a rather symbolic transformation into Ho Chi Minh Sarani. Yet, history is a resilient creature and the mere change of name is not enough to erase symbiotic connections that have been nourished over centuries. The dragon and the elephant, in spite of epochs of bitterness, share such bonds. Would New India agree to give up its beloved cup of chai, China’s most enduring gift to the world? Getting the Bengali to throw away a plate of chow mein could prove to be equally challenging for the BJP. Instead of trying to rewrite history, there is a case for greater investment — both in terms of scholarship and diplomacy — in old connections that are the embodiment of shared histories. The BJP is desperately trying to prove that it is a disciple of Rabindranath Tagore. This great man had the vision to recognize the importance of fraternity that transcends political and geographical boundaries. Cheena Bhavana at Visva-Bharati is a testament to the need of maintaining the intercourse of culture and friendship especially during times of strife. The fraternity that is the outcome of such a syncretic vision could go a long way in keeping the dragon away from the door.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||How Nitish Kumar won over Sikhs and Delhi cut Yogi to size||It was the 354th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th and last guru of the Sikhs, and the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, went to offer prayers at his birthplace, Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib, popularly known as Patna Sahib. The pilgrims present there from different parts of the country and abroad were happy to see him as a devotee, and they expressed it with chants of “Jo bole so nihal...” Kumar, on his part, did his best to abide by the customs and partook of food at the langar (community dining) at the gurudwara. After he left, several senior Sikh leaders from Delhi and Punjab asserted that Bihar’s chief minister has become the cynosure of the eyes of all Sikh people across the globe by the way he fabulously organized the 350th birth anniversary of the guru in 2017. One of the religious leaders went a step further to say that the event had made Kumar more popular than the prime minister, Narendra Modi, among Sikhs. “If he becomes the prime-ministerial candidate and contests the Lok Sabha elections from anywhere in Punjab, he will win hands down. He must give it a thought,” the Sikh leader confided, as others nodded in unison. Of course, good deeds last long. The steady rise of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, seems to have generated anxiety in a section of the current regime. They fear that the saffron-robed monk could emerge as the top choice to succeed Narendra Modi. In the Hindutva brigade, he is already a favourite. In election-bound states, Adityanath is the most sought-after campaigner, drawing large crowds. Recently, he even executed a law against inter-religious marriages, known popularly as the ‘love jihad’ law, that many other states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party are implementing. But the confirmation by the Central Bureau of Investigation of the gang rape and murder of the Hathras victim has come as a big setback for the government, as the state police had claimed that no rape had taken place. In the power corridors of Delhi, the CBI’s probe report has been seen as a politically-loaded move to cut Adityanath to size. Now it is no secret under whose control the premier investigating agency functions. How difficult is it to reform the Bihar police? The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, has learnt it the hard way. With the state slipping down the dark alleys of crime and the police failing miserably in checking it, mediapersons reportedly found the men in khaki, including the director general of police, SK Singhal, avoiding them by not even taking their phone calls. They complained about it to Kumar, who promptly spoke to Singhal and asked him to respond to their calls. Soon, the government also issued a notification giving out the landline and mobile numbers on which the DGP could be contacted. But what happened next came as a shock. Those who called the mobile number reportedly found out that a stenographer was receiving the calls and he would neither give the message to the police chief nor would there be any call back. Some of the callers gave the stenographer a piece of their mind about how the DGP was a public servant and not a feudal lord in some medieval state. A few people also apprised the chief minister of the situation, but nothing changed. A top politician pointed out, if the chief minister cannot reform the DGP, how could he be expected to improve the law-and-order situation in the state? Meanwhile, Singhal got confirmed for a two-year stint as the DGP after receiving the nod from the Union Public Service Commission. But the state continues to earn infamy over increasing crime and brazen criminals. The chief minister of Chhattisgarh, Bhupesh Baghel, did make an impression during his first visit to Assam as one of the senior observers tasked by the Congress leadership to manage and coordinate the state assembly elections to be held in April-May. The arrival of the man who had delivered Chhattisgarh to the Congress in 2018 saw the announcement of the much-awaited grand alliance of six parties, including the All India United Democratic Front, against the ruling BJP. But party insiders were most impressed by his frontal attack on the ruling dispensation, something they felt was necessary for the challenging electoral battle ahead. In his short but pointed speeches, one of which was made during the announcement of the grand alliance, he tried to turn the tables on the BJP’s ‘what-did-the-Congress-do-in-60-years’ narrative by reportedly asserting that whatever the BJP-led Centre is ‘selling’ today, from airports to railway stations, was built during the Congress regime, not by the relatives of the BJP leaders. Baghel also marketed the Chhattisgarh model of development, claiming that it was better than the Gujarat model promoted by the BJP. Baghel has made a good start, senior Congressmen said, but impressing the electorate, keeping the faction-ridden state unit together and coming up with a solid narrative to counter the BJP will surely be a different ball game. Dravidian politics has always had an impact in Karnataka and not just because of shared borders, culture and cuisine. Dravidian political parties have often tested waters in Karnataka which has a significant Tamil-speaking population. Now that VK Sasikala, a close associate of former chief minister, J Jayalalithaa, is ready to walk out of Bangalore jail after her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets case, even commoners in the BJP-ruled Karnataka are closely watching her move. While she cannot contest in elections for six years, she would certainly play a vital role with her breakaway Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam. With Rajinikanth dropping his political entry, the BJP is reportedly trying to forge an alliance with her party to lure her supporters in Karnataka. The chief minister of Karnataka, BS Yediyurappa, and the Union home minister, Amit Shah, were found to admire one another during the latter’s recent visit to the state. The Lingayat strongman likened Shah to no less a person than Vallabhbhai Patel. Shah returned the compliment by affirming Yediyurappa’s leadership. Patting each other’s backs has had an immediate effect in silencing those trying to replace the septuagenarian with a Hindutva hard-liner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||All you who bleed tonight||We await your return. Bleeding, or having bled to degrees that there is no more blood to bleed any more. That’s quite all right. They also serve who can no longer serve. We have our ways, we can infuse purpose into those you believe have lost purpose. Trust us. We will find uses. We have become good at it. Didn’t you hear? You thought you’d been rendered worthless? Ungainly acrid fuming piles that nobody could make any sense of anymore or even wished to? A mangled mass of soot and grease that required removal from the scene so life as it was before could resume? No. How could we let that happen to this thing that we adorn with words like ultimate and supreme and such other superlatives, how could we permit it to pass without impact and import. We won big on you. Consider yourselves the receptacles of limitless gratitude, we shall put it all there, in those boxes, and around them. And then we shall conduct them with all the fanfare that we feel we owe you. Have no worries, you had your uses. Come to think of it, you could not have been more useful. What were you there for, after all, hain? You signed up for this. We sent you away for this. We wrote lyrics for this. We set those lyrics to rending tunes for this. We commissioned nightingales to sing along those tunes for this. We learnt how to cry to that song and to the lyrics and the tunes they were set to for this. Just for this. You did well. So well. You have all of those things. But this is not the end of it. There is more. Do not lose heart. Oh, solemn apologies, not heart, oh no, that is already lost, lost in that mangle. Spirit? Right. Spirit is the word. That which is contained in the soul, which in turn is contained in the Message. The Message which tells us the things that should be foremost with you, wherever you are, if you still are. But you must be. Or so the Message says, it is all there in the Jeeta. You cannot be destroyed, you are eternal. The same cannot be said about what became mangles, but that too the Message tells us. It is of no use, what becomes a mangle. Bother not. Do what needs to be done, worry not about what will come of it. What will come of it, let me worry about. Do your duty, become mangles. The consequences are not for you to worry about. They will be taken care of. There will be rewards, we are here to put them on the mantel. We won big. You see? You did what you had to, that is what matters. This is, oh you, your part on the eternal stage. There is theatre and there are theatres. And there lie the differences. There lie too some among us, between our theatres and your theatre. Your uniforms do not sweat. Our uniforms are not dry. And let me tell you why. Tear a falcon’s wings apart and stitch them to your flanks; flap them all you can, and see if you can fly.Theatres. Theatre. There’s a difference. There are many differences, more than merely one. Our theatres, they aren’t there for the show. No lights. No intervals. No audience. No applause. Only curtains. And those curtains are so wet, they come to fall to no plot, they just fall, as is where is; our curtains are wet, our curtains are heavy, often so heavy they fall under their own weight, and they fall all the time, around us, with us, and once they have fallen, we are no longer there to tell it’s curtains. It is you, usually, who take over. It is you who begin to stage the drama, I become a prop, a thing of the purposes of your stage. We sweated. We bled. Our uniforms are wet. And our tears have run dry. You stand on your stage, crying; that theatre is yours. The colours and stripes I wore You stain ’em with your sordid lie Who they blew, who they tore Currency, no more, for you to buy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||Dear Siraj...||The anatomy of abuse is bewilderingly simple and the same, on field and off it. It all boils down to a deep suspicion of any kind of difference, which inevitably erupts when The Different threatens the supremacy of The (Perceived) Regular. The first recorded cricket match in Australia was possibly played in Adelaide in 1854. Aborigines of the Poonindie mission vs Students of the Collegiate School of St. Peter. Poonindie is a small township in south Australia. In the aboriginal settlement at Coranderrk, northeast of Melbourne, they played cricket. In the 1870s, when British naturalist H.N. Moseley paid a visit, he remarked that the aboriginals were “incorrigibly lazy” but he said of the “cricket party” --- "The men were all dressed as Europeans: they knew all about Mr W.G. Grace and the All-England Eleven.” And in the paper Racism and Sport in Australia, Colin Tatz writes that the players of New Norcia Mission in Western Australia were nicknamed “the Invincibles” though coached only by a local grazier. Unlike Poonindie, Coranderrk, New Norcia Mission, merchant Daniel Matthews, who managed the Cummeragunja reserve on the Victorian border, did not encourage the aboriginals there to play cricket. His biographer wrote he was aware that prowess in the sport was turning out to be their passport to the white man’s world, “even to the white man’s respect and friendship” and he couldn’t have that happen. In 1865, Harry Bullocky and Johnny Cuzens became the first aboriginals to play inter-colonial cricket, notes Jon Gemmell in his paper All White Mate? Cricket and Race in Oz.  They had represented Victoria against Tasmania. Aboriginal players were also the first Australians to tour England in 1868. One of them, all-rounder Johnny Mullagh, was known as the “black W.G. of the team”. He played over 40 matches in England. The aboriginal cricketers of Deebing Creek Reserve won a major trophy in 1895 and then played the National Cricket Union in Brisbane. This is how achievements of aboriginal cricketers were reported in the press. The South Australian Register in 1854: “Charlie and the two Sams (aboriginal cricketers) are not ignorant of the usages of society: they handled their knives, their forks and their spoons in a way which would do no discredit to men of a superior race!” The Australasian wrote in 1866: “It has been proved that the black fellow has an extraordinary readiness for picking up knowledge of the game, however deficient he may be in other respects.” And when Eddie Gilbert was selected for Queensland, the Brisbane Daily Mail wrote that he may be a black man, but he was different from the rest. Historians note that in a match between the Ginninderra Station and the Duntroon Station in 1861, the Duntroon captain objected to aboriginal player Bobby Hamilton opening the batting with white man William Davis. And when the great Mullagh travelled with the Harrow team to Apsley, the captain suggested that he eat in the kitchen instead of the dining room. Fast bowler Gilbert faced so much racism on field that Gemmell says this isolation affected his game --- “he bowled at the stumps because so many catches were dropped”. One November in 1931, in Gabba, Don Bradman faced five deliveries from Gilbert. Bradman was with the New South Wales team and Gilbert with Queensland. On the fifth delivery Bradman got out. In his 1991 PhD thesis, Thom Blake wrote, “Probably no single ball bowled in the history of cricket has had as important socio-cultural ramifications.” Dear Siraj, it has always been about black and white, but never quite black and white. Be well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||The inner eye||His wife heavily gravid and going to deliver any moment, barrister M.K. Gandhi picked up pen and paper on May 21, 1900, in Durban, Natal, South Africa for ‘public work’. This time it was to draft and send a felicitatory cable to Queen Victoria (1819-1901) on the monarch’s 81st birthday. Herself a mother of nine and sceptical of husbands’ concern for wives, she might well have addressed to the thirty-one-year-old the remark famously (if without authentication) ascribed to her: “We are not amused.” And added the other comment of hers: “Being pregnant is an occupational hazard of being a wife.” Already a celebrity in that British colony as an advocate for the rights of Indian South Africans, with no distinction being allowed between them and any Briton there, Gandhi’s sending that message was about good politics. But he being the man that he was, it was also, essentially, his own style. The writing of this message done, he then wrote to the Natal government to forward it to London, not forgetting to do another thing typical of him. He remitted Pound 1 to the authorities towards transmission charges. In less than a year, Victoria was to make him put pen to paper again. When news came on January 22, 1901 of the monarch’s death, British Indians in Natal sent a cable to the royal family “... bewailing the Empire’s loss in the death of the greatest and most loved sovereign on earth.” This was, it need hardly be explained, Gandhi writing. And it was also to lead to Gandhi doing what he was to become known for: hitting the street. “On the weekend following,” he records, “a great procession was taken out in Durban from West Street to her statue and a wreath placed there, M.H. Nazar and I carrying the wreath on our shoulders.” Going further, some four weeks later, in March, he had an address on the reign of Queen Victoria delivered to Indian children in the Town Hall, Durban, and a memento distributed to each of them. This comprised a photograph of the late Queen and an extract from her Proclamation to the people of India of 1858 at the top, six dates in her life from her association with India at the bottom, a map of India (1901) showing it as a British possession and her remark, “I will be good,” when she was informed at the age of twelve that she was the future Queen of England. His equation with the raj was going to have a complete metamorphosis. But the respect in which he held Victoria was not going to change. He was to continue to not only hold her in esteem, but publicly state that position on more than one occasion, perhaps most famously at the National Language Conference held in Calcutta on December 30, 1917. Lokamanya Tilak, presiding, spoke in English. When his turn came, Gandhi said (speaking in his own not very practiced Hindi): “It would be a great advantage if Lokamanya Tilak would speak in Hindi… Even Queen Victoria learnt Hindi.” On June 27, 1947, he said, “If an English girl of seventeen could become the British Queen and later even Empress of India there is no reason why a Bhangi girl of robust love of her people and of unimpeachable integrity of character should not become the first President of the Indian Republic.” One hundred and twenty years after her death, it is worth reflecting on the respect in which the raj’s future and most formidable adversary held its most celebrated monarch. Three reflections emerge, on the roots of this respect and their relevance today: first, a Head of State is part of its architecture but also above it, levitating, almost, in a space that exculpates her or him from its actions’ minutiae. A ‘robust love of the people’ and ‘unimpeachable integrity’ make the occupier of that office the nation’s conscience. Not a carping, nagging trouble-maker, but an honest counsellor, unafraid because unimpeachable as to motives and means. Queen Victoria respected the prime minister’s powers and her own constitutional position as explained by Walter Bagehot. But she never doubted what she so uniquely enjoyed: influence. In a letter to Lord Salisbury dated May 27, 1898, she wrote: “The future Viceroy [of India] must… not be guided by the snobbish and vulgar, over-bearing and offensive behaviour of our Civil and Political Agents… not trying to trample on the people and continuously reminding them and making them feel they are a conquered people.” Not trying to trample on the people is not policy. It is not a directive. But it is a nostrum and one that, coming from the monarch, cannot but inform the State’s attitude to the people. And who are those? Not the ruling race, not the demographically or politically powerful but, in a country like India, all of them as a peoplehood. Equality and secularism are about letting no community feel it is a subject denomination. Second, Victoria’s statue on West Street, Durban and her statues in Bengaluru, Chennai and Calcutta remind us, timeously (to use a South African phrase), of her respect for language and cultural difference. The handsome one in Bengaluru’s Cubbon Park, sculpted by Thomas Brock, bears inscriptions that date back to its installation at the hands of the visiting Prince of Wales — the future George V — in 1906. They are in four languages — English, Kannada, Tamil and Urdu. The raj in its imperial and colonial astuteness and correctness knew the need for balance among the different language communities in its territories. And, of course, of Victoria’s desire to ‘not trample’. Gandhi perhaps had an exaggerated notion of Victoria’s learning of Hindi (Hindustani, more accurately) but he was exactly right about the reasons for her wanting to do so. She wanted to be on a proximate, if not the same, wavelength as her Indian subjects. At least in her own mind. Third, the statues stand, in their own quaint way, for what may be called Victoria’s federating spirit. What? An unapologetic royal standing for federalism? Strange as that may sound, it is so. She is unlikely to have studied the evolution of federal theories, or derived conceptual lessons from the American Civil War. And her 63-year-long reign (1837-1901) coincided with some of the raj’s most egregious acts against the people and the institutions of India, notably, during the governor generalship of Lord Dalhousie when princely state after princely state was outrageously annexed to British India and, in an act that has etched itself into India’s collective memory, the Koh-i-noor, a palladium of Indian sovereign pride, was snatched from its lodgement in the Punjab and presented to the Queen as a token of India’s submission to the raj. And, yet, there was in her instincts, if not quite a touch of Asokan remorse, still, a conscience about what Britain had done in India as an imperial and colonizing power, especially post-1857. That — a conscience about deeds done that should not have been done by its political class — is silent in India today. It is asleep. It snores. We do not need lessons in political morality from a regime that took control of India without any justification, ruled over it without any compunction, and left it only when continuance had become untenable. But behind that truth the example of a Queen who had an active inner monitor with which ‘to encourage and to warn’ her government and guide her people is of value today. And this, because that monitor needs to be applied not just to the government of the day but to something even more trampling of peoples’ feelings — the ‘vulgar, overbearing and offensive’ majoritarianism that has spread among us as a society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Farukh Choudhary returns to Jamshedpur FC||Jamshedpur FC completed the signing of Farukh Choudhary in the ongoing transfer window of Indian Super League (ISL). The right-winger, who played for three years at Jamshedpur, makes a return to the club and has been signed for two-and-a-half years until the summer of 2023. The 24-year-old forward comes after a successful season of having won the ‘Player of the Match’ award four times with a goal and four assists to his name and has been a regular feature in the Indian national team recently. “Farukh is a fantastic player with a scope of developing even further. He is already an Indian team player and has the pace and ability to create and score goals and is an outstanding addition to our squad. He will help us immediately to challenge for the coveted play-off positions and long term to build a team that will be challenging for honours on a yearly basis,” said head coach Owen Coyle. Farukh, who made 47 club appearances for Jamshedpur in his three-year stint with the club, was ecstatic about his return. “Jamshedpur is like home to me and I am happy to be back here. I spent three amazing years with the club. The coach’s trust in me was one of the biggest factors to come back to the squad. I hope that I will give my best to help the team qualify for the play-offs,” said Farukh. The signing of Farukh will see Jamshedpur winger Jackichand Singh move the other way to Mumbai City FC. Farukh joined the Jamshedpur FC bio-bubble, wearing jersey number 77 this season. The Tata Steel-owned club, which is desperate to make it to the playoffs after losing three matches on the trot, is making wise moves to draft in players who can help them achieve the target. Last week JFC had signed Manipuri winger Seiminlen Doungel to make their intentions clear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||DCA Blue beats Red by five runs to lift Challengers Trophy||T-20 Challenger Trophy (Women) organized by Dhanbad Cricket Association (DCA) concluded on Sunday at the CCWO ground, Dhanbad with the Blue team defeating the Red by five runs in a closely fought final match. The day began at the ground at around 10.10 am with DCA (Red) winning the toss and electing to field. Batting first DCA (Blue) scored 111 runs in the allotted 20 overs by losing nine wickets. Durga Kumari of DCA Blue who made the first unbeaten knock during the inaugural encounter on January 17 again proved to be the most successful player of her side today by scoring 30 runs on 23 bowls with the help of six boundaries. Pushpa Kumari and Dikshita Kumari scored 13 and 12 runs respectively for DCA Blue in an inning where wickets fell on regular intervals. The other two batsmen who reached the double-digit figure included Urmila (11) and Babli. Ruma Kumari and Sunita Kumari of DCA Red took two wickets each while Supriya Saloni, Ankita Maurya and Nisha took one wicket each. Rest four players were run out. Chasing the victory target, DCA (Red) also gave a tough fight and showed some good batting by scoring 106 runs in 20 overs on three wickets but lost the match due to slow run rate by a narrow margin of five runs. For DCA Red Supriya Saloni showed some good batting also and scored 44 runs on 47 balls and remained unbeaten till the last over of the team inning. Sunita Kumari of DCA Red also showed good all-round performance as she scored 25 runs by playing 50 balls. For the winning team DCA (Blue) Babli Kumari proved to be the most successful bowler as she took two wickets in four overs by giving 30 runs. The third wicket for the DCA (Blue) side was taken by Apurva Kumari who gave 15 runs in three overs. Talking to the media during the prize distribution function, General Secretary of Dhanbad Cricket Association, Binay Singh said, “The tournament which was the first after the prolonged closure of pandemic was held successfully and all players showed good sporting spirit despite being away from the ground for a considerable period of over 10 months.” “Other tournaments as per the DCA cricket schedule including inter-school cricket will also be organized,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Three live bombs seized in Dhanbad, one arrested||The police while conducting a raid at the railway quarter in Purana Station Colony seized three powerful bombs and arrested one person on Sunday morning. A four-member bomb squad disposal team from Ranchi which reached the site on Sunday afternoon diffused the bombs. Dhanbad Police are suspecting the involvement of Aman Singh, a UP-based shooter, involved in Niraj Singh murder case. Aman Singh is accused of making extortion calls to various Dhanbad traders in recent times, from behind the bars. Police have arrested five persons belonging to Aman Singh’s gang including Manjit Singh, a resident of Govindpur; Javed Akhtar, a resident of Gajuatand; Ravi Kumar Thakur, a resident of Tetulmari; Bablu Kumar Mishra, a resident of Putki and Sheikh Mohammad a resident of Luby Circular Road. Police have also seized arms and ammunition and Rs 1 lakh from them. The seizure from the railway quarter which falls under Dhansar Police station, however, was made at around 9 am on Sunday morning when the police team led by officer-in-charge of Dhanbad Police Station, Jaiprakash Rai raided the site and seized three bombs from the railway quarter number 133/H. The police team cordoned off the area to prevent any damage to the residential colony and also temporarily vacated some of the adjoining quarters. The four-member bomb disposal squad of Ranchi reached the site after four hours and diffused the bomb. Talking to the media at the site, Jaiprakash Rai said, “One person accused of making extortion calls to some businessman was arrested from Jharia on Saturday and on his indication the raid was conducted today and three powerful bombs were seized.” “Though a detailed investigation is still ongoing regarding the recovery of the bombs but we suspect the involvement of different gangs in making extortion calls and behind the use of bombs to create a sense of terror among people. The arrested person has accepted his involvement in making extortion calls to different traders of Dhanbad on the instruction of a person presently lodged behind the bars,” stated the Rai indicating the role of Aman Singh’s gang in the stocking of bombs. “The recovery of the bombs, due to the timely action of the police, however, has helped to up the confidence of traders,” added Rai. Notably, a series of extortion calls and threat calls were made to different traders, private coal company executives and politicians in the name of Sujit Sinha gang and Aman Singh gang in the last 45 days, said police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Out attending nature’s call, man trampled to death by elephant||Out to attend nature’s call in the open, a tribal man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Ranchi’s Tamar block past Saturday midnight, triggering outrage among villagers over the alleged lackadaisical approach of forest officials in alerting residents about the presence of wild tuskers. In his forties, Budhram Munda, a resident of Kundala village under Tamar police station around 50 km from the state capital, sustained severe internal and external injuries after an elephant caught hold of him and rammed him on the ground several times. A profusely bleeding Budhram was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead, villagers said. The deceased’s brother, Sanjay Munda, said that Budhram, who was unaware of the presence of elephants in the area, ventured out of his house to defecate at around 1.30am. When Budhram did not return, Sanjay rushed out of the house and found him unconscious in a nearby jungle. The villagers rushed Budhram to a nearby hospital, but it was too late by then, said Sanjay. Tamar block falls under the jurisdiction of the Khunti forest officials. Forest Range Officer of Tamar Amarnath Bhagat said elephants usually moved from Jharkhand to Bengal during this time of the year and often turn aggressive upon encountering humans at night. The incident has also raised questions on the government’s claim of ensuring zero open defecation in Jharkhand. “I am not sure if the deceased had a toilet at home or not, but in many cases, villagers defecate in the open despite having toilets at home,” said Bhagat. The incident occurred in the forest area and the deceased’s family immediately got compensation of Rs 50,000, he said. A remaining amount of Rs.3.5 lakh would be paid to the family after verification. Jharkhand was declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) by the former BJP-led state government in 2018. Villagers in Tamar block claim to live under constant fear of elephants, who have destroyed farmland, ransacked houses and killed many in the past. Tamar falls in the elephant corridor, and villagers claim that forest officials have not developed any mechanism to inform them about the movement of elephants in the area. About 10 months ago a dozen tuskers had damaged standing crops and a few houses at Dimra village close to Kundala village where Budhram died on Sunday. In December last year, one Devashish Sahu lost his life after he was attacked by an elephant at Salgadih village in Tamar. Kundala and surrounding localities are also part of the elephant corridor leading to the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Herbal garden blooms at govt health centre in Palamau||A herbal garden in the campus of a government community health centre at Panki situated over 45 kilometres away from Daltonganj town comes as a happy surprise since a government hospital is often viewed as a place where there is no cleanliness. The herbal garden has both medicinal fruits and vegetables said Dr Mahender Kr Prasad, the medical officer in charge of the community health centre at Panki. Known by his first name more among his patients and medical fraternity, Mahender said, “We have carved out a place in the community health centre where we grow gooseberry, mulberry, banana, papaya, guava, jack fruit, lemon, orange, chiku, ladies' fingers, leafy vegetables, etc.” Last summer the team here made a good sale of ladies' fingers which the locals bought happily, informed Mahender. He also said that the patients and their attendants are not allowed to enter the herbal garden and it is properly fenced with its gate under lock and key. “Each one of us spends time to mend the garden. Weeding out of non-palatable grasses is done regularly. Many watch our garden and enjoy when they find luscious Chiku hanging out from the branches,” he added. There is no fund for it and it is managed by the officials and the staff on campus. Mahender also informed that there is a nearly 90-years-old Peepal tree (sacred fig) right in the campus of the government community health centre. “It is a great pride of all of us as it is our landmark,” he said. A large number of local women come here in the morning for their pujas, which helps us keep our campus free of dirt and filth. This tree is also a rest house for a few hundred white herons that come here and spend their night only to fly away in the morning. Locally herons are called Bogola and these are as white as snow and many patients and attendants claim their sighting is very auspicious and patients recover fast said a civil society activist Mumtaz Ahmad Khan. Mahender said, “This old Peepal tree once became 'sick' and its leaves began to rot and fall in great heaps. We found that this tree would soon become a lifeless stem only.” He sprayed a medical solution on the tree and it got out of the 'malaise'. Mahender said no forest official whom they had approached tried to save the Peepal tree or send any help. As he had an honours degree in Botany before embarking upon medical science courses he used his knowledge of Botany and helped save the Peepal tree. Sources said the doctors and this tree are trusted alike here. Civil surgeon Palamau John F Kennedy said, “Our medical team at this centre here at Panki puts in its best to serve the ailing people here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Protesting slum dwellers block Bistupur Main Road||Over 300 residents of Dhatkidih Medical Bustee on Sunday afternoon blocked the road in front of Bistupur Police Station, demanding the arrest of July Ghosh who was murdered on January 3 in the area. The protesters, mostly women, resorted to a road blockade after senior superintendent of police M Tamil Vanan failed to turn up at the police station, where they had been staging the gherao since 11:30 am on Sunday. This resulted in the disruption of traffic movement through the Bistupur Main Road, but was cleared within half an hour after deputy superintendent of police (Composite Control Room) Arvind Kumar stepped in. He assured them that the assailants would be arrested soon. The agitators were demanding the arrest of one Subham Mukhi and three others suspected to be involved in the murder of July Ghosh. Widow of liquor mafia, Kallu Ghosh, July (38) was found murdered on the bed of her residence in the Dhatkidih Medical Bustee in Bistupur on January 3 night. The police have failed to crack the case even after 20 days, harping on one theory of July being killed by someone close to her. “The victim's family members as well as others in the slum have time and again told the police that the murder might have conspired by Subham Mukhi and executed by his three associates, but the police are not paying heed to this,” one of the agitators said. Bistupur Police Station OC Vishnu Raut said they are investigating the case from all possible angles. “We have so far interrogated over a dozen suspects in connection to the July's murder.  We are looking into all angles, including the family as well as the liquor business angles.  Until and unless we do not get strong evidence against anyone, how can we make the arrest,” quipped Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online, dubbing the case as a challenging one. “We have to find out not only the murderer, but also detect the murder weapon that was used in the murder.  As of now it stands to be a blind case as we have not got any strong clue to the murderer,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||State sees change in mood, to double vaccination sites||Jharkhand will double Covid vaccination sites when the drive resumes on Monday in an effort to expand coverage and speed up the process as authorities are optimistic of better turnouts after Friday logged beneficiary attendance at 68 per cent. While the state’s overall vaccine coverage now stands at 61 per cent, Friday’s inoculation drive alone touched 68 per cent, increasing the state’s overall average marginally - one per cent - in the last week since the rollout of the vaccine on January 16. State director of National Health Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla said while the total number of centres would be finalised by Sunday night, he emphasized that the count would be doubled. “We began with 48 sites. From Monday we are planning to make it 100 so that coverage can be increased,” he said. Friday’s vaccination drive was encouraging. According to the state health department, Ranchi recorded 100 per cent vaccination for the first time. Several other districts touched over 70 per cent. Palamau, one of the remotest districts, tops with 76 per cent overall coverage followed by Bokaro (74 per cent), Giridih (71 per cent). Eight other districts are above the 60 per cent mark. Shukla said it was too early to specify a clear trend among the best and worst-performing districts. But he guessed that the Palamau district administration probably mobilised resources better than others. In terms of numbers, of the 24,091 targeted beneficiaries, 14,794 have taken the jabs since January 16. A total of 42 adverse affect (AFI) cases were also reported across Jharkhand. But the authorities maintained that these were anxiety-driven and lasted for a brief period during pre and post-vaccination, a common feature during any immunisation drive. No AFI case required medication or hospitalisation. Jharkhand is administering the Covishield vaccine four days a week — Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Riding high on aggressive awareness drives, coupled with no major AFI cases, NHM officials foresee that hesitancy and apprehensions about the vaccine would gradually subside in the coming days. Shukla explained that the Union health ministry’s decision to alter SOPs and offer more flexibility to registered beneficiaries was another reason why the state was expecting a better turnout. “Earlier, only those who are slotted to get vaccines on a particular day were entitled to take the shots. However, the health ministry has now made certain modifications in the Co-win app, a real-time software for the vaccination drive, under which a registered beneficiary can walk in at his/her earmarked vaccine centre on any day to get the shot,” he said. Shukla said there was a possibility that a beneficiary may be out of town on the day he/she is supposed to take the vaccine. “Or he/she may have missed the auto-generated SMS due to network congestion, change of phone etc. So, pre-registered beneficiaries can choose to take the vaccine out of turn,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand active Covid cases below 1,000||The number of active Covid cases in Jharkhand dipped below the 1,000-mark on Friday night while the first phase of the vaccination programme continued across the state.  According to the data released by the state government at 9pm on Friday, there were 75 positive cases recorded, 127 recoveries and two casualties, while the number of active cases went down to 978. In Ranchi district that had the maximum active cases, the number went down to 495, below the 500-mark for the first time, though it accounted for 50.61 per cent of the total cases in the state. East Singhbhum was the only other district that had over 100 active cases at 121, accounting for 12.37 per cent of the total cases. All other districts have case counts below 50. The Santhal Pargana region had a particularly favourable Covid situation. While Pakur district does not have a single active case, Sahebganj had just one. Among other districts of the region, only Godda had 16 cases while Jamtara (9), Deoghar (7) and Dumka (6) had below 10 cases. In the remaining part of the state, Dhanbad had 49 cases on Friday, Gumla 41, while Latehar had 38 and Lohardaga 36 cases. While Bokaro had 35 active cases, Hazaribagh had 21. With 116,116 among 118,154 positive patients recovered, the recovery rate in the state was 98.27 per cent, which was better than the national rate of 96.80 per cent.  Similarly, with 1,060 total deaths, the mortality rate of the state was 0.89 per cent, which was less than the national rate of 1.40 per cent. Meanwhile, the first phase of vaccination for Covid-19 covering health workers continued on Friday. A total of 3,153 of the targeted 4,654 people were administered the Covishield vaccine, achieving 68 per cent immunisation on Friday. “The situation in Jharkhand is much better compared to many other states,” said outgoing principal secretary (health), Nitin Madan Kulkarni, who has been transferred as the commissioner of South Chotanagpur division. “As the number of active Covid cases has gone below 1,000 in the state, it’s the right time to move out,” a smiling Kulkarni said, when asked about his transfer order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
24-01-2021||Jharkhand||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi lauds Hemant Soren for child rescue||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi wants to see Jharkhand become “India’s first child-friendly state”. After speaking to chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday afternoon over phone when Satyarthi appreciated him for rescuing a six-year-old tribal girl from traffickers, the Nobel Peace Prize winner tweeted: “Let’s work together to make Jharkhand India’s first child friendly state.” “I felt a deep compassion and conviction in your voice when we spoke a little while ago about the rescue of a 6-year old tribal girl from West Singhbhum with your intervention. Admiration!” Satyarthi added. The girl from Kudusai village of Manoharpur area in West Singhbhum district was rescued while she was being taken away by the alleged traffickers. Soren, on learning that the girl was being trafficked, had directed to rescue her. Following this incident, Satyarthi spoke to Soren on Saturday to express his admiration and backed it up with his tweet. “It was a pleasure to interact and share mutual thoughts,” Soren replied in his tweet to Satyarthi, adding that “Jharkhand has faced the curse of child trafficking and we are trying our best to the menace”. He, however,  appealed for help from Satyarthi and everyone else. “But we would need support from you and everyone to provide a safe and bright future for our children,” Soren added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-163
