25-01-2021||Calcutta||Domestic help arrested for allegedly stealing money||Sushma Yadav, 35, who worked as a domestic help, was arrested on Sunday for allegedly stealing Rs 4.5 lakh from her employers’ residence on Prince Anwar Shah Road earlier this week. The theft was reported by the employers’ daughter, police said. The stolen amount has been recovered from Yadav’s possession after her arrest, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Hopes rise after Covid vaccine 1st week ||Around 84,000 health workers were administered the Covid vaccination in Bengal in the first week of the nationwide exercise, prompting local officials to conclude that the state has done “fairly well” and raising hopes that the initial reluctance among potential recipients will subside soon. The country-wide count is 16 lakh. Of the 83,709 people who were vaccinated in Bengal since January 16, as many as 30,517 got their shots on Friday. Health department officials hope the reluctance among many people to get Covid shots would go away gradually as there are hardly any reports of adverse events. “A week has passed since the Covid vaccination was launched across the country and there are hardly any reports of serious adverse events. More health workers will now be keen to get the shots,” an official said. From Monday, the jabs will be administered at 400 sites across the state, 50 more than Friday’s count. “We have done fairly well in the first week despite reluctance among a section of health-care workers to take the vaccine. Some states have done better than us. We hope to do better from this week,” said a health department official. Metro has reported that the health department is asking senior doctors and hospital administrators to motivate their colleagues to take Covid shots. The number of vaccination sites has been increased across the state to ensure that more health workers are inoculated. In Calcutta, the count has been doubled. “Covid vaccines will be administered at 54 sites in Calcutta from Monday. On Friday, there were only 26 sites in the city,” said a state government official involved in the supervision of the Covid vaccination. Among the new sites are two private hospitals — Belle Vue Clinic and the Institute of Neurosciences — and 11 ward health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. According to the state-wise break-down of Covid-19 vaccination posted on the website of the Press Information Bureau, Bengal had vaccinated 53,988 health-care workers till 7am on January 22. The state stood sixth in vaccinating health-care workers. Karnataka had inoculated 1,38,807 health workers, Andhra Pradesh 1,15,365, Odisha 1,13, 623, Telangana 97,087 and Bihar 63,541 health-care workers till 7am on January 22. The total inoculation done till then was 10,43,534. Bengal has the fifth highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country now, according to a tweet by the ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. The tweet at 12.09pm mentioned that India’s active cases stood at 1,84,408. It also mentioned that Kerala accounted for 39.19 per cent of the cases, Maharashtra 24.45 per cent, Karnataka 3.99 per cent, Uttar Pradesh 3.97 per cent and West Bengal 3.47 per cent of the active cases. “5 states account for 75% total active cases of the country,” the tweet said. In terms of absolute numbers, the number of active cases has come down significantly. The bulletin issued by the state health department on Sunday mentioned that 389 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state over the past 24 hours. The bulletin issued on Saturday mentioned that 410 cases were reported in the preceding 24 hours. An official of the state health department said that if vaccination gained steam, Bengal would be at a more advantageous position. “The faster we can inoculate our people, the better off we would be,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta tram routes to be colour-coded||Calcutta is set to have colour-coded tram routes, like the Granton tram network of Edinburgh, from February. “The colours to be assigned to the various routes include pink, red, yellow, violet, blue and green. The scheme will be launched in February,” said an official of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC). According to the plan, trams with pink stripes will run on routes 24 and 29, between Tollygunge and Ballygunge station via Tollygunge Club, Lake Market and Hindustan Park. Trams with yellow stripes will connect Gairahat with Esplanade via Ice Skating Rink, Quest Mall, Nonapukur, Ripon Street, Wellington crossing and Chandni Chowk. The red line will pass through College Street, while the green line will connect the Howrah bridge with Rajabazar. The violet route will cover central Calcutta and the blue line will connect Esplanade with Kidderpore, via the Maidan. “For easy identification, tramcars will have colour stripes on the top. There won't be any shortage of tramcars on any route even if one develops a snag,” said an official of the WBTC. “Those who will buy a ‘Trampass’ will be given a pocket map on tram routes.” The Trampass is an all-in-one day-ticket that allows a commuter to travel on all trams, including air-conditioned ones, at Rs 100 a day. The pass offers a free ride on Paat Rani, a heritage tram displaying jute products, which otherwise costs Rs 99. It also allows a free entry into Tram World Calcutta, a museum on trams set up in Gariahat to commemorate 140 years of the tram operations by the Calcutta Tramways Company, which was registered in London on December 22, 1880. “This is part of our endeavours to try and revive love for trams in Calcutta,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of WBTC. The West Bengal Transport Corporation, which runs on subsidy from the state government, has of late been trying to popularise trams. Apart from rolling out AC trams on select routes, the transport department has recently opened an art gallery on a tram and a library on wheels. Trams, an environment-friendly mode of transport, started their journey in Calcutta in 1873 with horses drawing them. In 1902, the first electric tram began its service in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta chill set to last 4 to 5 days||The current spell of chill, brought on by snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir, is likely to last another four to five days, the weather department said. Sunday's maximum temperature was 26.1 degrees Celsius and minimum 14 degrees Celsius.. The chill was accompanied by fog on Sunday, which disrupted flights. Officials at the Calcutta airport said 30 outgoing flights and five incoming ones were delayed. Visibility dropped below 50 metres between 3.50am and 6am, causing the delays, the officials said. The airport has the Category IIIB instrument landing system, which allows flights to operate at a minimum visibility of 50 metres. Conditions improved after 6am but the domino effect of delays continued almost till noon, an official said. The weather office has said the next few mornings are likely to be foggy, too. “There has been continuous snowfall in the north-western part of our country, in places like Jammu and Kashmir, over the past few days. The northwesterly winds blowing in from those areas are bringing the cold. The chill in the air in Calcutta is a result of that,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “We expect the chill to persist for another 4-5 days.” Tamanna Khanna, 27, a resident of Rosedale Garden in New Town, enjoyed a ride on her bicycle through the misty Major Arterial Road in New Town on Sunday morning. “Sunday had the near perfect weather for riding and we enjoyed it to the fullest,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Classic Drivers' Club organise car rally for the first time since Covid-19 outbreak||A fleet of around 30 vintage and classic cars and two-wheelers made a trip down to Eco Park from Loreto House on Middleton Row on Sunday. The drive was an opportunity for the owners of the golden oldies to take out their prized possessions for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak led to the imposition of a nation-wide lockdown in March last year. Whoever came to take a close look at the cars or click photographs, the owners explained to them the need to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene to keep Covid at bay. The term “vintage car” is used quite loosely these days. Going strictly by car parlance, all pre-World War I cars, up to 1914, are considered Edwardian or veteran; cars manufactured between 1914 and 1939 are vintage; and those made between 1940 and 1970 are called classic cars. Sunday’s drive had representatives from nearly all categories. On display were a couple of Rolls Royce Phantom IIIs, manufactured in the late 1930s; an Austin Tourer 12/4, which hit the roads in 1922; and a 1963 Fiat Super Select, among other beauties. The cars that took part in the Sunday morning drive, organised by the Classic Drivers' Club, assembled near the Loreto House on Middleton Row. From there they took a turn to Park Street, got on to the Parama flyover via the Park Circus seven point crossing and headed north through EM Bypass before plying down the Chingrighata flyover on their way to Eco Park in New Town. Throughout the drive, other motorists as well as pedestrians shot the cars on their cellphones. At traffic signals, other drivers pulled up alongside the oldies and asked the owners how it felt to drive them. Prithvi Tagore, an organiser of the drive, said the idea was to keep the cars running as well as to let Calcuttans have a glimpse of the city’s rich motoring heritage. “Calcutta was the car capital once and we want to make people aware that such cars do exist and despite being so old, they still run,” said Tagore, who drove a 1963 Fiat Super Select. The oldest car was a 1922 Austin Tourer 12/4, which was driven by Phoolbagan resident Supratim Basu. “We got a chance to drive and also spread awareness about the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in the current situation,” Basu said. The car, he said, had been bought by his family in 1922. Shipped from England, it arrived at the Kidderpore dock on board a container ship. “We treat it like our baby, though it is older than most of our family members,” Basu said. Once all the cars and two-wheelers pulled up in front of Dhaba Ajante in Eco Park, they were nearly mobbed by people, who took photographs of the vehicles and selfies alongside them. Arijit Bhattacharya, who rode a 1948 BSA Bantam, said it felt great to see so many people queue up just to take a look at the vehicles. “This is a great way to keep the love and passion for these vehicles alive,” he said. Souvik Ghosh Chaudhuri, another organiser said, they were planning more such drives over the next few months. “Delhi and Mumbai have this culture. Old cars and bikes drive together in those cities every week. We are trying to do a similar thing here,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Who made Modi look like a ungracious host?||An attempt is unlikely to be made but if Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen to find out who made him look like a ungracious host at Victoria Memorial on Saturday, a safe starting point will be the trail of a batch of 400 invitation cards. As many as 400 invitation cards for the Prime Minister’s programme celebrating Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary were distributed from the BJP office, a source in the state party headquarters, 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, said on Sunday. Many more than these 400 guests were invited to the event in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her displeasure at the behaviour of a section of the audience that kept shouting “Jai Shri Ram”. According to police sources, parking arrangements were made for 600 chauffeur-driven cars, of which only 150 turned up. “It is unlikely that the sloganeers came in those 150 cars,” said a police officer. Which casts the glare back on the 400 cards purportedly farmed out from the BJP office. Sugata Bose, Netaji’s grandnephew and chairperson of the Netaji Research Bureau at Netaji Bhavan, asked on Sunday: “My question is how the upholders and bearers of an extreme degenerate culture were allowed to enter the event by the Union culture ministry? How did these elements get past the SPG net? Or, were they specifically allowed to be part of this?” A BJP leader said in private: “It is customary that if it’s a Union government programme, which is to be attended by central ministers, some cards reach us which we distribute among party leaders. This time, some 400 cards came for the programme.” This newspaper tried to corroborate the version with the BJP but calls to Pratap Banerjee, the officer-in-charge and a state vice-president of the party, went unanswered. Officially, the BJP is putting up a brave face, accusing Mamata of using “the occasion to further her sectarian politics” and insisting that chanting “Jai Shri Ram” is part of Indian culture. But the consensus across the rest of the political spectrum appeared to be that the party had once again ended up underscoring its cultural disconnect with Bengal. A more discernible measure too suggested that Modi could have done without the controversy. It ensured that the Prime Minister’s thunder was stolen — at least on the front pages of most newspapers in Bengal where Mamata’s protest overshadowed all other developments of the day for which Modi had been grooming himself. “The sloganeering gave Mamata Banerjee the opportunity to prove that the culture of Bengal is alien to the BJP,” a BJP office-bearer said on Sunday. “The distribution of cards should have been done by the Union culture ministry itself. Distributing the cards through the party led to this ruckus.” Another state BJP leader said the leaders would have gone to the event in any case and that there was no excuse for sending so many party workers to a Union government event, which made it look like a partisan programme. But another section of BJP leaders insisted that it was only natural that party workers would be invited to a programme — whether government-sponsored or not — that is graced by the party’s tallest leader. “There is ample evidence of the dominating presence of Trinamul supporters at state government programmes. Why is it a big deal if BJP supporters are invited to an event hosted by the Union government headed by the party?” a state BJP vice-president asked. Mamata found support from her archrivals, the Congress and the Left, with front chairman Biman Bose and the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, issuing statements condemning the heckling. Additional reporting by Meghdeep Bhattacharyya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Rammohan Mission High School teachers carry relief to Sunderbans||Teachers of a city school travelled more than 80km carrying clothes and other relief materials that students had collected for villagers in the Sunderbans who are yet to recover from the impact of Cyclone Amphan. Rammohan Mission High School chose the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to travel to Budhokhali and Madhukhali, on the banks of the Matla. “We reached out to 500 families with clothes, blankets, food, school bags and mosquito nets. The students contributed the clothes,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of the school who was accompanied by teachers and members of the management. Biswas said it took them more than two hours to cross the last 30km because of poor roads. “We chose these two villages because we wanted to travel to remote areas,” said Biswas. The villages were devastated by Amphan, which struck in May last year, and the residents are yet to get back their normal sources of livelihood. “The villagers said Amphan had left their ponds and farmland inundated with saline water, which impacted their source of livelihood. They could not harvest from June to August," said Biswas. Metro had reported in May how the rising salinity in water would put many people out of work in the Sunderbans in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. “We don’t know about these two villages (Budhokhali and Madhukhali), but there are areas in the Sunderbans where farmland has been damaged following inundation by saline water. The water evaporated and the salt mixed with the soil,” said Sankar Halder, the founder of Mukti, an NGO that works in around 15 blocks in the Sunderbans. The crisis has left many of the villagers without livelihood and the pandemic has only aggravated their problems. Biswas said the idea of choosing the occasion of Netaji's birth anniversary to stand by the villagers is to drive home the message of doing responsible work to mark important days. “Students need to know that the day is to be marked not just by hoisting the national flag, but also by reaching out to people who need them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
25-01-2021||Calcutta||Street library outside Kasba school||A school in Kasba has installed a bookshelf outside the campus, beside the gate, for residents of the locality to pick up books and read, an initiative aimed at encouraging reading. The idea is to make books available to those who don't have, from people who don't need them anymore. The street library, as it is called, is an initiative of Silver Point School and iLEAD, a private institute that offers a host of professional courses. The library was opened on Friday with an initial collection of 500 books. The books are not under lock and key. Anyone can pick up a book at any time of the day, read it and return. “We want to promote the habit of reading. We will keep replenishing and make books available to those who don’t have easy access to books,” said Sucharita Roychowdhury, the headmistress of Silver Point School. From pictorial books to stories by Ruskin Bond and travel magazines, there is something for everybody. Pradip Chopra of iLEAD, who started the project about two-and-a-half years back, has set up 20 bookshelves in the city, some of which are in parks and slums. “The exchange of books from those who don’t need them to those who need them is happening at the lowest possible cost because there is no manpower required and no rent,” said Chopra, the chairman of the iLEAD Foundation. “The exchange is unsupervised. Even if a book is stolen for reading, the purpose is served.” Each bookshelf has a fibre curtain to protect the books from the elements. The concept of a street library also encourages people to keep books on the shelf that they no longer need. Chopra said he learnt about street libraries during a visit to Sydney, where he saw book racks outside homes and in public spaces. Silver Point School has also kept two chairs beside the shelf so that one can also sit there and read. “In the locality there are makeshift stalls where vendors sell fritters and children roam around. While we were setting the street library, we noticed that the children were taking interest in it. If these children touch, smell or feel the books, half the work is done,” said headmistress Roychowdhury. The Covid pandemic has yanked many children off studies. Not all can afford a personalised device for online class. “The habit of reading is to be encouraged among the children of any community,” Chopra said. He said he had seen rickshaw-pullers pick up books from a shelf that was set up outside Vidyanjali International School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-163
25-01-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 531 points to close at 48,348||The BSE benchmark Sensex dived nearly 531 points to close at 48,348 on Monday, prolonging its losing streak to the third straight session, weighed down by massive selling particularly in energy and IT stocks. After swinging nearly 1,000 points during the session, the BSE benchmark settled with a loss of 530.95 points or 1.09 per cent at 48,347.59. The 30-share index opened over 375 points higher and hit the day's high of 49,263.15 before succumbing to selling pressure that took the index to the session's lowest point at 48,274.92. Likewise, the NSE gauge Nifty plunged 133 points or 0.93 per cent to end the session at 14,238.90. On the Sensex chart, Reliance Industries fell 5.36 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid dropping as much as 4.72 per cent. Of the Sensex constituents, 21 closed in the red and only 9 in the green. Among the gainers were Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj FinServ, HDFC Bank and Dr Reddy's. Analysts are of the view that markets may remain volatile in this holiday-shortened week amid monthly derivatives expiry, quarterly earnings and the upcoming Union Budget. Indian equity markets will remain closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day. Asian shares closed higher on Monday. On the forex front, the rupee ended 3 paise higher at 72.94 against the US dollar. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.56 per cent higher at USD 55.69 per barrel on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 340 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex surged 346.55 points in the opening session on Monday, propelled by a rally in financial stocks. The 30-share index was trading 346.55 points or 0.71 per cent higher at 49,225.09 in opening trade. Likewise, the NSE barometer Nifty rose 88.40 points or 0.62 per cent to 14,460.30 in early deals. On the Sensex chart, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, Axis Bank, Bajaj FinServ, HDFC Bank and Mahindra and Mahindra were the prominent gainers. On the other hand, RIL, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, ONGC and ITC were among the major laggards. On Friday, the BSE Sensex had tumbled 746.22 points or 1.50 per cent to finish at 48,878.54, posting its largest single-session drop in a month; while, the NSE Nifty had slumped 218.45 points or 1.5 per cent to 14,371.90. However, a day before the Sensex had breached the historic 50,000-level for the first time ever. Foreign institutional investors offloaded Indian equities worth Rs 635.69 crore on a net basis on Friday. Analysts are of the view that markets may remain volatile in this holiday-shortened week amid monthly derivatives expiry, quarterly earnings and the upcoming Union Budget. Indian equity markets would remain closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day holiday. Asian shares were trading higher in afternoon trade on Monday. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.16 per cent higher at USD 55.30 per barrel on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Budget should offer more tax breaks||The upcoming Union budget is one of the more important ones our country has seen, coming as it is after a pandemic that brought the economy to a standstill and put a pause on people’s aspirations. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will undoubtedly receive many recommendations on what she must announce. I have a few as well focusing on three key areas: increasing disposable income through enhanced tax-breaks, stimulating real estate for the multiplier effect it has on the economy and incentivising the purchase of term insurance. Increase 80C limit to Rs 3 lakh The 80C limit, which is Rs 1.5 lakh at present, was last revised in July 2014. This should be doubled to account for inflation and to give better value for many of the unavoidable expenses taxpayers incur. Section 80C is a smörgåsbord of many deductions and in many cases, the limit is too little to meaningfully account for all of them. The section allows deductions for home loan principal payments, life insurance and annuity payments, qualified investments such as PPF, NSC, ELSS etc and much more. If you consider the example of a salaried taxpayer who has a home loan, school-going children, long-term investments and life insurance premium, the current limit of Rs 1.5 lakh may be inadequate, though these payments are essential to the taxpayer. Therefore, at the very least, he should be able to get higher deductions for some of these payments which are getting bigger with each passing year, especially in urban areas where schooling and housing aren’t cheap. Second, it would to good to remove some of the items eligible for 80C deductions to new sections. This would free up more of the 80C limit for investments and retirement planning. This, in turn, would direct more investments into government schemes such as EPF and PPF — which the government surely won’t mind. Home loan deduction of Rs 5 lakh Home loan deductions should be moved to a new section with an exemption limit of Rs 5 lakh, without sub-limits on principal on interest. There are at present four deductions for home loan payments: for principal paid up to Rs 1.5 lakh under 80C and for interest paid under 24B (Rs 2 lakh), 80EE (Rs 50,000) and 80EEA (Rs. 1.5 lakh). Streamlining these deductions under a single new section and enhancing their combined limit would bring them closer to the challenging reality of home buying. The costs are high and, therefore, the borrowing must be large. So, the tax breaks, too, should keep pace with the market realities. According to BankBazaar data, the average home loan taken by women in 2020 was around Rs 31 lakh. Over 20 years, assuming an interest rate of 8 per cent, the first-year interest on this loan is Rs 2.45 lakh while the principal paid is Rs 65,524. Despite paying a total of Rs 3.11 lakh, the available first-year tax deduction here is just Rs 2.65 lakh. While 80EEA addresses this deficit for first-time home buyers, it discriminates against ineligible buyers and more so against second-time buyers who must upgrade out of necessity. The prohibitive costs make it difficult for buyers to make their dream home purchase the first time, and compromises are made in terms of costs, size or locality. When they are ready to upgrade to accommodate their growing needs, the tax breaks are not available to them. Therefore, streamlined deductions up to Rs 5 lakh without sub-limits to all buyers would be welcome. The enhanced limit is also equal to the sum of deductions under 80C, 24B and 80EEA for eligible borrowers and, therefore, not an unrealistic ask. Higher deductions for home loans would revive interest in real estate which has slowed down for long. A boost to real estate has a multiplier effect on the economy. Therefore, the deductions should not only increase disposable income but also boost a priority sector. Term insurance deduction of Rs 25,000 Let us next examine the problem with life insurance penetration and low persistency. According to  IRDAI figures, only around 2.76 per cent Indians own life insurance of which only 61 per cent actually continue with their coverage beyond the fifth year. The reasons for dumping the coverage may range from liquidity needs, disappointment with the returns or not being able to continue paying premium. Term insurance offers large coverage at low costs and its adoption should be encouraged, especially over investment-linked insurance which demand large premium but lack liquidity and provide low returns. A 30-year-old person can buy a coverage of Rs 1 crore for 30 years at an annual cost of around Rs  7,000 to Rs 15,000, whereas a similar cover through other forms of insurance would be prohibitively costly. The term plan option is not just affordable but also a need for a person with financial dependants and liabilities such as loans. A new deduction just for term insurance premium up to Rs 25,000 would be in line with 80D limits and encourage many to adopt term coverage. A differentiation must be made between term plans under this new section and  deductions for other life insurance varieties under 80C. Moreover, opting to buy term insurance would free up the policyholder’s savings for investment in the securities market and government schemes where they will be able to earn better returns on investments. This would also divert more money in government schemes. After a year like 2020, it is imperative that the government puts more cash in the hands of the common man. These enhanced deductions on essential expenses would help in that regard. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Labour codes to impact gratuity, ensure strict compliance||A lot is now being heard about the new labour codes. What  they are, why do we need them, whom will they impact and in what way: there are far too many queries in our minds. Let us try to decode the new labour codes in this article. The four new labour codes— Code on Social Security, 2020, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, Industrial Relations Code, 2020, and Code on Wages, 2019 — subsume  the existing 29 central labour and industrial laws and aim to avoid multiplicity of laws. The government wants to facilitate ease of compliance and achieve equity for all. The new codes will ensure better use of technology for various compliances and effective enforcement. Do the new labour codes apply only to blue collar employees or would they also apply to white collar employees? The answer is that the labour codes would apply to all employees irrespective of the role/level/nature of duties/salary (with minimal exceptions) of the organisation. Common definition One attempt of the government to bring in simplicity is the new common definition of wages across all four codes. Under existing laws, there are different definition of wages for provident fund, gratuity etc. However, now under the new codes, there is a common definition of wages. This new definition of wages covers all salary components expressed in terms of money or capable of being so expressed. There are specific exclusions from the definition of wages such as statutory bonus, house rent allowance, conveyance allowance, commission etc. However, these exclusions are limited to 50 per cent of the total remuneration (except gratuity and retrenchment compensation). With this change in the definition of wages and its common applicability, there will be an impact on the employees’ benefits and employers’ costs. The new definition of wages will specifically impact gratuity cost. For all the current and future employees, gratuity will now be payable under the new definition of wages. Another change is regarding the period considered for eligibility to gratuity. For fixed term employees, the earlier criteria of minimum five years of service has been now reduced to one year. This means that now fixed term employees will be eligible for gratuity just after one year of serving an organisation. This, however, is not applicable to permanent employees who are not employed for a fixed period. Permanent employees will continue to be eligible for gratuity after five years of service. Any ‘‘worker’’ under the labour codes can now demand leave encashment at the end of each calendar year. Such leave encashment is to be calculated on ‘‘wages’’ as defined under the Labour Codes. Hiring norms Changes have also been prescribed in the labour codes with respect to hiring of employees through third parties/contractors. Any worker who is hired in or in connection with the work of the establishment by or through a contractor is a ‘‘contract labour’’. But a worker would not be termed as a ‘‘contract labour’’ if his/her employment with the contractor is governed by mutually accepted standards of the conditions of employment; and he/she gets periodical increment in the pay, social security coverage and other welfare benefits. For such workers who do not fall within the definition of ‘‘contract labour’’, the contractor will be responsible for all compliances under the Labour Codes as their employer. An establishment will now have to pay an amount payable to the contractor before the date of payment of wages so that the contractor can pay the wages by the due date and must pay a minimum bonus to the employees if the contractor fails to pay. This is to ensure timely payments to the employees. Compliances will also be widely impacted under the labour codes. Wages will have to be paid  within two working days even in the case of voluntary resignation by the employee. There are prescriptive formats for the wage register, employee register and wage slip specified in the rules. Aadhaar will be mandatory for social security contributions and benefits. A safety committee must be formed by the employer and it will have to contain representatives of employer and workers; women can work night shifts  night (before 6 am and after 7 pm) only after express consent and subject to safety conditions. These are just a few of the changes in the codes. Strict consequences are outlined in the codes for non-compliance of any of the compliances required. All the four labour codes have been passed by both Houses of the Parliament and have also received Presidential assent and all that needs to be notified is the date from which the codes will come into force. The need of this hour is a thorough analysis by each organisation of their employees’ compensation structures, HR and payroll policies and third-party contracts so that they can identify align these with various requirements under the new labour codes. Dinesh Agarwal is partner and  Puneet Gupta is director at EY. Additional inputs by Reema Jalan, a senior tax professional with EY India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||BMW India targeting double-digit growth in sales||BMW India is targeting a double-digit growth in sales this year after having touched an 11-year low during pandemic-hit 2020. It plans to launch 25 products this year. The German company has sold 6,092 units of BMW cars, 512 Minis and 2,563 Motorrad motorcycles last year. The company posted a 31.5 per cent decline in sales in 2020 compared with 9,641 units in 2019. However, the company remains bullish about sales recovery having witnessed a slow and steady improvement through the third quarter and reporting  sales growth in November and December 2020. “Year 2020 has been unusually tough both for the company and the industry. While the industry witnessed a 40 per cent decline, the company has seen a dip of 31.2 per cent. But we have gained five per cent market share in 2020 in the luxury segment,” said Vikram Pawah, CEO of BMW Group. The company has gained market share  across all segments, Pawah added. BMW will launch 25 products across the three brands of BMW cars, Mini and BMW Motorrad in 2021. There will be 20 launches, including facelifts of BMW cars and Mini and five new models of Motorrad motorcycles. It kickstarted the launches with the 3 Series Gran Limousine that will retail at Rs 51.5 lakh onwards. On whether the company plans to relaunch the 1-series, Pawah said: “There is no appetite for luxury hatchbacks here. We have seen robust demand in sedans and SAVs (sports activity veehicle) and the demand mix between these two bodytypes is more or less equal with a slight preference for SAVs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
25-01-2021||Business||Reliance Industries Ltd spins off oil-to-chem unit||Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd has completed the spin-off of the firm’s oil-to-chemical business into a new unit that will help it pursue growth opportunities with strategic partnerships, the company has said. The oil-to-chemical (O2C) business unit holds Reliance’s oil refinery and petrochemical assets and retail fuel business but not upstream oil and gas producing fields such as KG-D6 and textiles business. Reliance for the first time reported integrated earnings of the O2C business in its third-quarter financial results. Earlier, the refining and petrochemical businesses were reported separately while fuel retailing revenue was part of the firm’s overall retail business. In the October-December 2020 earnings statement, earnings of the refining and petrochemical as well as fuel retailing businesses were reported as one. As a result, it did not give refining margins — the most sought after number to assess the firm’s oil refining business. “Reorganising refining and petrochemicals as oil-to-chemicals (O2C) reflects new strategy as well as management matrix,” the company said in a post earning investor presentation. This, it said, will “facilitate holistic and agile decision making” as well as “pursue attractive opportunities for growth with strategic partnerships”. Reliance started work on hiving off the O2C business into a separate unit last year for a possible stake sale to companies such as Saudi Aramco. It values the O2C business at $75 billion and has been in talks with Saudi Arabian Oil Co (Aramco) for sale of a 20 per cent interest. The company, however, did not mention discussions with Aramco, which are said to have hit a valuation roadblock. The reorganisation would “drive the move towards further downstream and closer to customers” and “provide sustainable and affordable energy and materials solutions to meet India’s growing needs,” the firm said in the presentation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||Business||Cairn Energy Plc shareholders ask Indian govt to return $1.2 billion||Some of Cairn Energy Plc’s marquee shareholders that include BlackRock, MFS, Franklin Templeton and Fidelity have asked the Indian government to honour an arbitration award and return $1.2 billion to the British oil firm, sources said. Cairn, which on this day seven years back was first slapped with a retrospective tax assessment, is three-fourth owned by the world’s top investors with $529 billion MFS Investment Management of the US being its largest investor with a 13.95 per cent stake. New York-based BlackRock is the second-biggest shareholder with a 12.21 per cent stake. Other investors include Fidelity International, Franklin Templeton, Vanguard Group and Aberdeen Standard Investments, according to stock exchange data. Two sources with knowledge of the development said the investors have written to the Indian government as well as the governments of their country — the US and the UK — seeking adherence to the award of a tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The three-member tribunal, which comprised a judge appointed by India, last month unanimously overturned a Rs 10,247-crore retrospective tax demand on the British oil and gas company and asked the government to return the value of the shares it sold, dividend it seized and tax refunds it stopped to enforce the tax. Sources said Cairn was not a single-promoter driven firm but is owned by the world’s top investors who are now seeking to protect their interest. These investors, they said, have patiently waited for seven years for the resolution of the issue and now that an international arbitration award has come, they want it to be honoured and the issue resolved in a time-bound manner. Cairn’s international shareholders who hold nearly 30 per cent of the stock, in the US and the UK have engaged with their governments as well as the Indian authorities seeking the resolution of the issue in a timely fashion. It wasn’t immediately known how many of the Cairn’s top 20 shareholders, who between them hold a 74.94 per cent stake, have written to the US, the UK and the Indian government. Cairn refused to comment on the story. The company had last week stated that it was engaged with the Indian government on the adherence of the arbitration award. “In December, the tribunal established to rule on Cairn’s claim against the Government of India under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty found in Cairn’s favour. “The tribunal ruled unanimously that India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the Treaty and awarded Cairn damages of $1.2 billion-plus interest and costs, which are now payable,” the company had said. The tribunal, in a 582-page judgment on December 21, had ordered the return of the value of shares that the Income Tax Department sold as also the dividend it seized and tax refunds it withheld to recover tax demand that was levied following a 2012 amendment to the Income Tax Act that gave authorities powers to seek taxes on past deals. It ruled that the 2006 reorganisation of Cairn Energy’s India business prior to listing on local bourses was not “unlawful tax avoidance” and ordered tax authorities to drop the tax demand. The Income Tax Department had in January 2014 slapped a Rs 10,247cr tax assessment on Cairn for alleged capital gains it made in the 2006 business reorganisation. Cairn denied the scheme avoided any tax that was prevalent on that date and challenged the demand through an arbitration. During the pendency of the arbitration, the government sold Cairn’s near 5 per cent holding in Vedanta Ltd, seized dividends totalling Rs 1,140 crore due to it from those shareholdings and set off a Rs 1,590-crore tax refund against the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||Business||JSW Steel reports strong set of numbers with best-ever EBITDA||JSW Steel reported a strong set of numbers with the best-ever earnings before interest, tax and depreciation on the back of an unprecedented rise in steel prices and healthy margin. The company’s joint managing director and group CFO Seshagiri Rao, however, tells the author that further rise in prices is unlikely even as the fourth quarter will be even better. He also does not expect the budget to lower the import duty on steel. An excerpt: Steel industry and JSW in particular posted great numbers in the third quarter. Is it sustainable? Well, there are four aspects to it: demand sustainability, supply improvement, prices and margin. Demand: I’m confident about demand sustainability. Seeing the month-on-month improvement from April, I don’t accept it is just pent-up demand. From 1 million tonnes (mt) in April, it went up to 10.28mt in December, which is 19 per cent higher year-on-year (y-o-y), and the highest in a single month. Large infrastructures that were held up started; auto remained robust — our sales went up 57 per cent year-on-year; retail, packaging, pipe also showed growth. We believe it will pick up further. India consumed 68mt steel in the first nine months, including 28mt in the third quarter alone. Assuming the fourth quarter to be the same, India will consume 93mt, a fall of 7 per cent over the last fiscal, much lower than 17-18 per cent initially apprehended. We believe in the next year 10-12 per cent growth is possible. Supply: India’s installed capacity is 142mt. In Q3, we had 76 per cent capacity utilisation. Next year, about 5mt will come from JSW, then there is NMDC plant and SAIL’s expansion. All put together, the incremental capacity will come next year. Supply side will not drive steel prices in the next year. Iron ore prices went up 146 per cent from June to January in the international market. In India, the rise is higher, mainly because of  a drop of 46mt in production in the first nine months. Coking coal prices, which went down to $104 a tonne, has gone up to $135 in the last four days, because countries other than China have now recovered. So, cost pressure is high, demand is strong and supply is increasing. So, I’m not seeing further upside in steel prices, nor apprehending any crash. What happens to the margin then? With cost pressure and price upsides capped, margin may be impacted unless a company takes specific measures to cut costs. Would you say the third quarter was the best steel companies had? No, Q4 will be even better. Majority of the raw material (coking coal) is bought for the quarter. Long-term steel contract for the quarter is closed. So, the impact of raw material prices or steel prices may not come in this quarter. The impact of the entire price increase of the last quarter will come in this quarter. JSW had capacity utilisation of 91 per cent in Q3. Can that be scaled up? After we got control of the railway siding in Odisha mid quarter, iron ore supply from our mine has improved. It is now meeting 49 per cent of the requirement. We already operated at 94 per cent in December. There is much noise around steel prices already high. Do you apprehend budget taking steps? The noise has no substance. It depends on business practices. Some companies take fixed price contracts while some work on spot prices. So, when prices crashed, they (who took spot) enjoyed it. Now if it is high, they should not complain. In fact, our net sales realisation is lower than spot prices because of these long-term contracts. I also don’t see demand weakening, leading to price correction. Do you apprehend any tinkering with import duty? Well, 60 per cent imports are happening at zero per cent duties from Japan, Korea, anyway. The government is aware that prices have gone up everywhere. In China, it has gone up 80 per cent since April, 119 per cent in the US and 84 per cent in Europe compared with  51 per cent in India. So, it is expensive to import. The steel industry lost Rs 6,000 crore in net profit in the first quarter. The government has all the data. Let me turn to the company. JSW said travel and visa restrictions are affecting Dolvi expansion. Can you explain? Equipment is imported from Europe, Asia or China. Suppliers give guarantee that they will be present at the stage of commission and guide us. Foreigners who were with us had left due to Covid. Now they are unable to come for not getting a visa. We are at a critical stage now in commissioning. There are issues with the melt shop and coke oven. We will begin individual units but integrated operation will start in Q1 of next fiscal, a delay of a few weeks. About 80 per cent of all our planned capex will be completed by March 31. JSW took board approval for $1 billion from the overseas markets. What is your guidance on debt? Our net debt will not go up from the present level, it may come down by the end of fiscal, provided Bhushan Power acquisition does not happen. Coming to bonds, two important changes took place in India. There is a large borrower prudential limit prescribed by the RBI and also the bank's own ability to lend, they are focusing on retail. These prompted Indian corporate to diversify the source of funding, rely on the international market. JSW raised $2.6 billion through bonds in the last 5-6 years with different tenure. This time we want to go to the US market which will be cost effective and also give longer tenure. JSW is bidding for Uttam Galva and Gontermann-peipers. Can you give us an update? UGSL is a downstream unit, JSW used to supply a lot of materials to it. We are showing interest in downstream units, because we have additional upstream capacity coming up. We have submitted expressions of interest but not taken a call. GPI is strategic not only to JSW but to India, because they make steel rolls. China killed the companies by dumping in India. Reviving the company is important. JSW appears to be taking many ESG initiatives. Your take: We have been doing it for a long time but didn’t talk. Brought environment friendly Corex technology to India, planted a million tree in Vijaynagar, taken initiative on carbon emission, solid waste management. All these resulted in CDP, which evaluates environmental impact, upgrading us to A- (leadership level). Now we have set targets in line with the Paris Climate Change accord and so far doing better. JSW will give a quarterly update on how it is moving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||Business||Hike in wages in Bengal to impact profitability of tea industry||The hike in wages rates in Bengal along with production returning to normality would impact the profitability of the tea industry. The impact on bulk tea prices once production returns to normal in the new season would be a critical factor for profitability in the next financial year, rating agency Icra said in a report. Bengal has recently announced a 15 per cent increase in wage rates, on an interim basis, which would increase the cost of production for bulk tea companies, it added. Domestic prices have increased sharply in the current financial year. The North India  auction average rose 46 per cent annually  during April-December 2020 and South India  41 per cent, the report said. Prices rose because production fell 10 per cent, while consumption remained firm, increasing profitability for the fiscal. The trend for next fiscal will depend on whether the higher prices are sustained and the input costs, the rating agency stated. Icra vice-president and sector head (corporate sector ratings) Kaushik Das said, “While it would be premature to comment on the exact level of tea prices, nonetheless, overall prices are likely to witness a negative bias, once the production returns to normal in the new season.” Input costs is expected to go up because of the higher wages. “ Bengal has already announced an interim wage increase, Assam is also likely to follow along similar lines.” Das also said the sustenance of healthy profitability would be critical to ensure the long-term financial health of the bulk tea industry. Global trends The report said the decline in production from India and Sri Lanka — a contraction of 11 per cent for both in 11 months of 2020 —  is estimated to result in an overall decline in global production in 2020. The fall in production in the two Asian countries will not be offset by a sharp rise in the Kenyan crop by 32 per cent during the nine months of 2020. The report said the global supply of crush tear curl (CTC) teas largely remains the same, with the increase in Kenyan CTC crop compensating for the decline in Indian CTC production. Global orthodox (ODX) production was hit following the decline in both India and Sri Lanka, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-161
25-01-2021||India||Expansionist move on border foiled by Indian army: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind, on the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day, began his address by greeting the nation and acknowledging the efforts of the farmers and the army, who relentlessly work to feed and protect the nation. “Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained agricultural production,” he said. The President also spoke about the three farm laws passed by the BJP-led government in September 2020. He said, “Economic reforms continue apace and supplemented by long-pending reforms in areas of labour and agriculture through legislation. Path to reform at initial stages may cause misapprehensions. However, it’s beyond doubt that the government remains singularly devoted to farmers’ welfare.” Kovind also spoke at length about the economic reforms by the central government in view of the pandemic. He maintained that the economic slowdown during the pandemic had actually transformed into a transitory period for the nation to turn it into an opportunity. He also mentioned in his speech that the phase-wise unlocking process post lockdown had turned out to be beneficial for India’s economic recovery. He said, “In order to open up the economy without risking the lives of the people, the process of unlocking was carefully calibrated. This has proved effective and the economy has started showing indications of recovery faster than anticipated. The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery.” The President also spoke about how the central government’s self-reliant schemes like Atma-Nirbhar Bharat, managed to generate employment. He pointed out about how a self-reliant India succeeded to manufacture its “own vaccine for Covid-19”. He said, “Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity.” During his speech he even took a veiled dig at China for the Indo-China border standoff in Ladakh. “The past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives,” Kovind said. The President added, “The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers. Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces - Army, Air Force and Navy - are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India's firm and principled stand.” However, with Covid-19 protocols in place and the proposed farmers’ tractor rally at New Delhi, this year’s Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi will look different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Farmer unions plan to march to Parliament on Budget day||Ahead of their proposed tractor parade on Republic Day, protesting farmer unions announced on Monday that they would march towards Parliament from different locations on February 1 when the annual Union Budget is scheduled to be presented. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said the protesting farmers remain firm in their stand of repealing the three new farm laws and their agitation will continue till their demands are met. "We will march towards Parliament on foot from different locations on the budget day on February 1. As far as tomorrow's tractor rally is concerned, it will give the government an idea of our strength and they will know the agitation is not just limited to Haryana or Punjab but it is an agitation of the whole of the country," he said. Every march or protest will be peaceful as the movement has been so far, he said. "The farmers who have come for the tractor parade will not go back now and will join the protest. The agitation will continue till our demands are met. Our stand remains the same," Pal told a press conference, sharing the farmers' plans to intensify the protest. Thousands of armed personnel have been deployed at the Rajpath and several border points of the national capital which has been brought under a multi-layered security cover in view of Republic Day celebrations as well as the proposed tractor parade by farmers on Tuesday. Protesting farmer unions opposing the three contentious farm laws said their parade will not enter central Delhi and it will start only after the official Republic Day parade concludes. The unions claimed that around two lakh tractors are expected to participate in their parade which will move into the city from three border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). Hundreds of women to drive tractors In a show of strength, hundreds of women are expected to drive tractors at 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on Republic Day. Social activist Zeba Khan said women will be participating in the tractor rally shoulder to shoulder with their fellow male farmers. Khan, who is among the women participating in the rally, claimed that at least 500 women will be in attendance on Tuesday. "Women's contribution was invaluable during India's freedom struggle. On Tuesday also, we will be there to make our contribution to this movement," she said. The activist, who hails from a family of farmers in Jharkhand, added that the rally was a crucial moment in their agitation which was "no less than a freedom struggle". "The three farm laws are similar to the pre-Independence shackles of slavery. Through this agitation, we are making our presence noticed, and exercising our right to enter Delhi," she said. 2 lakh tractors will join rally The unions have claimed that around two lakh tractors will be there in the parade which will move into the city from three border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). Several rural women in Haryana's Jind district have reportedly been receiving training for the past one month to drive tractors to be able to participate in the tractor rally. Thousands of farmers from different states have been protesting against the farm laws at various Delhi borders for nearly two months now. A spokesperson of Jai Kisan Andolan (Swaraj Abhiyaan) said the farmers tractor rally is expected to start at around 11:30 am on Tuesday and set to continue for 10-12 hours. "Fifty per cent women in Punjab and Haryana know how to drive tractors. Our wives, mothers and sisters are like 'Jhansi ki Rani'," Ram Singh Rangreta, state secretary of Sangharsh Morcha, Ambedkar, said. Gurmeet Singh, a protesting farmer from Patiala, said women's participation was key to the success of the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Farmers will not keep quiet until they destroy the laws: Sharad Pawar||The Centre may pass any law undermining the Constitution and on the back of its majority, but once the common man and farmers rise, they will not keep quiet until the new farm acts and the ruling party are destroyed, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. Addressing a rally organised here to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi, Pawar also hit out at Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for heading to Goa at a time when peasants from the state were to submit a memorandum to the latter against the new farm laws. He alleged Koshyari, who is also the Goa governor, had time to meet Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut after the BMC last year demolished parts of her office here, but has no time for farmers. The former Union agriculture minister accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not enquiring about the condition of farmers agitating near Delhi borders against the farm laws for two months now in cold weather. Maharashtra Revenue Minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally held at the Azad Maidan in south Mumbai. “You may pass any law undermining the Constitution, not keeping in with the reputation of Parliament and destroying the Parliamentary system on the back of your majority. But remember one thing, once the common man and farmers of the country rise, whether you withdraw the laws or not, they will not keep quiet until they destroy you and the law,” Pawar said during the rally. Pawar alleged that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite the opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned. The bills could have been discussed by a select committee, but it did not happen, he said. ...people (leaders from opposition) opposed it. But the laws were declared passed without discussion. This is the insult of the Constitution, he alleged. He said the farmers' fight is not easy as those who are in power are not affectionate towards the protesters. Pawar hailed the farmers from Punjab for their contribution in the country's freedom struggle and protecting it during the wars against China and Pakistan post-independence. "It has been 60 days since the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan are protesting near Delhi. "Did the country's PM enquire about (the farmers)? It was mentioned that the farmers are from Punjab. Does Punjab mean Pakistan?" Pawar asked. The NCP president said the leaders of the farmers who attended the rally in Mumbai were to submit a memorandum to Koshyari. We have not seen such a Governor in the history of Maharashtra. Lakhs of people have come here (at Azad Maidan). They were to submit a memorandum to the Governor. "But the Governor has gone to Goa. He has time to meet Kangana, but not my farmer, Pawar alleged. The NCP chief said it was the moral responsibility of the Governor to meet the farmers, but the latter did not fulfil his duty. But he does not have that courtesy. He should have at least sat in the Raj Bhavan, Pawar charged on Twitter later. However, the Raj Bhavan later clarified that the representatives of the Samyukta Shetkari Morcha, which organised the rally, were informed in advance that the Governor would not be able to meet the delegation on Monday as he would be in Goa to address its Goa. It was already cleared (to Morcha representatives) that Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has additional charge of Goa Governors post and he would address the session of the Goa Assembly on January 25 and hence, will not be able to meet the farmers' delegation, the Raj Bhavan said in a statement. Speaking at the rally, Thorat termed the farmers stir near Delhi as unprecedented. The farm laws are for capitalists, hoarders and profiteers. the laws were passed without discussion, the Maharashtra minister alleged. Thorat claimed there will be no MSP and market committees (APMCs) once the farm laws are implemented. The Congress leader said the Maharashtra government wants to pass laws which will be in the interest of farmers. No Shiv Sena leader or minister was seen at the rally, but the farmers' bodies claimed the ruling party had extended its support to the agitation. The Shiv Sena heads the MVA government in which the Congress and the NCP are partners. The new agri laws seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||'Minor face-off' between Indian and Chinese troops in Sikkim||Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a "minor face-off" at Naku La area in North Sikkim on January 20 and it was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols, the Indian Army said on Monday. The incident in Sikkim came amid the prolonged military standoff between the two sides in eastern Ladakh that erupted on May 5. "It is clarified that there was a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on January 20 and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols. Media is requested to refrain from overplaying or exaggerating reports which are factually incorrect," the Army said in a brief statement. People familiar with the developments along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in North Sikkim said the Chinese troops attempted to transgress into the Indian side of the frontier but were stopped by the Indian military personnel. They also said a brawl had broken out between the troops of the two armies. Naku La was the same site where the Indian and Chinese troops had engaged in a fierce clash on May 9 last year following a violent face-off between the two sides in Pangong lake area that triggered the military standoff in eastern Ladakh. The Indian and Chinese armies on Sunday held another round of Corps Commander-level talks with an aim to move forward on disengagement of troops from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. Following the Ladakh standoff, the Indian Army has significantly bolstered its strength at all its bases along the nearly 3,500 KM-long LAC, the de-facto border between the two nuclear-powered Asian giants. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the icy heights of eastern Ladakh. Close to 100,000 Indian and Chinese troops are deployed in eastern Ladakh as both sides have been holding on to their ground and showing readiness for a long-haul, amid continuing diplomatic and military talks to find an amicable solution. Reflecting India's firm approach in handling the situation, Army chief Gen MM Naravane had said nearly two weeks ago that Indian troops will hold their ground as long as it takes to achieve the "national goals and objectives" even as he hoped for an amicable resolution of the border standoff through talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Balakot airstrike info leaked to Arnab by Modi, alleges Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the "person through which" prior information on India's airstrikes in Balakot in Pakistan in 2019 was made available to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. The Congress MP, however, did not provide evidence to back up his claim. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) also did not immediately respond to the unfounded claim. Addressing a roadshow here during his final day of election campaign in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, he said only five people including the PM and the Defence Minister would have prior information of the planned strikes. "Some days back it came out that a journalist knew about the air strikes in Balakot. Three days before the (Indian) air force bombed Pakistan, an Indian journalist was told it was going to happen," he said. This meant the lives of our IAF pilots were put at 'risk,' he said. "Now, five people in this world knew about Balakot (air strikes). Prime Minister of India, the Defence minister of India, the National Security Adviser and the Chief of the Air Force and the Home minister." "Nobody else in the world knew about Balakot before it happened. Now I want to understand why an enquiry has not started on who told this journalist about Balakot before it happened. The reason is that one of these five people told this man. One of these five people betrayed our Air Force," he charged. He alleged that "one of these people put the lives of our pilots in danger." "If the Prime Minister did not do it then why is he not ordering an enquiry. Think about it. The only reason that the Prime Minister has not ordered an enquiry is because he is the person through which that message has gone to this journalist," Gandhi claimed. Else, the PM should investigate and tell which one of these five people did it, Gandhi demanded. Purported chats between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) head Partho Dasgupta, which mentioned that the former was privy to the 2019 air strike, by the IAF on the biggest JeM training camp in Balakot had surfaced recently. The IAF had carried out the strike deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in the wake of killing of 40 CRPF personnel in Kashmir's Pulwama district then by Pakistan- based Jaish-e-Mohammed. Gandhi also hit out at Modi once again over the Sino-India face-off, saying "today the Chinese army is sitting inside Indian territory." "The Prime Minister has said he has a 56 inch chest, big chest. Today the Chinese army is sitting inside Indian territory. Thousand km of Indian land has been taken by the Chinese," he said. He alleged that Modi cannot say the word China as he "does not have the courage to say" so. "You look at his speeches for the last 3-4 months, he does not say the word China. When the Chinese entered our territory he lied that nobody has come. After some days the Army and Defence minister said the Chinese army had come into Indian territory," Gandhi added. "And the only reason the Chinese have the guts and the courage to come into this country is because Narendra Modi has destroyed the economy and weakened (the country) by dividing it," he charged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Centre questions Whatsapp's step-motherly treatment||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that WhatsApp was treating Indian users differently from its European ones with regard to opting out of its new privacy policy, and this was a matter of concern for the government which is looking into it. The central government told the high court that it was also a matter of concern that Indian users were being "unilaterally" subjected to the change in the privacy policy by social networking platform WhatsApp. The submissions were made before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma during the hearing of a petition by a lawyer against the new privacy policy of the social networking platform owned by Facebook. During the hearing, Sharma told the court that by not giving Indian users the option to opt-out of sharing their data with other companies of Facebook, WhatsApp prima facie appears to be treating users with an "all or nothing approach". "This leverages the social significance of WhatsApp to force users into a bargain which may infringe on their interests in information privacy and information security," he told the court. Sharma said the government was already looking into the issue and has sent a communication to WhatsApp seeking certain information. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, told the court that the communication has been received and will be responded to. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on March 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||India logs lowest number of fresh Covid cases in over eight months||India recorded the lowest number of coronavirus fatalities in over eight months with 131 more deaths being recorded, the Health Ministry said on Monday. The COVID-19 caseload rose to 1,06,67,736 with 13,203 more infections. There are 1,84,182 active cases, which is 1.73 per cent of the caseload and it remained below 2 lakh for the sixth consecutive day, according to the ministry data. As many as 1,03,30,084 people have recuperated, taking the recovery rate to 96.83 per cent. The fatality rate rose to 1.4 per cent and 131 more deaths include 45 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, nine from Delhi and eight each from Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,53,470 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,785 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,316 in Tamil Nadu, 12,197 in Karnataka, 10,808 in Delhi, 10,115 in West Bengal, 8,617 in Uttar Pradesh and 7,147 in Andhra Pradesh. According to the ICMR, 19.23 crore tests have been conducted so far with 5,70,246 samples being tested on Sunday. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that statewide distribution of figures was subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Cold wave on the cards for Delhi||Cold wave is set to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is likely to drop by four degrees Celsius over the next two-three days, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. The maximum is likely to settle around 16 degrees Celsius. Dense-to-very-dense fog is also predicted during the period, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. "A cold wave is likely to grip the city over the next two to three days as icy winds from the snow-laden western Himalayas bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. On Monday, the minimum temperature stood at 7.4 degrees Celsius. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal. Cold-wave conditions intensified in Kashmir on Monday as the minimum temperature dipped at most places following snowfall over the weekend, officials said. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius, down from minus 1.9 degrees Celsius the previous night. Qazigund, the gateway town to the Valley, recorded a minimum of minus 5.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 3.0 degrees the previous night, the officials said. The minimum temperature at the Gulmarg in north Kashmir's Baramulla district settled at minus 11.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 11.0 degrees Celsius. Pahalgam recorded a low of minus 11.9 degrees Celsius, slightly up from the previous night's minus 12.0 degrees Celsius. Kupwara recorded a low of minus 3.1 degrees Celsius, while it was minus 8.4 degrees Celsius in Kokernag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: R-Day tractor rally prep in full swing post Delhi police nod||The protesting farmers on Sunday night got down to the task of winning “not Delhi but the hearts of the people of the country” with a Republic Day tractor rally that seeks to nail every lie propagated against them by the ruling ecosystem. The preparations gathered steam after Delhi police on Sunday formally gave the protesting farmers permission to hold a tractor rally inside Delhi on Republic Day but said the event must be held within “a few kilometres” of the capital’s borders, keeping it close to the city’s periphery. The number of tractors that can participate is yet to be decided. A police source said: “The farmers can enter Delhi for a few kilometres (from each of the three protest points on the capital’s borders) but cannot disturb the Republic Day parade. The tractor rally will begin only after the big parade on Rajpath ends.” The police have chalked out three routes for three tractor rallies — one each from the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur border points — all of them within 3-4km of the border. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions leading the protests at Delhi border points, on Sunday night issued instructions for the tractor rally on Republic Day. “Friends, we are going to create history. Through this parade, we have to show our pain and miseries to the country and world, tell the truth about these three anti-farm laws.... Do remember, we are not going to win Delhi but to win the hearts of the people of this country,” the SKM said in a statement. The following are the guidelines issued by the SKM: ⚫ Take ration/food along for 24 hours and make enough arrangements to protect yourself from the cold. ⚫ We appeal that every tractor/vehicle should have a flag of the farmers’ union as well as the Indian national flag. Do not put flag/symbol of any political party. ⚫ Don’t carry any kind of weapons, not even a lathi. Do not put any provocative banner on the vehicle. ⚫The tractor rally will start first with the vehicle of farmer leaders and will be followed by the rest. Adhere to the instructions of our traffic volunteers clad in green jackets. ⚫ The route of the parade has been decided and the police and the traffic volunteers will guide you. Action will be taken against vehicles caught violating the route. ⚫ All vehicles will return to the place of its origin after the parade. ⚫ Not more than five persons, including the driver, will be allowed in one tractor. ⚫ Inform the traffic volunteers if you find anyone driving under the influence of alcohol. ⚫ Don’t quarrel with the police as they are also farmers in uniform, and treat women with respect. Don’t misbehave with mediapersons, irrespective of the TV channels they belong to. ⚫ Don’t pay attention to any rumour. If you want to check any facts, visit the Morcha’s Facebook page. ⚫ Ambulances will be there during the rally. In case of any emergency, call on the helpline number (7428384230) or inform the volunteers. ⚫ Call the Morcha’s helpline in case you want to ask/inform anything and it will remain open for 24 hours for this rally. You can alert the police control room in case of any incident. The guidelines guard against familiar attempts to malign the farmers and provoke them. Together the three rallies, expected to begin in the early afternoon, will cover about 100km before winding up by 6pm. The rallies will be escorted by the police. “We have finally agreed that we will also have a tractor rally on that day (Republic Day) maintaining the sanctity and security arrangements of the Republic Day celebrations,” said Dependra Pathak, Delhi police special commissioner. “The tractor rallies will enter Delhi from the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and return to their originating points.” Police sources said the farmers had been instructed not to venture towards central Delhi. They said the farmer leaders had been told they would be “responsible for peaceful movement” and must ensure that “no anti-national slogans or posters are allowed”. Ever since announcing the tractor rally on January 2, the farmer leaders have maintained they would hold the event only after the official Republic Day parade was over and that the programme would be peaceful. Pathak said there would be heavy police deployment to prevent any possible disturbance. “Through intelligence and various other agencies we have continuously been receiving inputs about threats to create disturbances during the tractor rally,” he said. “Around 308 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to create confusion.” Police sources said all officers and men, as well as the central paramilitary forces on security duty for the Republic Day parade, would remain on stand-by to move at short notice to handle any law-and-order issues during the tractor rally. Sunday’s clearance for the programme comes after a series of talks, during which the farmers had rejected a suggestion to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway, which would have taken the event outside Delhi. Last week, the Supreme Court had got the Centre to withdraw an application seeking a stay on the tractor rally, saying: “Who will come to the city and who will be allowed is not something for us to see.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Evidence against Sudha Bharadwaj 'too poor' to be admissible, says lawyer||Yug Chaudhary, lawyer of activist Sudha Bharadwaj who has been in custody since her arrest in the Bhima Koregaon case in 2018, on Sunday said the purported evidence against her lacked “sanctity” and was “too poor” to be admissible. At a webinar, writers, activists and academics demanded that Bharadwaj be released from jail and urged the intelligentsia to follow her example and break their silence as the country’s institutions were no longer reliable. Writer Nayantara Sahgal, who had returned her Sahitya Academy award in 2015 in protest against the killing of rationalists, released a book, Sudha Bharadwaj Speaks: A Life in Law and Activism, at the event. Bharadwaj and 15 other rights activists, writers and lawyers are accused of involvement in a Maoist plot to attack the Prime Minister’s rallies and of instigating caste violence in connection with a December 31, 2017, Elgar Parishad meeting in Bhima Koregaon near Pune. The Parishad aims to foster harmony between OBCs, Marathas and Dalits. Currently, the case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency. “The specific case against her is that she is a Maoist who participated in bomb-making, sponsored others for underground training and indoctrinated others into Maoism,” Chaudhary said. He said the purported evidence consisted of photocopies of typed, signature-less documents obtained from the laptops of co-accused Rona Wilson and Surendra Gadling, and none from Bharadwaj’s laptop. Chaudhary cited the Jain hawala case of 1991, relating to entries in diaries on payments allegedly made by the Jain bothers to prominent politicians. The Supreme Court dismissed the case, declining to accept these entries as evidence. “Similarly, in this case (against Bharadwaj), there is no corroborating evidence. The sanctity of the evidence they have cited is too poor to be admitted. There is no witness,” Chaudhary said. Sahgal described Bharadwaj as a heroic political activist who had given up the comforts of city life to live among the people in Chhattisgarh she was trying to help, inspired by trade union leader Shankar Guha Niyogi. “Sudha says that in the 1980s, courts did deliver pro-labourer judgments. But after the 1990s, when liberalisation started, everything went against the working class. The corporate (sector) has money to hire top lawyers and set their own terms,” Sahgal said. “These days the government is hand in glove with the corporate (sector). The country has never known a more desperate situation when we cannot rely on institutions, be it the Election Commission, judiciary or the media. So keeping silence is not an option. So Sudha’s courage stands to inspire us.” Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha said her mother missed home very much. The book is based on interviews of Bharadwaj taken by lawyers Darshana Mitra and Shantanu Chakravarty. “We asked why she started practising human rights law. Sudhaji said she wanted to be a trade unionist but the trade union wanted her to become a lawyer,” Mitra said. “For Sudhaji, any rights that are available to people are the outcome of the people’s fight. She believes that the Constitution comes to life and delivers only when the people fight.” Chakravarty said that even if a court dismissed a case, Bharadwaj never gave up the fight. “When asked about the dismissal of cases she had fought, she said she knew she had to fight on,” Chakravarty said. Activist Harsh Mander, who was collector of Rajnandgaon in the 1980s, said Guha Niyogi and Bharadwaj had met him at his office several times to discuss equality and justice for the people of the area. She fought many landmark cases on labour rights, displacement and equality, he said. Mander too flagged the lack of evidence against Bharadwaj in the Bhima Koregaon case. Academics Apoorvanand and Uma Chakraborty, who addressed the webinar, also demanded that Bharadwaj be released from jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||How Trolley Times, voice of the farmers movement, came into being||The truth will out. If ignored on television, it will arrive in a trolley. That’s how Trolley Times, the voice of the farmers’ movement, came into being. Disturbed by claims in the mainstream media, particularly news channels, about Khalistani and Maoist hands in the farmers’ protest, a group of young men had decided to set up an independent platform that could emerge as the voice of the movement. As the farmers’ tractor trolleys had become a symbol of the protest, they instantly named their newspaper the Trolley Times. “The farmers were fighting the corporate-backed propaganda machinery. What complicated matters was that BJP leaders and supporters jumped in to malign the movement,” Ajaypal Natt, a member of the core team of the newspaper, told The Telegraph. “This rattled us: an honest struggle against laws clearly detrimental to farmers’ interests was being projected as a ploy by Khalistanis, terrorists and political agents. Most TV channels decided to crush the truth through this false propaganda. We thought the truth had to be told.” Ajaypal, a physiotherapist from Punjab who expects to have lost his regular job after his unsanctioned absence of two months, said: “Some of us came together, determined to execute this plan on our own. Friends contributed and we launched the Trolley Times.” Some 5,000 copies of the six-page newspaper, started on December 18, are printed in Hindi and Punjabi (in the Gurmukhi script), while the digital edition is published in English. An issue comes out about twice a week, and copies are distributed in eight countries by local sympathisers. The paper is translated in eight languages by enthusiastic volunteers who see it as the “voice of people’s movement”. “This is not the official mouthpiece of the farmers: the leadership wasn’t even in the know. The union leaders were approached much later. Now they are giving interviews to us and have started writing for us,” Ajaypal said. “Our objective was to multiply the voices of the farmers and counter the false propaganda. We seem to have succeeded to some extent.” Ajaypal has been at the Tikri border from the start. His entire family is at the protest — their house has been locked all this while. Surmeet Maavi, a scriptwriter who too is part of the core team, says there is a cost to leaving one’s family back in Ropar, Punjab, to join the agitation on Delhi’s borders. But he is determined to go on. “There are issues. There is a financial cost. But nothing is bigger than this cause,” Surmeet said. Gurdeep Singh, a layout and design artist, too is part of the core team as are Jasdeep Singh, Mukesh and Varun Chauhan, who looks after social media. Donation drives have yielded small sums — contrary to the wild allegations of foreign funding — that have so far sustained the 10 editions published. The Trolley Times publishes news reports about the agitation and articles on the history of farmers’ movements and the implications of the three contentious laws, apart from interviews, poems, photographs and cartoons. The core team members believe the experiment would not be restricted to farmers’ issues since other disgruntled segments of society, such as workers and the jobless youth, too would need their own publication to fight for their rights. While the frustration with the mainstream media was doubtless the motivating factor behind the initiative, those associated with the Trolley Times now realise that no newspaper can provide them with the dedicated space necessary to sustain their fight against the government propaganda and disabuse people of their misconceptions. “The Trolley Times reserves its entire space for the themes of struggle, explaining the laws and their implications, putting things in perspective, confronting falsehood and providing a platform for a national debate,” Ajaypal said. “Experts are writing for us; voices from the field across the country are getting reflected; historical perspectives are provided. News from all (protest) points — Singhu, Tikri, Shajahanpur and Ghazipur — are carried in detail.” Farmer leaders are providing point-by-point rebuttals of the government’s claims through the newspaper, and have also critically analysed the Supreme Court’s comment that the women agitators should go back home. The newspaper is keeping the revolutionary spirit aflame through the poems it publishes in Hindi and Punjabi. The latest edition had this from Gorakh Pandey: “Andhere kamron aur/ Band darwajon se/ Bahar sadak par/ Zulus mein aur/ Yuddh mein tumhare hone ke/ Din aa gaye hain (The time has come for you to step out of dark homes and closed doors and onto the road, to take part in rallies, in wars).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day tractor rally to feature tableaux from across states ||The Republic Day tractor parade by farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre’s contentious farm laws and will also hail their courage, according to the organisers. A farmer leader said directions had been issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade, much like the official Republic Day parade of the government. “Around one lakh tractor-trolleys from across the country will participate in the parade. Around 30 per cent of these will have tableaux on different themes, including the history of the farmers’ movement in India, the role of women farmers and the farming practices followed in different states,” he said. Children from Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region have planned a tableau on farmer suicides. “Children of farmers who committed suicide are expected to participate in the parade. Their tableau will depict the hardships faced by farmers of the region wracked by water scarcity,” a member of Swaraj India said. Tableaux from states such as Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand will show how fruits and vegetables are cultivated in the hilly regions. Participants from Punjab and Haryana will showcase traditional and modern farming technology and will also have statues of women milking cows and farmers driving bullock carts. Each tractor will carry a Tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs. A war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will be 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms, the SKM member said. Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route. Another farmer leader said around 2,500 volunteers had been deployed to ensure that the parade remained peaceful and no untoward incident took place. The volunteers have been given badges and identity cards. A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Thousands of farmers march to Mumbai||They came in an endless stream, down the hills and flooding the streets of India’s business capital, challenging the government’s theory that the farmers’ protest is limited to Punjab and Haryana. Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra reached Mumbai on Sunday evening to participate in a rally on Monday against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Police have stepped up security at Azad Maidan, the rally’s venue in south Mumbai, and personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have also been deployed. Drones will be used to keep an eye on the event, a police officer said. The All India Kisan Sabha’s (AIKS) Maharashtra unit said in a statement that around 15,000 farmers had set out for the state capital from Nashik on Saturday on foot and in tempos and other vehicles. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and some other prominent leaders of the ruling coalition in Mahatrashtra will address the rally, the release said. The state Congress, which is an ally in the government, has extended its support to the protest. Farmers from various places gathered in Nashik and started their journey towards Mumbai on Saturday. Many peasants also joined on the way, the AIKS said. Videos on social media showed a surge of people marching through hilly terrain, shouting slogans. They halted overnight at Ghatandevi near the hill town of Igatpuri. On Sunday morning, the farmers marched down the Kasara Ghat to head for Mumbai, while many set off in vehicles. Many women farmers took part in the 7km march at Kasara Ghat, which started at 9am and ended around 11.30am. Later, they continued their forward journey in vehicles. On the way, hundreds of Citu-affiliated factory workers from Igatpuri and Shahapur tehsils welcomed the farmers by showering flowers. At the Kalyan-Bhiwandi crossroad, the farmers were welcomed and provided food packets. They entered Mumbai through the Mulund checkpoint, the entry point to the state capital from neighbouring Thane, and were welcomed at Kannamwar Nagar in Vikhroli by hundreds of workers of the Left parties. The farmers then proceeded towards the Azad Maidan, where a joint sit-in also involving the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha began on Sunday morning and will continue till Republic Day. “The rally is being held to support and expand the two-month-long farmers’ struggle in Delhi for a repeal of the three farm laws and for a central law to guarantee a remunerative minimum support price (MSP) and procurement all over the country,” the AIKS statement said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner farm unions are protesting across the country, has given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans in states. Over 100 organisations came together and formed the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, Maharashtra, at a meeting in Mumbai on January 12. The Mumbai rally will begin at 11am on Monday, the AIKS release said. Later, the protesters will march to Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to governor B.S. Koshyari. The protesters have also decided to hoist the national flag at Azad Maidan on Republic Day and pledge to make the struggle of the peasants and workers successful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Kerala’s govt to hand over Congress rape case to CBI ||Kerala’s Left government has decided to hand over to the CBI a case in which several senior Congress leaders have been accused of rape, prompting the main Opposition party to allege a politically motivated move ahead of the summer Assembly polls. According to the complainant, herself the prime accused in the 2013 “solar scam”, she had been forced to not just bribe Congress leaders but sleep with them — when the party was in power (2011-16) — for help to float a company that would make solar panels. Among the accused are then chief minister Oommen Chandy, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal, Adoor Prakash, A.P. Anil Kumar and his secretary Sahadullah, MP Hibi Eden and A.P. Abdullakutty, who is now in the BJP. The woman levelled the charges in 2013 through a media statement from jail shortly after being arrested in the solar scam, accused of cheating a large number of people by getting them to invest in her company that soon went bust. The rape case was registered in 2018, two years after the Left had come to power and the woman had had her statement recorded before a magistrate. Chandy said: “The government sat on this case for five years and has now decided to hand it over to the CBI. This only shows the secret understanding between the CPM and the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Ladakh turns blind eye to Muslim population for R-Day parade||The Ladakh administration’s purported move to showcase Buddhist culture and be oblivious to the culture of the majority Muslim population during the fledgling Union Territory’s debut Republic Day parade in the national capital has triggered fresh communal tension in the region, with the elected head of Kargil writing to the lieutenant governor to express his outrage. For the first time, no tableau from Jammu and Kashmir will participate in the event and while Ladakh has found a place, its Muslims are reportedly finding no representation. Kargil chief executive officer Feroz Ahmad Khan has hit out at the Ladakh administration for allegedly ignoring the region’s rich diversity in the first ever tableau from the Union Territory to be showcased in the capital, claiming that their “religious and cultural heritage” has been ignored. Ladakh comprises of Muslim-majority Kargil and Buddhist-majority Leh districts but Muslims have a slender majority in the region as a whole. The two communities have been at loggerheads for long but the 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and carve out a separate Union Territory of Ladakh has deepened the divide. Muslims opposed the move while the Buddhists celebrated. The Muslims, though in majority, have always feared domination by the more influential Buddhists, and the administration’s move to showcase Buddhist culture has stoked those misgivings. Khan has written to Ladakh lieutenant governor R.K. Mathur against “the partial representation of the UT at an event as prominent as the Republic Day celebration”, alleging that “it alienates the people of Kargil district”. “It is unfortunate to note that only a single aspect of Ladakhi culture has been incorporated for display on Ladakh’s Republic Day 2021 tableau, thereby failing to showcase the rich and diverse religious-cultural fabric of Ladakh. It is felt that partial representation of the UT at an event as prominent as the Republic Day celebration alienates the people of Kargil district,” Khan’s letter stated. “LAHDC (Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council), Kargil, wishes to request you to kindly pass necessary directions to the concerned for the incorporation of religious/heritage sites and cultural ethos of Kargil district in the UT Ladakh tableau,” it added. Union minister Dr Jintedra Singh appeared to be confirming the claim of the Kargil leadership. “A tableau from #Ladakh will participate in #RepublicDay Parade on Rajpath for first time this year. Ladakh’s tableau depicts the iconic Thikse Monastery located on top of a hill in Thikse in Leh district, and is one of the most-visited tourist sites in the region,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||West Bengal||'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by BJP supporters insulted Netaji, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday lashed out at the BJP, accusing it of insulting Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose by raising 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans at an event to mark the icon's 125th birth anniversary. Branding the BJP as a group of "outsiders" and "Bharat Jalao Party", she said it has been continuously insulting the icons of Bengal, Netaji being the "latest addition to the list". "Would you invite anyone to your house and then insult the person? Is this the culture of Bengal or our country? I would have had no problem if slogans hailing Netaji were raised. "But they didn't do that. To taunt me, they shouted slogans which had no relation to the programme. I was insulted in front of the prime minister of the country. This is their (BJP) culture," the Trinamool Congress boss told a rally here. Banerjee had on Saturday refused to speak at an official event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to observe Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary, after 'Jai Shri Ram' chants greeted her. Dubbing turncoats in her party as "betrayers", she said those who have deserted the TMC in the run-up to the assembly polls will never be welcomed back. "The ones who left knew they would not be getting tickets in the coming elections. It is good they exited, or else we would have thrown them out... Those who want to leave the party should do that as early as possible," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Republic Day celebrations sans spectators in Calcutta this year||The Republic Day celebrations in Calcutta will be subdued this year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic with no spectators being allowed, a senior official said on Monday. Only a few dignitaries, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and select top state government officials, will be present to witness the parade at Red Road in the heart of the city, he said. Around 200 contingents will take part in the parade on Tuesday, the state government official told PTI. "This year, the Republic Day parade will be shorter in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. No spectators will be allowed at Red Road like the previous years. Only a few VVIPs other than the CM, the governor and a few senior bureaucrats have been invited," he said. The seating arrangements have been made following the COVID-19 protocols of physical distancing, he added. Usually, the entire Maidan area around the venue is barricaded as thousands of enthusiasts come to the city to witness the parade, a senior Kolkata Police officer said. "However, this year we have decided to put the barricades only around the surrounding areas of the Red Road to stop the entry of the common people to the venue," he said. The work to barricade the venue started on Sunday, the officer said. At least 1,000 policepersons along with security personnel of the Heavy Radio Flying Squad and Radio Flying Squad will be deployed in and around the Red Road area, he said. "Senior officers of the rank of assistant commissioners and 12 deputy commissioners will be on duty at the venue for the Republic Day celebrations. Adequate security arrangements are in place. We will not take any chances," he added. Sniffer dogs and bomb squad personnel will be scrutinising the venue and the surrounding areas from time to time to ensure foolproof security, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||State govt receives 10 lakh requests for job cards in seven weeks||The Bengal government has received more than 10 lakh requests for job cards under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act over the past seven weeks through the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme. The numbers suggest that the lockdown-induced loss of livelihood is still affecting people in rural areas. “A total of 2.21 crore people have visited 21,057 camps set up under the Duare Sarkar programme between December 1 and January 18. Of them, 10,10,224 people sought job cards under the MGNREGA. The figure is staggering as we never received so many applications seeking job cards under the scheme,” a senior government official told The Telegraph. According to sources, nearly 60 per cent of the applicants have wanted enrolling their names in the existing job cards of their families and the remaining applied for new job cards. Sources said 10 lakh people applying for job cards in less than two months is significant given that the state has a total of 1.39 crore job cards under the scheme since it was launched in 2007. Senior government officials said that the deluge of applications for job cards suggested that more than one million people were desperate for a livelihood even after the lockdown had been lifted. “We had taken an initiative to issue job cards to the migrant workers, who were forced to come back to Bengal leaving their jobs in other states, soon after the state decided to bring back such people in the end-April-May last year. We had received around 2.2 lakh applications at that time. As we received more than 1 million applications this time, it suggests that livelihood remains a major issue in rural areas,” said a senior bureaucrat. Senior officials in the panchayat department, who are keeping a tab on the issue, said that there could be two reasons behind such a large number of applicants. First, a significant proportion of migrant workers, who did not apply for job cards initially as they had thought that they would be able to go back to their workplaces within a few months, failed to get back their jobs they had lost because of lockdown. “It seems many of the estimated 22 lakh migrant workers could not go back to their workplaces till now. As these workers don’t see any hope in getting back to their workplaces in near future, they may have applied for job cards as an alternative,” said an official. Officially, more than 14 lakh migrant workers had come back to the state by June last year. The state government received reports from various districts that some of the workers had gone back after a few months. But the government has no clear data on how many workers could not go back to their workplaces. Second, there might be a large number of people who were forced to apply for the cards as they lost their livelihood in rural areas. “Some officials from the districts informed that many of these people have lost their livelihood in the post-lockdown period. Some of them were running small shops, which are not paying back enough to run the family. Some were working with some local institutions like rice mills and lost their jobs in the post-lockdown period as the mills are being run with lesser employees,” explained another official. Sources in the panchayat department said they were trying to issue job cards to all the applicants who need it badly. Providing them with jobs under the scheme, however, may not be easy in the next two months as the state has already created 34 crore man-days under the scheme exceeding the initial approved target of 22 crore man-days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata visit brings amenities to Ballabhpur Danga village||The tribal hamlet of Ballabhpur Danga in Birbhum has emerged as a model village following a state government initiative to implement over a dozen development projects and undertake a beautification drive following a surprise visit by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to the area near Sonajhuri forest on December 30. After attending her mega rally in Bolpur on December 29, Mamata had visited Ballabhpur Danga village the following day and spoken to residents. As the chief minister walked through Ballabhpur Danga, she interacted with the villagers who told her about their long-standing demands. While listening to the complaints, the chief minister instructed district administration officials accompanying her to redress the grievances of the people at the earliest. Following Mamata’s instructions for the development of the village, separate sets of government officials made random visits to Ballabhpur Danga to sort out problems and also took measurements to implement at least a dozen development projects earlier last week. Apart from constructing toilets, bathing ghats and changing rooms, in addition to solar submersible pumps to meet the demand of drinking water, the government has already painted walls of the tribal homes as part of a “local beautification” drive. “We could not have imagined that so many projects would be completed within such a short period. It was really surprising for us and it happened only because Mamata didi had visited our place. The village has become a new place for us after the walls of our houses were so beautifully painted,” said Sanmani Soren, a villager who interacted with the chief minister during her visit on December 30. “She took up a ladle to cook a vegetable curry at a roadside kiosk,” said one villager while recollecting Mamata’s visit to the quaint hamlet. “The chief minister asked us to add more chilli for flavour,” he added. Officials said the development projects included setting up of solar street lights, 144 toilets for villagers, construction of two culverts along with several concrete roads, tube well platforms with soak pits and electricity connection to individual homes. The villagers reportedly complained to the chief minister about the bad condition of the government-provided toilets and the lack of supply of drinking water along with other demands. On Wednesday morning, secretary of self-help groups, Roshni Sen, and district magistrate Vijay Bharti visited the village to supervise the ongoing development projects. “We have painted the walls of the tribal hamlet to preserve the tradition of their culture. Already, 60 per cent of the proposed development work has been finished and the rest will be completed shortly. We are happy to convert the village into a model one where all benefits from the government will be delivered to every household,” said Bharti, the district magistrate. Sen said that she was “overwhelmed” after visiting the village. “There is a saying in English — ‘bottom-up’ approach. The projects at the village were taken up after listening to the demands of the villagers. The move will not be restricted to this village but will be implemented in all possible parts of the district,” said Sen, who is the nodal officer of Birbhum for the Duare Sarkar project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Bimal to people: Keep BJP off Hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Sunday hinted that the BJP might face retaliation if it held meetings or sought votes in the hills in poll-bound-Bengal. Speaking at a public meeting at Vah-Tukvar, his former GTA constituency, for the first time in more than three years, Gurung said: “If the BJP conducts meetings in villages or anywhere in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Mirik, they should not be allowed...” The Gorkha leader instead said “people should directly ask BJP” what the saffron party had done for them. “You (the BJP) do not have the right to conduct meetings or seek votes in the hills…and this is what you (the people of the hills) need to raise before them (the BJP),” said Gurung. The leader said the BJP had failed to live up to its commitment of granting tribal status and permanent political solution despite including both promises in its election manifesto twice. Gurung was an ally of the BJP from 2009 until October 2020 when he decided to join hands with Trinamul. “Youths must go in thousands (at the BJP meetings) and question this let down on the Schedule Tribe lollipop,” said Gurung. Despite the BJP winning polls, its organisational strength is still in its formative stages in the hills. Gurung said that it was “no use blaming Mamata Banerjee” when his own people had betrayed him, a reference to Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa who floated a splinter group of the Morcha in 2017. He also launched a vitriolic attack on Darjeeling MP Raju Bista of the BJP. Describing Bista as someone whom Gurung had “made”, Gurung said: “If Raju Bista comes to Darjeeling he will have to return, this is my word.” “Raju Bista (was) nothing, but because of your love for me, because of my appeals, you voted for him,” said Gurung, and added that now Bista was talking against him. Bista had won by more than 4.5 lakh votes in 2019. Bista did not take calls from the paper when the copy was filed on Sunday night. However, Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills), called Gurung’s assertion a “murder of democracy.” “Holding public meetings is a constitutional right. Through public meetings we can clarify our stand on various issues, about Gorkhas…. His statement reflects arrogance, undemocratic, illegal, unconstitutional and dictatorial attitude. Who is he to grant or deny public meetings?” Dewan said. Observers, however, wondered if Gurung would be able to stop the BJP from holding public meetings once the model code of conduct kicked in. Gurung also called himself the guardian of the hills and announced a monthly stipend of Rs 1,500 each to 50 elderly people from each of the 45 GTA constituencies, the Dooars and Terai from next month. For 50 elders from Vah-Tukvar, he started the scheme from this month. “We will set aside funds (for the scheme),” he added.  Going by conservative attempts, Gurung would be spending over Rs 33 lakhs per month for this scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Unbroken 90-day fall in active cases||Bengal on Sunday achieved a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 90th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, 2020. During these 90 days, total active cases fell from 37,190 to 6,323, improving by 83 per cent. “We are today (in terms of active cases) back almost to where we were on July 3, 205 days ago,” said a minister. On Sunday, the state logged 454 recoveries, 389 new infections and eight deaths, including two from Calcutta. Bengal’s recovery rate rose for 93 days straight to touch 97.11, having improved by nearly 10 per cent since October 22. The national rate is 96.8. Bengal now has over 5.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 5.52 lakh recoveries and 10,115 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent now, compared to the national average of 1.43 per cent. The state government attributed 8,490 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent crowding and a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and then ahead of the New Year. The number of infections in this time showed that the court’s instructions were effective. Since Dashami, over 90 days, Bengal reported over 2.41 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 2.14 lakh infections detected. “These three months have given us much breathing room as vaccination takes off. Bengal could have been one of the worst-affected regions of the world, given its circumstances, but we instead produced a war effort that is exemplary and heroic,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.25 per cent now, having improved from 8.27, 65 days ago. Bengal’s total test count — including 25,207 tests on Sunday — stands at over 78.33 lakh now, at 87,037 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Libraries to reopen with limited readers||State-owned, government-aided and government-sponsored libraries in Bengal will all resume public services on Monday. Although limited numbers of readers will be permitted in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, services are set to start three times a week on alternate days. Sources said the directorate of library services had asked employees to take “strict protective measures”, including sanitising the library premises on a daily basis, and allowing only half of already-enrolled readers according to protocols prescribed by the health department. Bengal has a total of 2,480 libraries, which include 13 government-run libraries, 2,460 government-sponsored, and seven state-aided libraries. In September last year, the state government had instructed libraries to open at least twice a month to clean books and remove dust apart from sanitising the premises. The order had come in the wake of allegations that the directorate had been “negligent” with regard to the condition of items, including “century-old manuscripts” which could have suffered damage inside unventilated and shut down library buildings. “Several state libraries house rare old books and century-old manuscripts written on toddy-palm leaves and other valuable collections,” said Sanjit Dutta, a retired librarian in Nadia. The sources said the decision to make public libraries functional was taken during a meeting on January 15 in the presence of mass education extension and library services minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury. “Since public services have been largely restored while fighting with the Covid-19 situation, we decided to resume library services as well. However, strict guidelines have been issued to officials so that no compromise is made with regard to health measures”, a senior official of the library services directorate said, adding that in addition to allowing only half the number of regular enrolled readers in the building, reading rooms would be limited to 50 per cent capacity as well. “We have told our officials to wear face masks and have also told them to ensure that readers use face masks while maintaining safe distance,” said minister Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||West Bengal||Firearm making unit unearthed in Malda||A joint raid by the special task force of Bengal police and Jalpaiguri district police unearthed an illegal firearm making unit at a village near Kaliachak in Malda district on Saturday. Mohammed Farukh Alam and Mohammed Azam from Munger in Bihar were arrested. The STF and the Kaliachak police seized a number of finished and semi-finished firearms, live bullets, magazines and several equipment during the raid. The police said local resident Humayan Sheikh was the kingpin of the racket involved in the manufacture and sale of firearms. “Humayan had been arrested by Malda district police in 2015 and last year. He had been once arrested in Murshidabad also. But after securing bail, Humayan continued with his illegal business,” said Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda. Sources said Sheikh used to run a similar arms making unit at his own home earlier. But after his arrest, Sheikh took on rent a building owned by his neighbour Rakibul Sheikh and and opened a similar unit there. “Rakibul, in turn, was offered a higher amount than the usual rent so that illegal activities could be carried out. Along with Humayan, we are in search of Rakibul and need to interrogate him,” a police officer said. The police also came to know that Humayan used to sell the firearms — mostly improvised seven mm pistols — with bullets and magazines to buyers in the neighbouring districts of North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Murshidabad. “He has a steady network of buyers in these three districts. He avoided selling his products in Malda so that he doesn’t come under our radar,” the officer said. The cop said the improvised pistols had a steady demand in the clandestine market. The pistol is made at a cost of around Rs 10,000 and sold at Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. “The arrested men were brought from Munger to make the firearms,” the cop said . Senior officials of the district police and the STF have decided to send a team to Munger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-222
25-01-2021||North East||Amit Shah steers clear of CAA in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday exhorted the people of Assam to give the BJP a second straight term to free the state from corruption, terrorism, pollution and floods but once again steered clear of contentious issues such as the Citizenship Amendment Act or the implementation of the Assam Accord. Shah first addressed a massive rally at Kokrajhar to mark the first anniversary of the “historic” Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) accord, highlighting the peace and development that have been ensured after the signing of the pact and the peaceful conduct of the Bodoland Territorial Council polls. Assam goes to polls in April-May and the BJP has set a target of winning 100-plus seats with its allies. Assam has a 126-member Assembly. Shah promised that the BJP-led government will implement all clauses in the new Bodo accord, besides protecting the rights, culture and language of the Bodo community and unity among Bodos and non-Bodos in the BTR, something the Opposition Congress could not do despite signing several agreements. He inaugurated several development projects, including those in the education and road sectors. The home minister asserted: “The Union government is standing like a rock behind the government of Assam, you just keep marching forward. Only under the leadership of (Narendra) Modi can Assam be rid of corruption, infiltration, terrorism and pollution.” Later in Nalbari, where he addressed a Vijay Sankalp rally, Shah went all out against the Opposition Congress and AIUDF while flagging the all-round development “taking” place in the state under the BJP-led government. Though he did not refer to the CAA or the implementation of Clause 6 or according Scheduled Tribe status to six communities, Shah asserted it was only the BJP that could save Assam from influx and ensure prosperity of all communities while seeking a second term with majority support. Shah asked: “Please tell me, can the Congress and (AIUDF parliamentarian) Badruddin Ajmal stop infiltrators? They will allow infiltrators to come in because they are their vote bank. Only the Narendra Modi-led BJP government can free Assam from infiltrators.” The Congress accuses the BJP of being communal but it is an ally of the Muslim League in Kerala and the AIUDF in Assam, Shah pointed out. “Where is the Congress taking Assam? I want to ask those who were in power for years as to what they did for Assam’s culture or its development?” He said only the BJP government could solve the problem of annual floods. While praising Modi for his steps to end insurgency in the Northeast and abolishing Article 370 provisions in Jammu and Kashmir, Shah said efforts had been made to meet the demands of the tea community, including their health, education and wage concerns. The tea adivasi community is among the six seeking ST tag for decades. The All Assam students’ Union on Sunday staged “black day” protests across the state demanding the repeal of the CAA, implementation of Clause 6 that provides for political and constitutional safeguards to the Assamese people, deportation of illegal Bangladeshis and scrapping of the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 notification. The CAA makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to secure Indian citizenship, something those opposed to the CAA see as a threat to Assam’s culture and language. AASU members burnt copies of the CAA as part of their protest. AASU has been staging protests since January 22 against the visits of Modi and Shah, who had last come to the state on December 26. The Opposition Congress, Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad and several leading organisations such as AASU and the KMSS have been flagging the unfulfilled promises of the BJP leaders between 2014 and 2016 and a seeking clarity on these issues during their visit to the poll-bound state. The Congress too attacked the BJP by countering the claims of Prime Minister Modi at his rally to distribute land pattas to the landless at Jerenga Pathar in Sivasagar on Saturday. Senior state Congress leader and sitting MP Pradyut Bordoloi pointed to Modi’s assertion of safeguarding Assamese language and culture by giving awards to renowned people. “Awards were an eyewash to hide the BJP’s agenda of destroying Assamese identity through the CAA, Hindutva politics, etc. The blatant violation of the Assam Accord speaks volumes of the BJP’s attitude towards Assamese language and culture. The BJP tried to rename schools and colleges in Assam after RSS leaders like Deen Dayal Upadhyay and not Assamese freedom fighters.” On Modi’s claim that Assam and the rest of the Northeast have been getting due attention from the central government and have made unprecedented progress in the last six years, Bordoloi said the Northeast Industrial Policy introduced by the UPA was scrapped by the current government and so was special status for the region. “Grants-in-aid to Assam since 2016 has been decreasing even with a BJP government both at the Centre and in the state. In 2018-19, it decreased by Rs 425 crores and declined another 3 per cent in 2019-20.” Modi said the BJP ensured peace and stability in Assam by curbing insurgency but it is evident from the growth chart of Assam from 2000-2016 that the Congress had effectively curbed insurgency and Ulfa violence in the state. “In 2011, Ulfa declared a unilateral ceasefire. Stability and development in the state was reflected by the GDP growth which increased from 1.75 per cent in 2001to 6.68 per cent in 2013-14,” Bordoloi said. The BJP came to power for the first time in 2016, ending the 15-year-rule of the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
25-01-2021||Opinion||On target: scope of money bills||A judgment may have a history that is not easy to disentangle. Not every Indian citizen was enthusiastic about the Aadhaar project when it was instituted. The scheme was legalized through a money bill in Parliament, presumably because the Lok Sabha can pass a money bill even if the Rajya Sabha disagrees with it. The definition and scope of a money bill are detailed in the provisions under Article 110 of the Constitution, and questions were raised regarding the Union government’s use of a money bill in this instance. In 2018, however, the Supreme Court in a majority judgment upheld the constitutionality of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 although it quashed provisions that made the Aadhaar link mandatory for bank accounts, school admissions and mobile phone connections. The dissenting voice in the 2018 five-judge bench was that of the judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, who had reportedly called the passage of the Aadhaar law in a money bill a fraud on the Constitution and liable to be struck down. But in another majority judgment this month, a five-judge bench dismissed a batch of seven review petitions challenging the 2018 judgment, not having found in them grounds for review. Again, the dissenting statement came from Mr Chandrachud, who reportedly felt that a larger bench was needed to hear the petitions, since the verdict being challenged came from a five-judge bench too. Mr Chandrachud said that the review petitions were pending when a case that raised similar questions regarding the Finance Act, 2017 — relating to tribunals — being passed as a money bill was heard. It was referred to a larger bench. The petitions, therefore, should have been kept pending till the larger bench had decided on the other case for, presumably, inconsistency in judgments regarding the scope of money bills would have serious consequences “not just for judicial discipline, but also for the ends of justice”. For the layperson, these ends would mean consistency: without that nothing can be fair or just. So the confusions around the last Lok Sabha’s use of the constitutional provision of the money bill that the Supreme Court in its wisdom has upheld in two majority judgments must be cleared up by constitutional experts for the sake of the government’s credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Great shame: Jai Shri Ram at Netaji's birth anniversary ||Sir — It is shameful that on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, the chief minister of his home state was insulted by her own people at a programme organized by the Centre. First, it was not a political rally, but an official event organized by the government. Second, it was the birth anniversary of Bose, not a religious occasion. So the only motives to utter “Jai Shri Ram” could be to provoke the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, and to stop her from speaking. In doing so, the people also insulted Bose. It is disgraceful. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The visit of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to West Bengal on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is more a political stunt than paying respects to the freedom fighter. Modi was joined by the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, and the state governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar. The prime minister was greeted with chants of “Jai Shri Ram” instead of Bose’s famous slogan, “Jai Hind”. But in the case of Banerjee, the religious chant was uttered with the intention of not allowing her to speak. Banerjee rightly stood up for the state and reminded the audience that one should not insult one’s guests. She reminded the Modi government of a basic lesson in civility that most Indians are brought up with: “Atithi devo bhava”. People expected the prime minister to condemn the boorish behaviour of his supporters or at least apologize to Banerjee. But to our utter disappointment nothing of the kind happened. Even the governor, who makes a big hue and cry about propriety in the way dignitaries are treated, did not say a word. Instead, he encouraged the crowd when they greeted him with “Bharat mata ki jai”. In his speech, the prime minister gave the impression that Bose would have been proud of India’s achievements today. But Bose would have been disgusted with today’s India where communal hatred is rife and farmers are dying on the streets. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The commemoration of the 125th birth anniversary of our country’s pride, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, was celebrated magnificently in most places except at the Victoria Memorial Hall, where the rowdy crowd misbehaved with the chief minister of the state. This is an insult not just of Mamata Banerjee, but also of Bose. As a result of this uncouth behaviour, Banerjee did not deliver her speech. Bose would have been embarrassed and utterly ashamed about being associated with such an event. The slogan, “Jai Shri Ram”, is a religious one connected with the majority community; it should not be used to gain political mileage. The Centre should have ensured that such an incident did not take place at an event organized by it. Banerjee did the right thing by not speaking. If we want to see our nation attain the heights of success and glory, we should rise above the narrow divisions of caste, religion, race and language so that we, as one nation, can feel proud of ourselves. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — The stoic silence of the prime minister when a section of the audience raised slogans of “Jai Shri Ram” at the Victoria Memorial Hall to stop the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, from speaking has left us astonished. How did the prime minister or the cultural ministry allow such a thing to happen? The incident will no doubt mar the image of the Bharatiya Janata Party and be an eye opener for the people of Bengal, who will think twice before bringing such a party to power in the state. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — Even supporters of the BJP in Bengal are ashamed of the incident at Victoria Memorial Hall. But I am glad it happened. It is a glaring example of the difference in culture that Mamata Banerjee has spoken about time and again. In spite of her differences with the government, Banerjee attended the event to respect an invitation issued to her on behalf of her prime minister. The way she was treated is evidence of the sorry culture of hooliganism patronized by the BJP. Moreover, the governor of the state — usually a stickler for treating holders of high office with great respect — stayed mum when the chief minister of his state was insulted. This proves his partisan nature. The prime minister, who never misses an opportunity to brag about ‘Bharatiya sanskriti’ sat by and watched one of his esteemed guests, a people’s representative, being insulted. Is this what Bharatiya sanskriti has taught him? Arindam Bhaduri,Calcutta  Spot the error Sir — The owners of an upscale eatery in Pakistan have had to apologize for a video which shows them mocking their manager for poor English. This is a trait shared by many a people across the border in India too. Those who are privileged enough to have received English education in a country where there is widespread illiteracy, seem to enjoy mocking wrong spellings or grammatical errors on posters, hoardings, and so on. People also upload photographs of such slips on social media. One wonders how these same people would feel if asked to string together two correct sentences in any vernacular language. Jharna Sanyal,Bhagalpur, Bihar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Untrustworthy: Farmers and the Modi govt||It is in the nature of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to blame others for its own bunglings. Typically, the Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, has passed the buck on to an “external force” that has apparently prevented the resolution of the ongoing agitation by farmers against three contentious legislations. Mr Tomar’s search for a scapegoat is understandable: the farmers are on record saying that the yawning trust deficit between Narendra Modi’s government and the agitators is the principal reason behind the continuity of the protests. It is this inability to believe in an elected government that has prevented the farmer unions from even accepting the Centre’s offer of keeping the laws in abeyance for a certain amount of time. This assurance — the “best offer” the government could come up with — has also led to speculation whether a constitutional provision exists that empowers a government to keep its own laws in abeyance. The real issue, however, is the trust gap, and the Centre has itself to blame for it. Neither Mr Modi nor his government felt the need to adopt a consultative mechanism to pass these legislations in the name of reform. The ordinance route was preferred and, then, the laws were rushed through in Parliament by a voice vote ignoring legitimate demands to send them to a Select Committee. This show of force and the dismissal of reservations eroded the trust for the powers that be. The vilification of protesting farmers by a sustained campaign aided and abetted by the government and its favourite ally — large segments of a passive media — has vitiated the atmosphere further. Meaningful negotiation has been a casualty in the process. It is a democratic government’s responsibility to attempt to win back the trust it has lost. Superficial gestures — visits to gurudwaras by the prime minister — are unlikely to fetch dividends in this respect, especially since Mr Modi has, so far, shown no urgency to be involved in the lengthy negotiations with the aggrieved constituency. Another, equally relevant, aspect of the crisis has commanded minimal attention. This concerns the hubris that accompanies a massive political mandate. There is no doubting the fact that India returned Mr Modi to power willingly. The robustness of that mandate seems to have made him impervious to the fact that a democratic government remains accountable to each segment of the population, big or small. The indifference to the anxieties and sufferings — more than 140 farmers have died in the course of these protests — can prove to be costly in the long run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Stroke of luck: Biden's race to presidency||Joe Biden is thrice-blessed. Not only did he win the Democratic nomination and then the presidential election, but as a result of the events of January 6, he has taken office when the Republican Opposition is in utter disarray and likely to stay that way for a long time. None of that was foreordained, or even very likely. “Just days ago the press and the pundits had declared this candidacy dead,” Biden marvelled about a year ago after winning the South Carolina primary election by a landslide. It had been dead, too, until African-American voters in South Carolina gave him their overwhelming support. It was the first primary he had won, and it put him back in the race. Three days later Biden won 10 out of 14 states on Super Tuesday and practically wrapped the nomination up. But if South Carolina had scheduled its primary even a few days later, he would have gone into Super Tuesday as a ‘loser’, and probably been written off. So he got lucky once, but it was a bad year for a Democrat to be running for the presidency. Donald Trump was mocked and loathed by the rest of the world and by almost exactly half the US population, but Trump’s ‘base’ didn’t care and the US economy was in excellent shape. The US media were doing their best to make the presidential race look exciting, because that’s what they were going to have to talk and write about through most of 2020. But the fact is that incumbent US presidents running for re-election when the economy is good almost always win. Biden’s second stroke of luck came some 40 days before he won the South Carolina primary, when the first case of Covid-19 showed up in the United States of America. By March it was running wild, but Trump, aware that his re-election depended on a booming economy, avoided taking any public health measures that would slow it down. Trump’s refusal to back anti-Covid measures like stay-at-home orders was driven more by electoral concerns than ideology: stall the economy and he could lose the election. But, of course, mass death would also stall the economy in the end, so he couldn’t win. He ended up with a crashed economy, around 4,00,000 Covid deaths, and a lost election too. And then, incredibly, he gave Biden another gift: the assault on the Capitol by his followers around three weeks ago. Biden was facing a grim time in office, with at least 70 per cent of Republican voters and a majority of Republicans in the House of Representatives seduced by Trump’s ‘Big Lie’ that he really won the election by a landslide, and that the Democrats had somehow ‘stolen’ it. It was Adolf Hitler, not Joseph Goebbels, who gave the technique that name, but it still works. “In the big lie there is always a certain force of credibility,” Hitler wrote in Mein Kampf, “because... in the primitive simplicity of their minds [the great masses] more readily fall victims to the big lie than the small lie, since they themselves often tell small lies in little matters but would be ashamed to resort to large-scale falsehoods.” “It would never come into their heads to fabricate colossal untruths, and they would not believe that others could have the impudence to distort the truth so infamously. Even though the facts which prove this to be so may be brought clearly to their minds, they will still doubt and waver and will continue to think that there may be some other explanation.” That is what Biden faced three weeks ago: a nightmare time in office with the ‘Big Lie’ rampant and Trump its proud purveyor. And then suddenly Trump, in his manic determination to hold on to power, sent his mob off to try a foredoomed coup in the ‘Temple of Democracy’, as American commentators pompously call it. End of game. Trump is discredited even among a modest but significant proportion of his own base, and a growing number of Republican office-holders are in rebellion against the party’s subservience to the Tangerine Tyrant. Biden’s years in office will be enlivened by a vicious Republican civil war, quite likely ending in a permanent split on the American right. Which will give Lucky Joe time to do some useful stuff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Steady course||In a previous piece in this newspaper, penned a couple of days after election night in the United States of America, I had maintained that irrespective of its outcome, India-US relations would remain on an even keel. This was due to several factors. The strong bipartisan consensus in the US on this relationship, built painstakingly by both sides over two decades, was based on shared values and converging interests. This resulted in a general continuity of policies despite changes in government. Joseph R. Biden was personally known to many of us not only as a prominent proponent of the India-US strategic partnership but also for his moderate centrist orientation and for his ability to reach across the aisle as well as buttonhole some of his own party colleagues for forging bipartisan consensus. Despite the diametrically different personalities, perspectives and styles of functioning of President Biden and his discredited predecessor, it was evident that there would be strong elements of continuity in the India-US relationship since it had remained relatively insulated from major policy reversals in the previous four years. As in the past, I am sure we will continue to work towards preserving bipartisan consensus by maintaining close ties with both parties at the federal and the state levels. Biden is aware that he will require Republican support for appropriations and legislative initiatives, given the 50-50 balance in the Senate and the wafer-thin, six-vote Democratic majority in the House. This should help him rein in the Progressive Caucus in the US Congress and reach out to moderate Republicans. Of course, while endeavouring to find common ground, both Republicans and Democrats will keep an eye not only on the next presidential elections but also on the crucial mid-term elections in 2022. Both parties recognize that whether or to what extent Trump remains relevant or not, Trumpism will survive for long. In the pursuance of the immense challenges he is faced with, Biden and his team are undoubtedly aware of the wisdom of the Shakespearean saying, “the evil men do lives after them; the good is oft interred in their bones.” He would thus have to balance the need of repudiating and reversing or reviewing some of his predecessor’s policies while continuing and building upon other policies. Biden’s goals of reuniting the nation, restoring trust in democracy and ensuring racial justice and religious harmony must be balanced with the need to address the anxieties of a large number of middle-class Americans who resent their social and economic marginalization over decades. The extent of his success could be determined on his finding the right balance and integrating these into US economic and foreign policies. Under the Trump administration, India-US defence and security cooperation had undoubtedly accelerated. Long pending “foundational” agreements were signed. India was designated as a Major Defence Partner and, subsequently, accorded the Strategic Trade Authorisation STA-1 status. These made US arms sales to India more competitive and will facilitate greater inter-operability between the armed forces. Regional cooperation was strengthened in the Indo-Pacific framework. The Quad of Australia, Japan, India and the US was resurrected. For the last two years, there were regular 2+2 meetings of foreign and defence ministers. Intelligence exchanges were raised to new levels. Earlier this month, the previous administration declassified and released the US strategy document for the Indo-Pacific. This was announced partly as a legacy document and partly as benchmarks for the Biden administration. The Indo-Pacific construct helps us to strategically leverage our unique geographical location and the overlapping interests of India and the US. It does not encompass our land boundary with China, or cover Afghanistan and our other neighbours. Its near-exclusive focus on the maritime domain in joint military exercises is another definitional constraint. Those who found invocations of democracy and human rights in the strategy document ridiculous in the light of the recent undermining of and violent assault on democracy in the US did not, however, see any contradiction in applauding the series of actions taken against China on grounds of human rights violations and the undermining of democracy in Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The recent US Senate confirmation hearings of the incoming administration’s principal foreign and defence policy aides attracted some attention. Since the hearings largely dealt with contentious issues, India figured in passing and in a favourite light. As in the past, all answers on the issues affecting us were minutely dissected, particularly the observations reportedly made on Pakistan-Afghanistan. Some inferences on altered policies are premature since such customary policy reviews after changes of government are yet to commence. The continuation of a tough approach to China was evident, as was the desire to refrain from escalating tensions. It remains to be seen to what extent the Biden administration will moderate the recent changes to traditional policies on Taiwan and whether it will be more open to greater coordination and cooperation with China on issues such as climate change, intellectual property rights, environment and labour standards and securing greater market access for US firms. A further hardening of the US policy on Russia, which seems to be on the cards, will pose numerous problems for us. The enhancement of security and defence cooperation in recent years was not matched by corresponding progress in India-US trade and economic cooperation. As with its other allies and close partners, Trump took several unilateral steps to pressurize India to reduce its bilateral trade surplus with the US, including in agriculture where we have more than a 2:1 trade surplus. The Biden administration will be less confrontationist and more consultative in its approach, but we should not expect any substantive change in US positions. The signing of the envisaged “mini” trade deal of around $10 billion is highly unlikely, particularly in view of our farmers’ protests and US concerns with data localization. We should start talks on India-US and India-EU FTAs, recognizing that neither may materialize in the near future. In the meantime, it may be worthwhile to review the efficacy of some of our own policies, not in terms of the US or any other partner but in terms of our own interests. These could cover the compatibility of import substitution and high and constantly changing tariff and non-tariff barriers with export promotion, innovation and global competitivity. The Biden administration’s change of direction from that of his predecessor’s unilateralism towards multilateralism has been universally acclaimed. The US has rejoined the Paris accord on climate change. For decades, climate change has been linked to national security and international trade. Covid-19 is accelerating the linkage between global pandemics and climate change. The US may pursue WTO reforms for inclusion of environmental and social security standards while upgrading trade-related IPR norms and even reviewing the continuation of common but differentiated treatment of developing countries like India. Biden has expressed interest in the US joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership after aligning it to some of the higher standards of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. China is reportedly among those also interested in joining the CPTPP. If this happens, India, which stayed out of the low-ambition RCEP, will be totally isolated. However, the extension of the Trade Promotion Authority beyond July this year looks unlikely. Those who rightly criticize Trump for pulling out of the TPP often choose to forget that Barack Obama had secured TPP approval in the Congress with overwhelming Republican support and amidst Democratic opposition.  The author is a former ambassador to the US||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||New voters pledge to exercise franchise on 11th National Voters’ Day||More than two dozen new voters took oaths on Monday to participate in the upcoming election. The occasion was the 11th National Voters’ Day during which Dhanbad deputy commissioner cum district election officer Uma Shankar Singh provided them with voter identity cards along with ‘Proud to be a Voter-Ready to Vote’ badges at the Dhanbad Club. The best performing booth level officers who were also present during the function were felicitated by the deputy commissioner. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Saudamini Sinha (20), a graduation part II student of Banasthali Vidyapeeth said, “The programme held today was quite informative as we were also apprised about the significance of e-voter card which we can download at any place in the country, even if we forget to carry the original.” When asked about the significance of voting, Sinha, daughter of a Life Insurance Corporation of India officer said, “It is not that only soldiers fighting on the border have a responsibility towards the nation. Being a good citizen and exercising our franchise to ensure good people become our representatives is equally responsible.” Echoing similar sentiments, Anchal Priya (18), a plus two student of BSSL Women’s College of Dhanbad said, “I am feeling quite confident and responsible after receiving the card today and will exercise my franchise during the upcoming local body elections.” A similar oath-taking ceremony was also organized at the Dhanbad Court campus during which Dhanbad principal district and session judge Basant Kumar Goswami, along with a host of judicial officers, and the Dhanbad Bar Association General Secretary Devi Sharan Sinha also took oaths to exercise their franchise. Speaking during the occasion, Goswami said that everybody should exercise their democratic right to vote, and if one is prevented from doing so, then one should fight for it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City Corporation holds investors' meet in Dhanbad||Over 100 entrepreneurs, members of different trade bodies and industrialists of Dhanbad took part in an investors' meet organized by Ranchi Smart City Corporation on Monday to attract bidders for the proposed auction of two plots. Investors were apprised about the facilities to be offered at the smart city, besides criteria for investing in the project. The meet, organized at New Town Hall from 11.30 am, witnessed the presence of Amit Kumar, IAS, who was present as Director of State Urban Development Authority as well as chief executive officer of Ranchi Smart City Corporation. He explained the technicalities of the process of applying for investing in the project being developed near Ranchi Airport. Kumar said, “Any investor, after booking a plot, will be provided a one-year window period. But, once he makes the final payment he will have to complete his proposed project within five years. The investor may complete his project in a single-phase or more than one phase. But, he will not be allowed more than five years for completing a project.” Kumar said he had received several queries from interested investors. “The process of participating in the ongoing auction of two plots of the Smart City has been made online. Potential investors can take part in the auction from their homes,” said Kumar, adding that the smart city project was being developed as a model satellite township meant for over 1.5 lakh people. He said it would be equipped with world-class facilities. "There are several components of the project, including residential, commercial, institutional, public, semi-public or mixed. These offer a golden opportunity for investment," he said. Hubban Mallick, who is MD of Pay and Clean agency which looks after the operation and maintenance of five mechanized dust sweepers for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, sought special concessions for young entrepreneurs like him. “The Ranchi Smart City, being developed close to the airport, will not only provide opportunities for investors but also provide an opportunity to people who dream of living in an area with world-class facilities," Mallick later told reporters. Patron of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry Rajesh Kumar Gupta, who was also present, suggested that Ranchi Smart City officials also include a clause with regards to limitation of the period for completion of a project. He feared that some investors, after fulfilling criteria in one phase, may not participate in the next phase. He, however, lauded that project. "The project in Ranchi will create competition among different cities and we would like the government to also plan similar projects for Dhanbad," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Fog, clouds push up night readings across state||Fog and clouds, formed due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through the northern parts of the country, have pushed up night readings across Jharkhand. The dense fog resulted in poor visibility just after sunrise at several places on Monday. Surface visibility was reduced to below 700 metre at areas across the Kolhan region, including Jamshedpur. Ranchi, Daltonganj, Dumka, Giridih, Bokaro, Sahebganj and Latehar also experienced poor visibility. "Several districts witnessed partly cloudy sky with moderate to heavy fog on Monday morning. The wind pattern over Jharkhand has changed from north-westerly to easterly due to the impact of the western disturbance. This in turn has resulted in a rise in minimum reading across Jharkhand," said a duty officer at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met centre in its forecast for the next five days also predicted rain and thundershowers in north-western, central and southern Jharkhand on January 28 and 29. On Monday, Ranchi and its adjoining districts recorded a minimum temperature of around 12 degree Celsius while the minimum reading of Jamshedpur shot up to 15 degrees. Daltonganj and Bokaro districts recorded a minimum of around 11 degree Celsius while Dumka, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Pakur and several other places recorded minimum temperatures of around 12 degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Athletics to resume in steel city with cross country race||Athletes, away from the track and field for nearly a year for the Covid pandemic, will be back in action on Wednesday _ at least in East Singhbhum to begin with.  The East Singhbhum District Athletics Association has switched gears to conduct a cross country event for boys and girls from Jaipal ground at Karandih here on Wednesday, January 27.  “Performance of the athletes will be the yardstick for selection of the district squad for the 12th Jharkhand State Cross Country Championship to be held in Deogarh on January 31,” said association secretary Ravinder Murmu  According to him, the competition will be conducted in various categories, namely, senior men and women (10 km), under-20 boys (8 km), under-20 girls (6 km), under-18 boys (6 km), under-18 girls (4 km) under-16 boys (2 km) and under-16 girls (2 km).  “Participants have to report to technical committee chairman Ranjeet Kumar Singh at the venue at 9am before the start of the competition,” Murmu said, adding this is the first athletics event in the district after the pandemic.  He, however, admitted that condition of the ground was not good. “We are helpless since we are not permitted to hold competitions in stadiums in Jamshedpur. The stadiums are still out of bounds for the athletes. We had to resume our activities and Jaipal ground was the only option available,” Murmu said.  The Murmu said shot-putter Pankaj Yadav and long jumper Manpreet Kaur from East Singhbhum are part of the state outfit at the Junior Federation Cup Athletics Championship which started in Bhopal on Monday. “Performance during the Federation Cup will be key for athletes when it comes to finding a spot in the national squad for the Junior World Championship, which is scheduled in Nairobi, Kenya in August,” he said.  According to Murmu, the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is organising a pre level-1 online coaching course. Sports teachers, parents of athletes, and former athletes can register at www.indianathletics.in . The Last date for registration is January 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||RMC starts home visits to collect property tax||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has started collecting holding tax from houses as online payments aren’t possible because its official website remains defunct, officials said on Monday. Sri Enterprises, a third-party agency roped in by RMC for collection of holding tax, has appointed as many as 75 tax collectors to visit houses of city residents on request and collect their holding tax either in cheque or cash, said Vaibhav Kumar, a manager with the agency. “Any person willing to get their holding tax collected from their residence can make a phone call to RMC and make a request. The concerned tax collector of the ward will visit the person’s residence within 24 hours and collect holding tax,” said Kumar. As per records with the RMC, there are as many 53 wards in urban Ranchi and tax collectors have been assigned different wards depending on their population and surface area. “Some wards have three to five tax collectors, while some wards have only one tax collector depending on the population,” Kumar said. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargiya said the initiative of collecting tax from the residence of city residents was taken in order to avoid crowding at the RMC office and ensure smooth tax payment despite not having the option of online payment. “We are trying our level best to make tax payment hassle-free for the people of Ranchi. We had even asked the state authorities to waive off the penalty for late payment of tax, but they did not agree,” Vijaywargiya said. Soon after the JMM-led alliance government was formed in Jharkhand, it decided to rope in a new third-party agency, Sri Enterprises, for tax collection on behalf of RMC. Sparrow, the agency which was doing the job during the former Raghubar Das-led government, was shown the door. The website, according to RMC officials, has been undergoing a software update since October last year. Sources said the new agency roped in to do the job on behalf of RMC was facing teething issues, which lasted for longer than usual due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, all property owners who had not paid tax yet will have to pay a penalty along with their holding tax irrespective of the reason for the delay in payment, Vijaywargiya said. The decision of not giving relaxations on tax penalty comes at a time when the government has been asking people to stay indoors and use online modes of payment in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Security beefed up in Naxalite areas of Kolhan before R-Day||Police and paramilitary forces across Kolhan comprising the twin districts of Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan district have been put on high alert on Monday in view of celebrating an incident-free Republic Day here on Tuesday. In the naxal-infested Ghatsila subdivision, police have started long-range patrolling (LRP) from Monday besides making deployment of paramilitary forces at strategic locations there. In the West Singhbhum district and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district adequate security measures have been taken up to prevent the naxals from coming overground anywhere during Republic Day. Revealing about the preparations on the security front, East Singhbhum district superintendent of police (Rural) Subhash Chandra Jat said the security arrangement in view of Republic Day was made in accordance with the instructions given by the deputy inspector general (Kolhan) Rajiv Ranjan Singh following a review meeting held at Jamshedpur on Thursday. "Accordingly, we have deployed security personnel at the strategic locations under Ghatsila subdivision and also in the Patamda as well as Bodam thana areas which are considered as naxal-infested areas. We have deployed security forces in certain points in the steel city also," said Jat, who is also City SP, while talking to The Telegraph Online. The SP (Rural) stated that they have also begun LRPs in these areas so as to ensure that no subversive activity can take place during Republic Day. Similarly, the West Singhbhum district superintendent of police, Ajay Linda also informed that more than one LRPs are being conducted in the rebel-infested areas like Sonua, Goelkera, Bandhgaon and also in Saranda. "The government institutions, including schools where Republic Day celebrations are held, have been provided with adequate security forces from Monday. At the same time, we have begun LRPs in the rebel-infested areas across the district," said Linda while talking to this website. He stated that the areas where naxal-sponsored violence and subversive acts like the planting of IEDs had taken place recently are being given special attention. The Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi also spoke about beefing up the security measures in the district. "We are focusing on all the rebel-infested areas, especially areas bordering West Singhbhum for making the Republic Day celebration incident-free. We have also intensified LRPs in the district bordering West Singhbhum district as dreaded rebels like Maharaj Pramanic are active here in Ichagarh, Chowka and Kuchai area," said Arshi while talking to The Telegraph Online. Meanwhile, the state police on Monday have released a list of 17 hardcore rebels on which bounties ranging from Rs 5 lakhs to Rs 1 crore have been declared. Of the 17 rebels, two are from Kolhan – one is Maharaj Pramanik who carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head and the other one is Sachin Mardi. Whereas Pramanik is active at Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Sachin who is active in Patamda and Ghatsila area of East Singhbhum district also carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head. The police have also flashed the photographs of most of the wanted rebels, informing that the identity of those reveals the whereabouts of these naxals will be kept secret.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Samadhan holds R-Day celebrations with fashion show for homemakers||More than two dozen homemakers (housewives) of Dhanbad celebrated Republic Day by participating in a fashion show on Monday, a day ahead of Republic Day. The fashion show was organised by a Jharia-based youth organization Samadhan, in a private banquet hall of Saraidhela. The homemakers walked the ramp donning attires of our national heroes including Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Rani Lakshmi Bai, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Khudiram Bose, etc. The event was organised with the aim of providing an opportunity to housewives who themselves do not get the chance of participating in competitions and cultural programmes as they remain busy preparing their children for Republic Day functions. The participants also delivered patriotic speeches, recited poems, sang nationalist songs and danced to the tune of patriotic songs. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh said, “We invited people to join the programme using the social media platform and also spot entry in the event was accepted. People of 18 to 70 years of age were allowed entry during the programme." “We never expected such a tremendous response to our function. Manisha Minz, wife of Dhanbad SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz, participated as chief guest in the event. More than 30 homemakers also took part in the event,” said Singh and added that the function which was followed by lunch and prize distribution was organized with the personal contribution of more than two dozen Samadhan volunteers in order to provide the opportunity to the homemakers to participate in cultural programmes of Republic Day. Mamta Chaudhary (55), mother of a BA Part II Student of SSLNT Women’s College, Sneha Chaudhary (22), who is also a volunteer of Samadhan and recited a patriotic poem during the show said, “Generally the Republic Day functions are either held at government or private offices, business establishments, school, colleges, etc. and thus the homemakers rarely get the opportunity to participate in cultural programmes. But we got the opportunity to participate in the function today due to the innovative thought of Samadhan founder, Chandan Singh.” Echoing sentiment, Wasseypur resident, Nurjahan Begum (65), mother of another Samadhan Volunteer, Abda Parveen who also took part in the show donning the attire of a traditional Indian housemaker said, “We have five daughters and we as homemakers always remained busy preparing our children in order to let them participate in the cultural programme during their schools days and never got time for ourselves to participate in the Independence Day or Republic Day functions. Today we are very grateful to the organisers who provided us with the opportunity to participate in the function.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Uri martyr's widow to hoist Tricolour at Albert Ekka Chowk||Albert Ekka chowk, the Ranchi landmark named after the 1971 India-Pakistan war hero Paramveer Chakra Lance Naik Albert Ekka will for the first time hold Republic Day celebrations this year by unfurling the Tricolour, courtesy a city social outfit, Rashtriya Yuva Shakti (RYS). Jinghi Dungdung, widow of Jawra Munda, who was martyred in the 2019 terror strike at Uri, will hoist the National Flag accompanied by three of children. Uttam Yadav, president of Rashtriya Yuva Shakti (RYS), said on Monday that the move was to pay respects to those who laid their lives for the cause of the country. “Rather than invite VIPs for flag hoisting, we decided to call a war widow to do the honours as they deserve that much respect,” he said. Yadav added their organisation has started touring the state to reach out to war veterans and help them in any way. A day before Republic Day, the organisation launched a cleanliness drive in and around Albert Ekka Chowk. Members decked up the martyr’s bust with flowers and flags. The outfit also conducted cleanliness drives in other spots and roundabouts of the capital, namely Birsa Munda Samadhi Sthal at Kokar where tribal icon and freedom fighter Birsa Munda was laid to rest, Shaheed Chowk and Bhagat Singh Square in Chutia, among others. Yadav said they planned to decorate the 500km-stretch from Albert Ekka Chowk to Shaheed Chowk, with flowers and Indian flags. The programme would be open for all. “It will be a simple ceremony where the Uri martyr's widow will unfurl the Tricolor at about 11am while others are free to join. Our volunteers will ensure Covid safety protocols,” he said. Jhingi, who lives in remote Topra block in Khunti district, couldn’t be reached for a comment as her phone was switched off. Yadav, however, claimed that the martyred jawan’s family hadn’t received any assistance from the state government so far and was battling financial woes. “Neither did she get a compensatory job after her husband was martyred, nor any financial assistance from the state government. The widow has three minor children who require assistance for their education,” Yadav said. Yadav said they were touring Jharkhand to meet war veterans and families of those who lost their lives in operation. “We will prepare a comprehensive report and submit it to the state government. If it doesn’t act, we will then launch a stir to fight for their cause,” he said. Two Indian soldiers lost their lives in the 2019 terror strike in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir. While Sepoy Jawra Munda was from Jharkhand’s Khunti district, sepoy Naiman Kujur was from Gumla district. The state Republic Day programme would be held as usual at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground with governor Droupadi Murmu hoisting the Tricolour. Chief minister Hemant Soren will be in Dumka to hoist the flag. A full dress rehearsal of the Republic Day function was held on Sunday. As many as 10 platoons of Jharkhand police and paramilitary forces took part. The district administration has already announced that there would not be any cultural programme at the venue in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi accounts for 74 per cent of the fresh Covid cases in the state||More than 74 per cent of the 54 people found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday were residents of Ranchi, a district that reported 70 per cent of state's Covid cases on Saturday, figures compiled by the health department revealed. As many as 40 of the 54 people found infected were from Ranchi, while no other district in Jharkhand reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Ranchi also accounted for more than half of the active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. Of the 821 people battling the viral infection in the state, at least 428 were from Ranchi. Two more Covid-19 patients died during treatment in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 1063, figures compiled by the state health department highlighted. Ranchi and West Singhbhum reported one Covid casualty each in the past 24 hours. The total count of Covid fatalities reached 230 in Ranchi on the day, the second-highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. East Singhbhum has reported 356 Covid casualties so far, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM). At least 16 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, the bulletin stated. While East Singhbhum reported six cases against 16 recoveries, Dhanbad reported only one case against 10 recoveries. Three people were found infected in Bokaro, while seven patients recovered there. The government tested swab samples of 12019 people and around 0.5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 51.48 lakh people and tested 51.39 lakh of them. As per government data, of the 1,18,286 people infected by the virus so far, more than 1.16 lakh people have recovered. As per data with the NHM, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 98.40 per cent on Sunday, while the Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent. The national Covid recovery rate was 96.80 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the bulletin, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.06 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 1145.42 days against the national average of 620.71 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
25-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand duo eye Bengal polls||At least two regional parties of Jharkhand have started weighing their prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls in neighbouring Bengal. While chief minister Hemant Soren who is also the working president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is set to address a public meeting at Jhargram on Thursday, Asju party chief and former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto already attended a party workers’ meeting at Baghmundi in Purulia district on Sunday. “Hemant Babu will first address a public meeting at Jhargram on Thursday and we will then sit together for finalising other issues related to the upcoming Assembly elections in Bengal,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya informed on Sunday. The JMM enjoys considerable support of the local people in Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Malda and Dinajpur, besides in Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur, he claimed, adding they were yet to finalise about fielding candidates in any particular seats  in those areas. The JMM that claims support in certain pockets in Bengal, Bihar and Odisha had also contested eight Assembly seats, albeit unsuccessfully, in the recent Assembly elections in Bihar. “Sudeshji is attending a meeting of the party workers at Baghmundi in Purulia district today,” Ajsu party’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat informed on Sunday. “We consider Jungle Mahal comprising Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapur as a part of greater Jharkhand and demand there should be a Manbhum-Junglemahal Territorial Administration (MJTA) for better development of the region,” he further informed The National Confederation of Human Rights Organisation (NCHRO) presented the Mukundan C Menon award at a virtual ceremony to Father Stan Swamy, who is at present in Mumbai’s Tiloja Central Jail after being picked up by the NIA last year for his alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon case. The award, instituted in memory of the noted journalist and human rights activist Mukundan C Menon, was presented to the octogenarian Jesuit priest who “had dedicated his life for the rights of Adivasis in Jharkhand” by S Balan, an advocate and president of the Karnataka chapter of the NCHRO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-162
