26-01-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcuttans’ account of Netaji event ||Two professionals, leading figures in their respective fields who have spent long years in Calcutta, were at Saturday’s event at Victoria Memorial to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Both said they were aghast when they saw 15 to 20 people among the audience erupt in chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. The two Calcuttans narrated to The Telegraph what they heard and saw at the event organised by the Union culture ministry. Both requested anonymity for obvious reasons. First professional: A group of people, actually I’m not sure whether they were part of one group as the men were scattered across a few rows at the back, had started chanting “Jai Shri Ram” even before the programme began. At the Victoria Memorial gate near the AJC Bose Road flyover, we could see Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s car heading towards Elgin Road. We could clearly see the Prime Minister sitting in the car, and these people chanted “Jai Shri Ram”. First professional: I was surprised and so were a few of my friends whom I had run into at the event. We saw some of the volunteers and organisers rushing towards them and asking them to be quiet. But after a short while, some of them chanted “Jai Shri Ram” several times again. Most of them were young. A few were wearing saffron scarves that resembled those that some politicians wear. Initially, they chanted the slogan in a low voice but the moment chief minister Mamata Banerjee walked towards the podium, they sprang to their feet and started shouting “Jai Shri Ram” at the top of their voices. The volunteers and organisers rushed towards them and the chief minister too protested strongly in her short speech. Then there was complete silence. Maybe some of these people too understood that what they had done was not right. I did not like the slogan-shouting at all. This was not a political event and most of those invited like me were not politicians. We had accepted the invitation because it was a programme to celebrate the birth anniversary of a great leader. But unlike these people, we kept our opinions to ourselves because it is inappropriate to express your views there. Second professional: I was seated in a middle row. The moderator announced the name of chief minister Mamata Banerjee as the next speaker and immediately I heard from the back chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. Like everyone else, I too turned my head to see who was shouting. They were young people. Some of them, I think, wore suits or jackets and sat in the last few rows at the back. I think there were barely 15 to 20 people shouting the slogan. The moderator appealed to them to stop but they continued. The chief minister was visibly annoyed. After she sternly said this was a government programme and there should not have been any political slogans, there was an uneasy calm. I heard one elderly gentleman asking why political slogans were being chanted at such a solemn event. The chief minister thanked Prime Minister Modi for arranging the programme in Calcutta. The programme was to start at 4.30pm but I had arrived a bit early. It was very well organised. There were security checks at two points, one at the main entrance to the Victoria Memorial and the other at the point of entry to the open-air space where the main programme was being organised. The security personnel checked my identity document at both points. They also checked the invitation card minutely. But despite such vigil, they could not prevent such a nuisance. Many doctors, musicians and other known faces were in the audience. They later told me they were surprised and shocked that a group of people could behave this way. At the beginning of the programme, after the Prime Minister arrived, he went inside to inaugurate an exhibition on Netaji. It was shown on a screen. It showed the Prime Minister, the governor, two Union ministers and Victoria Memorial officials walking together and the chief minister walking separately. I got the impression that she had got left behind and they were not talking to her, which I did not like. This was not a place for politics, I thought. After the chief minister’s protest, the Prime Minister spoke for about half an hour but the spirit of the programme was dampened. Initially, people in the audience, most known to each other, were talking and taking selfies. After the incident, everyone was quiet. The slogan-shouting had left a bad taste in the mouth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||As the world fights Covid-19, another pandemic is inching close||As the world fights Covid-19, another pandemic is looming in the horizon. This will be caused by bacteria which are becoming resistant to the entire gamut of antibiotics discovered so far, rendering humankind and animals defenceless against infections. A travelling exhibition, titled Superbugs: The End of Antibiotics?, reached Science City on Monday after doing the rounds of Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore. Organised by the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), in collaboration with Science Museum Group, London, Wellcome, UK, and supported by the Indian Council of Medical Research, it will be on view through February. The exhibition consists of 30 exhibits divided into three segments — microscopic, human and global. “The first part tells the story of the hidden world of bacteria and the history of antibiotics. The human section deals with those affected by and combating antibacterial resistance. The third is on global initiatives in search of new antibiotics and alternative solutions,” said Subhabrata Chaudhuri, director, Science City. The first section starts with an innocuous picture of a man posing in front of Taj Mahal. A wheel in front of the digital panel on being turned zooms in manifold on his head, till single strands of hair and finally a bacteria under his skull become visible. “That’s just 1 micron in size. This has been devised to show how small bacteria are,” said curator S.S. Ghosh, while showing guests around. There are 10 original bacterial slides in petri dishes, collected mostly from patients at Tata Medical Center. Once a sliding magnifying glass is held over each dish, the shape and other details of the bacteria appear on the panel in front. Two petri dishes in an adjacent exhibit show how an antibiotic has killed and stopped growth in a colony of Staphylococcus aureus in one, and how bacteria resistant to the antibiotic have kept growing in the other. On picking up a vintage telephone handset, one can hear the voice of Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of the world’s first antibiotic penicillin, predicting the rise of superbugs as part of his Nobel Prize acceptance speech in 1945. A penicillin mould grown from Fleming’s original sample is on display, alongside a picture of Albert Alexander, a police officer who was the first to receive penicillin. Passing a hand over a sensor-fitted book allows one to flip panels in front, showcasing trivia like Winston Churchill being cured of pneumonia by a newly discovered antibiotic in 1943. Recalling how the exhibition was conceptualised, Arijit Dutta Choudhury, director general, NCSM, said: “In 2018, we were approached by Science Museum, London, to develop an exhibition on the subject. They held one in London which our team visited. Their exhibition also travelled to China. We contextualised it to fit the Indian situation and opened it in September 2019 in Delhi. It was kept in abeyance because of the lockdown. This exhibition has been visited by five lakh people across the country and we reached out digitally to another 10 lakh.” Scientists attending the inauguration pointed out how because of Covid-19, people have started taking plenty of antibiotics, aggravating the problem. Emdadul Islam, a retired director of the Birla Industrial and Technological Museum, pointed out that no new antibiotic had been developed since the 1970s. “If the ones we have become ineffective, no surgery can be done for fear of infection,” he said. Human geneticist Partha Pratim Majumdar, National Science Chair of the government of India, who inaugurated the exhibition, warned against both overuse, when people take antibiotics without being prescribed, and underuse, when they stop before completing the course. He also rued the rampant use of antibiotics in poultry farms and crop plants. “These are secondary ways in which antibiotics enter the human body and promote resistance. It is a man-made disaster. We need to use antibiotics more responsibly.” Microbiologist Sanjay Bhattacharya of Tata Medical Center also spoke at the programme, as did three other experts virtually. “We will hold programmes like puppet show, online quiz, poster making on the sidelines,” said Samarendra Kumar, director, headquarters, NCSM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Compensation order for south Calcutta hospital||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked a hospital in south Calcutta to give Rs 50,000 as compensation to a patient who was overbilled during his Covid treatment. Chinmoy Chakraborty had stayed at Kasturi Das Memorial Superspeciality Hospital in Santoshpur for 15 days. “We have given a discount of Rs 50,000 to the patient. We found that the bed charges were very high. He was in a triple-sharing bed and charged Rs 9,000,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairman of the commission, said on Monday after the hearing. There was separate billing for resident medical officer, sanitisation and biomedical waste disposal. “The patient was billed Rs 3.41 lakh,” Banerjee said. “He gave the entire amount and later got a reimbursement of Rs 2.11 lakh. He had to bear Rs 1.29 lakh. We have given him a further discount of Rs 50,000,” Banerjee said. There have been instances in the past when the commission has asked hospitals to return various amounts to patients for overcharging, which included exorbitant amounts for pathological tests. The government has capped doctors’ consultation fees and PPE rates. The commission issued an advisory that PPE rates would include glove and mask charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||College girl found  dead in complex||The body of a teenage girl, later identified as Nidhi Poddar, was found in front of a multi-storey building in Bangur Avenue’s A Block late on Sunday. Residents of the area, alerted by a thud, rushed out and saw the girl lying face down in a pool of blood. The residents immediately alerted the police and some of them took her to a nursing home in Lake Town, where she was declared dead. Police said Nidhi, 18, a first-year student at a college near Sovabazar, stayed with her family in Lake Town’s SK Deb Road. “Nidhi’s family members had visited Lake Town police station on Sunday night and told the officers that she had stepped out after telling her parents that she wanted to buy packets of instant noodles,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. “A friend of Nidhi alerted the family that she had posted a status message on WhatsApp that she would commit suicide. As soon as we learnt about it, our men fanned out in search of the girl. In the meantime we received news that the body of a young girl was found on Bangur Avenue.” The police found a purported suicide note in which Nidhi apologised to her parents for ending her life, the officer said. According to another officer, Nidhi had been suffering from hearing loss. “She mentioned in the letter that she was getting increasingly depressed because of the medical condition,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Relative held for wedding theft in Beleghata||A man allegedly drugged seven family members at his in-laws’ home a day after his brother-in-law’s wedding reception and stole the bride’s jewellery worth Rs 8.5 lakh from a cupboard she had brought from her parental home. The accused, Partha Sarathi Ghosh, who runs a horticulture business in Behala, has been arrested. “He had mixed sleeping pills with the food. To stay awake, he skipped dinner, saying he was not keeping well. He admitted he entered his brother-in-law’s room and stole the jewellery while all other family members were asleep,” an officer of Beleghata police station said. Abhijit Das and Dolly had tied the knot last Sunday and the reception was held on Tuesday. On Wednesday, apart from the newly-wed couple, Das’s parents, elder sister, her husband and their son were at home. On Thursday, Ghosh had left for his home with his wife and son. Shortly thereafter, Dolly discovered the theft. “We were examining the family members one by one when we learnt that the groom’s brother-in-law and sister had left for their home,” an officer said. “Following prolonged questioning, Ghosh admitted to the crime.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Protest against insult to CM and online attack on artistes||Actors, filmmakers, painters, poets and others came together on Monday burying their political differences to condemn what they said was the humiliation of the Bengal chief minister and an attempt to sully an event to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. The immediate trigger of the protest meeting was the slogan-shouting that forced Mamata Banerjee to abandon her speech at Victoria Memorial, but the protesters also spoke against online abuse a number of artistes have been subjected to for expressing their opinion on faith and food. Among those present at the protest, opposite Metro cinema, was actor-director Koushik Sen and filmmakers Goutam Ghose and Sudeshna Roy. Sen, known for speaking his mind against the Trinamul government, spoke about the need to bury political differences to fight the BJP. “I will tell everyone that our biggest enemy is the BJP. I tell my friends on the Left that we must unite. I have had difficulties in staging plays during both Left and Trinamul regimes. But I will talk about that later. Right now my primary objective is to stop the BJP…. This is the first time we are coming face to face with fascism. They keep hammering on some pet points like the nation is under attack, your religion is under attack and thus divert attention from real issues like unemployment or farmers’ demands,” Sen said. Among the speakers was actor Debleena Dutt, who has faced an onslaught of abuse from the BJP’s troll machinery. Even her mother was not spared, she said. “I have been threatened with rape, death and various kinds of sexual abuse. I have been told that I will be beheaded and my head will be placed on a pavement,” said Dutt. “They are abusing my mother. How can I sit silently? If they can do this when they are not in power, imagine what will happen if they come to power.” Actor and Trinamul MP Nusrat Jahan, too, said she was frequently threatened with gang-rape. “Try raping me if you can,” she dared the hate mongers. “We will broom you out of Bengal.” Speaking at an event in Hooghly’s Pursura, the chief minister said Dutt and actor Sayoni Ghosh had told her about what they were being subjected to. “I will never bow my head before the BJP. I would much rather behead myself before that,” said Mamata. “Such audacity…. Debleena and Sayoni told me that the BJP had told them that they would be raped if they ventured out of Bengal. What audacity! I dare them to even try. I will then show them what Mamata Banerjee is. What Bengal is.” At Esplanade, speakers condemned Mamata’s humiliation at Victoria Memorial on January 23 in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his silence on the matter. Some members of the audience at an event hosted by the Union culture ministry to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji had shouted “Jai Shri Ram” after Mamata was invited to speak. Mamata went up to the lectern and said in Hindi: “I think there should be some dignity to a government programme. This is a government programme, not that of a political party. This is a programme of all parties and of the people.” She then refused to deliver her speech and returned to her seat. Poet Joy Goswami had said on Saturday: “The Prime Minister, who spoke after the chief minister, did not utter a word about Mamata’s humiliation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Belur Math to reopen gates on February 10||Belur Math will be open to devotees and other visitors from February 10, after remaining shut for nearly six months as a precaution against Covid-19. Around 300 monks stay at the Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, and close to 250 employees work there. The Math closed its gates to visitors in August after a brief reopening post-lockdown. Sources said senior monks of the order met recently to review the situation and unanimously decided to reopen the gates to the public, but with new timings. “The Math will remain open between 8.30am and 11am and from 3.30pm to 5.15pm,” Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said on Monday. “We will gradually relax the timings. As of now, visitors will only be allowed in temples on the Math premises…. There will be no diksha-daan as of now.” Between October and March, the Math usually remains open from 8.30am to 11.30am and from 3.30pm to 5.30pm. To start with, devotees will only be allowed to visit the temples of Sri Ramakrishna, Holy Mother, Swami Vivekananda and Swami Brahmananda, and the Pally Mangal and book stalls in the Math compound. Belur Math had shut its gates to visitors on March 15 as the coronavirus started spreading across the country. The gates were reopened on June 15 and visitors were required to undergo a series of checks before they were let in. But soon thereafter, several monks and Math employees tested positive for Covid-19 and the administrators decided to shut the gates again on August 2. Monks overseeing the Math’s administration said all visitors would have to follow Covid-19 protocols, inclu-ding wearing a mask, sanitising hands and maintaining a safe distance among each other. “There will be no distribution of bhog for the time being. Visitors, other than those who have special appointments, will not be allowed to meet monks,” said a monk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Surge in vaccination with rise in site count||More than 4,600 health workers were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Calcutta on Monday, the city’s highest daily count since the vaccination was launched across the country on January 16. Also on Monday, Covid jabs were administered from the highest number of sites so far in the city. Some of the medical colleges in Calcutta ran multiple vaccination sites on Monday. Officials said multiple sites would continue for now. “We vaccinated over 4,600 health workers in Calcutta on Monday. This is the highest since the Covid-19 vaccination was launched. We had vaccinated 2,500 health workers on Friday, which is the second highest till now,” a health department official said. Officials in the department attributed the rise in the number of daily vaccinations to an increase in the number of sites and the decision to invite 200 health workers, instead of 100, to get the shots from each site. “The health department has adopted these measures to expedite the vaccination. Invitations are being sent out to 200 people (to get vaccinated at each site) with the understanding that even if some fail to turn up, the number of vaccinations at each site will still be 100, the target from day 1,” said an official of the health department. “However, all sites have been asked to remain prepared to vaccinate 200 people daily.” Accordingly, every site in the city was given 20 vials, each containing 10 doses of Covishield, on Monday. Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic, said they received 20 vials on Monday, the first day of Covid vaccination at the hospital. “We vaccinated 187 health workers. We are very happy with what we achieved,” he said. Tondon, 74, was the first to get a shot at the hospital. “Our medical superintendent, who is 80, was the second person to get a dose and our nursing superintendent, who is 69, was the third. We were the first ones to receive the vaccine so that no one has any fear in taking it,” Tondon said. Some of the hospitals that ran multiple vaccination sites were the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital and the NRS Medical College and Hospital. “We ran three sites on Monday, one more than Friday. We vaccinated 336 health workers, the highest since the vaccination was launched,” said Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent of Calcutta Medical College. The Indian Medical Association’s Bengal chapter has tied up with SSKM to run a vaccination drive for private practitioners on Wednesday. “Two hundred private practitioners will be invited to get the shots,” said Anirban Dalui, an assistant treasurer of IMA, Bengal chapter. The state health department had registered the names of private practitioners among the six lakh healthcare workers in Bengal who would be vaccinated in the first phase, but their vaccination is yet to begin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta school discussion on Constitution on the eve of R-Day||India has to be a “secular society”, not just a secular state, said a 17-year-old. The speaker was among three Class XI students of Indus Valley World School who had a discussion on the Preamble to the Constitution on the eve of Republic Day. When the school initiated the idea of having a discussion on the Preamble and what it meant to the students, they chose different aspects to talk about — secularism, liberty and the three words with which the Preamble begins: “We the people”. One of the girls, Brinda Banerjee, said the three words were “carefully chosen giving power to the Indian people including those who hadn’t been given the same before”. “It is not enough to memorise the Preamble and reproduce it in answer scripts. As educators, it is important to take the Preamble out of the textbook and make the children think about it and what it means,” said Amita Prasad, director of the school who has an experience of teaching history for 25 years. The online discussion has been put up on the school's YouTube channel and website for other students and parents. While underlining the importance of “inclusion” and acceptance, Debojyoti Mishra, a Class XI science student, recounted an experience of having seen his tiffin thrown away at a school in Pune because he committed the crime of taking a chicken sandwich to a “vegetarian school”. Also, he said, his school diary was torn apart and his desk defaced with communal slurs. Niharika Chakravorty, another Class XI student, pointed out that “India is a constitutionally secular country, but socially it still isn’t. We still have a long way to go and a lot to work upon.” For Debajyoti, true secularism is the freedom to “profess, practice, propagate any religion or no religion at all...” “But most importantly, it is mutual respect, acceptance and inclusion of every person in society despite religious beliefs...” he said. The idea of liberty, Niharika said, stands opposed to what it meant to her grandmother. “Liberty to me is freedom, it is equality and it is being able to voice my opinion on things I truly believe in,” she said. Brinda pointed out that it was not the British who “left us with this Constitution”. “It is we who gifted us this Constitution. We who declared our nation’s pride being in these ideals of sovereignty, secularism, socialism,” she said. The discussion was anchored by Priyadarshinee Guha, the dean of arts in the school. “We thought it would be nice to open this up for discussion... it leaves us wondering sometimes what are these young people thinking about this very important document (Preamble to the Constitution),” said Guha. Another group of students expressed their understanding of the Preamble through music, dance and illustrations. Tagore’s Where the Mind is Without Fear and Leila Seth’s We, the Children of India featured prominently in that section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Calcutta||Unlock: Revival of business, on time salary||The revival of business, albeit marginal, has been a life-changer for many in the city. Salaries credited on time, after a long time, have come like a lease of life for some. The Telegraph went back to some of the people first met during the course of the lockdown, people who had shared their plight back then, to find out how they were doing in 2021. Not everyone had something to cheer. Biswajit Barua, bartender August 2020: The Theatre Road pub where Barua worked was shut. An out-of-work and unpaid Barua was desperately looking for a job, including that of a guard. January 2021: Barua is a month-old employee at a Sector V lounge, back to doing what he loves most. When this reporter called him on Thursday, Barua was at Esplanade with his family. “I have taken a day off. This is my first outing with my wife and daughter in close to one year,” said the 40-year-old Barrackpore resident. He got his December salary on time. The lounge is busy on weekends, though the work-from-home culture has affected footfall, he said. But a timely salary is a bonus for Barua, who said he had not got any payment from June to September. Post-Durga Puja, he had apparently received “partial salary” for a couple of months from his former workplace. Now that his income has been streamlined, the topmost thing on Barua’s list is to start clearing his daughter’s pending school fees. Jitendra Pandit, phuchka seller September, 2020: “Swatting flies and listening to the radio, that is what I am doing,” Pandit had replied when ask-ed about business in the first week of September. He had reopened his stall behind Vivekananda Park on August 15. January, 2021: The waiting time for a new customer on Saturday evening was 10 minutes, half of pre-Covid times but still a long way from the months immediately after the lockdown. For the past couple of months, Pandit has been selling around 300-400 phuchkas on weekdays and above 600 on weekends. This time last year, Pandit had been selling over 1,000 phuchkas on weekends. He had zero income from March 22 to August 15, when his stall reopened. “I had to spend most of my savings on my daughters’ wedding. As a result, I had to borrow money during the lockdown to meet the expenses. Now that some cash flow is back, repaying the money is the first thing on my mind,” said Pandit. Kunal Kapasi, manager of a menswear store June 2020: Only one item had some takers in Kapasi’s Shakespeare Sarani store — masks. January 2021: Things have improved reasonably, said Kapasi. He has been selling around “15 to 20” blazers per week. Sale of 40 blazers per week was normal in December and January. “The wedding season was good but the dip in business travels and meetings have taken a toll on the revenue,” said Kapasi. But he is not complaining. He has people to talk to in the store. From June to August, he would yearn for visitors, even casual walk-ins who would not buy stuff. The employees of the store who had been asked to stay home are back now. Sonali Chakraborty, co-founder of a social welfare organisation for artisans in Indi August 2020: A Ballygunge store run by Chakraborty, popular for its indigenous products, had re-opened in July. But there was hardly any footfall even in August. Exhibitions, the support system for the sale of indigenous products, had stopped totally. January 2021: Thousands of rural artisans she works with are yet to cope with the losses borne during the lockdown, she said. She recently interacted with some Dokra artists in Burdwan and Bankura. “They are left with so much of unsold stocks and the cash flow has stopped. They do not have cash to buy raw material for making new products,” she said. The only upside she has spotted is how a section of the artisans has for the first time shifted to the online mode to reach out to potential customers directly. Deepak Shaw, usher at a cinema hall July 2020: Shaw was then getting half his salary and had to depend on help from several NGOs to run his family. January 2021: His situation has worsened, Shaw said. The hall is still shut. He has been getting a third of his usual salary for the past few months. Shaw’s employer is said to have called him and a few of his colleagues — employees who have spent two decades or more at the hall — to offer a “severance package”. “I was offered around Rs 2 lakh in total. After having worked for 24 years, this is nothing,” said Shaw. At the age of 50, it is nearly impossible for him to switch careers, said the Titagarh resident. As the country limps back to normal, the aid from NGOs has dwindled. Shaw’s borrowings — from neighbours to the local grocery store owner — are on the rise. Divya Agarwal, event manager September 2020: Agarwal had zero events from March to September. Many of the people she worked with — models to singers — had left their rented apartments in Calcutta to go back to their hometown. January 2021: The wedding season has been busy for Agarwal, with bookings on almost every day. “But the budget is less than half of what it used to be, because of the curtailed guest list,” she said. Corporate events are yet to take off, though. “There have been some virtual product launches but they are miniscule in terms of revenue,” she said. The only sign of hope — the revival of events has allowed Agarwal to provide some financial support to some of her small vendors — decorators, florists and caterers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-162
26-01-2021||Business||Development FI needed to spur infrastructure spending||Past studies have established that investments in infrastructure have a multiplier effect on GDP in terms of immediate creation of jobs, attracting fresh investments in manufacturing and services and improving the overall competitiveness of the economy. The National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), launched in early 2020 and involving an estimated outlay of Rs 111 lakh crore, therefore, comes at an opportune time. If it is implemented in a timely manner, it is expected to play a key role in the post Covid-19 turnaround of the economy. The key issue, however, remains mobilisation of adequate financing within the required timelines. If we look at the financing mix envisaged in the NIP, around 18-20 per cent of the outlay is proposed to be funded through the Government of India’s (GoI) budgetary support. Another 24-26 per cent is expected to come from state government budgets, with the balance coming from extra-budgetary resources, including private financing. In 2020-21, GoI budgetary spending on infrastructure is expected to be around Rs 4.5 lakh crore. Even if these levels of investment were to be maintained or increased slightly over the next four years, the level of financing envisaged from GoI budgetary outlays would be met. However, there remain questions on the other proposed sources of financing. Annual infrastructure spending has varied in the range of Rs 9-10 lakh crore in 2018 and 2019 and a steep change is called for if the NIP targets are to be achieved. If we look at the key sources of finance beyond the central budget, with average fiscal deficit at the state level likely to be around 4.6 per cent (source: RBI) against the original cap of 3 per cent, state government budgetary constraints are likely to persist. The banking sector, another mainstay of infrastructure financing, has been impacted by asset liability mismatches and delays on borrower loan repayments due to the economic fall-out of Covid-19. Coming to infrastructure focused development finance institutions (DFIs), these have largely been limited to sectors such as power and railways. However, around 30 per cent of the NIP outlay is earmarked for sectors such as urban infrastructure, irrigation, health and education where projects are likely to be promoted at the state level. Given all this, it is important that the GoI budgetary support for infrastructure financing focuses on specific areas which can act as a force multiplier for state government investments as well as long-term extra-budgetary sources of finance. The first such area can be the setting up or repurposing of one or more development finance institutions (DFIs) to finance greenfield infrastructure projects in specific sectors at the regional or state level. DFIs offer an unique advantage of providing long-term financing at reasonable rates during the early stages of the project. While the initial risk capital for the DFI(s) can come from the budget, this can be supplemented through additional resources from bilateral/multilateral organisations, international capital markets etc. A regional or state specific DFI construct may be explored, based on equity participation from state governments and state-specific investment caps based on contribution from individual states. The second potential area for intervention is creating an enabling mechanism for surplus land monetisation. There exists significant holding of unused government land, both at the central and state level. Budget 2021-22 can possibly look at funding the initial capital for a Central Land Management Corporation mandated with managing surplus land assets of the government. It would be responsible for acquiring or leasing surplus government land for utilisation in commercial as well as infrastructure projects. A third area of focus involves streamlining tax-related measures to attract long-term sources of finance like sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) and foreign pension funds (FPFs). While certain measures like exempting dividend and capital gains income of SWFs and FPFs from infrastructure investments are already in place, Budget 2021-22 can look at additional enabling measures like extending the tax exemption under Section 10(23FE) to SWF/FPF investments in holding companies against only infrastructure operating companies. While these may not feature in the forthcoming budget, the underlying policy reforms for individual sectors, some of which have been highlighted in the NIP, are important. Key areas for intervention include putting in place objective regulatory and tariff setting mechanisms for specific sectors, streamlining land approvals and dispute resolution practices for infrastructure projects; deepening the market for corporate bonds and streamlining settlement mechanisms. The writer is partner, government and public services leader, Deloitte India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
26-01-2021||Business||Investors' thumbs-up to Grasim paints foray ||Investors on Monday gave a thumbs-up to Grasim Industries’ plan to foray into the paints segment. On the BSE, the Grasim share zoomed 6.44 per cent, or Rs 64.65, to end at Rs 1,069.05. During intra-day trade, the counter hit a high of Rs 1,122.65, a gain of almost 12 per cent over its previous close. Last week, the Kumar Managalam Birla-led firm has said that it will invest Rs 5,000 crore in this business over the next three years. Grasim justified its entry into this segment, saying the move will add size, scale and diversity to its existing business portfolio. Grasim also feels that the new business is likely to be value accretive to its stakeholders. “The foray into paints is a strategic portfolio choice for Grasim as it looks to identify new growth engines. The company endeavours to invest in businesses that have the potential to be a leader in their addressable markets; have the ability to achieve scale, and generate consistent and attractive returns in the long term. The paints industry presents a high-growth option for Grasim,” Birla said. According to the company, the high growth sector has registered a revenue CAGR of around 11 per cent during 2013-14 to 2018-19, and given the value migration from the unorganised to the organised market, the outlook remains robust, providing space for a quality new player.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
26-01-2021||Business||RIL stock battered,  cedes ground to TCS in market capitalisation||Reliance Industries’ decision to stop showing its refining margins in its quarterly numbers pulled down the stock on Monday, while TCS pipped the company to the top spot in market capitalisation. Shares of Reliance Industries (RIL) on Monday lost almost Rs 70,000 crore of its market value. A section of analysts questioned the structure of the oil-to-chemical segment even as other key metrics such as debt reduction and operating profit disappointed in the third quarter. The sell-off cost RIL the market crown as Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) once again became the most valuable firm in terms of market capitalisation. The Reliance scrip ended sharply lower by 5.36 per cent, or Rs 109.95, to close at Rs 1,939.70 on the BSE. During intra-day trades, the share hit a low of Rs 1,932.20 — a fall of 5.73 per cent over its last close. Reliance closed the day with a market cap of Rs 12.29 lakh crore. This also had a bearing on the 30-share Sensex which extended its losses to the third straight trading session. The  index dived 530.95 points to close at 48347.50. The TCS counter closed with a market cap of Rs 12.34 lakh crore after it ended lower by 0.40 per cent. Last Friday, post market hours, RIL had announced a 12.55 per cent rise in net profits at Rs 13,101 crore compared with Rs 11,640 crore in the year-ago period on good performance from its digital services business. The company approved the formal reorganisation of its refining & petrochemical business segments into Oil-to-Chemicals (O2C) business. RIL added that it will henceforth disclose O2C as a separate business segment. The conglomerate did not disclose how its refining division performed (done till the second quarter), leaving some analysts disappointed. Revenues from the O2C segment had fallen to Rs 83,838 crore from Rs 119,121 crore in the year-ago period. Analysts at Edelweiss said in a note that the profit numbers from RIL were entirely driven by investment income and a near-zero tax liability. “O2C and retail missed expectations, but Reliance Jio (RJio) beat forecasts. While recovery is underway, it is mixed. But, transparency levels are falling across businesses. RIL has stopped reporting a key matrix—gross refining margins (GRM) altogether,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Kotak Bank net profit up 11% in third quarter||Private sector lender Kotak Mahindra Bank’s consolidated profit after tax (PAT) grew 11 per cent to Rs 2,602 crore in the third quarter ended December. It had posted a PAT of Rs 2,349 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. On a standalone basis, the bank reported a 16 per cent rise in its net profit to Rs 1,854 crore in the quarter ended December, against Rs 1,596 crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s group president and group chief financial officer Jaimin Bhatt said, “We have seen growth in the quarter coming back. During this period, the expenses have been under control, and other income has grown. So, from a year-on-year basis, there is more efficiency which has got in there.” The bank’s gross non-performing assets (NPA) stood at 2.26 per cent compared with 2.46 per cent. “Had the bank classified the borrowers more than 90 days overdue on December 31, 2020, as NPA, GNPA would be 3.27 per cent (2.70 per cent as of September 30, 2020),” the lender said in a release. Uco Bank on Monday reported a net profit of Rs 35.44 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. Lower provisioning aided the bottomline of the city-based bank. The public sector lender had reported a net loss of Rs 960.17 crore during the corresponding quarter a year ago. The net interest income of the bank for the quarter ended December 2020 increased to Rs 1,407.15 crore from Rs 1,236.59 crore a year ago, a growth of 13.79 per cent. Gross NPA of the bank came down to Rs 11,440.47 crore (9.80 per cent) as on December 31, 2020, from Rs 22,139.65 crore (19.45 per cent) as on December 31, 2019. Provisions for bad loans fell sharply to Rs 393.06 crore for the quarter under review from Rs 1,645.51 crore a year ago Engineering and construction giant Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Monday posted a 3 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 2,648.33 crore for the quarter ended in December 2020, compared with Rs 2,560.32 crore a year ago. The profit rise is largely attributed to higher profit from IT & ITeS segment and sale of commercial property.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Amazon moves Delhi high court to block Future deal||Amazon.com Inc has moved the Delhi high court to block Future Group from selling its retail assets to Reliance Industries (RIL). The move comes days after stock exchanges and market regulator Sebi gave their conditional approval to the proposed deal. The e-commerce giant is looking to enforce the interim order given by a Singapore arbitrator to stall the Rs 24,713-crore deal between Reliance and the Future group. Last month, the Delhi high court had said that the statutory authorities or regulators can take a decision on the transaction in accordance with law. In its latest petition which is expected to come up for hearing on January 28, Amazon maintained that the interim injunctions granted by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) are enforceable under the Indian laws under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act as the order is deemed to be an order of the court and enforceable under the Code of Civil Procedure. The interim ruling by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC), which was valid till January 23, has been extended till further modification. Amazon has prayed that the court issue “an injunction against the respondents (Future group), in light of the directions passed by the EA, from relying upon any approval granted by any regulatory body or agency in India arising out of any application initiated or pursued by the respondents, contrary to the directions in the order, including without limitation, the no objection granted by the Sebi and as also approvals granted by BSE, NSE and Competition Commission of India.” “… in view of the constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal, the order stands automatically extended for the duration of the arbitration proceedings unless it is reconsidered/ modified/vacated by the arbitral tribunal,” a PTI report quoting the petition said. Amazon added that since no application for reconsideration, modification or vacation of the order has been preferred till date by any party, the order stands automatically extended. It further pointed out that the interim order passed by the EA is “binding” and that if Future went ahead with the transaction, it would cause not only “irreparable loss and injury” but also vitiate the entire investment into Future Coupons. It, therefore, urged the Delhi high court to issue an injunction order restraining the Future group from “filing or pursuing any application before any person, including regulatory bodies or agencies in India, or requesting for approval at any company meeting” of the group companies. Amazon also alleged that the majority of the respondents, which includes Future group firms Future Coupons, Future Retail and promoters, including its group CEO Kishore Biyani have “deliberately and maliciously” disobeyed the order passed by the EA “without even challenging it in accordance with law”. “This is despite the fact that the majority respondents have participated through counsel in an elaborate hearing before the EA and filed multiple written pleadings, including on the merits of the dispute,” Amazon said in the petition. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent in a Future group arm — Future Coupons Ltd — with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Future Coupons holds 7.3 per cent equity in Future Retail. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) last year, after Future group entered into a deal with Reliance for the sale of its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Bombay high court denies bail to Rana Kapoor||The Bombay high court on Monday  refused to grant bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, who is accused in a case of money laundering. Kapoor was arrested in March last year by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The central agency is conducting an investigation against Kapoor, his wife, and their three daughters over a sum of Rs 600 crore received by a firm allegedly controlled by them from an entity linked to scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). In July last year, a special court in Mumbai rejected Kapoor’s bail plea following which he approached the HC. Kapoor’s counsel Harish Salve on Monday told a single bench presided over by Justice P.D. Naik that Rs 600 crore was a loan received by their company and not a kickback. However, the ED’s counsel, Hiten Venegaonkar, opposed the bail plea and told the court that the said company was co-owned by Kapoor’s daughters. Kapoor was arrested by the ED under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). According to the ED, Kapoor, his family members and aides allegedly received benefits of Rs 4,300 crore through companies controlled by them as kickbacks for sanctioning huge loans. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing a related case. The ED on Monday conducted raids on at least 10 premises of a Mumbai-based realty group in connection with its money laundering probe in the Yes Bank alleged bank fraud case, official sources said. They said premises of Omkar Realtors and Developers, that includes seven residential and three official in Mumbai, were searched by the central probe agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||Business||Relief from the high fuel prices unlikely||Motorists may not get any immediate relief from the high petrol and diesel prices as the finance ministry does not favour a cut in excise duty on fuel. However, sources indicated that any cut in duty and its timing would be a political decision and could happen before the Bengal assembly polls. Sources expect any cut to be closer to the poll date announcement so that it does not violate the model code of conduct. The tenure of the current assembly ends on May 30 and the Election Commission would have to consider several factors, including school examinations while scheduling the number of phases and dates. The oil ministry had pitched for cuts in duties. However, they had added that the finance ministry would have to take a call given its fiscal and inflationary impact. As excise duty is one of the two major components of the price of fuel, moderation in the duty will provide some relief to people who are facing the heat of economic slowdown and income disruption due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the survey conducted by Local Circles, a community social media platform. After the festive season, retail fuel prices saw an upward trend at the end of November 2020 and starting December 6, 2020, there was a month-long pause on fuel prices. Even though retail prices are connected to international prices and are calculated on a 15 days lag, starting January 6 the retail prices began to increase across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-160
26-01-2021||India||Yogendra Yadav ‘feels ashamed of the way things proceeded’ in Delhi||Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav took responsibility for the way the farmers’ tractor parade turned out on Tuesday, saying he felt ‘ashamed’ of it. “Being a part of the protest," he said, "I feel ashamed of the way things proceeded and I take responsibility for it,” he said. The tractor march meant to highlight farmers’ demands turned into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, just beside India’s tricolour. “Violence impacts any kind of protest in a wrong way. I cannot say at the moment who did it and who did not, but prima facie it looks like it has been done by the people that we kept out of the farmers' protest,” Yadav told a TV channel. “I appealed continuously that we stick to whatever route was decided and not deviate. Only if the movement goes peacefully, we will be able to win,” said Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers’ agitation against the new agriculture laws. Meanwhile, the Samayukta Kisan Morcha,  an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, said they have called off the parade. “We have called off the farmers' Republic Day parade with immediate effect and appealed to all participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. The movement will continue peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon,” the farmers’ organisation said in a statement. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. Farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the protest at the national capital's border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, distanced themselves from the protests that had taken such an unseemly turn and threatened to shift public sympathy from their movement. In another statement earlier in the evening, the Morcha alleged that some “antisocial elements” infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
26-01-2021||India||Friends say he was shot, police say he died as his tractor rolled over||A white and purple woolen blanket that has a hole charred at the edges, an empty from a spent tear gas canister and icky red blood turning brown on the black asphalt mark the spot where Navdeep Singh Hundal died. Farmers and his friends say he was killed, shot in the head by the Delhi Police half a kilometer from the headquarters in the busiest ITO crossing. The Delhi Police said he died in an accident when his tractor rolled over because he could not control it, according to CCTV footage that the Delhi Police has briefed city reporters on. All of them agree that Navdeep Singh Hundal, all of 26 years, had returned from Australia last year when he married in February. His wife is still in Australia, said his neighbours from his village Dibdiba near the inter-district boundary of Rampur-Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh. This evening at 5pm the ITO Crossing between Vikas Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Deendayal Upadhyay Marg was a thrum of people seated on the road cross-legged around his body draped in the National Flag. They were all angry and sad. This reporter could not ask for the flag to be lifted then and there to examine his alleged bullet injury in the left temple. The body was to be taken for post-mortem. Before that it would also go to Ghazipur on the UP-Delhi border from where Navdeep drove his Sonalika tractor with three other friends in it to head for the Red Fort. “The Delhi Police failed to give proper directions,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader and spokesperson of his faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) that has been camping at the Ghazipur border along with farmers of the Terai Kisan Union led by Tejinder Singh Virk. “Many of these people do not know the roads of Delhi. They have to be told and shown the way,” said Tikait, a son of the late Mahendra Singh Tikait who famously led a farmers’ rally to the capital in 1988. Gurpal Singh, who knew Navdeep as a neighbour but does not want to identify his village because he fears the UP police will harass his family, guided me to the spot in front of the Andhra Education Society that is cheek by jowl with the Gandhi Peace Foundation’s office. “Dibdiba (Navdeep’s village) is close to mine,” he said. A tall and fair Sardar with a black turban, Gurpal said Navdeep had fallen behind in the convoy when it was rolling down from Vikas Marg to the east. Instead of turning right on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg to go to the Lal Quila (Red Fort), he went straight ahead. The police shot tear gas. The gas went into Navdeep’s and his friends’ eyes. He tried to take a sharp U turn with his Sonalika tractor and the vehicle rolled over. As it happened a shot rang out and the bullet went into his head, said Gurpal pointing to his left temple, above the eye but before the ear, with two pointed fingers and three rolled into a fist. In the official media story that is being carried, the youth died in an accident, the spot surrounded by yellow grilled barricades with rollers that people in Delhi are used to. Navdeep, according to Gurpal, was to turn right on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, popular because of the many news organisations officed there that are now mostly emptied because of a pandemic year. Gurpal shows a tear gas canister fired by the police. It is from the Border Security Force’s Tekanpur establishment dated 2014. Beyond its expiry date, says the label (see picture). It makes little sense because if you want to gas a people the live-by date is what you would least care about. The NDTV news channel has reported this:  “CCTV footage of the incident showed a blue tractor crashing through yellow Delhi Police barricades at high speed before rolling over twice and coming to rest by the side of the road. However, some farmers at the site - near the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg - claimed he was killed in police firing and began a sit-in protest. The farmer has been identified as Navdeep Singh Hundal, 26, from Uttarakhand's Bajpur area. Two other farmers, Angrez Singh and his son from a village in Uttarakhand's Rudrapur, told NDTV Navdeep Singh had recently been married.” In trying to report the event from the spot, it must be said, that the services of the internet on mobile phones were jammed. It is not that messages were not going through. They were being delayed, as if they were being relayed after vetting. Navdeep’s body was brought back to Ghazipur, on the Delhi-UP border, still draped in the Tricolor. There is a thrum again here. As I push my way through the throng and try to take pictures on the mobile phone, the Sardar escorting says “yahaan photo lena mana hain (it is prohibited to take photographs here)”. They are waiting for his father to arrive. His father was delivering a trolley-load of sugarcane to a mill in Rampur, western Uttar Pradesh, when he was told his son is dead. They had about 20 acres, said Atinder, another neighbour. “Pada likha aur khushhaal the, lekin Dilli ka raasta nahin pata tha (they were literate and prosperous but did not know the roads of Delhi),” said Atinder. In the night sky over Ghazipur, there is “Satnaam Waheguru” that is chorused. It is plaintive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
26-01-2021||India||Farmers violated agreements, injured our personnel, say Delhi Police||Protesting farmers violated the conditions pre-agreed for their tractor parade and resorted to violence and vandalism, leaving many police personnel injured, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday. Releasing a statement, the police also claimed the force did all due diligence in following the conditions for the rally, but the protesters began their march much ahead of the scheduled time and extensive damage to public property was caused. The police statement came as the national capital witnessed violent scenes during a tractor parade by farmers who entered the city in their tractors from different points to press for their demand of repealing the three new agri laws. “The protesters violated conditions fixed for the rally. The farmers began their tractor rally before scheduled time, they also resorted to violence and vandalism,” Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said. “We followed all conditions as promised and did our due diligence but the protest led to extensive damage to public property. Many policemen were also injured during the protest,” Singhal said, without mentioning the exact number of personnel injured. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 41 farmers’ units, which is leading the protest, dissociated themselves from the violence. It alleged that ‘anti-social- elements had infiltrated their ‘otherwise peaceful’ movement. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. If police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers in ITO were seen chasing them with sticks and ramming their tractors into parked buses. A protester died after his tractor overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Amarinder condemns Delhi violence, asks agitators to vacate capital ||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the violence during the farmers' tractor parade against the new agriculture laws in Delhi is unacceptable and urged the peasants to vacate the national capital. He said the violence will negate the goodwill earned by peaceful protesting farmers. Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders, Singh said in a tweet. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. The Punjab chief minister on Monday had appealed to farmers to ensure that the tractor parade remains peaceful. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi for the past several weeks, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmer dies at Delhi’s ITO as tractor overturns||A protesting farmer died during the Republic Day march in Central Delhi’s ITO as his tractor overturned, police said on Tuesday. They said the details about the deceased are yet to be gathered. The man died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour of the pre-agreed route for the march, a senior police officer said. Police said the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned. The farmers draped the body in the tricolour and kept it at the ITO crossing, not allowing the police to send it for post-mortem. The farmers also lashed out at the mediapersons covering the incident. Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the city on Tuesday after hundreds of them deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathicharge and tear gas. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 41 farmers’ units, which is leading the protest, dissociated themselves from the violence. It alleged that ‘anti-social- elements had infiltrated their ‘otherwise peaceful’ movement. “We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today’s farmers’ Republic Day Parade. “We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” the farmers’ organisation said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmers storm Red Fort as protest gets unruly on Republic Day  ||Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the Tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered Delhi from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb a flagpole, marring Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. While farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the two-month protest at the national capital's border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, disowned the protesters, one young man was seen hoisting a yellow triangular flag at a flagpole on the ramparts of the iconic monument. The protesters were later removed from the premises of the Red Fort. The government also ordered internet services to be shut in parts of Delhi as a security measure. As per an order sent to telecom service providers internet was suspended in areas of Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 12.00 hours to 23.59 hours on Tuesday. At night, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha called off the tractor parade and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. Farmers continued to camp at several places in the national capital till late evening and there was no pre-decided time for concluding the parade. "We have called off the farmers' Republic Day parade with immediate effect and appealed to all participants to immediately return back to their respective protest sites. The movement will continue peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon," the farmers' union body said in a statement. Eclipsing the annual show of military might at Rajpath, the farmers who were supposed to take out a tractor parade on pre-decided routes after the Republic Day event was over, breached both conditions. Clashes and lathi-charges broke out in many places between a section of the protesters, many of them young, vocal and aggressive, and police personnel. If police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers at ITO were seen chasing them with sticks and ramming their tractors into parked buses. A protester died after his tractor overturned. ITO resembled a war zone with a car being vandalised by angry protesters and shells, bricks and stones littering the wide streets, testimony that the avowedly “peaceful” farmers’ movement of two months was no longer so. Farmers on horses As the day progressed and thousands of farmers roamed restlessly, thousands more congregated at Red Fort on foot, tractor and some even on horses -- about 4km from ITO. In unprecedented scenes, protesters entered the complex of the Mughal era monument and attempted to climb the domes and the ramparts, some clambering up the flagpole to hoist a flag from the same place the Prime Minister unfurls the Tricolour from on Independence Day. Tension spiralled as the crowds swelled. Pushed back by police from ITO, some protesting farmers drove their tractors to Red Fort complex. Uniformed security personnel looked on as people gathered in larger numbers. Though there were no immediate reports of injuries, ambulances could be seen entering the Red Fort complex. There was a mild lathi-charge with police removing protesting farmers from the Red Fort. The tension was mirrored elsewhere in the city too. Police lathi-charged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shahdara when they broke barricades and smashed windowpanes of cars. A group of Nihangs (traditional Sikh warriors) clashed with security personnel near Akshardham Temple. And at Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi and at Mukarba Chowk farmers broke cemented barricades forcing police to use tear gas. Farmers’ collective disowns protesters As chaos reigned with flashpoints aplenty, farm union leaders distanced themselves from what was going on. "We condemn violence against farmers, appeal to all to maintain peace," Balbir Singh Rajewal, one of the leaders, told PTI. A member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades at Tikri border points belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. The Sangharsh committee had on Monday announced that its members would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day, and not on the route that was agreed upon by the Morcha and Delhi police. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav also said he was appealing with folded hands for peace. “Today is Republic Day,” he said. Later, the Morcha leader said their tractor parade would start as scheduled after police gave them way. Songs and a merry cavalcade The day began on a celebratory note with farmers chanting 'Rang de basanti' and 'Jai jawan jai kisan' crossing the national border on tractors, motorbikes, horses and even cranes. Local residents stood on both sides of the roads at various locations showering flower petals on them. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs like Aisa desh hai mera and Sare jahan se achcha. But the mood changed soon after. Delhi Police appealed to protesting farmers to not take the law into their hands and maintain peace as the violence broke out. The police also asked farmers to head back to their pre-decided routes for the tractor parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmers’ union dissociates itself from ‘antisocial elements’ in rally||Farmers’ union organisation Samyukta Kisan Morcha said some ‘antisocial elements’ infiltrated their tractor rally on Tuesday, and dissociated  itself from those who indulged in violence during the parade. The union also condemned and regretted the "undesirable" and "unacceptable" events as the parade turned violent after several groups of farmers deviated from the pre-decided route for the march. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. “We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today’s farmers’ Republic Day Parade. “We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” the farmers’ organisation said in a statement. “Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Antisocial elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength, and that any violation would hurt the movement,” it said. Its statement comes as farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital. A protesting farmer died at Delhi's ITO after his tractor overturned. Police also had to use lathicharge and teargas shells to control unruly protesters at multiple locations in the city. “We dissociate ourselves from all such elements that have violated our discipline. We appeal strongly to everyone to stick to the route and norms of the parade, and not indulge in any violent action or anything that taints national symbols and dignity. We appeal to everyone to desist from any such acts,” the Morcha added. “We are trying to get a full picture of all the events with regard to the several parades that were planned today and will share a full statement soon. Our information is that apart from some regrettable violations, the parades are underway peacefully as per plan,” it said. Welding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Congress leaders ask farmers not to resort to violence||Violence is not the solution to any problem, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said as the Delhi Police clashed with protesting farmers on Tuesday amid their tractor rally, at several places in the national capital. Gandhi also sought repeal of the three farm laws in “national interest”. Taking to Twitter, he said that if anyone gets hurt the damage will be inflicted to the country, after violence broke out during the tractor parade by protesters against the new farm laws. “Violence is not the solution to any problem. If anyone gets hurt, the damage will be done to our country. Take back the anti-agricultural laws in national interest,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Deviating from the designated route for the tractor parade, protesting farmers entered the Red Fort and hoisted flags from some domes of the iconic monument in the national capital. They earlier clashed with the police at ITO while trying to enter Lutyens Delhi. The police used tear gas shells and lathi-charge to dispel the protesters. The farmers, who began their march from different border points, much before the time permitted for their tractor rally, reached ITO in Central Delhi, though their leaders had earlier agreed not to enter central Delhi. The Congress also tweeted a video showing smoke from tear gas shells lobbed at farmers to stop them from entering Delhi. “Republic Day 2021 in New India. Our national capital is up in smoke as the government attacks its own people,” the party said on its official Twitter handle along with the video. The opposition party also said that it is standing strongly behind the farmers in their protest against the farm laws. Echoing Gandhi’s stand, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday appealed to the protesting farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence. He said there was no place for violence in a democracy. “The farmers’ movement has been peaceful till now. I appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in democracy,” Gehlot tweeted. He said resorting to violence will lead to the success of the forces that are trying to make the farmers’ movement unsuccessful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmers storm Red Fort, clash with police in Delhi  ||Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the national capital, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and tear gas. Pushed back by the police from the ITO in Central Delhi a section of the protesting farmers drove their tractors to Red Fort complex. Chaos reigned for nearly 90 minutes as some protesters, including 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors), forced their way into the Red Fort and hoisted a flag from the staff from which the prime minister unfurls the tricolour on Independence Day. Later, Delhi police were able to remove the troublemaking farmers from Red Fort premises where they had barged in. Earlier, a clash broke out between police and protesting farmers after the latter reached ITO and tried to push towards Lutyen's Delhi, prompting the force to resort to lathi-charge and use tear gas shells against them. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police. At the ITO, a bus was vandalised by angry farmers. Police on Tuesday fired tear gas shells and lathi-charged farmers when they clashed with the force in parts of city. Police used tear gas on groups of farmers and resorted to baton charge as protestors broke past barricades with tractors at different border points and did not take the pre-decided routes for their march in the national capital. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concludes. However, chaos ensued as the farmers were adamant on heading towards central Delhi. In the morning, groups of protesting farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri border points of the national capital broke police barricades to force their way into the city. The ITO resembled a war zone as restive crowds of farmers and uniformed security personnel could be seen in the area. Police fired tear gas shells at hundreds of farmers who wielded sticks and clubs and entered ITO, a few kilometres away from Parliament, in an effort to move towards Rajpath. Police baton-charged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shahdara when they broke barricades and smashed windowpanes of cars. A group of 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors) clashed with security personnel near Akshardham Temple. At Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi and at Mukarba Chowk farmers broke cemented barricades and police used tear gas to disperse them. An official said police personnel used tear gas to disperse groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point as they tried to hold a march on the Outer Ring Road much ahead of the allotted time. Meanwhile, senior farmer Balbir Singh Rajewal said farmers were following the pre-decided route. No one from the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha went to the Outer Ring Road. "We condemn violence against farmers, appeal to all to maintain peace," Rajewal told PTI. The Delhi Police appealed to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace as clashes between the force and protesting farmers broke out at a number of places in the national capital. The police also asked the farmers to head back to their pre-decided routes for the tractor parade. "We request to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace," Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades at Tikri border points belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He said the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha's tractor parade will start as scheduled after police give farmers way. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. The entry and exit gates of more than 10 metro stations in central and north Delhi were temporarily closed on Tuesday following clashes between police and protesting farmers in part of the national capital. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took to Twitter to inform the public about the temporary closure of metro station gates. "Entry/exit gates of Indraprastha metro station are closed. Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed," the DMRC tweeted. Earlier in the day, chanting 'rang de basanti' and 'jai jawan jai kisan' numerous farmers rode tractors, motorbikes, horses and even cranes to cross the national capital's borders into the city for their proposed parade against the three contentious farm laws. Locals stood on both sides of the roads at various locations showering flower petals on the farmers amid drum beats. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs such as 'Aisa desh hai mera' and 'Sare jahan se achcha'. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||'Mooktijoddha' team from Bangladesh in R-Day parade of many firsts||In a display of India's military might, Rafale fighter jets took part in the Republic Day flypast for the first time as the armed forces showcased its T-90 tanks, the Samvijay electronic warfare system and Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jets on the Rajpath on Tuesday. Depicting the nation's rich cultural heritage and economic progress, 17 tableaux from states and union territories and nine from different Union ministries and paramilitary forces took part in the 72nd Republic day parade. Six tableaux of the defence ministry also attended the event. School children performed folk arts and crafts displaying skills and dexterity handed down from generations. Bajasal, a folk dance from Kalahandi in Odisha, the Fit India Movement and Aatmanirbhar Bharat were also displayed on the Rajpath. This year, the attendance to the Republic Day parade was limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Those below 15 years of age and above 65 were not allowed among the visitors at the venue. The parade also witnessed several major changes. The contingents only marched a distance of 3.5 km instead of the usual 8.5 km and for the first time in 55 years, no foreign dignitary attended the January 26 parade. However, a 122-member contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces marched on Rajpath. They carried the legacy of legendary muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, who fought against "oppression and mass atrocities" and liberated the country in 1971. India is currently celebrating the Swarnim Vijay Varsh -- the Golden Jubilee year -- commemorating the country's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The Indian Army showcased its main battle tank T-90 Bhishma, infantry combat vehicle BMP-II-Sarath, mobile autonomous launcher of the BrahMos missile system, multi-launcher rocket system Pinaka, electronic warfare system Samvijay among others during the parade on Tuesday. The Navy's tableau at the Republic Day parade this year displayed models of Indian naval ship (INS) Vikrant and naval operations that were conducted during the 1971 India-Pakistan war. The Air Force exhibited models of light combat aircraft Tejas and indigenously developed anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra on its tableaus during the parade. Scaled-down models of the Light Combat Helicopter, Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jet and Rohini radar were also part of the IAF tableaux. A total of 38 IAF aircraft, include Rafale, and four planes of the Indian Army participated in the flypast. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) presented two tableaus at this year's parade, one showcasing light combat aircraft Tejas' successful take off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya in 2020, and another displaying full complement of the anti-tank guided missile systems. The Republic Day parade ceremony commenced with Prime Minister Narendra Modi visiting the National War Memorial in the morning. The tricolour was unfurled followed by the national anthem with a booming 21-gun salute. The parade commenced with President Ram Nath Kovind taking the salute. Seventeen tableaux from various states and union territories, namely, Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Tripura, West Bengal, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi and Ladakh were showcased during the parade, depicting the geographical and rich cultural diversity of the country. The tableaux highlighted the vision for Ladakh to be carbon neutral, the Sun temple at Modhera in Mehsana District of Gujarat, tea-tribes of Assam, shore temple and other monuments of Pallava Dynasty in Tamil Nadu, Bhakti Movement and saints of Maharashtra, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Rafale aircraft makes debut in R-Day flypast||The newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft featured for the first time in India's Republic Day flypast as it carried out the 'Brahmastra' formation alone and was part of the 'Eklavya' formation with four other fighter jets. The fighter jet conducted Eklavya formation by flying at a height of around 300 meters along with two Jagaur and two MIG-29 aircraft. The five jets resembled a V shape with Rafale leading the pack. The 25,000 strong audience was able to see Rafale fighter jet again when it culminated the flypast by conducting the Brahmastra formation wherein it traversed at a low altitude for some distance, then pulled up vertically at 90 degrees and conducted rolls before stabilising at a higher altitude. In a major boost to India's air power capability, five French-made multirole Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the IAF on September 10 last year. A total of 38 IAF aircraft and four planes of the Indian Army participated in the flypast on Tuesday. As is traditionally the case on Republic Day, flypast was divided into two blocks: the first was along with the parade and the second was after the parade. In the first block, there were three formations. The first was the 'Nishan' formation comprising of four Mi17V5 aircraft that carried the national flag and logos of all three services. It was followed by the 'Dhruv' formation by four helicopters of Army Aviation Corps. The last was the 'Rudra' formation -- comprising a single Dakota aircraft flanked by two Mi17V5 helicopters -- which celebrated the 50th anniversary of the country's victory in the 1971 war. Dakotas played a major role during that war. On December 16 last year, India launched year-long celebrations of its victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The second block of the flypast consisted of nine formations. These nine formations were 'Sudarshan', 'Rakshak', 'Bhim', 'Netra', 'Garuda', 'Eklavya', 'Trinetra', 'Vijay' and 'Brahmastra'. Sudarshan formation had one Chinook and two Mi17V5 helicopters, Rakshak formation comprised one Mi-35 and four Apache helicopters, Bhim formation consisted of three C-130J aircraft and Netra formation comprised indigenously developed early warning and control aircraft Netra flanked by two Sukhoi-30 fighter jets. Garuda formation had one C-17 Globemaster plane with two MIG-29 and two Sukhoi-30 MKI aircraft. Trinetra formation comprised three Sukhoi-30 MKIs. Vijay formation showcased three advanced light helicopters. The IAF showcased models of Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas and indigenously developed anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra on its tableaus during the Republic Day parade. They also showcased scaled-down models of Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jet and Rohini radar on the tableaus. Indigenously developed next-generation anti-radiation missile Rudram and anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra were displayed on the LCA and the LCH respectively, on the tableaus. Sukhoi-30Mki was displayed with indigenously developed Astra and Brahmos missiles at the tableau. Indigenously developed Akash missile was displayed along with the Rohini radar. The IAF's marching contingent at the parade consisted of four officers and 96 soldiers marching in a box formation of 12 rows and eight columns. The marching contingent was led by Flight Lieutenant Tanik Sharma and three supernumerary officers -- Flight Lieutenant Manjeet Singh, Flight Lieutenant Apoorva Yadav and Flying Officer Kuttapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmer groups break barricades with tractors in Delhi areas ||Thousands of farmers protesting against the three farm laws began their first of a kind tractor parade in the national capital, much before the time they were granted permission by Delhi Police for the event. At Delhi's Mukarba Chowk, security personnel used tear gas on groups of farmers as they tried to break barricades and cemented barriers erected there with tractors. While farmers' unions assured the Delhi Police that their tractor parade would only start after the official Republic Day concludes, farmers camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur started marching into the national capital on their tractors before that. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. Security personnel tried to convince farmers to stick to the decided plan, but they did not relent and forced their way into the city. Clearly, police were out-numbered. Tractors bearing flags were seen, along with men and women dancing with dhols, with local residents on both sides of the road showering petals on their cavalcade. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs like “Aisa desh hai mera” and “Sare jahan se achcha”. "People think farmers are only meant to plough their fields. But there is much more to a farmer's life. We also ride motorbikes and horses though we worship our tractors as it helps in earning our bread and butter. "Today, everything is on display in this historical rally," said Gagan Singh, a protestor riding a horse to the parade. Parmajeet Bibi, a woman in her late 40s, who was riding a tractor said, "Women are not just cooking at community kitchens. We help men in the fields and we are riding tractors in this rally to send out a strong message". Farmers also held their tractor parade in other parts of the country as they intensified their agitation against the three contentious farm laws. An official said that police personnel used tear gas on groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point to disperse them after they tried to hold their march on Outer Ring Road. Gyan Singh, 65, from Punjab's Firozpur walked on foot, said it is a test of his physical and mental strength, adding they "will keep walking till the last point." "We have been enduring the vagaries of weather for months now. It doesn't deter us. This should give a message loud and clear... we accept nothing but a win," said Rampal Singh, 62, from Haryana's Kaithal. The protesting unions has also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is presented, to press for their demands including a repeal of the three agriculture laws. Heavy security has been deployed in view of the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' that will move into Delhi from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points. On Sunday, Delhi Police had allowed the tractor rally after the annual Republic Day parade. The protesters were told they can't disrupt the celebrations at Rajpath even as the farmers insisted their parade will be "peaceful". Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||At Ghazipur, the tractors are being revved  ||There is a frisson here, an air of uncharted course. This is Republic Day for India. Like always. Unlike any other. Here there are farmers gathered, scruffy, grey-stubbled, in T-Shirts, in jeans, men, women, sons, daughters, wives, sisters, brothers, singles. This is putting the public in republic. As of now, the tractors are being revved. It is not yet past noon. They, the farmers protesting here, have been told that they can venture out of this encampment only past noon. The farmers gathered here are mostly from Western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and the Terai, the undulating land that has gentle rolls before climbing up hills. "You have been here and you know what is happening. Till the government cancels these laws we will be here. Already, we are planning for the February 1 march to Parliament", Ram Charan Tripathi, who I have met earlier, tells The Telegraph Online.  The official Republic Day parade that is an annual feature began at 9am. It is according to the set timeline to conclude at 11.47 am. The parade is curtailed because of Covid. There is also no foreign chief guest this time, pandemic reason. In 20-plus years of covering the military for The Telegraph, I have lost count of the number of parades I have attended. Yet, the frisson this time sets it apart. The loudspeakers are blaring Punjabi songs. The hit is Kanwar Grewal the lithe singer with a depth of voice that belies his frail frame. There have been more than 10 rounds of talks between the leaders of the farmers' unions and the government. The government delegation has been headed by Narendra Tomar, the agriculture minister. The farmers' delegations have totalled 40 at last call, too numerous to name. Balbir Singh Rajewal, a sardar, a farmer, an economist, stands with Rakesh Tikait, the astute Jat leader from Western Uttar Pradesh. Rakesh Tikait says the farmers who are here voted for the BJP but are now so aghast with Narendra Modi that they resort to lampooning and ridicule with placards and pictures. "We are here because the government is not listening to us. My son is in Ladakh, facing the Chinese," a Sardar tells me. I am not identifying him, save from reporting that he is here for 58 of the 62 days since the farmers stormed to the gates of Delhi. In Delhi's outskirts, but within the National Capital Region (NCR), people are braced for the traffic barriers put up by the polices of three states (Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh). On a morning that has afforded 2km of visibility, the Rafale fighter aircraft is booming through in the traditional flypast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases below 10,000 for the first time in over eight months||India reported 9,102 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the lowest in around eight months, as the infection tally reached 1,06,76,838, according to Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. During the same period, 117 fatalities were recorded, also the lowest in over eight months, taking the death toll to 1,53,587. India had reported a single-day rise of 8,909 cases on June 3 and 103 deaths on May 16. According to the health ministry, 1,03,45,985 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.90 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,77,266 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.66 per cent of the total cases reported so far. It was for the seventh consecutive day that the active caseload remained below 2 lakh. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 19,30,62,694 samples have been tested for COVID-19 detection up to January 25 with 7,25,577 of them being tested on Monday. Among the fresh fatalities, 30 were from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 13 from Chhattisgarh, seven each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and five each from Delhi and Punjab. Of the total coronavirus-related deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra registered 50,815 fatalities, Tamil Nadu 12,320, Karnataka 12,200, Delhi 10,813, West Bengal 10,122, Uttar Pradesh 8,624 and Andhra Pradesh 7,149. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Chaos at Delhi border as farmers’ group break barricades ||Police fired teargas shells to try and stop thousands of farmers who knocked down police barricades at Singhu border and entered Delhi on foot on Tuesday morning amid huge police presence ahead of a tractor rally permitted after the Republic Day parade at the iconic Rajpath. It was not immediately clear whether these farmers were part of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protests against the three Central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. A member of the Morcha said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, one of two farmers’ groups that was unhappy that the Morcha had agreed to go ahead with the tractor rally on the outskirts of the national capital instead of the Outer Ring Road, as had been initially planned. On Monday, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, along with the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekka (Ugrahan), had announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. According to officials on Tuesday, security personnel tried to convince the farmers that they had been permitted to hold their tractor parade in Delhi after the Republic Day parade at Rajpath concluded. “But some groups of farmers did not relent and started moving towards the Outer Ring Road breaking police barricades," an official said. NDTV reported that chaos unfolded at the Singhu border, which divides Delhi and Haryana, and Tikri border in the western part of the national capital where thousands were seen marching with flags, many of them on tractors. A video from Akshardham showed policemen firing tear gas shells as the protesters looked for cover. The farmers' tractor rally against the new agricultural laws - Kisaan Parade - was expected to be held after 12 PM. However, huge crowds gathered on the borders at around 8 AM. More than 5,000 protesters near the Singhu border were adamant to march ahead. At Tikri, farmers' leaders asked the protesters to maintain calm after the march began at around 9am. The representatives decided to hold a meeting with police to decide the timing of the rally. "Our rally will be peaceful and we will stick to the routes assigned," a leader said, reported ndtv.com. The protesting farmer unions have also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is presented, to press for their demands including a repeal of the three new agriculture laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Republic Day celebrations in full swing around the country||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Group of farmers break police barricade, enter Delhi ||Groups of protesting farmers camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of the national capital broke police barricades on Tuesday morning to force their way into the city, much ahead of the time they were granted permission by Delhi Police for their tractor parade. Tractors bearing flags could be seen, along with men and women dancing on dhols, and locals on both sides of the road showering petals on cavalcades, as security personnel tried to convince farmers to stick to the decided plan of holding the tractor parade after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade at the Rajpath. Farmers also marched on foot in large numbers holding flags of different farmer unions and raising slogans. Some were seen riding motorcycles and horses. People also perched atop their tractors and raised slogans and sang revolutionary songs. Locals were also seen distributing food and water bottles to the protesting farmers who were part of the march. A senior police officer who was at the spot said that a group of farmers entered the national capital after breaking the barricades. "As per the agreement, they were supposed to start their parade at the time specified but they forcefully entered Delhi and are currently peacefully sitting at Mukarba Chowk. They are supposed to head towards Bawana side as per the route but they are adamant that they want to go towards Outer Ring Road. "The situation is peaceful and we are trying to convince them to go towards the designated route at the specified time, he said. On Sunday, Delhi Police had allowed the tractor rally after the annual Republic Day parade. The protesters were told they can't disrupt the celebrations at Rajpath even as the farmers insisted their parade will be "peaceful". "But some groups of farmers did not relent and started moving towards the Outer Ring Road breaking police barricades," an official said. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He said the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha's tractor parade will start as scheduled after police give farmers way. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. The protesting unions have also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is being presented, to press for their demands, including a repeal of the three new agriculture laws. Heavy security has been deployed in view of the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' that will move into Delhi from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points. Patrolling has been intensified at power substations in Delhi following a threat from the banned Sikhs for Justice outfit to disrupt the city's supply during the Republic Day celebrations. An official said around 6,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain vigil. Facial recognition systems have also been set up at vantage points for suspect identification, the official said. The security personnel are keeping a hawk-eyed vigil over Rajpath, where President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be celebrating the occasion along with other dignitaries and thousands of people. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Odisha doctor hunt outside the state   ||The Odisha government will recruit medical graduates from other states to meet the crisis arising out of acute shortage of doctors in the state. Nearly 3000 posts of doctors are lying vacant in the state, which has hit health services seriously. The government has decided to suitably amend rules to lure doctors from other states. The move has received the nod of the state cabinet. “The Odisha Public Service Commission has been asked to issue job notification,” said health secretary P.K. Mohapatra.As per the earlier provision, only residents of Odisha who are eligible to read, write and speak Odia and those who have passed the Class VII examination in Odia as a language or passed matriculation or equivalent in Odia medium were eligible for recruitment in state-run hospitals. Now the medical graduates from other states can register their names in the Odisha Council of Medical Registration system. They will be given four years’ time to pass the Odia language examination . Naveen on Monday urged Orissa High Court judges, two Union ministers from the state and all ministers, MLAs and MPs of Odisha to adopt government schools under the Mo School initiative, adds PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Indian and Chinese troops clash in Sikkim||Indian and Chinese troops exchanged fisticuffs at the Naku La sector in north Sikkim last week after People’s Liberation Army soldiers tried to transgress the Line of Actual Control, sources in the security establishment said on Monday. Several soldiers from both sides were injured in the incident, termed “minor” by the army, which comes amid an eight-month-old border standoff in eastern Ladakh that began with the Chinese intruding into India-claimed territory. Naku La had witnessed a similar brawl on May 9 last year, four days after a fists-and-stones battle between Indian and Chinese troops at the Pangong Lake had kicked off the eastern Ladakh standoff. Both May scuffles had resulted from attempted Chinese intrusions but the Naku La tensions were quickly doused after talks between the local commanders of the two armies, officials said. Sources in the security establishment leaked the news of the January 20 fracas in Sikkim just a few hours after 16-hour-long military talks to defuse the tensions in eastern Ladakh ended without any breakthrough at 2.30am on Monday. Soon after, India’s army issued a brief statement terming the Sikkim exchange a “minor faceoff”. It did not explain what led to the hand-to-hand fight at an altitude above 15,000 feet, or reveal how many were injured on either side. “We have received several queries regarding a faceoff between Indian Army and PLA troops in the Sikkim sector,” the army statement said. “It is clarified that there was a minor faceoff at Naku La area of north Sikkim on January 20 and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols. Media is requested to refrain from overplaying or exaggerating reports which are factually incorrect.” A security official attached to the Union home ministry said: “The PLA troops tried to cross the border and were challenged by Indian soldiers. A heated argument took place, leading to a scuffle that injured several soldiers of both armies.” He said the initial reports suggested the injuries were minor. “The situation is tense,” he said. “Injuries were reported on both sides. The situation is under control now,” an army official said. After a meeting between the local commanders the official disengagement took place in the shape of a customary banner drill, during which both sides held up banners before marching back to their respective positions. Transgressions and border skirmishes are not uncommon along the 3,488km-long, disputed border between India and China. The site of the January 20 clash is near Doklam, a plateau at the tri-junction of the two countries’ borders with Bhutan, where their troops had been locked in a standoff in 2017. The defence ministry issued a statement late on Monday night on the ninth round of military talks with China, which stretched from 10.30am on Sunday to the early hours of Monday. Like all the Indian statements issued after talks with China over the past few months, it contained no references to any demand for the restoration of status quo ante – a trend military veterans have repeatedly deplored. Fear is growing in the security establishment that the Chinese are working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow their army to hold on to its newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. “The two sides agreed that this round of meeting was positive, practical and constructive, which further enhanced mutual trust and understanding. The two sides agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops,” the defence ministry statement said. “The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilise and control the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity.” Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a faceoff at multiple points in eastern Ladakh, such as the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains, with 21 rounds of military and diplomatic talks having yielded little result. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Sources said the Chinese army has been increasing troops and strengthening its positions in the friction points, violating a September agreement by both sides not to send more troops to the frontlines. India too has engaged in mirror deployment, establishing habitat facilities for 50,000 additional troops backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent air force sorties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Scientists decry cow dung 'anti-radiation' claim ||A group of Indian scientists has decried a Union government agency’s invocation of experiments by physicists at Gujarat’s Saurashtra University to claim cow dung can shield people from radiation. The experiments purportedly showed that cow-dung cakes partially blocked radiation from radioactive caesium. The Rashtriya Kamadhenu Aayog, a unit under the Union fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying ministry and tasked with cow conservation, has cited these findings to support a claim made last October by its chairman, Vallabhbhai Kathiria, about cow dung being “anti-radiation”. The scientists said on Monday that the experiments represent a “classic example” of a study designed to reach a predetermined conclusion, and that they are “sad to see” physics teachers in a state university willing to indulge in pseudoscience. Some have likened the cow-dung study by the Saurashtra University physicists to “papers” on heaven and hell published by scientists in Pakistan in the 1980s during the reign of Zia-ul Haq. Parallels have been drawn with what Pakistani physicist Pervez Hoodbhoy had documented in Pakistan during the 1980s. One university professor of physics in Pakistan had written a paper on the speed at which heaven was departing from Earth and another scientist had published a paper on the temperature of hell, Hoodbhoy had once recalled to this newspaper. “Both (the Indian instance now and the Pakistani parallel decades ago) illustrate cases of academics betraying their training to please political dispensations,” said Aniket Sule, an astronomer at the Homi Bhabha Cent­re for Science Education, Mumbai. Sule was among the 600-odd scientists from across the country who had last October questioned Kathiriya’s claim, made at a media conference. “Cow dung protects everybody. It is anti-radiation. It prevents radiation. If it comes home, the entire home will be eco-friendly, free of radiation. This has been proven through science,” Kathiriya had said. He had then held up a device that he claimed could be used to reduce radiation from mobile phones. In response to the challenge from the scientists, Kathiriya wrote back asserting that cow dung was “radio-protective”. He attached a single-page document describing how the experiments at Saurashtra University had shown that cow dung cakes can partially block radiation. In the experiments, Saurashtra University physics teachers used a radiation counter to show how hexagonal, spherical and chip-shaped cakes of cow dung blocked about 50 per cent of radiation. The scientists, in a public statement on Monday, underlined flaws in the experiment’s design, highlighting that it lacked “controls” to determine how other substances would impact the radiation. What would have happened if instead of using cow-dung cakes, the experimenters had used camel-dung or donkey-dung cakes, the scientists asked. “Without these comparisons, the data only points to the fact that introducing some solid partition in the path reduces the (radiation) count,” they said. The scientists also underlined that radioactivity is a statistical phenomenon and that experiments measuring radiation counts require multiple readings, not single readings. They added that the experiments had not shown any meaningful difference in radiation counts when the cow-dung cakes’ thickness changed – something that should have occurred if cow dung indeed blocked radiation. “Either they (the experimenters) are themselves ignorant about the flaws in their study or they are willingly peddling such a false narrative for petty favours,” the scientists said in the statement, signed by the Breakthrough Science Society, a non-government network of researchers across the country. “We resent the use of a section of the academic community to peddle pseudoscience.” Soumitro Banerjee, professor of physics at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta, said the claim on cow dung and radiation could not be ignored because it came not from “fringe groups” but from a central government agency. “This has a detrimental effect on the health of science,” Banerjee said. “Some scientists are likely to divert attention to cow dung research because it is easy to get funding support for that topic.” Sule said that to enhance public understanding of science, the scientific community needed to voice its opposition to misleading claims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Tractor-Day: Republic Day in its true sense||A day before tractors roll into the capital to celebrate “Republic Day in its true sense”, farmer leaders announced a march on foot to Parliament on February 1, signalling to the government and the protesters massed on Delhi’s borders that the struggle for their rights continues. The farmers, who had marched to the capital to make themselves heard on November 26 — 71 years to the day “We, the People of India” gave to “ourselves” the Constitution that governs us — but found its gates slammed shut, will fittingly enter Delhi on the day the Constitution came into effect and made India a republic — a government where supreme power rests with the citizens. “It will be a big event in Indian democracy. We will celebrate Republic Day in its true sense tomorrow,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said at a news conference of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which nearly 500 farmer unions and collectives are fighting for the repeal of three new farm laws and for a legally guaranteed minimum support price for crops. On the evening before the Kisan Parade, the Morcha was working overtime to ensure it goes smoothly. Two farmer groups — the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee — were unhappy with the routes for the tractor rally, finalised by the Morcha in consultation with the police. Both insisted that the Kisan Parade should be conducted on the Outer Ring Road as originally planned. The police have not allowed that, restricting the rally to areas just inside the capital’s borders. The Ugrahan group, which has marshalled more protesters from Punjab than any other group, held out till evening but eventually came around. But the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee announced late on Monday evening that it would move towards Outer Ring Road at 8am on Tuesday. The panel, which is not part of the Morcha, has been charting its own course from the time the unions began their struggle in Punjab in June, when the farm ordinances were promulgated. Before the protest moved to Delhi, the committee had defied the decision of the Punjab unions to lift their rail roko in that state. In the afternoon, asked about the committee’s insistence on going its own way, Darshan Pal asked reporters to directly speak to the organisation but added that efforts were on to bring it around. The committee’s defiance has become a cause for concern because Delhi police are unlikely to allow the tractors to proceed towards Outer Ring Road, creating a possible flashpoint that could eclipse the whole movement. As always, the Morcha leadership stressed on Monday that it was the non-violent nature of the movement that was its most effective weapon. Amid indications that came through social media posts that the youth were not happy with the compromise route, veteran farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal urged them to remain peaceful and be wary of rumours so that they were not provoked. “The government is spreading rumours and agencies are trying to mislead. Be alert because it is clear that we will win if we remain peaceful. If we turn violent, Modi will win,” Rajewal said. He urged the Narendra Modi government not to treat the protesting farmers as political opponents. Refuelling the tractors has become an issue in Uttar Pradesh, with the state police allegedly instructing petrol pumps not to supply diesel to tractors or sell the fuel in bottles. Given the support the protest has among local residents, diesel tankers are being arranged to move along with the parade, as will at least 100 ambulances. Besides, langars are being set up along the route to provide food and water though all those participating have been urged to move with food supplies for at least 24 hours because it may take that long for them to return to their respective points of origin. Given the enthusiasm for the tractor parade, the Morcha has decided to organise five such parades in Haryana and Rajasthan apart from the three that will enter Delhi from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders that have seen the biggest mobilisations. Although the no-objection certificate given to the Morcha for the parade specifies that 5,000 tractors and 5,000 people will be allowed to enter from each of the three borders, Darshan Pal said: “There is no limit.” The police had not spoken of any limit on number during the discussions, suggesting only that trolleys be left out, to which the Morcha has agreed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Nudge to IIT professors to speak up on EVMs||Former chief election commissioner S.Y. Quraishi on Monday questioned the silence of the Election Commission’s technical experts committee on the complaints and suspicions aired repeatedly about electronic voting machines’ vulnerability to tampering. Speaking at Sabrang news portal’s webinar on “the EVM conundrum”, Quraishi tried to uphold the poll panel’s guarantee that the voting machines cannot be tampered with. However, he was critical of the experts committee that is supposed to advise the commission on technical aspects of the voting machines and the voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) devices. “The five IIT professors in the committee of independent experts, who we have been talking about, behind whom we take shelter that we are technologically illiterate... they should be more proactive, they should be more visible, they should come out and say these machines are fine,” Quraishi said. In 2019, the technical experts committee had three members from three IITs and was headed by professor emeritus D.T. Shahani. The commission has not announced any changes to the committee since then. “Why are they keeping quiet?... Are they scared of anything? The EC values them so highly that any comment from them would give us sleepless nights,” Quraishi said. “Let those five experts come out in the national interest. Just keeping quiet will not help. In fact, people have started doubting the expertise of these experts and also the bona fides of the experts.” The previous speaker, activist and IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, had reiterated his 2019 claim that the paper trail machines were vulnerable to being used as Trojan horses to rig the voting machines. When he had first made the complaint, the commission had said a “rigorous scrutiny” was being done although no evidence of “transfer of vote from one candidate to another has been found” in the Lok Sabha polls earlier that year. After the Lok Sabha polls, five voting machines and paper trail devices were randomly tallied in every Assembly segment (or parliamentary constituency in Union territories that lack legislative assemblies). The counts on eight paper trail devices did not match those on the corresponding voting machines, an occurrence the commission blamed on “human error”. It said election officials had failed to clear these voting machines after mock polls held ahead of the actual voting. The biggest mismatch was of 34 votes, and none of the mismatches altered the outcome of an election. However, such mismatch figures relate only to the voting machines and paper trail devices sampled during the test –the commission does not carry out any further checks in the Assembly segment after a discrepancy is found. None of the technical expert committee members, nor the commission, responded to emails seeking their comments on Quraishi’s remarks. In January 2019, a man who introduced himself as Syed Shuja at a news conference in London had claimed the 2014 general election was rigged with tampered voting machines but did not furnish any proof. He said he was a former contractual employee of the Electronics Corporations of India Limited, one of the two public sector undertakings that make voting machines. He alleged that former minister Gopinath Munde, National Investigation Agency officer Tanzil Ahmed, journalist Gauri Lankesh and several of Shuja’s own colleagues had been killed to prevent the 2014 rigging from being exposed. The technical experts committee had at the time issued a detailed rebuttal. Quraishi said: “Anybody who points out the possibility of a flaw in our system is a friend and not an enemy…. Perhaps this is a mistake we have been making of late.” He suggested that the top two candidates in any election be given a fixed number of opportunities to get the voting machines and the paper trail devices tallied irrespective of the random sampling that takes place. His other suggestion was more radical. “Let us count 100 per cent of VVPAT (slips) instead of counting the EVM…. VVPAT count takes 20 to 25 minutes; EVM count also takes 20 to 25 minutes. This is almost a return to the ballot paper without returning to the ballot paper,” Quraishi said. He said this measured ruled out the stuffing of ballot papers. He also suggested the introduction of an additional measure – allowing the voter to record or destroy a vote after reading the paper slip. IIT Delhi computer engineering professor Subhashis Banerjee said any audit of the paper trail devices should be linked to the margin of victory in an election. The lower the margin, the more such devices need to be tallied, he said, arguing that the current matching of only five devices per Assembly constituency was unlikely to detect tampering, if any. “It is well known that testing can never be a substitute for verifiability. A machine cannot be tested for all situations, and it cannot be determined by testing that a machine has not been hacked,” he said. Samajwadi Party politician Ghanshyam Tiwari said: “The most complicated systems are the easiest to hack.” He suggested the use of CCTVs that would record the vote but not the voter, and the introduction of systems that even illiterate voters can verify.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Gallantry awards for Galwan soldiers  ||Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar Regiment who was among 20 Indian soldiers killed in a “violent face-off” with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, has been posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra, the second-highest gallantry award granted in wartime. Five soldiers who fought in Galwan have been awarded the Vir Chakra, the third highest wartime gallantry award. Four of them were killed in the battle — Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, Havildar K. Palani, Sepoy Gurtej Singh and Naik Deepak Singh. Havildar Tejinder Singh, who survived, is the fifth recipient. Subedar Sanjiv Kumar of the Special Forces has been posthumously awarded with Kirti Chakra, the peacetime equivalent of the Mahavir Chakra, for his supreme sacrifice against terrorists in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||India||Filmmaker’s plea in Supreme Court seeks media tribunal||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre and five other organisations on a petition seeking a statutory “media tribunal” to deal with complaints against media outlets relating to the promotion of hate speeches, sectarian reporting, paid news and misinformation. Filmmaker Nilesh Navalakha and social activist Nitin Memane have filed the public interest plea, which comes at a time several news channels stand accused of aggressively promoting the government line on everything, earning themselves the epithet “godi (lapdog) media”. Notices have been issued to the Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association, News Broadcasters Federation, News Broadcasting Standards Authority and the Press Trust of India by the bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. The petition asks the top court to direct the government to establish “an independent, regulatory tribunal/ judicial body, known as ‘media tribunal’, to hear and expeditiously adjudicate upon complaint petitions against the media businesses filed by the viewers/ citizens”. It also asks the court to set up an “independent high-powered committee headed by a retired chief justice or judge” of the Supreme Court or a high court, and “consisting of distinguished citizens from different fields/ professions and concerned stakeholders”, that will review the “legal framework relating to media-business regulation”. “Today, electronic media has become the most powerful medium with unprecedented influence over the minds of the people. (There’s a) lack of accountability on the electronic media channels, which have the power and impetus to set the country ablaze with their hateful and fissiparous discourse,” the petition says. “Over the last few years, media trials, hate speech, propaganda news, paid news, have become the order of the day, thereby impeding the right to a fair trial of victims and right to fair and proportionate reporting. It is submitted that reckless reportage by the electronic media without accountability can, by no stretch of imagination, be read into the right to freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the electronic media.” The petition seeks “appropriate guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, i.e., broadcasters and electronic media, can exercise their (freedom of speech) so as to judicially regulate the same”. Some of the questions raised by the petition, filed through advocate Amit Pai: The petition clarifies that its intention “is not to curb the fundamental rights of the media-business, but only to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy, etc, which the media business has indulged in, only with the aim to further their business, and to bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality”. “It is submitted the exercise of power by the electronic media without any accountability is severely detrimental to the due process of law, and contrary to the rule of law,” the petition adds. In the petition, Navalakha says he has produced nine films on social issues and received national awards for three: Shala, Fandry and Anumati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hints at Modi-Palani deal ||Rahul Gandhi on Monday hinted at a deal between Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami and Prime Minister Narendra Modi that ensured stopping of investigations in corruption cases whereas Opposition leaders were being targeted across the country. Participating in a roadshow in Karur city of Tamil Nadu, Rahul said: “The Prime Minister is using the CBI, ED (Enforcement Directorate) to attack the Opposition everywhere. Why has the investigations in corruption cases stopped in Tamil Nadu? What has the Tamil Nadu chief minister given the Prime Minister in exchange? How is the Prime Minister remote-controlling the Tamil Nadu government?” This charge, of Modi possessing the remote control of the Tamil Nadu government, evoked thunderous applause as the AIADMK, after the demise of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, has been accused of acting like the BJP’s puppet. Amidst lusty cheering, Rahul said: “Modi feels that he controls the people of Tamil Nadu because he controls the government. Modi cannot control you just because your chief minister is corrupt. The people of Tamil Nadu are going to remove the batteries of the remote control and throw it away.” Tamil Nadu will go to polls in a few months along with Assam, Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry. Rahul, who completed his three-day tour of the state on Monday evening, his second in a fortnight, has been trying to make Tamil identity the central theme of his discourse, accusing the RSS-BJP of conspiring to impose one-language, one-culture on the entire country. He repeatedly argued that the government will have to deal with states such as Tamil Nadu, Bengal or Punjab with respect and affection instead of imposing a unified culture on them. At another function in Karur district, Rahul asked the farmers if anybody knew the details of the new farm laws. To his delight, one farmer bitterly complained about contract farming and removal of stock limit by amending the Essential Commodities Act and wondered how they  would bargain with a big player like Adani instead of dealing with the so-called middlemen and commission agents who are from their own community. This farmer also wondered how a law can be framed which prevents farmers from approaching the court in case of a dispute. This is the same language that is being spoken at the farmers’ protest going on outside Delhi’s borders, exploding the false propaganda of the Modi government that only farmers from Punjab and Haryana were angry. This farmer also explained how sugar mills were refusing to pay despite entering into a contract, compelling Rahul to say: “He will make a better agriculture minister than the current one in the Modi government.” Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, who steamrolled similar objections from the Opposition in Parliament, including the horrendous clause that farmers can’t approach the court for redress of grievances in case of a dispute with the corporate entity, finally agreed to make amends under pressure from protesting farmers. Both the Opposition and the farmers have accused the government of framing the laws without application of mind or with the ill-intent to help in the corporate takeover of agriculture. While other farmers also expressed their anguish — from poor quality of seeds to inadequate marketing facilities and prices — there were complaints about intrusion of corporate players, falling incomes and even unauthorised selling of farming data to multinationals by the government. Rahul described the farm laws as “criminal” — intended to break the backbone of India by weakening the farmers and workers — and argued that the government was trying to impose a failed economic model borrowed from America. The Congress leader also probed the people’s mind on demonetisation, asking women whether they liked banning of currency notes or not. That question triggered angry responses with people narrating how demonetisation destroyed lives and livelihood across the state. This allowed Rahul to repeat his pet theme — that Modi is by design attacking the foundations of India to facilitate control by five-six big industrialists and exhorted everybody to join hands to thwart this sinister plot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: NCP chief Sharad Pawar hits out at Maharashtra governor ||The Centre may pass any law undermining the Constitution on the back of its majority, but once the common man and farmers rise, they will not keep quiet until the new farm acts and the ruling party are destroyed, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. Addressing a rally organised here to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi, Pawar also hit out at Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for heading to Goa at a time when peasants from the state were to submit a memorandum against the new farm laws. Pawar alleged that Koshyari, who is also the Goa governor, had time to meet Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut after the BMC last year demolished parts of her office here, but has no time for farmers. The former Union agriculture minister accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not enquiring about the condition of farmers agitating near Delhi’s borders against the farm laws for two months now in cold weather. Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally held at the Azad Maidan in south Mumbai. “You may pass any law undermining the Constitution, not keeping in with the reputation of Parliament and destroying the parliamentary system on the back of your majority. But remember one thing, once the common man and farmers of the country rise, whether you withdraw the laws or not, they will not keep quiet until they destroy you and the law,” Pawar said. Pawar alleged that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite the Opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned. The bills could have been discussed by a select committee, but it did not happen, he said. “...People (leaders from Opposition) opposed it. But the laws were declared passed without discussion. This is the insult of the Constitution,” he alleged. He said the farmers’ fight is not easy as those who are in power are not affectionate towards the protesters. Pawar hailed the farmers from Punjab for their contribution in the country’s freedom struggle and protecting it during the wars against China and Pakistan post-Independence. “It has been 60 days since the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are protesting near Delhi. Did the country’s PM enquire about (the farmers)? It was mentioned that the farmers are from Punjab. Does Punjab mean Pakistan?” Pawar asked. “We have not seen such a governor in the history of Maharashtra. Lakhs of people have come here (at Azad Maidan). They were to submit a memorandum to the governor. But the governor has gone to Goa. He has time to meet Kangana, but not my farmer,” Pawar alleged. The NCP chief said it was the moral responsibility of the governor to meet the farmers, but Koshyari did not fulfil his duty. But he does not have that courtesy. He should have at least sat in the Raj Bhavan, Pawar charged on Twitter later. However, the Raj Bhavan later clarified that the representatives of the Samyukta Shetkari Morcha, which organised the rally, were informed in advance that the governor would not be able to meet the delegation on Monday as he would be in Goa to address its Assembly. Thorat termed the farmers’ agitation near Delhi as unprecedented. The farm laws are for capitalists, hoarders and profiteers. the laws were passed without discussion, the Maharashtra minister alleged. Thorat claimed there will be no MSP (minimum support price) and market committees (APMCs) once the farm laws are implemented. The Congress leader said the Maharashtra government wants to pass laws which will be in the interest of farmers. No Shiv Sena leader or minister was seen at the rally, but the farmers’ bodies claimed the ruling party had extended its support to the agitation. The Shiv Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in which the Congress and the NCP are partners. The new agri laws seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Centre's insensitive attitude, indifference to be blamed: Mamata on Delhi violence||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday that the Centre's "insensitive attitude" and indifference towards farmers are to be blamed for the violent protests in Delhi, maintaining that she was deeply disturbed by the situation. Banerjee urged the Centre to engage with the farmers and repeal the new farm laws, which she termed draconian. "Deeply disturbed by worrying and painful developments that have unfolded on the streets of Delhi. Centre's insensitive attitude and indifference towards our farmer brothers and sisters has to be blamed for this situation," she tweeted. A tractor march meant to highlight farmers' demands dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Banerjee said, "First, these laws were passed without taking farmers in confidence. And then despite protests across India and farmers camping near Delhi for last 2 months, they've (Centre) been extremely casual in dealing with them." "Centre should engage with the farmers and repeal the draconian laws," she added. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged that the Delhi Police attacked the farmers without any provocation. "This shows the unsympathetic attitude of the BJP government to the problems faced by the small and marginal farmers," he said. Senior CPI(M) leader Md Salim said, "Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are responsible for today's turn of events for their unresponsive attitude to the justified demands of the farmers." He said the Left will continue to be on the side of the agitating farmers. State BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee said that no disrespect should be shown to the national flag. "However, it has to be found out if there was any provocation from any quarter for such an act," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Soil from homes to build Birsa statue||Trinamul leaders in Bankura have started a drive to collect soil from the courtyard of tribal families in the district for a statue of Birsa Munda that the ruling party had decided to build after Union home minister Amit Shah in November garlanded that of an anonymous tribal hunter mistaking that to be that of the tribal freedom fighter’s. The Trinamul started the collection drive from the home of Bibhishan Hansda, the tribal villager who had hosted Shah for lunch at his Chaturdihi village home in Burdwan in November. “We had promised to erect a statue of Birsa Munda near Poabagan, where the statue of the hunter was garlanded by the Union home minister Amit Shah. We will visit houses of each tribal people in our district and collect a handful of soil from every home. We will also inform them how the BJP had insulted their hero," said Shyamal Santra, a minister of state and Bankura Trinamul president. The tribal freedom fighter, religious leader and folk hero suddenly assumed centre stage in the battle between Trinamul and the BJP ever since Shah paid floral tribute to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter, which the BJP had identified as Munda’s statue. While the faux pas by Shah drew sharp criticism from tribal organisations, the state BJP tried to bluff it out. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that the party considered the statue of the anonymous hunter as that of the tribal icon because Shah had paid floral tributes to it. Around that time, Trinamul announced that the party would help set up a 20-foot-tall concrete statue of Munda as early as possible. Trinamul leaders said the drive to collect soil from tribal households in the district would help the party connect with the tribal community. “We will collect soil in keeping with tribal culture. We have formed at least 200 teams who will visit most of the tribal houses,” said Santra. Mrityunjoy Murmu, the sabhadhipati of Bankura Zilla Parishad, who accompanied the team that visited Bibhishan Hansda’s house on Monday, said: “We took a bamboo container and placed fresh leaves on it to collect the soil. We assured them that the soil of their courtyard will be used in making the statue,” said Murmu. “I am glad that the soil of my courtyard will be used to erect Birsa Bhagwan’s statue. I am not a political person but will I be happy if a statue of our hero is set up,” said Bibhishan. BJP leaders in Bankura scoffed at the Trinamul’s “gimmick”. “Tribal people have already decided to overthrow the Trinamul in the coming Assembly polls. Trinamul’s gimmick will not work,” said Vivekananda Patra, BJP’s Bankura president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee flays hecklers and 'Bharat Jalao Party'||Mamata Banerjee on Monday lambasted attempts at “teasing” her with Jai Shri Ram chants by some in the audience at the BJP-led Centre’s supposedly apolitical event on Saturday to honour Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his birth anniversary. “Tell me, my mothers and sisters, if you invite me over for a meal at your home, would you call me and then tell me that you will give me one tight slap, that I should get out of your home? Would you ever do that? That is not our tradition, not our courtesy, not our decency,” said Mamata, at a party event in Hooghly’s Pursurah, in her first public reaction to the heckling. Hecklers on Saturday used the chant — turned into an aggressive political slogan by the saffron ecosystem over decades — to greet the chief minister when she was asked to address the event at Victoria Memorial in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Not once was the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan heard after she spoke, making it clear the intent was only to heckle her. She branded the BJP as a marauding horde of bohiragawto (outsiders), expanding its acronym as “Bharat Jalao (Burn India) Party”. She accused the saffron camp of having added Netaji, a foremost national hero with near-divine status in Bengal, to the list of icons the BJP has “insulted” while trying to appropriate them. “Netaji is everybody’s leader. Every single person’s, across the country. Even for many across the world…Such audacity! A handful of the gordho gaddar (asinine traitors)…ugro (acrid), gordho (asinine), dhormandho (zealots). They were teasing me. Sitting right in front of the country’s Prime Minister…They do not know me,” added the Trinamul chief. As the Centre’s Netaji event was allowed to be painted with saffron politics, Mamata declined to speak there to protest against its politicisation. Modi did not react to the heckling of the chief minister then or later. In his speech, he tried to associate Netaji with his government’s activities and highlighted Bose’s Hindu identity while omitting his secular credentials. Not only have political rivals Left Front and Congress come forward in support of Mamata, so have eminent members of the civil society such as Netaji’s kin, eminent historian Sugata Bose. Mamata on Monday said the hecklers did what they did because they didn’t know her well enough. “If some mothers and sisters ask me to come and do their dishes, I would gladly do so…. But if you show me a bandook (gun), I will show you a sindook (chest) full of bandook. I do not believe in guns. I believe in politics. I will ensure a fitting response to this through politics,” she said. Even as sections within the BJP — relatively aware of the state’s sensibility — came forward criticising the chanting at the Netaji event, members of various Sangh parivar outfits claimed there was nothing wrong with the chant at the event and mocked Mamata for her alleged aversion to the name of Ram. On Monday, Mamata returned fire. “Had you, instead, shouted “Netaji, Netaji”, I would have done nothing but saluted you, respectfully. Instead, what you did, you insulted Bengal, you insulted Netaji,” she said. A Trinamul MP said Mamata would highlight the differences between the philosophy of Netaji and that of the BJP, pointing out it was an ideological descendant of Syama Prasad Mookerjee, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and founder of (BJP’s predecessor) Bharatiya Jana Sangh. A city-based historian said that on May 12, 1940, Netaji famously said in Jhargram: “The Hindu Mahasabha has deployed sannyasis and sannyasins with tridents in their hands to beg for votes. At the very sight of tridents and saffron robes, Hindus bow their heads in reverence. By taking advantage of religion, and desecrating it, the Hindu Mahasabha has entered the arena of politics. It is the duty of all Hindus to condemn it…. Banish these traitors from national life. Don’t listen to them.” The historian also quoted from Mookerjee’s autobiographical writings, Leaves from a Diary. “Mookerjee wrote: ‘Subhas once warned me in a friendly spirit, adding significantly, that if we proceeded to create a rival political body in Bengal he would see to it, by force if need be, that it was broken before it was really born. This I considered to be a most unfair and unreasonable attitude to take up’,” the historian said. Mamata had a message to potential defectors — that those looking to desert the party for the BJP before polls should do so immediately. “Soon, they would all want back in, but they will never be allowed again…. The ones leaving know that they failed the people and would be denied candidature by the party anyway,” said Mamata at Hooghly, a district where the ruling party is a bitterly divided house. The BJP has been eyeing Hooghly to engineer large-scale defections before the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||2,000 people gathered at Plassey to protest against Centre’s citizenship matrix||Around 2,000 people gathered in Nadia’s Plassey on Monday to raise their voice against the Centre’s citizenship matrix, the protest coming in the backdrop of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state later this week and the growing demand among Matuas for the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. A large number of villagers cutting across political lines had formed the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Manch last year to hold continuous demonstration in Plassey’s Phulbagan against the CAA and express solidarity with the protest in New Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh. The Phulbagan protest had to be withdrawn following the outbreak of Covid-19 last year. However, the protesters returned to the same place on Monday to iterate their demand of scrapping the CAA as well as the National Population Register (NPR). “On January 25 last year, we had launched the sit-in demonstration similar to the one at Shaheen Bagh. But the pandemic compelled us to suspend it. Today a year later, we are far from reaching our goal of complete and unconditional withdrawal of the controversial citizenship matrix. On the anniversary of the launch of our demonstration, we have come back to the venue to protest against the act as it appears the Centre is on the verge of implementing the CAA before the Assembly polls,” said Kamaluddin Sekh, a member of the platform. While people like Kamaluddin want the CAA to be scrapped, the BJP in Bengal is facing pressure from the Matuas, lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh, to implement it. However, Shah, while addressing a rally in Assam on Sunday, did not utter a word on implementing the citizenship matrix and is scheduled to visit the Matua stronghold of Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas on January 30. Last year, nearly 2,000 people had begun the demonstration in Plassey, close to the historical mango orchard in the township where the battle against the British was fought 263 years ago. Barely a few kilometres away from the Plassey battleground, where the last independent ruler of Bengal Siraj-Ud-Daulah fought with the British force, Kamal, Salim, Sabia, Swapan, Obiadulla and many like them who took part in last year’s demonstration, joined the day-long protest on Monday. Kamaluddin said: “Shaheen Bagh was a pioneering model of protest against the CAA. We held it in Plassey that reminds us of the courage and determination of Siraj-Ud-Daulah to prevent the British East India Company from ruling Bengal.” Speaking at the meeting on Monday, social worker Mahiuddin Mannan said: “We have returned with our protest to respect our historical legacy. Since Covid has had a huge financial impact on our lives, we are not in a position to continue with the demonstration right now. At the same time, we will take to the streets if the Centre tries to impose the citizenship act.” CPM leader Ainul Haque said: “The Centre should scrap the act and provide citizenship to all based on documents such as voter card and Aadhaar.” Trinamul leader Gulam Kibria Seikh echoed chief minister Mamata Banerjee and said the matrix would not be implemented in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Temporary health cards for now: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said those not getting biometric cards under the state’s Swasthya Sathi free health insurance scheme before polls would get temporary cards to ensure cashless treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh. “We are going to give Swasthya Sathi cards to all residents of the state… Those yet to get the card within this short window will be given a temporary card, which will be converted into smart cards soon. Temporary cards will ensure free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for the family of a beneficiary,” said the chief minister at a party rally in Hooghly’s Pursura on Monday. Mamata, sources said, tried to address a concern among the masses on whether they would get cards ahead of the polls. “The BJP is trying to play politics saying the state would not give cards to all as issuing cards to the beneficiaries was taking some time…The chief minister made it clear that people should not be confused by the BJP’s campaign while announcing that every applicant would get a temporary card,” said a senior bureaucrat. Mamata explained why the state government was unable to issue cards to all applicants. “We are not able to print more than 1.5 lakh biometric cards (even) by deploying the maximum possible number of machines... Those who didn’t get the card within the short time frame should know that the process will continue even after elections (dates) are declared,” Mamata said. Sources said as Swasthya Sathi was a declared scheme, the process of issuing cards to beneficiaries could be carried on even after poll dates are declared. Printing biometric cards in huge numbers is an issue since the state government decided to include 2.5 crore people — earlier left outside the ambit of the scheme — in November. “The scheme earlier covered 7.5 crore people and once the rest 2.5 crore people were added into the list of beneficiaries, it was found that it would be tough to print more than 1.25 lakh cards a day even if we hire all agencies working in the field. Right now, we are printing about 1 lakh cards a day and will try to increase it to 1.25 lakh soon,” said an official. A government report says the state brought in 76.26 lakh people under the scheme since December 1 when Duare Sarkar was launched. By May, all beneficiaries will get cards, an official said. “In all likelihood, election (dates) will be declared by mid-February. The government is trying to issue temporary cards to all applicants under the scheme with cards to the maximum number of people ahead of polls,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Congress, Left agree to keep seats won in 2016||The alliance between the Left Front and the Congress moved a step ahead with the two sides meeting for the second time on Monday and arriving at a seat-sharing consensus on 77 constituencies that either of the two political affiliations had won in the 2016 Assembly polls. “We have decided that the 77 seats will be distributed in the winning ratio of 2016. However, the rest of the 217 seats will be discussed at the next meeting,” said Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya. According to Bhattacharya, the Left Front will field candidates in the 33 seats it had won in the last Assembly elections and the Congress will contest from the 44 constituencies where it had trounced opponents. Although the two sides have moved ahead by clinching a formula on the 77 constituencies, the alliance remains in deep waters as the fate of multiple seats that are considered to be their respective strongholds by the Congress and the Left remains uncertain. “The 77 formula has settled a possible dispute that would have erupted over the Baghmundi seat in Purulia district. However, what will happen to the rest of the seats is a big question,” a Left Front leader said. Nepal Mahato of the Congress had won the Baghmundi seat in 2016. However, Baghmundi is believed to be a traditional bastion of Left Front constituent Forward Bloc that had fielded a candidate against Mahato in 2016. “We are okay with Nepal Mahato contesting from Baghmundi again,” a Bloc leader said. “But will Congress be accommodating in other seats that we consider as our stronghold? That is the question.” Sources in the Congress said they would stick to their demand of 130 seats. In the first meeting between the two political forces, the Congress had demanded that it be allowed to contest from 130 out of the 294 seats. The next meeting is scheduled for January 28, where the Left parties and the Congress will have to reach an agreement on who will contest from the remaining 217 seats, as both the parties want to finalise the seat sharing by the end of this month. CPM politburo member Mohd Salim on Monday said the alliance might accommodate Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front. Siddiqui, a Pirzada or spiritual leader from Furfura Sharif in Hooghly district, has recently floated his own political front. Since Siddiqui has been in talks with All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi for an alliance in Bengal, sources in the CPM said there was room for Siddiqui in the front only if he snapped ties with Owaisi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||AIMIM eyes minorities and Dalits in Malda ||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) held its first public meeting in north Bengal on Monday and sought to counter the narrative that the party was the B-team of the BJP. Mohammad Majid Hossain, a former mayor of Hyderabad and the party’s observer for Bengal, addressed the meeting at the Hathkhola ground in Samsi near Ratua. He accused other political parties, including the BJP, of betraying minority and Dalit voters. Hossain indicated that the AIMIM would contest in almost all Assembly seats in Malda, including Habibpur and Gazole where the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes decide the poll results. “Those who got elected on Congress, Trinamul and Left tickets in Bengal have defected to the BJP. None from our party went to the BJP. In all five seats which we recently won in Bihar, the BJP and other NDA constituents were defeated,” said Hossain as he sought to dismiss charges that the AIMIM was playing second fiddle to the BJP. That Asaduddin Owaisi’s party bracketed minorities and Dalits showed that it was banking on both the communities. “In Malda, votes of the minority community matter in at least eight of 12 Assembly seats. There are a couple of other seats where Dalit votes are decisive,” said an observer. While the AIMIM kicked off its poll campaign on Monday — Owaisi had earlier said it would field candidates in minority-dominated districts of Bengal, Furfura-Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, who had announced formation of the Indian Secular Front last week, will reach the district on Tuesday. According to sources, Siddiqui will attend two religious programmes at Jalalpur and Bamangram in Kaliachak, the areas where Muslims constitute around 90 per cent of voters. “Both are religious programmes. Even then, he might speak on the upcoming elections and other issues,” said one of the organisers. Trinamul couldn’t win a single seat in Malda in the 2016 Assembly elections or the Lok Sabha polls in 2014 and 2019. “This time, Trinamul is giving special focus to Malda as its leaders think minority votes in its favour can swing its fortune. But if forces like the AIMIM and the ISF plunge into the poll fray, it would put pressure on Trinamul,” said an observer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will be in the Malda district next month. BJP national president J.P. Nadda is scheduled to reach the district in the first week of February and Union home minister Amit Shah might come at the end of the next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Kamtapur Liberation Organisation victims hold dharna in Jalpaiguri||Members of around 14 families which had lost several people in attacks by the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation held a dharna outside the Jalpaiguri superintendent of police’s office here on Monday demanding jobs. The demonstration was held while engagement letters were being delivered to 127 former KLO militants and linkmen to work as special homeguards. A senior police officer said the 127 belonged to different places in Jalpaiguri district. After Mamata Banerjee had become the chief minister in 2011, around 550 ex-KLO militants and linkmen were recruited as special homeguards in Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The recruitment drive to rehabilitate them was considered as a major move by the Trinamul government to woo Rajbanshi voters. “We thank the chief minister for providing us with jobs. We faced apathy and atrocities during the Left Front rule and our demand was never heeded. All of us will stand by the chief minister and her party in the upcoming elections. We will felicitate her during her next visit to the region,” said Jyotish Roy, a former militant, on Monday. The families which held the dharna outside the SP’s office said they were Trinamul supporters and should be given similar jobs. Subhajit Sarkar, one of the demonstrators, said around 40 families in Jalpaiguri had lost their near and dear ones in the KLO attacks. “Most of them were sole bread earners and we have been struggling to run the families for many years. If the former militants and linkmen can be rehabilitated, we should also be provided with similar jobs or assistance so that we can run our families. If required, we will continue our demonstration,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||GNLF to hold public meeting in Darjeeling after three years||The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has decided to hold a public meeting in Darjeeling after a gap of three years with the promise to make it a “rally with a difference”. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF, Darjeeling branch committee, said that the party had last held a public meeting in Darjeeling on January 29, 2018, to commemorate the third death anniversary of their leader Subash Ghisingh. “We are holding a public meeting in Darjeeling on January 31 after a gap of three years and are expecting a footfall of more than 10,000,” said Edwards. On the “rally with a difference”, Edwards said: “We will adopt the servant politician philosophy.” Explaining it, he said party leaders would not be on stage but would be seated among supporters. Also, GNLF leaders are planning to stress on their “vision for Darjeeling” rather than attacking other parties. The meeting at Darjeeling Motor Stand is scheduled at 10am and will start with a musical program with singers and musicians affiliated to the party performing. Mann Ghisingh, the president of GNLF, Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA, Mahendra Chhetri, party general secretary and Edwards would be the keynote speakers at the meeting. Other political parties and particularly two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which are headed by Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang have been holding non-stop meetings in the hills for the past month. GNLF, however, said it does not believe in public meetings. “Instead of lecturing the public, we prefer to spend time visiting people at villages and interacting with them, an exercise we are continuously conducting,” said Edwards. “Nevertheless, in electoral politics, it seems sometimes one has to engage in a show of strength,” he added. Stressing on person-to-person interaction, Edwards said that the Darjeeling public meeting would not be followed by public meetings in Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik, as is the norm with other political parties. “Moreover we do not have huge funds to hold back-to-back public meetings,” said Edwards. The party, which was the dominant force in hill politics from 1986 to 2008, is now trying to come up with a new image with a new set of leadership. The BJP counts it among its hill allies. Many in the hills believe that in the present political atmosphere the majority of the hill people are silent in their preference. “Our focus will be to reach the ‘silent majority’,” said Edwards. “We are also looking at mobilising more people from Darjeeling town.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||Active  cases drop to 6,151||Bengal on Monday logged 417 Covid-19 recoveries, 252 new infections and seven deaths, including three from Calcutta. Bengal has 6,151 active cases now, down from 37,190 on Dashami 91 days ago. The state’s recovery rate has risen for 94 consecutive days to touch 97.14. The national rate is 96.68. Bengal now has over 5.68 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 5.52 lakh recoveries and 10,122 deaths. Its positive confirmation rate is 7.24 per cent now, improving from 8.27 per cent 66 days ago. “We are now ninth among states with highest positive confirmation rates and will drop out of the top 10 in days,” a minister said. The state attributed 8,496 deaths or 83.9 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. The minister pointed out a relative increase in deaths of patients with hypertension as comorbidity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||West Bengal||7kg silver ornaments seized from Bangladesh border||The BSF seized over 7kg of silver ornaments from the Bangladesh border near Kaliachak on Sunday night while a group of people was about to smuggle the jewellery into the neighbouring country. The smugglers left behind the bag containing 249 pieces of jewelleries and escaped when the 44 Battalion of the BSF tried to intercept them. After receiving a tip-off, the BSF was keeping vigil along the frontier in the Chowki-Alipur area. The 249 pieces of jewelleries weigh 7.13kg and cost Rs 5.16 lakh. According to BSF sources, it is rare that jewelleries are smuggled into Bangladesh through the Malda border. Arms seizure Police seized two firearms and 10 rounds of live cartridges from Uttar Narayanpur village in the South Dinajpur district on Sunday night. The raid was conducted after two groups of Trinamul supporters had clashed at the village on January 19. Two party workers had died in the clash. Debarshi Dutta, the district police chief, told newspersons at Balurghat on Monday that the law enforcers were in search of illegal firearms as Sanjit Sarkar, one of the deceased, had died from gunshot. A carbine and nine rounds of cartridge were seized from the house of Alok Das, the brother of Suman Das who is accused of shooting Sanjit. A pipe-gun and one round of live cartridge were seized from the house of Nanigopal Roy, another resident of the village. Roy has been arrested. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-221
26-01-2021||North East||Congress contests Shah’s claims on influx, flood||The Congress on Monday went all out to punch holes in Union home minister Amit Shah’s assertion that only the BJP could help free Assam from infiltration and flood. PCC president Ripun Bora, citing figures from a release by the Press Information Bureau on Rajya Sabha questions, said that in nine years between 2005 and 2013 under the UPA rule, 82,728 illegal Bangladeshis were deported from the country, while the figure was only 1,822 in four years between 2014 and 2017 under the NDA government. An average of 9,192 illegal Bangladeshis were deported annually under the UPA regime against 415 under the NDA rule, according to the data. According to the figures cited by Bora, the highest (14,916) were deported under the UPA regime in 2005 and the lowest (5,234) in 2013. Under the Narendra Modi-led NDA government, the highest (989) were deported in 2014 and the lowest (51) in 2017. Shah had on Sunday made a strong pitch for a second straight term at Dispur for the ruling BJP to “make” Assam “free” from infiltration, flood, corruption, terrorism and pollution. Shah had said at a rally in Nalbari: “Please tell me can the Congress and Badruddin Ajmal stop infiltrators? They will allow infiltrators to come in because they are their vote bank. Only the Narendra Modi-led BJP government can free Assam from infiltrators.”Assam goes to polls in April-May. Countering Shah, Bora said the figures speak for themselves. “As far as Assam is concerned, the state government has said they have deported only four illegal Bangladeshis in the last four years! And Union home minister Amit Shah asserts it is only BJP that can only free Assam from infiltrators! The BJP as usual is misleading the people of Assam as it has always done,” he said. Bora wanted to know from Shah the fate of the National Register of Citizens, an important tool for checking influx and why was the Citizenship (Amendment) Act “imposed” in “violation” of the 1985 Assam Accord, which had fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners. The CAA, on the other hand, makes it easier for non-Muslims who entered India from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan till December 2014 to gain Indian citizenship. “The NRC was completed last year. Can the home minister tell us what are they doing for its implementation? He was the one who had proudly said all ghuspetiyas (infiltrators numbering over 40 lakh) will be expelled after declaration of the first updated draft. The final list saw the exclusion of over 19 lakh. But till now nothing has happened. “The rejection slips have also not been issued so that the excluded could move the foreigners tribunals to prove their citizenship” Bora said. Flagging the CAA issue, Bora said: “You claim you are the only party that could check influx but with the CAA you have rolled out the red carpet for infiltrators, putting in danger the culture and language of the Assamese!” The Congress also tried to expose the chinks in Shah’s assertion on checking the devastating floods that visit Assam every year and leave in its wake a trail of destruction, something which the state government cannot tackle without central assistance. “It has come to light from a CAG report that the flood relief package was reduced by 60 per cent in the last six years. Moreover, between 2014 and 2020, states received between Rs 400 crore and 13,000 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund. But Assam, which suffers floods every year, received only Rs 284.93 crore in 2019-20. And the BJP asserts it can solve the flood problem. How can it check floods by curtailing funds?” Bora asked. The Congress also castigated Shah for branding it communal for tying up with the Indian Union Muslim League in Kerala and the AIUDF in Assam. “Neither the Constitution nor the Election Commission has branded these two parties as communal. Can the BJP explain why it tied up with the PDP in Jammu and Kashmir, a party which declared Afzal Guru (convicted for the 2001 Parliament attack) as a martyr?” he asked. Shah had referred to the IUML as the Muslim League. “If the Congress and the AIUDF are communal, then why is the BJP running zila parishads in several districts, including Darrang and Nagaon, with the help of the AIUDF? “The BJP is always trying to mislead and polarise voters along communal lines, deploy a divide and rule policy but the people of Assam have seen through this and have already made up their mind to vote out it out,” Bora said. On Shah’s assertion that the government was alive to issues confronting the tea community, including daily wage, Bora asked what was the government doing to accord Scheduled Tribe status to the tea tribes and five other communities of the state. Senior Congress leader Pradyut Bordoloi said a “Lakshman rekha” has been drawn for all the constituents of the six-party grand alliance, including the AIUDF. “We will not tolerate anybody crossing the line even if it is the AIUDF,” Bordoloi said in reference to a purported communal statement made by AIUDF chief Ajmal during a public rally last week. Bora said nobody should issue any statement that could hurt the sentiments of others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
26-01-2021||Opinion||Roller coaster: volatile stock markets||The stock markets have turned excessively volatile in the past few days. The sensex crossed a 50,000 point threshold last Thursday before tumbling by over 1,800 points in two subsequent trading sessions, raising serious questions about whether retail investors have the stomach for such a violent roller-coaster ride. They have been through this before: between mid-January and end-March last year, the market capitalization of the Bombay Stock Exchange sank by almost 30 per cent to Rs 113.48 trillion as the Narendra Modi government ordered a severe lockdown to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The markets have bounced back since — largely front-running the government’s commentary on the pace of the economic recovery — and the market capitalization of the BSE has since surged to Rs 194.35 trillion. For the first time ever, the putative value of the 4,722 companies listed on Dalal Street is almost equal to the size of the Indian economy. Earlier this month, the National Statistical Office had projected that the nominal gross domestic product would shrink by 4.2 per cent to Rs 194.82 trillion this year. What explains this sense of euphoria in a handful of company stocks when the rest of the economy remains in the doldrums? There is a strong suggestion that an asset price bubble is starting to build up in equities as the market mavens bet heavily on a strong economic recovery this year. This implies that there is a need to brace for bouts of correction as investors scoop out profits with every surge in the front-line indices. Several brokerages believe that bullish sentiment has peaked although they are still playing down the likelihood of bear market risks over the next year. Bellwether stocks of the leading companies have been rising as they start to post strong quarterly earnings but it would be facile to suggest that this is in any way indicative of the overall health of India Inc. Back in September, a panel appointed by the Reserve Bank of India had identified 26 stressed sectors in the economy with retail and wholesale trade, roads, textiles and engineering among the hardest hit. The latest financial stability report put out by the central bank suggested that gross bad loans could surge from 7.5 per cent to 13.5 per cent by September 2021. Such dire prognostications do not augur well for the trajectory of the market indices that will wobble every time bad news washes over the bourses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Important legacy: Larry King no more||Sir — The demise of Larry King — the talk-show titan known for having interviewed eminent personalities from all walks of life — marks the end of an era. King hosted CNN’s Larry King Live for 25 years and was a great listener and a fair interviewer. He was unbiased and did not take sides politically; his subjects could thus speak openly about their lives on camera. As news media become more and more politically motivated, there is much to learn from newsmakers like King, who was fair and ethical in his approach and allowed his guests to speak their minds. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Steady decline Sir — There is no doubt that creativity is under assault in India (“Screens on fire”, Jan 22). The web series, Tandav, a political thriller with startling resemblances to recent events in the country, is the latest film in the cross hairs with several first information reports having been filed against the makers. It is unfortunate that the people involved have been forced to issue an apology and scenes have had to be snipped in order to appease a certain section of society. One of the most commonly used excuses for policing art by the Hindu-right has been that of hurt religious sentiments. This is deeply disappointing. Censorship of content on such subjective grounds is a serious offence against cinematic art. International platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney Hotstar have been able to explore uncharted territory in Indian entertainment because they have, so far, been free from governmental control and rigid censorship of content unlike films produced for theatrical release. People must understand that some of the content on these platforms is meant for an adult audience, who have the freedom to choose what they want to consume. Political leaders in New India often encourage such moral censorship against artists whose work does not fit their agenda. This can only result in an Orwellian control of thought processes. Viewers can always choose to switch off channels if they feel offended by any content in particular. The government must take care not to intervene in matters pertaining to freedom of speech and expression unless it is absolutely necessary. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Since the outbreak of Covid-19, online streaming platforms have become the primary source of entertainment for many people, leading to a massive surge in their user base. The increased use of these platforms has led the government to bring all such services under the purview of the information and broadcasting ministry. The digital media space has been mostly unregulated in India. But a certain degree of regulation is necessary, especially at a time when sensitive videos and fake news can travel far and wide quickly. One hopes the authorities will address the grievances of the consumers in a fair manner. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Party first: 'Jai Shri Ram' at Netaji event||Like the separation of the realms between the proverbial Church and the State, a clear, inviolable line should segregate the government from the party in power in a democracy. Unfortunately, Indian democracy has witnessed the convergence of this line on numerous occasions. The function hosted by the Union ministry of culture at the Victoria Memorial — the prime minister was in attendance — to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, unfortunately, did not prove to be an exception either. A section of the audience started chanting “Jai Shri Ram” — the Bharatiya Janata Party’s signature war cry — when it was the turn of the Bengal’s chief minister to speak, forcing Mamata Banerjee, an invitee, to politely remind the audience of the need to maintain decorum by recognizing the difference between a government programme and an event organized by a political party. During his address, the prime minister did not utter a word about the unacceptable behaviour of the supporters of his party. Silence need not be golden; Narendra Modi’s refusal to condemn this kind of conduct may be interpreted as tacit endorsement. Indeed, in the course of his address, Mr Modi did not hesitate to draw specious parallels between Bose — one of the tallest icons of poll-bound Bengal — and the achievements of his government, adding a distinct political flavour to an occasion that, probity demanded, remain apolitical. Of course, the ambitious BJP is not the only violator of such ethics. Ruling parties in India have always used their leverage to not only exploit public functions but also institutions and even constitutional offices for political gain. The sorry spectacle of governors chirping the tune of the government of the day is a case in point. Under the BJP’s watch, the integrity of some of democracy’s other minders — the media are an example — has been compromised, turning these institutions into cheerleaders of the party in power. The perverse compulsions of competitive politics offer an explanation of this erosion, the consequences of which can be fatal for a democracy. The resultant hegemony — political and cultural — leads to the silencing of dissenting voices that, too, are integral to the template of democracy. Intimidation and the worrying blurring of boundaries between government and party, history would show, has coincided with authoritarian regimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Climate change: from Paris to Glasgow||The Paris climate agreement completed five years recently. One can still remember Prakash Javadekar, India’s environment minister, saying, “All our demands have been met; we are going to call a press conference soon.” About half an hour after, a sulking Javadekar admitted at that press conference that India had accepted the agreement in the larger global interest despite its demands not being fully met. Javadekar’s flip-flop reflects the ‘success’ of the Paris agreement. The agreement was a first-of-its-kind legally-binding emission cut document encompassing all countries. But its decision to permit a five-year emission holiday to major countries — the emission cut began in 2020 — was criticized. Moreover, the extent of the cuts was to be voluntarily decided by the nations themselves. Five years down the line, global reports have pointed out that the world is still on course for a three-degree temperature rise by the end of this century with the industrialization era temperature as the benchmark. The Paris treaty had clearly stated that the temperature rise should be kept limited to two degrees, or even 1.5 degree if possible, if the world is to survive climatic impacts in the long term. The alarm bell has started to ring, from the Sunderbans to San Francisco. In the Sunderbans, one of the poorest regions in India, millions are at risk on account of a combination of high- intensity cyclones and a record rise in sea levels. San Francisco, home to those with arguably some of the highest salaries in the world, has more than 20,000 households and 13 miles of highway at risk of permanent inundation due to sea-level rise. Clearly the risk, albeit buffered by varying patterns of resilience, is universal. Already, Covid-19 has shown that the world can be brought to its knees by a microscopic virus: climate change can do a lot worse. The Paris agreement in its present form is not good enough to save the planet from climate change. The world needs to have an improved, pragmatic and expedited agreement to deal with the emergency called climate change. Some countries have announced deeper emission cuts, even zero-emission targets. These should become effective within another three to four decades. But we need to set targets for years, not decades. The global stocktaking of emission reduction should be preponed from 2023 to this year’s Glasgow summit. The prickly issue of historic responsibility concerning emission must be reconsidered; developed economies had forced its deletion from the Paris agreement. The need of the hour is to shift from bigger, dramatic, long-term emission reduction targets to smaller, decentralized ones; let cities and even neighbourhoods have their respective targets that can be embedded in local development planning. Apart from making emission cuts easier, such a mechanism is likely to forge collective ownership and responsibility to combat climate change in a sharp contrast to the current top-down approach. That evening in December in 2015 in Paris put the world on the right path. But the globe has been taking baby steps. It is now time to quicken the pace in Glasgow by setting aside narrow interests and geopolitical divisions so that the world can be saved from destruction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Indian media’s inflection point||Many science historians attribute ‘what goes up must come down’ to Isaac Newton, and this must be running in the minds of the protagonists whose WhatsApp conversations got leaked recently. The conversations revealed India’s new norms in creating influence rents (as some management scholars like Gautam Ahuja and Sai Yayavaram term it in their research). It also gives you a glimpse of how government affairs in today’s India are managed by corporate professionals evoking Old India’s Niira Radia tapes. These leaks also come in 2021, just when a global data privacy policy shift of WhatsApp saw millions in India alone switch to Telegram and Signal, forcing WhatsApp to stall the shift for the time being. It also displayed that as potential ‘information autocracies’ flourish and perpetuate, boundary conditions emerge as leaks, ultimately reaffirming the Newtonian hypotheses. The leaks are not in their structural character either new or unexpected, especially to economists and political scientists who study information autocracies. Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman discuss them in their 2019 Journal of Economic Perspectives article citing many cross-country examples, among others, Alberto Fujimori’s imagocracy (as they called it in Peru), perpetuated through State-sponsored manipulation of compromised media using the facilities of chief operating officers (if one can call them that) like Vladimiro Montesinos of the Fujimori regime. The Wikipedia page on Montesinos talks about Vladi-Videos and reminds us how in September 2000, Peruvian television broadcasted a video of him bribing an Opposition Congressman, Alberto Kouri, to support Perú 2000, Fujimori’s party. The video caused Fujimori’s remaining support to collapse. He accepted the resignation of Montesinos. He then announced the dissolution of the National Intelligence Service in Peru and went for new elections, in which he would not run. Shortly thereafter, Montesinos sought political asylum in Panama. In the following months, some of the most infamous Vladi-Videos were released showing various amounts of bribes with varying purposes across many channels. It is unclear if India’s own Vladi-Videos moment, albeit in the era of social media, involved money or would result in repercussions. What is clear is that trust, which was at an all-time low in India preceding the pandemic, would suffer even deeper cuts. Large sections of the Indian population today feel left out, be they farmers, migrants, minorities and young students, not to mention the citizens of Kashmir. A depleting economic future reaffirmed by morbid GDP figures further darkens this situation. Amidst all this, the current government has also decided to engage in vaccine nationalism and hubris, permitting the launch of inadequately tested vaccines at the expense of its already stressed out healthcare workers. The leaks could hence be a small ripple in India’s world of blood, sweat and tears. But one thing is clear; this could be an inflection point for the compromised cohorts within the Indian media and their role in protecting the already manipulated and wilting Indian democracy, which seems to be on its way to becoming an imagocracy. Writing in 2004 in their Journal of Economic Perspectives paper, John McMillan and Pablo Zoido asked the question as to which of the democratic checks and balances — Opposition parties, the judiciary, a free press — is the most forceful? They used the Peruvian example and quantified the checks using the bribe prices. Montesinos, they found, paid a television channel owner about 100 times what he paid a judge or a politician. “By revealed preference, the strongest check on the government’s power was the news media,” concluded McMillan and Zoido. While the monetary implications from the WhatsApp leaks and other related transactions may remain unknown, these are certainly going to be a statement on India’s media ecosystem, be it television, social media or text messaging platforms. New equilibriums are expected to emerge with evolving tastes in privacy and related preferences hereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||New possibilities||History constantly forms constellations of circumstances. Within the constant of these ever-changing constellations roils the constant of human struggle, first for survival and then for that thing called happiness, which one could perhaps call enhanced survival or, to use current jargon, value-added existence. What the luckier among us almost always fail to perceive — or, if they do see it, too easily suspend the understanding of — is the fact that most humans want the best possible life for themselves and their loved ones right now and not at some speculative, deferred moment in a ‘later on’ that no one has ever seen. This is where the greed-crazed impatience of capitalism is predicated on constantly convincing the poor and underprivileged to be patient and more patient, to stick within the laws laid down for them, to play by the rules they have not made, to not revolt, not be violent, not make demands. This convincing is managed via an ever-shifting array of confidence tricks which employ everything from nationalism and religion to pseudo-scientific theory and the blinding flashes of new technologies. This much was more or less mapped out in the 19th century by Karl Marx. Among the very few major things he did not see coming was the devastating impact human technology and mass consumption would have on the very vital organs of this planet. Recently we’ve seen various efforts at changing the lenses through which we look at history. People have taken periods with which we are familiar and put different grids and narratives on them, accordioned them differently in their analyses. For example, there are articles explicating how Donald Trump is only the worst irruption so far of the unholy alliance that the Republican Party formed with right-wing Christian fundamentalists a few decades ago, with far worse still likely to come. Then there is the whole examination of how modern European and American democracies came about. The argument goes that these democracies were something that the countries of the Occident needed to create or expand in order to contain the internal reverberations of the Industrial Revolution and modern capitalism, as a domestic counter-balance to the empires they were imposing on other parts of the world. Now that manufacturing has been outsourced to other parts of the world, a domestic working class that genuinely participates in the process of democracy is an irrelevancy in America-UK-Europe; governments that protect the rights of these workers are an impediment to profit and the maintenance of control; it is now much more advantageous to hollow out democracy and the sharing of power and decision-making processes, and move to an international network of oligarchies that control things regardless of archaic national borders. The models of democracy that we’ve become used to in the last 70 or 80 years are, or were, essentially 20th-century phenomena that are now rapidly petering out. A third Rubik’s Cubing is specific to India, with writers such as Vinay Sitapati suggesting that had Godse not murdered Gandhi, we would have had a Hindutvavadi regime in power much earlier. Sitapati’s argument is that a Hindutva raj was always on the cards but the huge revulsion that people felt towards the killers of Gandhi actually gave the Congress (and the essentially elite notion of a secular nation) a much longer lease of life than could have been expected. Thinking out of the box is always useful. One may agree or disagree with the various new modellings of our recent past, and with the conjectures and speculations about the future these modellings lead to, but perhaps the thing to borrow from these is the ability to think and say things previously regarded as unthinkable or unsayable. Perhaps history will see what is going on in the United States of America as a series of low-level, criss-crossing civil wars, between Caucasians and people of colour, between coast and interior, between the urban and the rural, civil wars that last the best part of a century from, say, 1960, after which the ‘United States’ that emerge are unrecognizable as the nation that existed from 1776 for nearly 200 years. Perhaps this transformation from megalith ‘country’ to a loose north American federation will also be accompanied by the disintegration of Russia and China as we know them now, rendering the very idea of superpowers archaic. Were this to happen, it is highly unlikely that our subcontinent would continue to stay distributed under the current national dispensations. Perhaps future historians will look back and see that the formation of nations in 1947 was but a phase that followed the departure of the British from our shores, a period of pomp and mass self-delusion, complete with Republic Day parades, rampant jingoism, periodic wars and constant, fevered sabre-rattling, but one that could not outlast the tectonic pressures of history, of the grotesque ethnic, religious and political tribalisms unleashed by the competing elites who had captured control of the different countries. They may also conclude that it was the ecological disasters this politics helped create that finally wiped away our coastlines and electric-fenced borders with impartial ferocity. Furthermore, they might arrive at the reading that had even one or two of these post-colonial nations managed to give genuine power to their masses and established an equitable society, this might not have happened so easily. Obviously, looking at our past differently also enables us to see new possibilities in our future. However, examining darker new takes on our history doesn’t mean we need to paint what is yet to come with the same darkness and pessimism. National borders may well be rendered less relevant in the near future but it might not be a small cabal of virtual trillionaires that controls the lives of the humans on the planet. One can imagine perhaps a less streamlined contraption of a network, a far less oppressive, far more egalitarian jugaad that replaces the tatters of the old Westphalian model. In this time, when we are being bombarded with so much that was previously unimaginable, we could reasonably conjecture that what we are undergoing is the extremely painful birth-turbulence of the new, perhaps slightly more benign constellations that await us or maybe even ones that we can forge ourselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Army veterans participate in Republic Day run in Dhanbad||Over 50 retired defence service personnel took part in the Veterans India Patriotic run near the Bekar Bandh Park on Tuesday. The event, organised as part of a nationwide programme of the Veteran’s India organisation, began at 10:30 am with hoisting of the national flag. The run took off at 11:30 am, with local children and their families joining it. Dr Pushpal Kumar, in-charge of an ex-Army personnel poly clinic, and his wife Sonal Kumari flagged off the run where some participants ran around the park while the older ones just walked. Vickey Kumar emerged winner, as Aditya Singh and Priyankar Singh bagged the second and third spots respectively. Certificates and sweets were distributed among participants after the event. Talking to The Telegraph Online , Ramesh Prasad, an ex-Indian Air Force personnel, said, “The patriotic run held on Tuesday was quite successful. Around 40 children of the adjoining localities also took part in the contest and we distributed certificates, sweets and chocolates among them.” “Republic Day marks the day when democracy came into existence in our country. So we celebrated the day and apprised the common people and children present during the event about its significance,” former defence personnel RN Mishra. He added that their organisation carries out welfare activities from time to time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Local residents’ policy for jobs soon, says Hemant on R-Day||Chief minister Hemant Soren has said that the state government is committed to ensuring social and economic justice to the people of Jharkhand and is working on a new local resident's policy to reserve 75 per cent jobs for locals. During his address in Dumka after hoisting the Tricolour on the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, Hemant said that the state government had declared 2021 as the year of recruitments. “The real purpose of the Constitution will be achieved when everyone has access to social and economic justice. This government is committed to it,” he declared. “We are working towards a new local residents’ policy to reserve 75 per cent government jobs for locals,” said. Notably, the Raghubar Das government had in 2016 come up with a similar policy which was then criticised by JMM and others in the Opposition for being “pro-outsiders”. Stressing on filling vacant positions in the administration, he said, “We have come up with Jharkhand Combined Civil Services Examination rules for the first time in many decades so that different recruitment agencies can now conduct round-the-year recruitment tests.” For residents of Dumka, Hemant promised them a state-of-the-art convention centre. “It will serve as an integrated platform for artistes for promotion of local arts,” he said, adding that a 500-bed hospital would also be ready soon. In his 40-minute speech, Hemant said that women’s safety was always a key priority for his government. “We have set up a centralized 181 helpline integrating police, ambulance and other services for women's help,” he said, adding that in every district Sakhi centres for the rescued and rehabilitation c women were currently operational. Chief minister also spoke of how his government had walked the extra mile to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and at the same time fight financial crunch to fulfil many of the poll promises made to voters. “Our covid management has been one of the best in the country,” he said. Hemant also cited the launch of the Marang Gomke Scholarship Scheme to send select students to foreign countries for higher studies and farm loan waivers as some of the key achievements of his government. In Ranchi, governor Droupadi Murmu hoisted the Tricolour at Morabadi ground amid a gathering of 3,000 people. The Republic Day function at Morabadi was without the usual cultural programme and Prabhat Pheri. Only 10 platoons of state police and para military forces took part in a parade. Murmu appealed to the public to take a vow to stand united to safeguard the constitutional values of the nation. “Let’s everyone come together and stay united to fight against social evils and issues of terrorism, crime, etc for a better society and nation,” she said. Later, Hemant called on Murmu at Raj Bhavan as is the custom every Republic Day. But this year, the annual beating retreat at Governor House was also cancelled due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Youth dies on the spot after trailer rams eatery ||A 28-year-old man was killed on spot as a speeding trailer rammed into an eatery, near which he was standing, on Kalimati Road under Sakchi Thana area, on Monday at around 11 pm. Five bikes were also damaged as the driver of the trailer, loaded with iron goods, lost control over his vehicle and rammed into the crowded Pappu Hotel, a popular food joint near the Sakchi Gurudwara. The deceased youth, who is yet to be identified, waiting outside the restaurant for a parcel of food when the accident happened. His body was sent for postmortem by the police to the MGM Medical College Hospital mortuary. “A 28-year-old youth was killed on impact by a speeding trailer that rammed into an eater along the Kalimati Road. The heavy vehicle also damaged five vehicles parked in front of the eatery,” Sakchi Police Station officer-in-charge Kunal Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The driver of the truck immediately tried to flee the spot but the staff of the eatery as well as the customers got hold of him. The agitated crowd beat him up and partially destroyed his vehicle before the police intervened. Kumar said they had subjected him to an alcohol test at the medical college. “We had taken the driver into custody and subjected him to an alcohol test, but it was tested negative at the medical college hospital.  We are now looking into whether there was any mechanical failure in the trailer,” he said. The driver has been arrested and his vehicle has been seized, while the damaged bikes have also been taken to the police station. Social activist Putul Singh, whose son’s bike has been damaged in the accident, blamed the police for it. She demanded that the administration should mend the damaged vehicles themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad splashes R-Day colours of joy||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||72nd Republic Day celebrations across state||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 60 per cent of its vaccination target, 18,422 vaccinated so far||At least 18,422 people have been administered the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand so far, helping the state achieve 60 per cent of its vaccination target, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed on Monday. As many as 30,831 people were registered for the vaccination at various centres across the state, but more than 12,000 of them did not turn up at the designated places to get the Covishield shots, NHM stated in a report released on Monday night. At least five districts – Ranchi, Ramgarh, Palamu, Giridih and Bokaro have achieved more than 70 per cent of their respective vaccination targets in Jharkhand so far. Palamu led in terms of vaccination by administering Covishield shots to 79 per cent of the 1321 beneficiaries there. Of the 1924 beneficiaries registered for vaccination in Ranchi, 1342 got the shots – the highest among the 24 districts in the state. On Monday, the government vaccinated as many as 3616 of the 6740 people registered for vaccination, thereby achieving 54 per cent of its target on the day, NHM stated in a separate report. Ranchi achieved 91 per cent of its vaccination target on the day by administering the Covishield shots to 362 of 400 registered beneficiaries. While most of the people vaccinated in Jharkhand did not complain of any side effects, as many as 171 beneficiaries complained of minor adverse effects after getting the Covishield shots, NHM highlighted in its figures. At least 127 of the 171 people who complained of adverse effects following immunization were residents of Ranchi, NHM stated. However, doctors said that no major cases of adverse effects following immunization were reported in the state and the ones who complained of side effects gradually attained stability. The vaccination programme began in Jharkhand on January 16 and 3200 people were vaccinated on the day at 48 centres across the tribal state. Meanwhile, as many as 74 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day and 122 patients recovered. As per government data, the number of active cases of infection dropped to 772 on the day. Ranchi accounted for 43 of the 74 cases reported in Jharkhand, while East Singhbhum reported seven cases. No other district reported a double-digit-spike in cases on the day. However, a patient in Ranchi died during treatment, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 1064.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||Highway blocked over mishap death in Latehar district||Protesters blocked National Highway 39 in Latehar district of Jharkhand for over two hours on Monday following the death of a five-year-old girl in a road accident on Sunday night. A truck from Bihar carrying potatoes had run over Anjali Kumari, 5, daughter of Manika resident Sanjay Ram, at around 8.30pm on Sunday. The road is usually crowded as it passes near the main market and the Manika block office. The highway links Jharkhand with Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “The girl had died on the spot. When her body was given to the relatives around 12.30pm on Monday after post-mortem at the Latehar Sadar Hospital, protesters sat along NH 39 and refused to budge even after the best of efforts. They were demanding adequate compensation for the parents of the girl. We arranged to pay them Rs 10,000 immediately for the last rites and have assured to pay more as part of the accidental compensation scheme from the owner of the truck,” said Manika block development officer Manoj Tewari. Manika police have managed to apprehend the truck driver, who hails from Bihar, and have also managed to contact vehicle’s owner. “We will arrange to pay the victim’s family more compensation from the owner of the truck,” added Tewari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
26-01-2021||Jharkhand||CMPDI to use drones to spot coal fires||The Central Mines Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI), a subsidiary of Coal India Limited, has started procuring drones that it thinks will help detect spots of underground coal fire more accurately. The CMPDI has already procured a drone that was also test-flown in Ranchi presence of CIL chairman Pramod Agarwal last week and expecting another soon. “Another unit is expected to delivered by mid-March and the total cost involved would be about Rs 4 crore,” informed Shekhar Saran, chairman cum managing director of the CMPDI. “The thermal sensors fitted to the second unit will help detection of spots of underground fire more accurately,” he added. At present, such underground fire spots are detected through remote sensors using satellite images that have less resolution compared to those to be generated through drone, he further informed. “But the drone sensors will help receive thermal data with 1.86-cm pixel resolution that will help more accurate detection of spots where underground fire exists,” he elaborated, adding that would be possible through mapping of thermal anomaly. The high-resolution optical cameras on board the drone will also be used for generating optical images of ortho-photo mosaic of plantation studies, settlement mapping and various other applications, Saran further informed. The drone that was test-flown will help volumetric measurement in case of in-site excavation, overburden dumps, coal stocks etc through its Lider sensors, the CMPDI said, adding that would also be used for estimating height of trees, assessing vegetation and accurate terrain mapping. Lider sensors work on a method for measuring distance by illuminating the target with laser light and measuring the reflection with a sensor. The CMPDI became the second public sector undertaking of the country after Central Warehousing Corporation to receive the Bureau of Indian Standards certification for the anti-bribery management system, the CMD further informed, adding the licence issued will be valid for four years till January 17, 2024 and will be renewed after a detailed review. “We adopted a cashless-faceless-paperless work culture that helped us eliminate any possibility of bribery and earn this prestigious certification,” Saran added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-161
