27-01-2021||Calcutta||Republic Day parade in Calcutta||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
27-01-2021||Calcutta||Fire leaves 12 families homeless on Gurusaday Road ||Around 12 families were left homeless after a garage next to their homes on Gurusaday Road caught fire early on Tuesday. Police said no one was hurt but the shanties were gutted. Four fire tenders were pressed into action amid allegations of delay. People in the neighbourhood alleged that had the fire engines reached the spot earlier, some of the shanties could have been saved. Fire department officials, however, claimed they had not wasted any time after receiving the alert about the fire. Around 5.45am on Tuesday, thick smoke was spotted emanating from a garage at 9 Gurusaday Road. Before anyone could react, the garage was engulfed in flames and the fire had spread to adjoining shanties. The blaze was put out around 8am. “Some inflammable articles inside the garage could have fed the fire. Luckily, no one was inside,” said an officer of Karaya police station. A forensic team will visit the spot to collect samples. A few days ago, a blaze in Bagbazar in north Calcutta had gutted 100 shanties next to the Udbodhan building and left hundreds of people homeless. Elderly woman dies in accident Entally: An elderly woman travelling in an autorickshaw died after she fell off the vehicle following a collision between the auto and a bus. The accident happened on DC Dey Road, near Palmer Bazar, around 7.20am on Tuesday. Police said Lakshmi Dolui, 71, was taken to the NRS Medical College and Hospital, where she was declared dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Calcutta||Prayer for farmers and soldiers||The Sikhs of Calcutta are planning to invite some of the farmers protesting in Delhi for over two months against three farm laws to districts of Bengal and tell the state’s farmers why they are demanding a repeal of the laws, a member of the Calcutta Sikh Sangat said on Tuesday. The Sangat organised a car rally during the day in support of the farmers who are camping at three border points of Delhi. As the farmers in Delhi had decided to hold a tractor rally on Republic Day, the Sikhs in Calcutta, many of them from farmer families, planned to organise a car rally. A  special ardas (prayer) was held for India’s farmers and soldiers at the Behala Gurdwara. “We have been discussing if we can bring some of the farmers who are camping at Delhi’s borders to Bengal. They can explain to farmers in Bengal what they are protesting against and why they are demanding the repeal of the three central farm laws,” said Ajit Singh, the vice-president of Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat in Burrabazar and a member of the Sangat. “They can meet farmers in Burdwan, Hooghly and other districts. They will explain to farmers in Bengal the benefit of minimum support price and how that guarantees income for farmers,” said Singh. The community prayed for the well-being of farmers and soldiers at the Behala Gurdwara. “Ardas is held after a kirtan, during which we pray for something from our Guru. Usually, we pray Sarbat da bhala, which means the well-being of everyone. On Tuesday, we made a special mention for the well-being of our farmers and our soldiers, besides praying for everyone’s well-being,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the general secretary of the gurdwara. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three border points of Delhi and have had several meetings with the Union government. The farmers are firm on their demand that the Centre roll back the farm laws. Ahluwalia said India always raised the slogan Jai Jawan Jai Kisan because soldiers and farmers were valued by the people. “But what have we come to today? We are not valuing our farmers. So many farmers have died while camping in the cold in Delhi. We pray for their good health and so they achieve their rights,” said Ahluwalia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Calcutta||200 cars participate in rally against three farm laws||About 200 cars, almost all with the Tricolour fluttering on them and some with the yellow flag of a farmers union, wound their way through the city on Tuesday in support of the tractor rally in Delhi against three farm laws introduced by the Centre. The organisers wanted to circle around Raj Bhavan, since “the governor is the representative of the Centre in the state”, but were not allowed by police. They went till the East gate of Raj Bhavan and turned right towards the KC Das crossing in Esplanade before heading towards the Dunlop Gurdwara. “There were about 1,000 people in the cars. We shouted slogans. Some carried posters,” said Avtar Singh, who took part in the rally that began from Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road at 12.30pm. “A lot of people from Dunlop and Shyambazar assembled at the Dunlop Gurdwara to lend their support,” said a participant in the rally. Dunlop, like Bhowanipore, has a large number of Sikhs. Singh, who is also general secretary of the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya, said there were about 3,000 Sikhs in Bhowanipore and 5,000 in Dunlop. “Most of us have been living in Calcutta for generations, but we still visit Punjab every two-three months. Many of us still own farmlands in Punjab,” said Ajit Singh, another participant in Tuesday’s rally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Calcutta||Soiled notes ‘discarded’ by temple in Bhowanipore||Soiled currency notes that were found in Kalighat two days ago had been discarded by a temple in Bhowanipore and accidentally reached Kalighat with discarded flowers, police said on Tuesday. A gunny bag stuffed with soiled notes was spotted on Mukherjee Ghat in Kalighat last Sunday when it suddenly caught fire. Police tracked down a rickshaw puller by analysing CCTV footage and found that the man had brought the gunny bag from a temple a few kilometres away in Bhowanipore. “The temple discards flowers offered by devotees twice daily. On Sunday, the rickshaw-puller had mistaken the bag of soiled notes with that of flowers and had taken it for dumping at the ghat,” said an officer of Kalighat police station. The police contacted the temple authorities and found that water had seeped inside one of the donation boxes during Cyclone Amphan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-161
27-01-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 938 points to slip below 47,500 mark||The BSE benchmark Sensex crashed 938 points to slip below the 47,500 mark and the NSE Nifty plunged below the psychological 14,000 level due to rampant selling across counters. Marking its fourth straight session of loss, the Sensex tumbled 937.66 points or 1.94 per cent to settle at 47,409.93 taking the aggregate four-session loss to 2,382.19 points or 4.78 per cent. Intraday, the BSE gauge swung 1,117.65 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty plunged 271.40 points or 1.91 per cent to close the session at 13,967.50. Over the last four sessions, the 50-share index has lost 677.20 points or 4.62 per cent. On the Sensex chart, Axis Bank, Titan, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, Dr Reddy's, HDFC and Asian Paint were major losers. Of the Sensex constituents, 24 shares closed in the red and 6 in the green. Analysts said investors of late have preferred taking profits off the table ahead of the Union Budget and futures and options (F&O) expiry. Foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 765.30 crore on a net basis in the Indian capital market on Monday, exchange data showed. Indian equity markets were closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day. Elsewhere in Asia on Wednesday, stocks ended mixed as investors turned cautious after Wall Street slipped from record levels. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading higher by 0.41 per cent at 55.87 per barrel. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 2 paise higher at 72.92 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
27-01-2021||Business||Tiktok to shut down India business||Chinese social media firm Bytedance, which owns TikTok and Helo apps, has announced the closure of its India business following continued restrictions on its services in the country. TikTok's global interim head Vanessa Pappas and vice president for global business solutions Blake Chandlee in a joint email to employees have communicated the decision of the company that it is reducing team size and the decision will impact all employees in India. The executives expressed uncertainty on the company's comeback to India but expressed hope to do so in times to come. "While we don't know when we will make a comeback in India, we are confident in our resilience, and desire to do so in times to come," the email said. According to a source at Bytedance, the company held a town hall on Wednesday where it communicated about the closure of India business. When contacted Tiktok spokesperson said the company has worked steadfastly to comply with the government of India order issued on June 29, 2020 and continually strives to make its apps comply with local laws and regulations. "It is therefore disappointing that in the ensuing seven months, despite our efforts we have not been given a clear direction on how and when our apps could be reinstated. It is deeply regretful that after supporting our over 2,000 employees in India for more than half a year, we have no choice but to scale back the size of our workforce. "We look forward to receiving the opportunity to relaunch TikTok and support the hundreds of millions of users, artists, story-tellers, educators and performers in India," the spokesperson said. The government had blocked Tiktok and Helo along with 59 apps in June and has further communicated to the companies that the order to block them will be continued. "We've cut expenses, while still paying benefits. However, we simply cannot responsibly stay fully staffed while our apps remain un-operational. We are fully aware of the impact that this decision has for all of our employees in India, and we empathize with our team," the e-mail said. Bytedance executives said that the decision to ban its app came despite the company complying with local laws and regulations. "We have done our best since then to address their (Indian government's) concerns. We regret that this was the result of a lack of clear direction from the government of India on how and when our apps could be reinstated. "Despite our efforts to communicate with them, especially since it impacts the careers and livelihoods of so many Indians, today we are forced to reduce the size of our team," the email said. The executives said that they will share severance and benefits details.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
27-01-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 210 points in early trade||The BSE benchmark Sensex slipped over 210 points in the opening session on Wednesday, dragged lower particularly by oil & gas, pharma and banking stocks. After opening on a slightly higher note, the BSE barometer succumbed to selling pressure and entered the negative territory to quote 210.75 points or 0.44 per cent lower at 48,136.84. Likewise, the NSE gauge Nifty was trading 62.50 points or 0.44 per cent down at 14,176.40 in early deals. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Dr Reddy's, Asian Paints, NTPC and Bajaj FinServ were major losers. Of the Sensex constituents, 20 stocks were trading in the red and 10 in the green. In the previous three sessions, the BSE Sensex has lost 1,444.53 points or 2.90 per cent and the NSE Nifty has shed 405.80 points or 2.77 per cent. On Monday, the Sensex tanked 530.95 points or 1.09 per cent to close the session at 48,347.59; and the Nifty shed 133 points or 0.93 per cent to close at 14,238.90. Analysts said investors of late have preferred taking profits off the table ahead of the Union Budget and F&O expiry. Foreign investors sold equities worth Rs 765.30 crore on a net basis in the Indian capital market on Monday, exchange data showed. Indian equity markets were closed on Tuesday for the Republic Day. Elsewhere in Asia on Wednesday, stocks were mixed as investors turned cautious after Wall Street slipped from record levels. Meanwhile, Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was trading higher by 0.41 per cent at 55.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
27-01-2021||Business||Cairn begins identifying overseas Indian assets in case govt fails to honour arbitration award||Just like US oil firm ConocoPhillips grabbed Venezuelan assets overseas to enforce an arbitration award, Indian bank accounts, airplanes and other foreign properties can be seized to collect $1.4 billion awarded to UK’s Cairn Energy against Indian retro tax, according to a letter seen by PTI. The British firm has begun identifying overseas Indian assets in case the Indian government fails to honour the arbitration award. Cairn CEO Simon Thomson in the January 22 letter to the Indian High Commissioner in London, with copies marked to the Prime Minister’s Office, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, the arbitration award is “final and binding” and “the government of India has an obligation to comply with its terms.” “As India is a signatory to the New York Convention, the award can be enforced against Indian assets in numerous jurisdictions around the world for which the necessary preparations have been put in place,” he wrote. In 2019, ConocoPhillips had moved US courts to seize Venezuelan state oil company PDVSA’s assets to collect $2 billion compensation it had won in an arbitration against Venezuela’s 2007 takeover of its assets. PDVSA thereafter paid ConocoPhillips. The three-member tribunal, which comprised a judge appointed by India, last month unanimously overturned a Rs 10,247 crore retrospective tax demand on Cairn and asked the Indian government to return the value of the shares it sold, dividend it seized and tax refunds it stopped to enforce the tax. If India does not comply with the order of the tribunal at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, it would be a violation of international rules on arbitral awards, commonly called the New York Convention. Sources with knowledge of the matter said the options before the Indian government were limited. An appeal against the award in a court in The Hague may not yield positive results as the tribunal had given a very detailed 582-page order to make it “as bullet-proof” as possible. In contrast, the September 2020 arbitration award in UK’s Vodafone Group challenge to retro tax demand of Rs 22,100 crore was only 100 pages. That order has been challenged by India in a court in Singapore — the seat of that arbitration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||RBI tightening of real estate funding by NBFCs to restrict land financing||The proposals made by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in its recent discussion paper on tightening real estate funding by non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) would significantly restrict land financing by the shadow banks, India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a report. The RBI plans to introduce a scale-based approach linked to their size and systemic importance. The paper suggested a four-tier structure — NBFC-Base Layer, NBFC-Middle Layer, NBFC-Upper Layer and NBFC-Top Layer. Sensitive sectors such as  the capital markets and commercial real estate (CRE) are inherently risky but they need adequate institutional finance. Though strict sector-specific exposure limits may alter the basic business model and risk appetite of certain NBFCs, the paper noted that concentration risk resulting from undiversified portfolios, particularly in sensitive sectors, could prove detrimental to NBFCs’ health. It, therefore, suggested that it should be left to the NBFC’s board to decide internal limits on sensitive sector exposures. Further, a sub-limit within the commercial real estate exposure ceiling should be fixed internally for financing land acquisition. Also while appraising loan proposals involving real estate, NBFCs will have to ensure that the borrowers have obtained prior permission from the government or other statutory authorities for the project, wherever required. “The regulation proposed by the discussion paper would impact the business flexibility for real estate-financing NBFCs, which take exposures at several stages of the project. “Exposure taken at the nascent stage of the project carries better margins and enables the NBFC to compensate for the lower margins that it makes on the exposures on advanced stage projects, which is where it faces competition from banks. Having said that, the revised norms put a check on the asset side risks for these NBFCs,’’ India Ratings added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Standard & Poor’s upgrades Vedanta Resources rating to stable from negative||Rating agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) has upgraded the rating of Vedanta Resources (VRL) to stable from negative, citing reduced refinancing risk. The upgrade comes after Vedanta Resources announced an open offer to acquire 10 per cent of its domestic arm Vedanta Ltd. If the open offer is successful, the holding of the promoter group will rise to 65.11 per cent. According to S&P, this transaction, which should conclude by March, will strengthen the corporate structure of the  holding company and improve its access to subsidiary-level cash and cash flow. Further, the open offer reiterates Vedanta Resources’ commitment to improve its capital structure, which the rating agency said is a positive for the company’s refinancing initiatives. “Strong operating momentum and sizable free cash flow generation at Vedanta Ltd also improve liquidity at the holding company level. We estimate free cash flow at Vedanta Ltd (including Hindustan Zinc) will be $ 1.6 billion-$ 1.8 billion over the 12 months to March 31, 2022. “This, together with $4.8 billion of cash available at Hindustan Zinc and Vedanta Ltd as of September 2020, gives Vedanta Resources greater flexibility to utilise dividend payments for debt servicing if needed, thanks to reduced dividend leakage after the open offer,” the rating agency observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Economic growth expected to contract 8 per cent in current fiscal: FICCI||The country’s economic growth is expected to contract 8 per cent in the current fiscal and fiscal deficit is likely to be at 7.4 per cent of GDP (gross domestic product) for 2020-21, according to the latest round of Ficci’s Economic Outlook Survey. However, the survey projected that the economy, due to low base and on the successful roll out of vaccines, could expand 9.6 per cent in the financial year 2021-22. The forecast seems to indicate that the contraction this fiscal would be more than the contraction of 7.7 per cent projected by the first advanced estimates of the national income. The economy had grown 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The annual median growth forecast is based on responses from leading economists representing industry, banking and financial services sector. The survey was conducted in January. The median growth forecast for agriculture and allied activities has been pegged at 3.5 per cent for 2020-21. “Agriculture sector has exhibited significant resilience in the face of the pandemic. Higher rabi acreage, good monsoons, higher reservoir levels and strong growth in tractor sales indicate continued buoyancy in the sector,” Ficci stated on the survey findings. However, industry and services sector, which were most severely hit due to the pandemic , are expected to contract 10 per cent and 9.2 per cent respectively . The industrial recovery is gaining traction, but the growth is still not broad based. The consumption activity did spur during the festive season as a result of pent-up demand built during the lockdown but sustaining it is important going ahead, the survey said. Besides, it observed that some of the contact intensive service sectors like tourism, hospitality, entertainment, education, and health sector are yet to see normalcy. “The quarterly median forecasts indicate GDP growth to contract by 1.3 per cent in the third quarter of 2020-21. The growth is expected to be in the positive terrain by the fourth quarter with a projection of 0.5 per cent growth,” estimates the survey. The Ficci report said on the fiscal front, a slippage is imminent this year and the median estimate for fiscal deficit to GDP ratio was put at 7.4 per cent for 2020-21 by the participants with a minimum and maximum range of 7 per cent and 8.5 per cent, respectively. Fiscal deficit for 2020-21 was budgeted at 3.5 per cent. However, participants of the survey expect the economy to perform much better and have projected a median GDP growth rate of 9.6 per cent for  2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Govt to provide incentives to mineral block allocatees||The government plans to provide incentives to mineral block allocatees for early commencement of production from the auctioned mines, a move aimed at increasing mineral output of the country and reducing imports. The mines ministry plans to do the same through an amendment of the mining rules and has sought comments and suggestions from stakeholders on the same. “The ministry of mines has prepared the Mineral (Auction) Amendment Rules, 2021 seeking to amend Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015. “As part of the pre-legislative consultation policy, the draft amendment rules is made available... Comments / suggestions are invited from the general public, governments of states and union territories, mining industry, stakeholders, industry associations, and other persons and entities concerned, on the draft amendment rules,” the mines ministry said in a notice. A high level committee headed by vice-chairman, Niti Aayog, on mines, minerals and coal sectors was constituted by the government to give recommendations for enhancing exploration and domestic production, reducing imports and achieving rapid growth in exports. The panel in its report on the coal sector has recommended that the ministry of mines may also adopt the methodology for commercial auction according to the recommendation of the coal sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Aadhar Housing Finance Ltd to raise Rs 7,300 crore||Blackstone-backed Aadhar Housing Finance Ltd (AHFL) has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to raise Rs 7,300 crore through an initial public offering (IPO). The proposed IPO comprises fresh issuance aggregating up to Rs 1,500 crore by the company and an offer for sale  aggregating up to Rs 5,800 crore by BCP Topco VII PTE. Ltd which forms part of the promoter group. Net proceeds from the fresh issue are proposed to be utilised towards augmenting the capital base of the company to meet future requirements. BCP Topco currently holds 98.72 per cent in the company with the rest being held by ICICI Bank. Its share float comes just days after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) released a discussion paper on revised regulatory framework for non-banking finance companies (NBFCs). The central bank said in the paper that HFCs are one category of NBFC whose business model involves some systemic impact. While the RBI has proposed that HFCs come in the NBFC-Middle Layer category, it has also said that if an HFC falls in the Upper Layer, the applicable regulatory tools will be determined. AHFL is the largest affordable housing finance company (HFC) in India in terms of asset under management (AUM), as of March 31, 2020. A press statement said that AUM of the company is around 1.5 times larger than the second largest peer set company. Of its gross AUM, loans to salaried customers comprised 64.83 per cent while it stood at 35.17 per cent to self-employed customers as of September 30, 2020. Its gross AUM has increased from Rs 7,966 crore in 2017-2018, to Rs 11,432 crore in 2019-2020. Net profits of the company stood at Rs 156 crore for the quarter ended September 30. Its capital adequacy ratio was at 47.84 per cent. The company has a network of 292 branches, as of September 30, 2020 and its branches are spread across 20 states and union territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business||Data privacy can take form of non-price competition: CCI study||Data privacy can take the form of non-price competition and abuse of dominance can lower privacy protection, a study conducted by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has said. The study also made observations about other non-price factors such as quality of service (QoS), data speeds and bundled offerings, which are likely to be the new drivers of competitive rivalry between service providers in telecom sector in addition to just price. While reporting the findings and making its own observations, CCI noted that an aspect of data in the context of competition in digital communications market is the conflict between allowing access and protecting consumer privacy. “Privacy can take the form of non-price competition,” it said. Abuse of dominance can take the form of lowering the privacy protection and, therefore, fall within the ambit of antitrust as low privacy standard implies lack of consumer welfare. Privacy degradation can lead to an objective detriment to consumers. Lower data protection can also lead to the standard legal category of exclusionary behaviour which undermines the competitive process, CCI noted in the report. “Tying with other digital products will further strengthen the data advantage enjoyed by the dominant incumbent by cross-linking the data collected across services, creating a vicious circle,” it said. On other non-price factors of competition, CCI found that consumers ranked network coverage at the top followed by customer service, tariff packaging and lower tariffs as the most important factors for the preference of a particular network. These responses suggest that competition has moved away from a unidimensional focus on price, as per the report. “Much of the focus of the sector regulator, operators and consumers was on price and price-based competition. With the market moving towards data-based applications and services, there is a noticeable change in the demand for QoS,” the report said. Tariffs have been the centre-piece of competition in the price-sensitive Indian market. Episodes of intense price wars have been witnessed and there might be a recognition now that the intense recent tariff war that began in 2016 has eroded the sector of its financial stability. Almost all stakeholders agreed that remaining the cheapest telecom market in the world would be an untenable option for the sector going forward, it further said. The report supports findings that demonstrate an important role for non-price factors in driving competition in the Indian telecom market, partly reflecting the maturing nature of competition and in part the recognition that price competition has its intrinsic limits. Even though the average consumer remains price sensitive, other factors such as QoS, data speeds and bundled offerings are shown to influence consumer choice. The report envisages that a pan-India mobile network and data packages are no longer the product or service differentiators, rather bundled offerings (which include, inter alia, voice, data, SMS, and content) will be the focus of differentiation among service providers with service bouquets to be the likely choice for improving customer retention. The dynamic nature of the telecom market ensures that what is a differentiator at one point in time becomes common at another. The regulator had launched a market study on the telecom sector in India in January 2020 whose objective was to assess the level of concentration and competition in the telecom sector, highlight changes in competition strategies, analyse the dynamics of competition and co-operation between telecom services and related industries such as OTT services, tower companies and infrastructure providers, examine regulations and policy developments from a competition standpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||Business|| International Monetary Fund projects 11.5% growth rate for India in 2021||The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 11.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, making the country the only major economy of the world to register a double-digit growth this year amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The International Monetary Fund's growth projections for India in its latest World Economic Outlook Update released on Tuesday reflected a strong rebound in the economy, which is estimated to have contracted by eight per cent in 2020 due to the pandemic. In its latest update, the IMF projected a 11.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021. This makes India the only major economy of the world to register a double-digit growth in 2021, it said. China is next with 8.1 per cent growth in 2021 followed by Spain (5.9 per cent) and France (5.5 per cent). Revising its figures, the IMF said that in 2020, the Indian economy is estimated to have contracted by eight per cent. China is the only major country which registered a positive growth rate of 2.3 per cent in 2020. India’s economy, the IMF said, is projected to grow  6.8 per cent in 2022 and that of China by 5.6 per cent. With the latest projections, India regains the tag of the fastest developing economies of the world. Early this month, IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva had said that India “actually has taken very decisive action, very decisive steps to deal with the pandemic and to deal with the economic consequences of it”. India, she said, went for a very dramatic lockdown for a country of this size of population with people clustered so closely together. And then India moved to more targeted restrictions and lockdowns. “What we see is that transition, combined with policy support, seems to have worked well. Why? Because if you look at mobility indicators, we are almost where we were before Covid in India, meaning that economic activities have been revitalised quite significantly,” the IMF chief said. Commending the steps being taken by the Indian government on the monetary policy and the fiscal policy side, she said it is actually slightly above the average for emerging markets. “Emerging markets on average have provided six per cent of GDP. In India this is slightly above that. Good for India is that there is still space to do more,” she said, adding that she is impressed by the appetite for structural reforms that India is retaining. Global trends The global economy, ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic, is projected to grow at 5.5 per cent in 2021 and 4.2 per cent in 2022, the IMF said on Tuesday, reflecting the expectations of a vaccine-powered strengthening of business activities later in the year and additional policy support in a few large economies. “In our latest World Economic Outlook forecast, we project global growth for 2021 at 5.5 per cent, 0.3 percentage point higher than our October forecast, moderating to 4.2 per cent in 2022,” said Gita Gopinath, chief economist of the IMF. The global economy contracted an estimated 3.5 per cent in 2020 amidst the unprecedented health crisis. The 2021 forecast is revised up by 0.3 percentage point relative to the previous forecast (5.2 per cent) in October last year, reflecting expectations of a vaccine-powered strengthening of business activities later in the year and additional policy support in a few large economies, the IMF said. According to Gopinath, the upgrade for 2021 reflects the positive effects of the onset of vaccinations in some countries, additional policy support at the end of 2020 in economies such as the United States and Japan and an expected increase in contact intensive activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-159
27-01-2021||India||Farmers’ Budget day march to Parliament stands cancelled after R-Day clashes||Farmers’ plan to march to Parliament on February 1 when the Budget would be presented, stood cancelled on Wednesday as cracks began to appear in their ongoing agitation against the agri laws. The decision by farmer unions came a day after massive violence during their tractor parade in the national capital that left nearly 400 police personnel injured. The farmer leaders, however, alleged that there was a conspiracy behind Tuesday’s incidents and demanded a probe. They said their agitation against the farm laws will continue and public meetings and hunger strikes will be held across the country on January 30. “The tractor parade was hit by a government conspiracy. Deep Sidhu is an RSS man. Police let him go after he hoisted a religious flag at Red Fort,” farmer leader Darshan Pal, who has been accused by police of making inflammatory speeches, alleged at a press conference. Sidhu is a former aide of actor and BJP MP Sunny Deol. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December after he supported the farmers' agitation. “We have cancelled our plan for a march to Parliament on budget day on February 1. But our agitation will continue and there will be public meetings and hunger strikes across the country on January 30,” Pal said. Another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal claimed that over two lakh tractors and lakhs of people participated in Tuesday's parade and “99.9 percent of the protesters were peaceful”. Even as the farmer unions continued to allege that “anti-social” elements had perpetrated the violence to “torpedo” their peaceful agitation against the farm laws, Tuesday’s incidents that have been widely condemned started taking a toll with Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee withdrawing from the protests on the Delhi's borders. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers’ agitation, said, “We regret the Red Fort incident and accept its moral responsibility. The incident should be probed. There is a conspiracy behind it.” Responding to a question on farmer leaders being named in FIR, Yadav said, “FIR, jail and torture are rewards of movements.” “We have video clippings and we will expose how a conspiracy was hatched to defame our movement,” Shivkumar Kakka said. As many as 37 farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, have been named in an FIR in connection with the violence during the tractor parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Those responsible for R-Day violence won’t be spared: Delhi Police Commissioner||Delhi Police on Wednesday alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured, and warned that no culprit will be spared. Addressing a press conference, Delhi police commissioner S N Srivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the tractor rally that was supposed to be held from 12 noon to 5 PM and accused them of betrayal. He said not a single life was lost as the Delhi Police showed extreme restraint. As many as 25 FIRs have been registered so far, Srivastava said. “We are using the facial recognition system and taking the help of CCTV and video footage to identify the accused. Strict action will be taken against those identified. No culprit will be spared,” he said He alleged that some farmer leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu and Darshan Pal gave inflammatory speeches. Thereafter protesters broke barricades. “By January 25 evening, it became clear that they were not keeping their words. They brought forward the aggressive and militant elements who occupied the stage and delivered provocative speeches,” he said. He said that 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, police officials said that six  Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 70 iron barricades were damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the ITO area. Officials also said that 200 people have been detailed in relation with the incident. According to police, the detained people are being questioned. Police said they are likely to detain and question more people in connection with Tuesday's violence in the national capital. According to the FIR, the farmers smashed the barricades and hit DTC buses stationed at ITO with their tractors and also tried to run over police personnel. The national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers on the Republic Day to press their demand of repealing three new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Cinema halls with more audience, swimming pools open for all: MHA||Cinema halls and theatres can operate with more people from February 1, while swimming pools have been allowed to reopen for all, according to a fresh Covid-19 guideline issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, it said. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements, the MHA said. All activities have been permitted outside containment zones, except a few which will be subject to strict adherence of SOPs. Social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious gatherings have already been permitted up to a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces; and keeping of the size of the ground or space in view, in open spaces. “Now such gatherings will be allowed subject to SOP of the state and UT concerned. Cinema halls and theatres have already been permitted up to 50 per cent of seating capacity. Now they will be permitted to operate at higher seating capacity, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in consultation with MHA,” the guidelines said. Swimming pools have already been permitted for use of sports persons. Now these will be permitted for use by all, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports in consultation with MHA. Business to Business (B2B) exhibition halls have already been permitted. Now all types of exhibition halls will be permitted, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce in consultation with MHA. The main focus of the guidelines is to consolidate the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19 which is visible in the steady decline in the number of active and new cases in the country over the last four months. “It is, therefore, emphasised that to fully overcome the pandemic, there is need to maintain caution and to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy focussed on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines and SOPs issued by MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW),” the guidelines said. Containment zones, if required, shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities at the micro level, taking into consideration guidelines prescribed by the MoHFW in this regard. Within the demarcated containment zones, containment measures, as prescribed by MoHFW shall be scrupulously followed. Local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed and state and union territory governments shall ensure the accountability of the officers concerned in this regard. The MHA said state and union territory governments shall take all necessary measures to promote COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and ensure wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. The National Directives for Covid-19 Management shall continue to be followed throughout the country, so as to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. For further opening up of international air travel of passengers, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) may take a decision in consultation with MHA based on the assessment of the situation. The SOPs, as updated from time to time, have been prescribed for various activities. These include: movement by passenger trains; air travel; metro trains; schools; higher educational institutions; hotels and restaurants; shopping malls, multiplexes and entertainment parks; yoga centres and gymnasiums, etc. These SOPs shall be strictly enforced by the authorities concerned, who shall be responsible for their strict observance, the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Deep Sidhu under scanner for joining farmers’ stir ||On the 72nd Republic Day of India, a group of protesters taking part in the tractor parade organised by farmers stormed the Red Fort and put up a religious flag atop it -- and Deep Sidhu was among them. The actor-turned-activist is in the eye of a storm since then, as many farmers’ unions blamed him for inciting protesters to head towards the Red Fort on Tuesday. The unions also accused 36-year-old Sidhu of allegedly trying to defame the farmers’ peaceful agitation against the agri reforms introduced by the central government. Ever since he joined the farmers’ movement against the three agri laws at the Delhi borders, Sidhu has been considered by several farm bodies as an agent of the government. “Deep Sidhu is an agent of the government and he did it at the behest of the Centre to defame the farmers' agitation,” alleged Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan on Wednesday. “He took youth towards the Red Fort by misleading them. We never allowed people like Deep Sidhu at our stage. We knew that he could bring disrepute to the agitation. We never trusted him,” he further said. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni also condemned the action of Deep Sidhu, saying there was no plan for the farmers to go to the Red Fort. “Whatever Deep Sidhu has done, we condemn it in the strongest possible words and we feel that he was an agent of the government. He always speaks against the farmer leaders and incites people against them,” said Chaduni in a video message, stressing that farmers did not have any plan to go to the Red Fort. Before associating himself with the farmers' agitation, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had acted in a few Punjabi films. He has also studied law. The model-turned-actor made his debut in Punjabi romantic film Ramta Jogi, which was directed by Guddu Dhanoa in 2015. He has also acted in Punjabi movies Jora Dus Numbaria, Saade Aale and Jora the second chapter. He got into the limelight when he joined a dharna at Shambhu near Haryana border in support of the protesting farmers last year. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers’ agitation. Amid a massive outrage over protesters hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, Sidhu had defended their action, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the ‘Nishan Sahib’ as a symbolic protest. The ‘Nishan Sahib’ flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all gurdwara complexes. In a video posted on Facebook on Tuesday evening, Sidhu had claimed that it was not a planned move and that they should not be given any communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners. “To symbolically register our protest against the new farm legislation, we put up ‘Nishan Sahib’ and a farmer flag and also raised the slogan of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta,” Sidhu had said. He had also stated that the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort and that nobody raised a question over the country’s unity and integrity. Sidhu, who had been associated with the farmers’ agitation for the last many months, said “anger flares up” in a mass movement like this when the genuine rights of people are ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Two farmers’ unions withdraw from farmers’ protest||In a blow to farmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws, two unions withdrew their support from the agitation at the borders of Delhi. The announcement came a day after  violence broke out in the national capital during the tractor parade on Republic Day. Talking to reporters, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) president Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh said he was deeply pained by whatever happened during the tractor parade in the national capital, adding that his union was ending its protest. The union was staging the protest at the Chilla border. VM Singh of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said that it is withdrawing from the ongoing agitation as they cannot carry forward a protest with someone “whose direction is something else”. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Kisan Samyukta Morcha, an umbrella body representing 41 farmers’ unions, had distanced themselves from the “antisocial elements” that caused violence in their otherwise peaceful movement. On Wednesday, it alleged that “antisocial” elements, like actor Deep Sidhu, attempted to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation as per a “conspiracy”, but asserted they would not allow “the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle”. In a statement, the morcha said, “The Union government has been severely shaken by this peasant agitation. Therefore, a dirty conspiracy was hatched with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and others against the peaceful struggle of other farmer organisations, who had set up their own separate protest site after 15 days of beginning of this farmers' agitation. They were not part of the organisations which jointly undertook the struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Kisan morcha blames ‘antisocials’ for dirty conspiracy||Farmers' collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha has alleged that "antisocial" elements, like actor Deep Sidhu, attempted to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation as per a “conspiracy”, but asserted they would not allow "the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle". The morcha, which represents 41 farmer unions, called an emergency meeting later on Wednesday to decide the future course of action. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police announced they had registered 22 FIRs detailing Tuesday’s the violence and specifying injuries and damage to property. The FIRs claimed that six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 70 iron barricades were damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the area. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also took stock of the security situation and measures taken to ensure peace in the city at a meeting with Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, and senior officers of the ministry and Delhi Police. Referring to the violence during Tuesday's tractor rally, the farmers’ morcha slammed actor Deep Sidhu and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, alleging that they attempted to torpedo the farmers' agitation. In a statement, the morcha said, “The Union government has been severely shaken by this peasant agitation. Therefore, a dirty conspiracy was hatched with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and others against the peaceful struggle of other farmer organisations, who had set up their own separate protest site after 15 days of beginning of this farmers' agitation. They were not part of the organisations which jointly undertook the struggle." The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. "When the farmer organisations declared a programme of Kisan Parade on 26 January, antisocial elements like Deep Sidhu and others, along with the said farmer organisation attempted to torpedo the farmers' agitation. "Under this conspiracy, the said Kisan organisation and other persons announced that they would march on Ring Road and unfurl a flag on the Red Fort. As a corollary of conspiracy, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee started marching on the Ring Road, two hours before the scheduled march of the struggling organisations. It was a deep rooted conspiracy to knock down the peaceful and strong farmers' struggle," the statement said. The morcha appealed to farmers to stay at the protest venues and continue their struggle peacefully. "The farmers' organisations resolved to continue this agitation and harshly condemned the government and its administration, the said farmers' organisation and anti-social elements, who tried to damage the peaceful farmers struggle. "We will not allow the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle. Yesterday's events exposed and isolated the anti-farmer forces clearly. An emergency meeting of 32 organizations is called today (Wednesday) to chalk out the future programme," he said. Tens of thousands of farmers, most of them on tractors broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday to highlight their demands. But the tractor parade dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as farmers fought with police, overturned vehicles and  hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews law and order situation in Delhi||A day after farmers' tractor rally turned violent in Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday took stock of the security situation and measures taken to ensure peace in the city, officials said. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and senior officers of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Delhi Police attended the meeting. "The home minister reviewed the law and order situation in Delhi, which witnessed violence during the farmers' tractor rally on Tuesday," a Home Ministry official said. Shah was also briefed by the officials about the steps taken to ensure peace in the national capital, the official said. There is a possibility of police taking action against farmers leaders, who signed an agreement with the police on the carrying out peaceful tractor rally through designated routes but failed to keep the promise, another official said. The central government has already deployed around 4,500 paramilitary troops to assist the Delhi Police in maintaining law and order. After the violence, the MHA on Tuesday had ordered the temporary suspension of the Internet for 12 hours in parts of Delhi. Rapid Action Force personnel have also been repositioned in the national capital and vigil has been intensified in view of the evolving situation. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. From Rajpath to Red Fort, the day unfolded in scenes of contrasts. One that Indians have seen for seven decades and the other that seared itself into collective memory with its imagery of protesters demanding a repeal of the three farm laws storming the Mughal era monument, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day. While there were no exact estimates of how many farmers were hurt, Delhi Police officials said 86 of their men were injured through the day. Of these, 41 were injured at the Red Fort. A protester died after his tractor overturned near ITO, one of the major flashpoints of trouble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||'Tandav' makers in trouble as SC denies protection against arrests||The Supreme Court Wednesday declined to grant interim protection from arrest to Ali Abbas Zafar, Director of web series ''Tandav'', and others seeking quashing of FIRs against them for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of Hindus and issued notices Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other states on their pleas. A bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah was hearing as many as three separate petitions of Zafar, Amazon Prime India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra, the show's writer Gaurav Solanki and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub. Besides seeking quashing of the FIRs, the pleas have sought clubbing of FIRs. The bench has sought responses from states such as UP, MP, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi on the pleas. "Tandav", a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Delhi police register 22 FIRs on R-Day violence||Several police personnel were injured and five of their vehicles were damaged in the violence that broke out at ITO during the farmers’ tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day, according to an FIR registered regarding the incident. The FIR also claimed that six  Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 70 iron barricades were damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the area. Officials also said that 200 people have been detailed in relation with the incident. According to police, the detained people are being questioned. Police said they are likely to detain and question more people in connection with Tuesday's violence in the national capital. “The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade in the national capital leaving over 300 policemen injured,” officials said on Wednesday. It further stated the protesters tried to enter Luytens’ Delhi from Tilak Bridge despite not being given permission to hold the tractor parade in the jurisdiction of IP Estate Police station where the first information report (FIR) was registered. According to the FIR, the farmers smashed the barricades and hit DTC buses stationed at ITO with their tractors and also tried to run over police personnel. “Police tried to convince the agitating farmers. However, they were adamant about going to Luytens’ area. They also damaged vehicles and equipment of media persons,” it stated, adding that police used tear gas to disperse the protesters from the spot. A tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws descended into anarchy as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. While police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers were seen chasing them with sticks at the ITO in the heart of the national capital. “Police personnel were present at Ram Charan Aggarwal Chowk, ITO. Around 12 pm from Sarai Kale Khan towards MGM Marg, 500 to 600 tractors carrying around 9,000 to 10,000 protestors entered the ITO,” the police said in the FIR. It claimed that a tractor, going to DDU Marg from Ram Charan Chowk, hit a barricade placed near Andhra Public School while being driven rashly, and overturned. While police personnel and others were trying to rescue the driver from under the tractor, the other protesters on tractors reached there and tried to run over the police, it stated. Some of the protesters took the driver to ITO Chowk. Later, they took him and his tractor along with them and left the area. The deceased was later identified as Navneet Singh, a resident of Rampur district in Uttar Pradesh, the FIR stated. An official said multiple videos and CCTV footage are being scanned to identify farmers involved in the Tuesday violence and strict action will be taken against them. Security has been beefed up in several places across the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and farmer protest sites, with deployment of additional paramilitary forces following the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||SC puts controversial Bombay HC verdict on hold||The Bombay High Court, days ago, had ruled that  groping a minor’s breast without “skin to skin contact” cannot be termed as sexual assault under the rotection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, thus acquitting him of the offences. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the order after Attorney General K K Venugopal mentioned the case. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian stayed the high court order that had sparked outrage and debate across the nation. The top court also issued notice to Maharashtra government and permitted the AG to file an appeal against the January 19 verdict of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court. On January 19, the high court had said that groping a minor's breast without “skin to skin contact” cannot be termed as sexual assault as defined under the POCSO Act. It held however that since the man groped her without removing her clothes, the offence cannot be termed as sexual assault and, instead, constitutes the offence of outraging a woman's modesty under IPC section 354. The high court had modified the order of a sessions court, which had sentenced a 39-year-old man to three years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Plea in SC seeks inquiry commission to look into R-Day violence||A plea was filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court seeking setting up of a commission, headed by a retired apex court judge, to inquire the violence during the protesting farmers' tractor rally in the national capital on the Republic Day. The plea has also sought a direction to the concerned authority to lodge First Information Report (FIR) under relevant penal provisions against the individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour of the National Flag on January 26. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of Delhi as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in which over 300 policemen were injured, officials said on Wednesday. The plea, filed in the apex court by advocate Vishal Tiwari, has said that a three-member inquiry commission under the chairmanship of a former top court judge and comprising of two retired high court judges should be set up for collecting and recording evidence in the matter and submit a report to the court in a time-bound manner. It said that farmers' protest against the three new agri laws is going on for over two months but it took a violent turn during the tractor parade. "Unfortunately, the tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also affected the daily life of the public. The internet services were interrupted as the government ordered the operators to suspend the same. In the present time, the internet services are very essential to carry out the work in different professions especially in advocacy as the courts and our Supreme Court of India is functioning online," Tiwari has said in his plea. The petition said that clash between the farmers and police on the Republic Day has caught the attention of the entire world. The matter is serious because when the protest was going on peacefully for last two months then suddenly, how it turned into violent movement and led violence on January 26. The question for consideration in national security and public interest arises that who is responsible for creating the disturbance and how and who turned the peaceful farmer protest into violent movement or how and who created the circumstances which let the protest turn violent, it said. The blames are from both sides and the matter is to be inquired by an independent agency i.e by setting up an inquiry commission under the chairmanship of retired Supreme Court Judge, the plea said. It said there may be some conspiracy by some notorious forces or organizations to cause disturbance and damage the peaceful protest and create clash between police and protesting farmers. On January 20, the Centre had withdrawn its application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26 after the apex court had said that issue of tractor rally by farmers protesting against the new farms laws was in executive domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala released from prison after four years||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala was released on Wednesday after serving four years imprisonment in a corruption case at a prison here. The formalities for her release were done at the state-run Victoria Hospital, where she is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection, which she had contracted a week ago, along with her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi. "Yes, she has been formally released," Parappana Agrahara Jail Superintendent V Sheshamurthy told PTI. According to hospital sources, prison officials sporting PPE kits completed the formalities inside the COVID-19 ward of the hospital. However, she would remain at the Victoria hospital for another three days as mandated under the COVID-19 protocol, though she is now asymptomatic and her symptoms have reduced. "As per protocol, she will be discharged on 10th day (January 30) if she is asymptomatic and free for oxygen support for at least three days," the hospital said in an official bulletin. A large number of supporters of the 66-year-old close aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa lined up outside the Victoria Hospital, raised slogans in her favour and distributed sweets in celebration. Independent legislator T T V Dhinakaran, Sasikala's nephew and founder of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) visited the hospital after she was released by jail officials. Sasikala was in prison since February 2017 along with Ilavarasi and late Jayalalithaa's foster son V N Sudhakaran in connection with the Rs 66 crore disproportionate assets case. Sasikala was charged with hatching a criminal conspiracy with Jayalalithaa, with whom she was closely associated, and amassing wealth disproportionate to the known source of her income. The September 27, 2014, order of the Special Court awarding imprisonment and fine of Rs 10 crore each, was upheld by the Supreme Court on February 14, 2017. Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran had held huge properties in their names to the tune of crores of rupees from July 1991 to April 1996, though they did not have such a source of income. Ilavarasi will be released in the first week of February. Sasikala's release from prison comes close to Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, due in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Farmer unions call meeting to discuss R-Day violence||Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, has called a meeting later on Wednesday to discuss the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital. Before the Morcha meeting, representatives of 32 Punjab unions will also meet at the Singhu border, a major protest site against the three new farm laws. A senior farmer leader said, "The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha will meet around 3 pm on Wednesday and discuss all aspects pertaining to violence that happened during the tractor parade in Delhi". The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. After violence broke out during the tractor parade on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had called off the parade and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in several area that has left over 300 policemen injured. The Kisan Morcha had disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature rises slightly||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, though it was still three notches below normal, the India Meteorological Department said. A cold wave had gripped the city on Tuesday with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is predicted to dip by four degrees Celsius over the next two days. "Icy winds barrelling through the plains are likely to bring the mercury down again," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||India logs 12,689 new Covid cases, 137 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,06,89,527 with 12,689 new cases in a day, while 1,03,59,305 people have recuperated from the infection so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.91 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With 137 more fatalities, the death toll reached 1,53,724, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,76,498 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 1.65 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 19,36,13,120 samples have been tested up to January 26 with 5,50,426 samples being tested on Tuesday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 137 latest fatalities include 47 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 14 from Chattisgarh, 11 from Punjab, nine from West Bengal, eight from Uttar Pradesh and seven from Delhi. The total 1,53,724 deaths reported so far in the country include 50,862 from Maharashtra followed by 12,325 from Tamil Nadu, 12,204 from Karnataka, 10,820 from Delhi, 10,131 from West Bengal, 8,632 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,150 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,571 from Punjab and 4,381 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: tractor parade sparks violence in Delhi||Scenes of chaos at the Red Fort dominated television on Republic Day, eclipsing the long and patient protest by farmers, after a deviation from the agreed route by some participants of the Kisan Parade led to violence that left one farmer dead and many protesters and policemen injured. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which almost 500 farmer unions have been seeking repeal of three new farm laws, condemned the violence and distanced itself from those who had broken through police barricades and reached Red Fort where they hoisted the Nishan Sahib and farmer union flags. The Morcha pointed out that the majority had stuck to the designated routes for the tractor rally and had marched peacefully as promised. At 6pm, it called off the parade and appealed to all participants to return immediately to their respective protest sites amid reports of a continuing face-off between the group at Red Fort and the police that was in turn encouraging other farmers to move towards the Old City. It took time for the word to get out, with the Centre snapping Internet and mobile services at five protest sites. At the time the parade was called off, there were still queues of tractors waiting at the Singhu border for their turn to enter Delhi to join a parade that they had hoped would win the hearts of the country. The farmers had even made tableaux representing different states and showcasing their lives for the parade. But none of this got any notice, as clashes between the protesters who broke away from the schedule and the police hogged the limelight. In the run-up to the parade, Morcha leaders had issued repeated appeals for peace and order, wary that any breach might spiral out of control because patience had been running thin among the farmers, protesting peacefully on the road for 60 days now. The government had come across to them as unfeeling, with the Prime Minister not even uttering a word of sympathy for the around 160 farmers who have died at the protests, many because of the biting cold and several by suicide. Ministers had repeatedly come late to talks with the farmer leaders and have been dismissive of the protesters. Several farmer unions and the police seemed to agree that actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social worker Lakha Sidhana were responsible for instigating the youth to march towards Red Fort and hoist the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh flag. Some of the farmer unions saw a conspiracy in the whole turn of events and asked how the group could breach Republic Day security and reach Red Fort. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian) leader Harmeet Singh Kadian issued a statement asking whether this could have happened without the involvement of the agencies, and should not the home minister resign for this breach in security. Along with the BKU (Kadian), at least two other unions, the BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) and the BKU (Dakaunda), have accused Deep Sidhu of trying to damage the movement. Joginder Singh Ugrahan — who heads the largest farmer union in Punjab — accused Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana of inciting youths to take over the movement and give it a religious colour. Sidhu, who was the campaign manager for BJP MP Sunny Deol in the 2019 elections, said in a video statement that to register their symbolic protest, “we hoisted the Nishan Sahib and a union flag”. He added that they did not remove any flag. It had been alleged that the National Flag had been taken down. Pointing out that the Tricolour was flying high above the two flags they had hoisted, he projected it as a reflection of India’s “unity in diversity”. The Morcha had much earlier barred Sidhu, who has been seen at the Singhu border, from using their stage. Deol also had distanced himself from Sidhu after he backed the agitation. Sidhu has received NIA summons in a case against the Khalistani group Sikhs for Justice. Trouble began early in the morning when followers of the Kisan Sangharsh Mazdoor Committee (KSMC), which is part of the talks with the Centre but is not part of the Morcha, breached barricades at the Singhu border and moved towards Delhi before the designated hour. The KSMC had announced on Monday that it would not follow the route the Morcha had agreed on with the police. Once the border was breached, it became difficult for the Morcha leaders to rein in the others and the rally began moving towards Delhi though it had been agreed that the tractors would enter the national capital only after the main Republic Day Parade. The KSMC decision had left the Morcha leaders worried because they were afraid it might lead to violence as patience had been running thin among the farmers. As word broke of the rally beginning at Singhu, the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) — which too was not happy with the designated route but had decided to go along with it — began moving at Tikri, and the farmers converged at Ghazipur also followed suit. At all three sites, the police did not seem to use their full force to stop the farmers in what appeared to be a spirit of accommodation. But this spirit was abandoned when some of the farmers sought to deviate from the designated routes and move towards Outer Ring Road. The ITO witnessed particularly aggressive behaviour by a section of farmers. In the melee, one farmer was killed. While the farmers alleged that he died in police firing, another version was that he died when his tractor overturned while trying to ram into a barricade. Hours before they called off the parade, several union leaders issued appeals on social media on behalf of the Morcha to stick to the designated routes and to unequivocally condemn the violence. The Morcha asserted that their peaceful movement against the three farm laws would continue. ITO and Red Fort: The farmers clashed with police at ITO before moving to Red Fort, where some hoisted the Nishan Sahib on a flag pole. While many in the crowd vacated the fort after the police and union leaders issued appeals, some refused to leave till evening. Karnal bypass: A group that deviated from the prescribed route and tried to move towards Outer Ring Road was teargassed and water cannoned at the Muqarba Chowk on the Karnal bypass. Akshardham: The group of farmers moving from Ghazipur tried to push past the barricades and head towards Outer Delhi on the eastern side of the city and were teargasssed. Some pushed past the police cordon and went on to the Outer Ring Road before returning to Uttar Pradesh via the DND flyover. Others moved towards ITO. Nangloi: Nangloi was tense all day as farmers insisted on going towards Peeragarhi to take the Outer Ring Road in the western side of the capital. As news reached about  the developments at Red Fort, many wanted to proceed there, resulting in a confrontation with the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||Delhi chaos points to massive intelligence failure||The unprecedented scenes of chaos in Delhi on Republic Day point to a massive intelligence failure and also put a question mark on the strategy adopted by the Union home ministry to prevent the situation from spiralling out of control, many felt. Protesting farmers broke through police barricades and checkposts, clashed with cops and entered the heart of the capital after deviating from the designated routes, prompting the law-enforcers to fire tear smoke canisters and lathicharge those descending on Delhi on tractors. One farmer died near central Delhi’s ITO after his tractor overturned, the police said. Protesters, however, claimed that he was killed in police firing. At many places the police were outnumbered as thousands of farmers fought through barricades and tear gas to enter the Red Fort complex. They were on foot and in tractors. As they headed towards central Delhi, many of them were heard raising slogans: “Delhi is not just for Modi and his ministers but ours too.” Maintaining law and order in Delhi is the primary responsibility of the Union home ministry and Delhi police directly report to Union home minister Amit Shah. The ministry also controls the intelligence agencies. Shah held a security review meeting in the evening where home secretary Ajay Bhalla and Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava were present. During the meeting, which lasted for an hour, the minister was briefed on the clashes. Sources said Shah asked the police to take stringent action against those who violated the route agreement between the force and farm leaders. Additional paramilitary forces have been deployed in Delhi following the protests. A former Delhi police commissioner said the violence during the tractor rally was a “complete intelligence failure” on the part of the central government. “What were intelligence agencies doing over the past few days? It also puts a big question mark on the political leadership,” he said. “Such protests are never a guided tour and it is common knowledge that in such a huge rally, protesters will try and enter Delhi and violate the designated routes to prove their point. But our security agencies completely failed to control it,” he said. He also criticised the government for not resolving the farm protest and allowing it to fester for months as over 150 farmers died at protest sites. “Over the past two months the government did not do anything to defuse the situation despite several rounds of meetings with farmer unions. Over 150 farmers have died but the government turned a blind eye. The violence and chaos that we witnessed today would have never happened had the government consulted farmers before passing the farm laws,” he said. Actress and one-time Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Chandigarh Gul Panag said in a tweet. “It appears that the government has got what it wanted from day one! It was waiting for an opportunity to show the entire protest in poor light, by design or default. Constant attempts at needling/provoking the protesters, undermining, subverting, debasing the protests. Sad.” Crowds swelled at the three borders around 9am on Tuesday. Farmers were seen breaching barriers at the Singhu border near Haryana. At Delhi’s Akshardham, the police were seen firing tear gas shells from an overbridge as protesters looked for cover. At Mubarka Chowk, a group of protesters reportedly hurled stones at cops. A video showed policemen lathicharging protesters. Confrontations between farmers and the police were reported at several points. Farmers at several entry points appeared to have followed the agreed routes but a section of protesters broke through barricades. At ITO, which is on the route to central Delhi, policemen clashed with protesters, lathicharged them and used tear gas. By afternoon, a large group had reached the Red Fort. “We came here to deliver a message to the Modi government. Our job is done. We will go back now,” said a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Congress blames ‘insensitive’ Modi govt||Opposition leaders have condemned the violence during the tractor rally by farmers, insisting that protests must be peaceful in a democracy but blaming the Narendra Modi government’s “insensitive” handling of the agitation for the eruption of anger after months of endurance. As images of unruly scenes, including clashes with police, were beamed on television channels, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Hinsa kisi samasya ka hal nahin hai. Chot kisi ko bhi lage, nuksan hamare desh ka hi hoga. Deshhit ke liye krishi-virodhi kanoon waapas lo (Violence is not the solution to any problem. Whoever gets hurt, our country becomes the loser. Withdraw the anti-farmer laws in national interest.)” The Congress kept posting messages throughout the day in support of the farmers’ movement and attacked the Modi government’s insensitive attitude. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said in Jaipur: “Violence is unfortunate but why was the protest allowed to continue for such a long time in this harsh winter? First, the government did not follow the due process by thrusting the unjust laws on farmers and then they showed insensitivity by not respecting the overwhelming sentiment. Are decisions  not changed in democracy?” Asking if “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” was a hollow slogan, Gehlot said: “Should the government behave in this manner with the farmers? Only a government that does not have faith in democracy can handle a people’s movement with such insensitivity. The world is watching what is happening in India. It is, after all, not easy to maintain peace in such a vast movement for such a long time. I congratulate farmers for maintaining peace.” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said: “What is happening in Delhi is a national shame. The government should have stopped this violence. Nobody supports what is happening in Delhi on Republic Day. But how did such a situation develop? Why didn’t the government scrap these laws? Is any unseen force doing politics?” The RJD hinted at mischief. Party spokesperson Manoj Jha said: “What happened today was wrong. At times, certain things are done mischievously to delegitimise a movement. The farmers are sitting at Delhi’s borders for 60 days and the government has shown only insensitivity and arrogance. We heard the language of autocracy. We can’t demonise the entire movement on the basis of certain incidents today.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala issued a statement expressing “shock” at the “violent and anarchic scenes” in the capital.  “There is no place for such incidents in democracy. The farmers’ unions dissociating themselves from such acts is a step in the right direction. Peaceful protest is the real strength of kisan-mazdoor. The standoff for the last 61 days clearly show people are frustrated with the government. The Prime Minister should introspect whether the strategy to tire out farmers with the pretence of dialogue was right.” NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday called the violence during the tractor parade an indefensible act, but said one also could not ignore the reasons that led to the chaotic situation in the national capital, PTI adds. The former Union agriculture minister wondered “what was the difficulty” in Prime Minister Modi earlier holding talks with the farmers. Pawar feared that Punjab could head towards restlessness if the Centre used force against the protesters and asked the Modi government to not commit that “sin”. He said the authorities needed to keep in mind that the farmers had been protesting for 60 days. None can defend what happening on Tuesday “but we also cannot ignore why it is happening, Pawar said. “It is my expectation that the Centre will show prudence and give up its extreme position on the issue while holding dialogue with these (farmer) bodies,” the MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers allege brutality and provocation by police||The farmers who took part in the tractor rally on Republic Day alleged provocation and brutality by police and made it clear that the peasants didn’t intend to indulge in violence. They alleged that the police had planned badly, allowing some tractors to pass and then stopping others at several points, creating confusion and anger. A group of agitated farmers from Uttarakhand who had moved towards central Delhi, an unsanctioned route, said they had only followed the tractors in front that had demolished barricades and moved on. They said they were clueless about where to go and unintentionally went with the tide but figured out on the way that none of the farmers had planned violence although some younger participants were keen to register their presence in central Delhi. “Whatever violence happened was because of the police lathicharge and attempts to push us back,” Gurmeet Singh, the oldest of the lot, said. Ashish Mittal, general secretary of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha, told The Telegraph after returning to the Ghazipur camp in the evening: “Why were the police determined to ensure that the farmers do not enter Delhi? There was no consultation with the majority of the unions while deciding the route, which largely remained on the outskirts of Delhi. This was a huge disrespect to the farmers who had promised not to disturb the official Republic Day Parade. Does the national capital not belong to farmers? Are corporate people ever stopped from coming to Delhi?” Asked about the abnormally high number of people and tractors seeking to enter Delhi on Republic Day, which could have created law-and-order problems, Mittal said: “Shouldn’t the nation know an abnormally high number of people are distressed by these laws and the tractors have come to Delhi’s borders from remote corners of India? “Those who feel outraged today couldn’t feel the pain of these people who have been protesting for months, sitting on the roads for 60 days? Has the Prime Minister uttered a word on the death of 162 farmers so far?” The farmer leader also contested allegations of violence, saying: “If the farmers had any ulterior motive, why did they return after the rally? Clearing up barricades is violence and firing tear gas canisters and resorting to a lathicharge is not? “We saw the police breaking glasses of cars and buses themselves. They threw barricades on farmers who had fallen. While two farmers have died, several of us are injured. It is unthinkable that a government doesn’t allow farmers to enter Delhi for two months and when they want to register a symbolic protest inside Delhi on Republic Day, police force is unleashed to block them. The media abusing us for violence should introspect about the essence of democracy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||Tractor rally in Bangalore||Thousands of farmers descended on the tech city of Bangalore with their tractors and lorries on Republic Day to express solidarity with their brethren protesting in Delhi against the three new farm laws. Although Bangalore police restricted the number of tractors entering the city, farmers marched in large numbers from the railway station to Freedom Park, a distance of about 3km, for their “Jana Ganarajyotsava Parade” in solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi for over two months. Similar protests were held in many districts of Karnataka. The farmers started arriving from distant parts of Karnataka to Bangalore on Monday evening itself. The flow intensified on Tuesday morning as they rode on hundreds of tractors and lorries from across the state to converge in the Karnataka capital. Hundreds of tractors were stopped at police barricades erected at entry points on highways heading to Bangalore. One large group of farmers who arrived from Kolar near the city told reporters outside the railway station that the police allowed only 10 tractors to enter Freedom Park. Similar complaints were heard from farmers who arrived from other parts of the state and had to park their tractors several kilometres away and then hop on to lorries to reach Bangalore railway station from where they marched to the protest venue. The president of the Karnataka Sugarcane Growers Association, Kurbur Shanthakumar, criticised the police for detaining a large number of tractors before they could enter the city. “The police stopped hundreds of tractors from entering the city. We condemn this action that violated our right to organise peaceful protests,” Shanthakumar told reporters. The farmers sang, danced and raised slogans against “anti-farmer” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre. Farmers from several frontline organisations such as the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (Karnataka state farmers’ organisation), Left trade unions and Dalit outfits participated in the protest. Freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy, 102, defied his age to address the gathering and expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi. “This government has allowed corporates to do whatever they want with the farm sector…. Modi doesn’t have any shame in treating Adani and Ambani as great personalities of this country,” he said. “I express solidarity with our brothers from Punjab and Haryana who have endured the cold winter to protest in Delhi,” he added. Mavalli Shankar, secretary of the Dalit Sangarsh Samithi (Ambedkar Group), described chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa as a “fake farmer leader”. “Yediyurappa always calls himself a farmer leader. Yet, he did his best to stop farmers from protesting today, which makes him a fake farmer leader,” Shankar said. “This protest has helped remove the mask of people like Yediyurappa and show to the people that they are taking away our rights and livelihood,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||Netaji birthplace rejects politics||No politics please. That is what the people of the millennium Cuttack city seem to be telling political parties trying to claim the legacy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The resentment is mounting following the BJP’s bid to steal the show during a programme at the Victoria Memorial where hostile vibes between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee were visible to all. “Why the Prime Minister did not organise the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji here at Cuttack where he was born? I still remember the words of my father who used to tell us about little Subhas Chandra playing in our backyard, his days in the Ravenshaw Collegiate School. It would have been a fitting tribute to the martyr had his birth anniversary been organised here and not in Bengal,” said senior advocate of the Odisha High Court Suryakanta Sanganeria. Most of the people who this correspondent spoke on Sunday, a day after Netaji Jayanti, also wondered why Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Jayanti is being celebrated as Parakrama Diwas. “Why no such Diwas was being organised for the last 70 years and even during the last six years of Modi government? This is perhaps being done with Bengal elections in mind,” said Biswanth Das (63), president of the Odia Bazar Puja committee and general secretary of Netaji Seva Sangha, which is working hard to popularise the life and books of Netaji. Odia Bazar is where Netaji’s ancestral house is located. A roadside vendor Baidyanath Das said: “Why can’t the day be celebrated as Desh Premi Diwas.... no one can be more patriotic than Netaji. He had sacrificed his life for the country.” However, most of the people felt that Netaji’s anniversary should be celebrated as “Netaji Jayanti”. They feel that politicising such an important occasion is wrong. “People will forget whose name the Parakrama Diwas was held. He is known as Netaji and dear to all. By giving such a name you are only denigrating his contribution,” said Sanjit Kar, a small time businessman. Sayeed Khan, a tuition teacher, said though most of the people Muslims had played a great role in the success of Netaji’s Azad Hind Fauz they are hardly given credit. “More efforts need to be made to spread awareness about Netaji’s life and struggle. I would have been personally happy if Modiji come to Cuttack and visit the birthplace where Netaji had taken birth. Why did he go to Calcutta? It seems people and leaders are more interested in doing politics over Netaji rather than taking steps to immortalise his life and work,” Khan. Interestingly, the Naveen Patnaik government has dissociated itself from the politics being indulged in over the issue. Though on Netaji’s birthday Naveen went to Netaji’s birthplace at Cuttack, he didn’t make any comments on the Parakrama Diwas. There he had said, “Netaji is the son of Cuttack’s soil. He was born and brought up here. The sacred soil of Cuttack inculcated in him the mantra of service, struggle and sacrifice. Hence the state government has decided to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji through out the year.” “Sometimes silence sends a strong message,” said a BJD leader.  The parental house, Janakinath Bhavan, where he was born, has been converted into Netaji Birth Place Museum. It has galleries displaying rare photographs of Netaji’s early life, his time with INA, provisional government of Azad Hind, Azad Hind radio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||BMC ropes in transgenders to collect parking fees||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has roped in transgenders to collect parking fees from vehicle owners at major parking lots in the city. The initiative, which began on January 21, is expected to fetch good results while providing gainful employment to the transgender community. In the first phase, they will issue parking tickets to people at nine parking lots in the city under two parking allotments. Gradually the scope of collection will be widened with allotments of more parking lots to the transgenders who have been demanding jobs from the government. The civic body earns around Rs 2 crore from 54 parking lots in the city. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said: “The members of transgender community are involved in various works of the BMC. Earlier, we had involved them in revenue collection. They did a good job. Now we have decided to give them the job of collecting parking fees. We had a meeting with the transgender community in this regard earlier.” “We have confidence in the members of the community who work very efficiently. They have already proved their mettle by collecting Rs 2 crore as taxes from major revenue defaulters last year,” BMC deputy commissioner Srimant Mishra told The Telegraph. He added: “We have only taken nominal security deposits from them as our aim is to empower the community and strengthen their livelihood. The parking fee collection job has been entrusted to them on a pilot basis for two months. If the experiment is successful, we will extend it further. In the first phase, around 17 transgenders will benefit from the move and later 36 more will be engaged for the purpose. They will be given uniforms and required equipment so that vehicle owners can identify them.” Earlier, a tender had been invited to allot the parking lots. However, because of the coronavirus pandemic, it failed to get any response. No one turned up to run these parking lots with the auction money of Rs 44 lakh. Later, the transgender community members had approached the civic authority to hand over the parking lots to them but they asked for concessions as they did not have the requisite money to participate in the tender process. Meghna, a member of Swikruti, a transgender help group, said: “When the tender for the parking lots was invited, we did not have the required 40 per cent money to deposit with the BMC. Then we approached the commissioner and he helped us. Now we have decided to deposit the money with the BMC on a weekly basis.” While the parking fees for two-wheelers and three-wheelers is Rs 5 for two hours, it is Rs 20 for four-wheelers. If a two-wheeler is parked for four to five hours, the parking fees will go up to Rs 35 and it will be Rs 50 for three-wheelers and Rs 80 for four-wheelers. The corporation is hopeful that besides the economic empowerment of transgenders, the move will reduce the number of conflicts and violent incidents taking place at parking lots over fees. “People will be hesitant to argue with transgenders. They will listen to their request to pay the money,” said a BMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||BJD and BJP fight over paddy buying||The war of words between the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the BJP over the contentious issue of paddy procurement intensified on Friday with both sides accusing each other of neglecting the interest of farmers. The state BJP, which organised a farmers’ convention at Sambalpur on Thursday and gheraoed the office of Revenue Divisional Commissioner (RDC) in the town followed by a nightlong dharna by its senior leaders at the town police station, has alleged massive irregularities in paddy procurement by the state government. The party has accused the food supply department of failing to implement the token system for procurement properly and harassing the farmers by not lifting their paddy, which has been lying in the mandis. On the other hand, the BJD had accused the BJP of trying to politicise the issue of procurement deliberately to divert public attention from the nationwide protest by farmers against the controversial farm laws of the NDA government. BJD spokesperson Srimayee Mishra also asserted that every single grain of paddy that farmers want to sell will be procured by the government at the minimum support price. She also claimed that paddy procurement this time has been more than last year. The choice of Sambalpur for farmers’ rally and RDC office gherao by the BJP was obviously aimed at strengthening the party’s base in western Odisha which has been its stronghold. But the protest outside the RDC office worked up political heat with the BJP workers and leaders engaging in a scuffle with the security men deployed at the office. State BJP president Samir Mohanty, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Pradipta Nayak, BJP MPs and some other leaders courted arrested. Later, the leaders staged a night-long “dharna” at the town police station demanding the acceptance of their demands. Suresh Pujari, the party MP from the adjoining Bargarh constituency, told The Telegraph, “The Odisha government has failed to lift the paddy. Thousands of quintals of paddy are lying on roads near the market yards (mandis). If the state fails to lift it, it should hand over the procurement exercise to the Centre.” He also criticised state’s policy of limiting the paddy procurement to 19 quintals from one acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals from non-irrigated land. “What will the farmer do with the surplus paddy?” asked Pujari. However, the BJD hit back. “The BJP’s agitation is aimed at diverting the attention from the ongoing agitation of farmers against the controversial farm laws,” said BJD minister Samir Ranjan Dash. He also hit out at the Centre for refusing to lift parboiled rice from state farmers. His comments came in the backdrop of state food supplies and consumer welfare minister, Ranendra Pratap Swain’s letter to Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister, Piyush Goyal asking him to direct the FCI to take steps to ensure smooth lifting of rice from the state. “Odisha is primarily a parboiled rice consuming state. Raw rice is consumed only in six districts. Most of the rice mills in the state are parboiled mills. Therefore, asking the state to deliver surplus rice in the form of raw rice in Rabi and to limit procurement of parboiled rice in the Kharif to the extent of 50 per cent of last year FCI delivery will have far reaching adverse consequences for the state,” Swain said in his letter. Addressing a press conference here BJD spokesperson Srimayee Mishra said that paddy procurement in the state in 2018-19 was to the tune of 65.5 lakh metric tonnes and Rs 11,400 crore of MSP was transferred to the farmers of the state that year. In 2019-20, the procurement rose to 70.56 lakh metric tonnes and MSP worth Rs 12,808 crore was credited in the accounts of farmers. “The BJD government stands guarantee that every single bag of paddy of genuine farmers will be procured,” asserted Mishra alleging that the BJP was trying to protect the interest of middlemen (dalals) by resorting to agitation on the issue when the actual procurement of paddy in the state was so high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly to undergo stenting procedure on Thursday||Less than a month after he underwent an angioplasty, BCCI President Sourav Ganguly was on Wednesday taken to a private hospital in Kolkata for a "checkup for his cardiac condition", a senior official of the medical establishment said. Several tests conducted on the 48-year-old former Indian cricket captain at the emergency ward of the hospital revealed that his vital parameters are stable. Earlier, a source in Ganguly's family had said that he felt discomfort in the chest following which he was taken to the hospital. Ganguly “has come for a checkup for his cardiac condition. There is no change in his parameters since his last hospitalisation and his vital parameters are stable,” the hospital said in a statement. He will remain at the hospital on Wednesday night as doctors may conduct an angiography on him on Thursday, a senior doctor said. Ganguly to undergo a stenting procedure on Thursday and the procedure will be done by Dr Aftab Khan in the presence of renowned cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, with Dr Saptarshi Basu and Dr Saroj Mondal attending, reports NDTV.com. Ganguly had complained of chest pain while exercising at his residence around three weeks ago. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries. The former cricketer, who then had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery in another hospital, felt "dizzy and slight discomfort in the chest", a family source said. So he was taken to the hospital for further diagnosis, the source said. The Calcutta Police created a green corridor for smooth travel from his residence at Behala to the hospital near Salt Lake, over 20 km away, authorities at the medical establishment said. His wife Dona Ganguly and brother Snehasish Ganguly accompanied him to the hospital. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP's Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya enquired about his health, party sources said. Family friend and MLA Baishali Dalmiya, who was recently expelled from the ruling Trinamool Congress, and a few others visited him at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal backs Delhi march||The march of farmers into New Delhi on Republic Day found echo across Bengal with political parties and peasants’ unions taking out tractor rallies in solidarity with the movement to demand repeal of the contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government. Organised by the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, around 500 tractors rolled into Burdwan and covered a distance of over 7km from the town’s Nawabhat to Ullas More on Tuesday. “Almost 500 tractors and 75 motorbikes took part in the road show with women on excavators leading the rally,” said state convenor of the coordination committee and CPM leader Amal Halder. The huge procession demanding scrapping of the three farm laws was held less than three weeks after BJP national president J.P. Nadda had led a rally in East Burdwan’s Katwa to kick off the saffron party’s farmers outreach programme with an eye on the forthcoming Assembly polls. Such was the enthusiasm that Seikh Salaluddin, 51, a farmer from East Burdwan’s Chamargram, drove his tractor for 10km to join the rally at Nawabhat on Tuesday. “We had recently seen Nadda seeking alms from families of farmers in East Burdwan but we seek respite from the farm laws that will destroy us and benefit corporates close to the BJP. As Nadda cannot ensure the scrapping of the laws, we have to fight it on the street and force the government to repeal it,” said Salaluddin. He said if the “black farm laws” were allowed to be implemented, the famine of 1946 would revisit the country. “The famine of 1946 was man-made and these farm laws will force one more on the nation,” the farmer said. Salaluddin, who owns 17 acres of land, slammed the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act and alleged that the change would allow corporate entities to hoard as much crop and grain as they want. “The amendment will promote hoarding and help corporates sell produce at a much higher price later at the cost of farmers,” he said and added the fight going on in New Delhi and across the country was for the benefit of the nation. Similar tractor rallies were also taken out in other districts of south and north Bengal. While most of these rallies were led by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, a few non-political organisations brought out road shows to express solidarity with the movement in New Delhi and condemn the attack on farmers taking part in the Republic Day parade on Tuesday. In Calcutta, the Left and Congress leaders took out a solidarity march with Left Front chairman Biman Bose, CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, CPM politburo member Mohd Salim, Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya and Congress MLA Abdul Mannan taking part in it. While farmers are up against the Centre’s farm laws, parties opposed to the BJP in Bengal might not be on the same page when the ruling dispensation tables a resolution opposing the farm laws in the Assembly session on Wednesday. According to a CPM MLA, the Left and the Congress are unwilling to vote for the resolution to be introduced by the government. “There is no difference between the farm laws passed by the state government in 2014 and 2017 and the three central farm laws,” the CPM leader said. “The state government will have to repeal its own laws before it passes a resolution against the central laws,” the MLA added. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Kalyani AIIMS to start operations from January 27||AIIMS Kalyani is all set to become functional from January 27 when it will launch its outpatient department (OPD) offering limited service to a restricted number of patients on its premise in Basantpur, located at the outskirts of the town. However, there will be no formal inauguration on the day for the much awaited rollout of the service, which has been kept shelved until the fullfledged hospital service is launched. “The formal inauguration will be held once the fullfledged hospital with both outpatient and inpatient care becomes operational”, said AIIMS Kalyani’s executive director Ramji Singh. Sources said that the Centre had set September as the target for making the AIIMS fully operational which include inpatients services. The AIIMS Kalyani authority in a notification has stated that at present only outdoor patients will get service at 8 departments. “To begin with, we will offer outdoor service at general medicine, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, dermatology, ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology (ENT), psychiatry for a restricted number of patients,” said Ramji Singh. Fullfledged OPD with services for 17 departments is expected to become operational from April this year, an official said. “Considering limited faculties, we will at present offer to around 200 outdoor patients as a whole between 9am to 1pm only from Monday to Friday. There will be no service on Saturday, Sunday and on the central government holiday,” Singh told The Telegraph adding that registration of patients would be done between 8am and 11am only on prior appointment. The modalities of registration will be notified soon, an official said. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ramji Singh further said: “At present, there will be no emergency, laboratory, diagnostic service, and admission of patients for indoor treatment since the limited outpatient care being launched largely for academic purpose as it will help our MBBS students to get exposure to clinical education”. The construction work for AIIMS Kalyani had begun in 2016 on 179.82 acres of land allotted by the Bengal Government in the Basantapur area located on the outskirts of Kalyani town, 45 km away from Calcutta and connected with NH12. Two construction companies were assigned the construction work in two phases. In the first phase the OPD and residential buildings were constructed. The work of the second phase is going on fast to meet the targeted inauguration of the entire project in September 2021. Officials of union health ministry, AIIMS governing body are at present working in coordination with the Bengal government so that infrastructure outside the premises that include construction of fourlane road, bus bay and a police station are constructed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||250 students and academics take out rally demanding resignation of vice-chancellor||Over 250 students and academics from Presidency University, Calcutta University and Jadavpur University led a march from Bolpur station to the Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan on Tuesday demanding the resignation of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for allegedly trying to saffronise the central varsity. The march covered 3.5km and was attended by former CPM MP Malini Bhattacharya, SFI state secretary Srijan Bhattacharya and All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation president Keshab Bhattacharya among others. “The Visva-Bharati VC is going all out to implement the RSS-BJP agenda of saffronisation and targeting those who dare to question his ways. We demand his resignation,” SFI leader Srijan said. Those who took part in the rally said the march was a “strong protest at the VC’s political activities on the Visva-Bharati campus”. The march comes in the wake of weeks of upheaval over a controversy involving economist Amarya Sen’s Santiniketan home and the suspension of economics professor Sudipta Bhattacharya, who had questioned the appointment of a principal in one of the varsity’s schools. Earlier this month, the VC had also suspended three students for protesting against the suspension of Bhattacharya. “We are here on Republic Day to reclaim our beloved varsity and to reclaim the Republic by extension. We cannot acquiesce to the VC’s quashing of dissent,” said Srijan. “He has trampled upon the tradition of peace and harmony established here by Rabindranath Tagore,” he added. “This walk is a reflection of our demand for free speech,” said Keshab Bhattacharya at the street-corner rally held after the meeting ended in Santiniketan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Dilip Ghosh hoists Tricolour upside down at Republic Day programme in Birbhum||Bengal BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh inadvertently caused a major loss of face for the saffron party when he hoisted the Tricolour upside down at a Republic Day programme in Birbhum’s Rampurhat on Tuesday morning. The event, held outside the local BJP office to commemorate the nation’s 72nd Republic Day, saw Ghosh hoist the national flag nearly halfway up the pole before realising it was upside down. According to eyewitnesses, he brought it down immediately and hoisted it in the right way soon after. Approached by this correspondent, Ghosh declined comment on the mistake. Trinamul district president Anubrata Mondal said the BJP leader’s faux pas while hoisting the Tricolour showed Ghosh was carelessness in respecting the national flag. Instead of commenting on the Tricolour hoisting, Ghosh chose to remark on the recent controversy involving BJP workers chanting “Jai Sri Ram” when chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, walked up to the lectern to speak at the 125th birth anniversary ceremony of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Calcutta on Saturday. Modi had declined to step in or comment. “We chant God’s name all the time and will do it again,” Ghosh said. His comments reflected the BJP’s reluctance to back down from its stance of using the chant as an affront to political and ideological opponents, particularly the Trinamul. On Monday, Ghosh also offered prayers at the Tarapith temple. Speaking to reporters, he said he had prayed for securing “200-plus seats” for the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Cleric: Trinamul Congress rejected offer of alliance||Furfura-Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui on Tuesday came down heavily on the Trinamul Congress and accused Mamata Banerjee’s party of declining an offer of alliance made from his end. “We had proposed an alliance to the Trinamul leadership and asked for 44 Assembly seats. The offer was, however, rejected and after we made it clear that we would be in the poll fray, the state government has started harassing our supporters by implicating them in false police cases,” said Siddiqui. He was speaking in an open religious gathering at Bamangram in Kaliachak of Malda district. The area comes under the Sujapur Assembly constituency, a seat where the Congress has been winning since the sixties. Siddiqui, who has recently floated a new political platform — Indian Secular Front (ISF) — also accused Trinamul of “paving the way for the BJP in Bengal”. “Trinamul brought in the BJP and now, as the BJP started chasing the people with an open sword, Trinamul tactfully opened its door to offer refuge to minorities and Dalits…. It was nothing but a political strategy as those who trusted Trinamul were deprived even of basic facilities for years,” the cleric added. Siddiqui as well as Asaduddin Owaisi, who heads the Hyderabad-based AIMIM, are eyeing Malda, a district that has around 55 per cent minority population. On Monday, the AIMIM had held its first public meeting in the district. Speaking to newspersons, Siddiqui reiterated that the ISF would contest in alliance with the AIMIM. “We do not fear the BJP. If they beat 10 of us, we would injure 20 of them. But time to befool us with the scare of the BJP has come to an end,” he said. Siddiqui urged the audience to be inclusive and embrace people of all castes, creed and religion because “they are creations of the Almighty”. The ISF has decided to field candidates in six of the 12 Assembly seats of Malda district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||West Bengal||Madan Tamang statue at murder spot||Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL) leader Madan Tamang had left his home Rhododendron Dell in the early morning of May 21, 2010, to address a public meeting, which many said would reveal some explosive details of hill politics, at Upper Clubside in Darjeeling. Minutes before the start of the meeting, Tamang was hacked to death at the venue. Ten years later, his family and the public at large have managed to complete Tamang’s dream of that fateful day. A 12-feet statue of ABGL’s then president was unveiled on Republic Day by his wife Bharati at the same spot where he was killed at Upper Clubside. Bharati currently heads the faction-ridden party. The statue is symbolic in more than one way. First, the statue has been erected at the very spot where he was killed. Tamang is seen addressing the crowd the way he would have done on May 21, 2010, and is complete with a microphone. While his right hand is raised, the left hand is clutching a bunch of papers. S.P. Sharma, convener, Salig Nirman Samity, said: “We wanted to recreate the image of Madan Tamang addressing the crowd that fateful day and thus complete his unfulfilled dream of that day. That is why we have also included a microphone. The bunch of papers in his hand is a reminder that Madan Tamang spoke with facts and evidence.” The statue was sculpted by Kirpendra Gurung from Birpara in the Dooars and the total expenditure in installing it touched Rs 5 lakh. “Bharati Tamang helped us and the rest of the contribution was through the public,” said Sharma. Many in the hills believe Tamang was the trigger behind the opposition to the Sixth Schedule demand raised by Subash Ghisingh, the late GNLF chief. After Ghisingh was thrown out of power, Tamang started criticising the new power centre led by Bimal Gurung on grounds that even the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha had allegedly compromised on the Gorkhaland demand and it would finally settle for an autonomous council similar to the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council but with a change in the nomenclature that would include the word “Gorkhaland”. Tamang’s prediction came true two years after his death with the formation of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). Why did it take 10 years to erect a statue? “His (Madan’s) brother Mohan had got a statue done some years back but then, the situation was not too good for the installation. Moreover, we felt even the face had not come out correctly,” said Bharati. “Also, some other people taking up the exercise would have been better and the statue committee’s initiative is laudable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
27-01-2021||Opinion||Ballot blues: voting facilities for migrants||Is the idea of equality governed by dubious variables in India? This question must be raised in view of the concerns highlighted by three former chief election commissioners with regard to providing voting facilities to migrants within India. A solution was proposed last year for overseas voters; the Election Commission said — and has reiterated since — that it is ready to provide the option of electronically transferable postal ballot voting to non-resident Indians, a move for which the government would only have to amend the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. But the impediments that confront India’s migrant population have not elicited such concern. This is surprising, given that adult franchise is a defining principle of Indian constitutionalism; the ability to vote with ease must be extended to all citizens, including overseas and internal migrants. Yet, in the 2019 elections, a third of all eligible voters did not cast their ballots, and most of them are believed to be migrant workers. A former CEC pointed out that while overseas migrants are being allowed to vote from their countries of residence, and the Indian armed forces have the right to cast their ballots while serving away from their voting constituencies, such a facility has not been extended to internal migrants. This essentially means that the latter have to journey back to their home states to vote. A large segment of this population is underprivileged; the additional expenditure of travel during the time of the pandemic — a survey found that in 2020 stranded migrants had to pay several times more than normal fares to go back home — may discourage them from exercising their franchise. The paucity of a clear legal definition of ‘migrant worker’ also gets in the way of identifying the segment for voting facilities. To this end, data from the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 — it requires all establishments hiring inter-state migrants to be registered — could be used to create a comprehensive database as well as a legal identity. Organizing the logistics to extend voting facilities to a mobile population will have its own challenges. But this cannot be an excuse to not make voting facilities accessible to citizens — particularly because voting holds out the hope of empowerment. It is one of the few ways in which a disenfranchised population in an unequal and polarized polity like India can stake claim to the idea — and practice — of inclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
27-01-2021||Opinion||Unclear picture: Netaji portrait at Rashtrapati Bhavan controversy||Sir — The controversy regarding the portrait of Subhas Chandra Bose unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan — some argued that it does not depict the national hero but the actor, Prosenjit Chatterjee, who played Netaji in a Bengali biopic — is amusing. While the biopic maker tweeted a picture of the freedom fighter on the basis of which the portrait was made, it is not surprising that the Central government’s knowledge of Bengal’s culture is being doubted. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders regularly display their ineptitude in this regard. Rajashree Ganguly,Calcutta Ask questions Sir — In a recent ruling, the Delhi High Court sought the disclosure of interest from an applicant who had petitioned against an order of the Central Information Commission under the Right to Information Act in order to establish his bona fides (“Losing point”, Jan 21). A hefty fine was also imposed on him. However, such disclosure is unnecessary according to Section 6(2) of the RTI Act, 2005. This ruling — passed as verdict in a particular case — could be harmful for a democracy that mandates transparency and accountability when it comes to public institutions. Many offices are now likely to cite this ruling to act against public disclosures, although several public institutions are already exempted from giving out information under this law. This will also discourage RTI applicants for fear of reprisals. The Central government has now become the de facto master of information commissioners by assuming the power to decide their tenure, status, salaries and other terms and conditions. This threatens impartial action on the part of the office. For a strong participatory democracy, the RTI Act serves as a weapon. In the recent past, several controversial court judgments have been viewed with scepticism even by eminent judges and legal luminaries. Citizens once again look forward to a strong, unbiased judiciary to fall back upon as a last resort. This matter should thus be reconsidered. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The Delhi High Court’s ruling that an applicant who seeks information under the Right to Information Act should disclose his or her interest in it is unfortunate, and will further weaken the principle of transparency embedded in the law. The court’s ruling is not in agreement with the letter and spirit of the RTI Act. Section 6(2) of the Act clearly states that an applicant making a request for information is not required to give any reason for doing so. It is surprising that the court has issued this order when the position has been made clear by many rulings in the past, including those by the Supreme Court as well as other high courts. Since the right to information is a fundamental right, it cannot be constrained by the conditionality of disclosure of motive. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The Right to Information Act encourages public offices to practise transparency and honesty. It should not matter whether a person has a personal interest in the information sought or if the query has been made in public interest. Public offices — apart from the ones exempted from the law — should be answerable to the people. It is true that a spate of enquiries, many of which may not seem important or urgent, can slow down the administration, but public offices must be equipped to deal with such a problem. They should remember that their primary job is to serve the people, and responding to their queries is a part of that. Pradip Sahoo,North 24 Parganas Turn the page Sir — It is unfortunate but true that owing to the emerging mediums for entertainment, the habit of reading appears to have decreased significantly among a section of the people, especially the younger generations. Under such circumstances, it was wonderful to learn that a school in Calcutta has set up a street library — by installing a stocked bookshelf — outside its gate (“Street library outside school”, Jan 25). People can pick up books, read, and then return those any time they please as the shelf is not under lock and key. The library will surely be a boon for people in the locality who love to read but cannot afford to buy books or get membership in a proper library. This initiative to promote the habit of reading is undoubtedly praiseworthy. One only hopes that this noble mission undertaken by the school is successful. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Opinion||Hope and fear: RBI estimates negative GDP growth||The Reserve Bank of India has estimated India’s gross domestic product growth to be a negative 7.5 per cent. The National Statistical Office estimates it to be at a negative 7.7 per cent. Despite these grim estimates, the RBI is optimistic about a quick turnaround, described by analysts as a V-shaped recovery. In fact, in a recent report, the RBI has dubbed the V as vaccine-driven recovery from Covid-19. The RBI’s optimism stems from some strong evidence about the economy’s performance: non-financial as well as financial businesses are now making positive operating profits and net profits, the purchasing managers’ index is above 50, implying an expansionary mode for business, and exports and imports are picking up. As expected, healthcare, food processing and financial sectors are witnessing some initial public offerings by firms and goods and services tax revenues are on the rise. There are areas of concern as well. The government’s tax revenues have fallen while expenditures have soared because of the essential stimulus package provided by the government. The gross fiscal deficit for the first half-year 2020-21 was 14.5 per cent of the GDP, and is estimated to be 10.4 per cent of the GDP in the second half-year 2020-21. Industrial output is still volatile and is yet to show a steady increase across the board. Within industry, the core infrastructure sectors are not doing well in terms of output growth. Prices have been rising, particularly the rate of inflation in food and food-processing areas, contributing to headline inflation that is crossing the tolerance limit of the RBI. The dazzling performance of the stock market is indicative of an irrational exuberance. Finally, there is uncertainty over whether there will be another wave of Covid-19 or not. Going forward, both monetary and fiscal policies will be under stress. Once the Supreme Court passes its verdict on the fate of the latent non-performing assets of the banking sector, NPAs may see a sudden jump. The transmission of any monetary policy accommodating economic growth will be stymied. Not only that, it will mean additional financial stress for households and firms. On the fiscal front, the fears of a large and rising fiscal deficit along with the compulsions of boosting aggregate demand will be a central challenge in the upcoming budget for the finance minister. Beyond these policies, international trade can be an important engine of growth. If the second wave of the pandemic leads to a further fall in demand and commodity prices, that engine, too, will not be of use for sustaining recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Opinion||The Mahatma and the camera||The camera was there in London, photographing Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the suit-clad young lawyer; it followed him to South Africa and, finally, to India, where he became among the most photographed persons of his time. Significant events and movements that he spearheaded, his fasts and public meetings were an integral part of the emerging discourse of an anti-imperialist India. As photographs, reports and discussions of these became available via newspapers, calendar and poster art, they helped iconize the man and his message in the popular imagination. And, yet, at the moment of death, photographers, known as well as unknown, were absent. The Dandi salt march of 1930 and its aftermath were among the Mahatma’s most ambitious and physically taxing campaigns. Following the historic ‘Purna Swaraj’ (Total Independence) resolution passed by the Indian National Congress at its Lahore session in December 1929, Gandhi decided that it was time for sustained non-violent action. The salt tax, one of many oppressive economic measures for generation of revenue, gave government monopoly over the sale or production of salt and violations were punishable by law. Thus, on March 12, 1930, with 79 hand-picked followers, all men, Gandhi started on a 24-day campaign of what the art historian, Sumathi Ramaswamy, has evocatively called ‘ambulatory disobedience’. Sarojini Naidu and a few other women joined later — somewhat against the Mahatma’s wishes. On April 6, after days on dusty roads punctuated by measured rest and time for reading and writing, Gandhi lifted a fistful of clayey mud embedded with salt crystals from the sea at Dandi on the Gujarat coast. He was greeted with vociferous cheers — but no camera shutters clicked: that historic morning, for some inexplicable reason, no photographer was present. Thus, the iconic photograph of the Mahatma, with Mithuben Petit behind him, was apparently taken three days later, at Bhimrad, some thirty miles away. Gandhi’s entourage must have realized that as the moment at Dandi remained visually unrecorded, it had to be re-enacted and memorialized carefully by a photographer who remains tantalizingly anonymous. There was nothing serendipitous about the photograph as its composition, timing and who should be in it must surely have been decided by Gandhi and his staff. The events arising out of the march continued well into the 1930s providing many 'photo-ops’ not only for the Mahatma but also for several others, known and unknown. His name echoed in homes and hamlets and many women and men became short-term heroes, organizing pickets and rallies and picking salt from seashores in all three presidencies. Newspapers were quick to carry reports and photographs, contributing to a much-needed and reliable Dandi archive. By this time, it was clear that the Mahatma and his staff had become fully aware of the power of the image and when, in 1936, his grand-nephew and camera enthusiast, Kanu Gandhi, joined the Sevagram staff, a Rolleiflex was swiftly organized for him. Kanu got to work, photographing the quotidian and the dramatic, the deeply private and the ostentatiously public, such as the one of the Mahatma sitting cross-legged at his desk, caught in mid sentence with Subhas Chandra Bose looking at him intently. A pensive Kasturba looks on. Then there were iconic, though sometimes overused, images of important public meetings, discussions with Jawaharlal Nehru and so on. Kanu’s privileged position allowed him some liberties — he could photograph his grand-uncle shielding himself from the sun with a pillow on his head, working late into the night by the light of a small lamp, waving at crowds from the inside of a railway compartment. Yet, he too had to abide by very clear instructions on how photographs were to be taken — no camera flash bulbs and frontal images only on rare occasions. In 1947, Mahatma Gandhi spent many months in Noakhali, the scene of a series of bloody riots between Hindus and Muslims. Kanu Gandhi recorded him walking through the villages, speaking of the need for peace and harmony. And, as on the instructions of his grand-uncle he had stayed behind in Noakhali, Kanu was not there to take photographs on that fateful January evening — a fact that he must have deeply regretted. The feeling was shared by Homai Vyarawalla, Margaret Bourke-White, Henri Cartier-Bresson and countless others who had been photographing the Mahatma a few days — if not hours — before. When the three fatal shots rang out, as at Dandi, no camera shutters clicked. The absent camera made way for other artistic imaginings of the assassination, the grieving, and the martyrdom (see Sumathi Ramaswamy’s Gandhi in the Gallery). Yet, photographic absence at the moment of death is more than made up for by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s lived presence in countless images, some of which were discussed, enabled and choreographed by him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Opinion||Healing verse||One line you didn’t hear in Joe Biden’s big-hearted inaugural address was one of his favourite bits of Irish verse — a yearning for the rarest of convergences, when “hope and history rhyme”, by the Irish Nobel laureate, Seamus Heaney. Throughout the monumental tragedies of his life — the loss of a wife and baby daughter in an auto accident, the death of a son to brain cancer, and his time in the cellar of political despair after two unsuccessful presidential campaigns — Biden has returned to the healing power of Irish poetry. On Tuesday, as he gave a tearful goodbye to Delaware by quoting James Joyce, Biden said his colleagues in the Senate used to kid him for always citing Irish poets. “They thought I did it because I’m Irish,” he said. “I did it because they’re the best poets in the world.” He may have to revise that assessment after listening to the uncommonly wise Amanda Gorman, who followed in the footsteps of Robert Frost and Maya Angelou at the inaugural podium. Her poem, “The Hill We Climb”, was medicine for a sick nation. But Biden should not put on the posterity shelf the young poet’s stirring lines — “For there is always light/ if only we’re brave enough to see it/ if only we’re brave enough to be it” — or Heaney’s call for the near impossible. Why not reverse the political aphorism and govern in poetry after campaigning in prose? As he took the oath in front of a Capitol that only days before was under the siege of a mob of the misinformed, in a country deadened by a pandemic, the oldest man ever elected president should remember that in the home of his ancestors, poetry is the language of politics. Biden is known for his empathy, his lingering at the rope line to hear one last story of a life taken too early, his tendency to tear up when recalling a loved one who’s died. But he also has something that leaders from Nelson Mandela to Abraham Lincoln had — a belief in the power of why not? That’s the province of poets, not policy wonks. Heaney was thinking of Mandela, newly released from prison as apartheid crumbled in South Africa, and the centuries-old hatreds clinging to Northern Ireland, when he wrote “The Cure at Troy,” and the stanza oft-quoted by Biden: “History says, Don’t hope/ On this side of the grave./ But then, once in a lifetime/ The longed-for tidal wave/ Of justice can rise up,/ And hope and history rhyme.” Biden is aiming big, with a $1.9 trillion rescue package. He plans $1,400 cheques for most Americans, subsidies for childcare, and aid for renters facing eviction. He has submitted a plan to offer 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States of America a path to citizenship. The new president wants to raise taxes on corporations, strengthen labour unions, expand Obamacare with a public option, stall the existential threat of climate change and spend $2 trillion on energy and infrastructure. On Day 1, he rejoined the community of nations that have agreed to the Paris climate accord. He envisions a Rooseveltian campaign to get 100 million Covid vaccine shots into the arms of Americans in his first 100 days. There will be ramped-up testing, contact tracing and mobilization of at least 100,000 people to conquer the virus. It’s a full plate, with long odds. For starters, how does a president who sees the essential goodness in everyone deal with a party whose base doesn’t even believe in the legitimacy of his presidency? How does he bring the conspiracy theorists back to planet earth and cool the tribal passions that fuelled the insurrection on January 6? If Biden and the Congress succeed at the big ideas, and not just the reversal of wrongful executive orders or unpopular legislation, he will be fondly remembered, even if he serves only one term. What’s more, he may even be able to bring enough fresh air into our toxic political atmosphere to realign things. If he fails, well, I’m sorry to remind you that most Irish poetry is rooted in despair, in a country whose currency for centuries was misery. Still, in Ireland, poets have moved the masses to uprisings and greatness — most notably, the Easter 1916 rebellion that eventually helped lead to a free Ireland. Thus, on Wednesday, the first message from the Irish president, Michael D. Higgins, to Biden contained a quotation from the poet, John O’Donohue — “Unfurl yourself into the grace of beginning”. In his struggle to overcome his stutter, Biden famously recited the poems of William Butler Yeats in front of a mirror. He has used Heaney’s aspirational lines again and again — in a viral campaign video, in his acceptance speech last summer at the Democratic National Convention, and at a 2013 meeting on the US-Korea relationship in Seoul. There were flashes of words that could stand as poetry in Biden’s inaugural address. He lamented the “[l]ies told for power and for profit”, and said, “Politics [doesn’t have to] be a raging fire...” The most memorable line was a simple one, that “[w]e must end this uncivil war” that pits Americans against one another. If he’s lucky, a commodity oversubscribed to the Irish, Biden will catch a “longed-for tidal wave” that could usher an age when poetry is not without power. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur MP inaugurates special train to Ernakulam||Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto on Wednesday unveiled the Tatanagar- Ernakulam bi-weekly special train, among a host of other facilities at the A-1 category Tatanagar Railway Station. The train will kick off its first journey from Thursday from Jamshedpur and on January 31 from Ernakulam, benefitting passengers travelling south. "The train will immensely benefit students and patients who travel to the south for availing  treatment for various ailments,” said Mahto, thanking the Railways for introducing the train. The 08189 Tatanagar- Ernakulam Special will leave Tatanagar every Thursday and Sunday at 5.15 am will arrive at Ernakulam at 2.25 am on Saturday and Tuesday respectively. The train with one AC two tier, four AC three-tier, eleven sleeper class and two general second class coaches will have stoppages at Sini, Chakradharpur, Goelkera, Jaraikela, Rourkela, Rajgangpur and Jharsuguda stations under South Eastern Railway jurisdiction. Mahto, who was accompanied by senior officials of Chakradharpur railway division including the divisional railway manager ( DRM) Vijay Kumar Sahu, also inaugurated other facilities. The MP first inaugurated the renovated car parking area outside the Tatanagar railway station. After renovation the parking area will now  be able to accomodate more number of cars. Moreover, dividers have been constructed within the parking area which will facilitate easy entry and exit of cars. A newly constructed pedestrian walking shed connecting the PRS ( passenger reservation system ) building with the portico area of the  main station building was also inaugurated. The shed will protect passengers during summer and rain. The MP also inaugurated a new loading facility at the station area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary gets ready to welcome its elephants||Authorities at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary are making all arrangements -- right from mending roads to trimming bushes -- to ensure elephants coming back to the forest face no problem. Groups of tuskers, which had left for their annual sojourn in August-September last year, are on their way from the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in Bengal to Dalma. Some of them had returned home earlier and are presently stationed in Suklara. Around 200 daily wagers remain engaged in various kinds of work throughout the year at the 192 sqkm reserve, 30 km from Jamshedpur, dotted with 80-odd villages and hamlets. Besides getting the forest better, authorities have taken steps to ensure a smooth ride for the forest patrol parties to reduce man-animal conflict. The workers are now in the process of getting the bushes trimmed and would be completed in a  week’s time. A forester said they have mended roads in all the six beats of the reserve, including Bhadodih, Dalma, Mango, Nutandih, Chakulia and Patamda, and trimmed bush as a safety measure for labourers and villagers. “Our patrol parties can swiftly reach spots in case of emergency if the roads are in a proper shape. Overgrown bush too poses hurdles for patrol parties,” he added. Damla range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra they were serious to minimise man-animal conflict in the sanctuary.  “We are also concerned about the  safety of daily wagers and villagers employed by us. These measures were important,” he added. Roads inside the sanctuary had developed craters during monsoon and it was essential to mend them before the return of elephants. The Dalma range office has also distributed crackers among villages spread in the sanctuary. It’s a precautionary measure from the authorities. Trackers have also been alerted. According to foresters, the elephants normally start their journey towards Dalma after the end of the harvest season in Bengal. Elephants  follow two designated elephant corridors — one from Jhunjka and the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih, while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where the jumbos cross Haludbani, Bhadodih, Bota and Dimna to reach Dalma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Row over coal loading at BCCL’s Kusunda area project site||A continuing power struggle among groups of labourers supported by various politicians is affecting coal loading work at the Vishwakarma Project site of Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) in the Kusunda area. A group of project-affected people who were hit by disruption of manual coal loading since January 18, 2016, staged a demonstration at the site demanding resumption of the process on Wednesday. They have the support of former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee. Those opposing the resumption of coal loading work are supported by Guddu Singh, a nephew Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh, who is in favour of engaging outsiders. Satyendra Chauhan, a local resident who took part in Wednesday’s demonstration at the project site, said, “We have been working at coal loading sites of the project ever since its establishment in 2008. We were engaged by BCCL as project-affected people on account of land lost. But, we are sitting idle since manual loading was discontinued in 2018.” Chauhan, who is among those who parted with land for the project,  alleged that “muscleman” under the leadership of a local contractor were creating trouble at the site and demanding that outsiders loyal to them be engaged for loading work. He said they have requested BCCL and the district administration to resume manual loading work several times. “Although BCCL announced resumption of coal loading work from January 25, it was rescheduled to January 27. But it could not begin today (Wednesday) due to the lack of security arrangements. We expect to start work from Thursday,” said Chauhan. Suman Hansda, another local resident who took part in Wednesday’s agitation, said, “We had given our land (to the project) hoping for a better future. But now we are caught between the devil and the deep sea… neither are we earning a livelihood now, nor are going to get back our land.” Dharm Kumar Roy, another protester, said they wanted immediate resumption of coal loading work. Efforts to contact the GM of Kusunda area, V.K. Goel, failed as he did not answer his phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Prospective tenants will need local ‘guarantor’ in Ranchi||Anyone looking for a house on rent in Ranchi will have to find a local “guarantor” who vouches for the authenticity of the details provided by him/her before taking possession of the accommodation, police said on Wednesday. Police decided to involve a guarantor in a deal between a tenant and a landlord after coming across several instances of criminals taking refuge in rented accommodations at busy localities in the state capital. Police investigations revealed that gangs of cybercriminals and rebels associated with Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI) were staying at rented accommodations here. “We came up with the idea to involve a local guarantor in order to ensure safety of landlords and maintain the law and order in the city. Recently, we busted gangs that were operating out of rented accommodations in Chutia locality,” said Ranchi SP Sourabh. However, Sourabh, who uses his first name, added that getting a guarantor was not mandatory for tenants who do not know anybody in the city. “In exceptional cases, tenants can be given houses without having to find a guarantor. It will be up to the discretion of the property owner,” he said. All police stations in Ranchi have been asked to encourage landlords to seek as much details of tenants as possible in order to prevent the entry of criminals in the garb of students or working professionals in their houses. All tenants will have to submit a copy of their identity proof and address proof such as Aadhaar, PAN card, voter ID card or driving licence, police said. Police said that in case a person has joined a new job in the city and is looking for an accommodation, then he may submit a letter from the organisation certifying his employment and place of work. A source in the police department said the guarantor would  not be liable to pay rent in case the tenant ends up being a defaulter. “The guarantor will only be a third party confirming that the tenant was a genuine person and could be trusted,” said an official from Hindpiri police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad corporation to take over Rs 365cr water project||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) will be taking over the Rs 365cr water supply project that is being run by the state drinking water and sanitation department to ensure better service to residents of the coal town and  neighbouring areas. According to DMC commissioner Satyendra Kumar, “As per instructions of the state government and the state urban development department to improve the water supply system, we have decided to take over the Dhanbad water supply project in phases. We will start with the operation and maintenance of the Sindri water supply scheme, which is a part of the Dhanbad project, but is being looked after by the state drinking water and supply department.” Kumar, who after an inspection of the DMC headquarters at Luby Circular Road on Wednesday announced the setting up of a help desk on the ground floor, also unveiled plans to improve water supply in Dhanbad. “We will increase the number of connections which now stands at around 33,000 only. Besides allotting new connections, we will also encourage regularisation of illegal connections by paying a penalty,” he said. The Dhanbad water supply project was conceptualised under the millennium city project of Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission in 2011. It was scheduled to be completed in 2014 but was delayed by more than six years due to several procedural delays, including lack of NOCs from Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) for setting up overhand tanks in underground fire affected areas and for laying pipes near rail tracks. Initially, the project was to cost Rs 298 crore and executed by the drinking water and sanitation department for DMC with the help of L&T Construction. The project cost was later revised to Rs 365 crore attributed to price escalation. Later, the project was divided into two into parts, one for Sindri and the other for Jamadoba for convenience of execution. The Sindri part of the project required construction of a water treatment plant of 13.5 million litre capacity, besides an intake well of 19 million litre, five overhead tanks and laying of an 84km-long pipeline. The project was finally made operational in 2016 to ensure water supply to several areas of Sindri, Patherdih, Chasnala and adjoining areas. The Jamadoba part of the project entails construction of a water treatment plant of 143 million litre capacity, an intake well of 183 million litre and laying of a 260km-long pipeline, besides installation of over 31 overhead tanks. But this part of the project was held up due to several factors, including delayed NOCs by BCCL and the railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI’s marketing fair Maxi goes online for the first time||XLRI is set to host its marketing event, the 42nd edition of Maxi, for the first time in a virtual mode on January 30 and 31. One of the biggest and most sought after events in the b-school circuit, the marketing fair is organised by Marketing Association of XLRI (MAXI). With a mission to popularise the discipline of marketing at the institution; the event will witness students conducting research in disguise for various firms to study trends in market and consumer behaviour. The 42nd edition of the  fair has events including Dance Mania, a fashion show, innovative games, quiz and more. The virtual fair will see two new events -- Cricket Mania and Photography. On Day-1,  Dance Mania for children will be organised, where no stage fright can stop them from showcasing their talent. There will be a cooking event to show off cooking skills on the same day. The flagship event  will have a fashion show-  Mr and Mrs Jamshedpur. On Day-2, the fair's long-standing vision is to bring together families. The virtual fair will see two new events - Cricket Mania and Photography. Registered participants can also take part in a fun-filled celebrity night with DJs. One can groove and chill from the comfort of home with Aastha Gill in an interactive live concert at 6 pm on the concluding day of the fair on January 31. The Marketing Association of XLRI, or Maxi as it's fondly known, is the oldest committee on campus. A member of the association said, established in 1971, Maxi's mandate has always been simple - to popularise the field of Marketing at the institute and ensure that fun and quirkiness are an integral part of the entire process. "This is achieved through a mix of competitive events, talks, interaction sessions, conferences, and of course, the popular fair. It is often said that marketing is something that needs to be experienced rather than studied, and Maxi uses this as one of its guiding principles," said the member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
27-01-2021||Jharkhand||WHO stamp on Tata Covid research ||A research paper written by doctors from the more-than-a-century-old Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jharkhand in January has become a part of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) global literature on the coronavirus disease. The Jamshedpur-based over 1,000-bed hospital is managed by Tata Steel. The article, “A prospective study on rapidly declining SARS-Cov-2 immunoglobulin (IgG) antibodies one to three months of testing IgG positives. Can it lead to potential reinfections?”, written by Air Marshal Rajan Choudhary, adviser, medical services, Tata Steel, Dr Sanjay Deb Nag (anaesthetist), Dr Minakshi Mishra (pathology), Dr Sudhir Rai (general manager, Tata Main Hospital) and Minakshi Gupta (microbiology), has been published in peer-reviewed indexed international journals. According to a Tata Steel spokesperson, the research work was indexed in PubMed, the database for the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) at the National Institute of Health. “We are already in the global index and now it (the article) has been included in the WHO Covid-19 global literature on coronavirus disease (WHO Covid ID: covidwho-962473). Anybody can log in to the WHO website and read the article,” said Choudhary. The publication focuses on the Covid-19 immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies which have been considered to provide protective immunity and its immunoassays have been widely used for sero-surveillance (a tool used by epidemiologist and provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity). “In our sero-surveillance on an industrial workforce of randomly selected 3,296 subjects, Covid-19 IgG antibody positivity was reported in 7.37 per cent (243) subjects. However, when 30 days later, eight of the 243 Covid-19 IgG antibody positive individuals complained of symptoms suggestive of coronavirus infection and were confirmed Covid-19 positive by the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, their Covid-19 IgG antibodies were retested,” said a Tata Steel spokesperson. The spokesperson further said seven of the eight previously IgG positive individuals had lost their protective antibodies. “Subsequently, a prospective clinical trial was planned by repeating the test for IgG antibodies on the remaining earlier positive 235 individuals around 45-65 days after their initial test. Only 201 of the 235 individuals consented and participated in the non-randomised single arm observational trial,” the spokesperson said. The trial results showed that only 28.36 per cent (57 out of 201) retained their IgG antibodies and 70.15 per cent (141) had lost them. Three cases reported equivocal results on retesting. “We concluded that the protective Covid-19 IgG antibodies rapidly decline over one to three months. Further studies are needed with a quantitative assay over a period with neutralising antibodies to establish if its decay can potentially lead to reinfections. “Rapidly decaying protective IgG antibodies would impact herd immunity and vaccine durability. It is critical for the potential vaccines to generate both protective T and B-cell immune responses in a sustained manner,” said one of the members who contributed to the article.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
