28-01-2021||Calcutta||Panditiya Road building site guard dies||A man was found unconscious in the compound of a building under construction on Panditiya Road on Wednesday morning and was declared dead in hospital in the evening. The man — identified as 40-year-old Lakshman Hati — was a resident of Narendrapur. He worked as a guard in one of the buildings in the neighbourhood where he was found unconscious, police said. Hati was found in an unconscious state in the compound of 29A Panditiya Road around 9am, the police said. From there he was taken to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. The Panditiya Road locality — close to Dover Terrace — has a mix of highrise apartment blocks and standalone buildings and slums. Most of the highrise compounds and standalone buildings have security guards. The police said after a preliminary investigation that there were no external injury marks on Hati. The body has been sent for post-mortem. “We are suspecting the death was caused by heart failure. The exact cause of death could be known after the post-mortem report comes,” said an officer of Rabindra Sarobar police station, where an unnatural death case has been registered. “No suicide note was found on him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
28-01-2021||Calcutta||CMC to install water meters in 5 wards to prevent wastage||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has embarked on a project to install water meters in houses in five wards in Kasba, Jadavpur and Patuli to prevent wastage and divert water that is being wasted in one neighbourhood to another that faces a crisis. A small pit has been dug up in several lanes across these places as a step towards installing meters in houses.The water pipe running under the pit is the one through which water flows into a locality from bigger pipes. Water meters will be first installed at strategic points on pipes through which water flows into a small locality. These points will act like openings on a boundary through which water enters the enclosed area. From the meter readings the CMC will get an idea about the volume of water flowing into a neighbourhood. “The project is being implemented in five wards. We will divide each ward into zones and study water wastage in each zone,” said an official of the CMC. The civic body has hired Suez India, a water utility company, for the water loss management project. “Once we know the volume of water entering a zone and the volume of water being supplied to the houses in the zone, we will be able to assess the loss, which could be because of leaks,” said the official. The water meters that will be fitted in houses will help the civic body assess the wastage, if any, by the individual houses. The five wards chosen for the project - 101, 102, 107, 108 and 110 - are in the command zone of the Dhapa water treatment plant. The first phase of the project was undertaken in wards 1 to 6, which fall under the Tallah water reservoir’s command zone. “A similar project will be launched in wards that fall in the command zone of the Garden Reach water treatment plant,” an engineer said. “The project is aimed at reducing water wastage. Since our policy is not to impose water tax, we will adopt other measures like counselling the households to prevent water wastage,” the engineer said. A survey will be conducted to find out the number of residents in each house to calculate how much water is required by that household. Metro had earlier reported that the Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation had calculated that 135 litres were required by each person daily in India. If it is found that the volume of water supplied to the house was much more than what the household should require, its residents will be alerted and told that they are wasting water. After assessing the water wasted in an area, the project will design the distribution in a way that the excess water can be diverted to a zone where several households suffer from water shortage. “The aim is equal distribution of water among all,” the engineer said. Following the implementation of the project in wards 1 to 6, many households that used to waste water became cautious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Victoria Memorial hosts Netaji exhibition||The Victoria Memorial Hall has started its year-long centenary celebrations (it was opened to public in 1921) with an exhibition titled Nirbhik Subhas (Fearless Subhas), put together on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The multi-media exhibition, inaugurated on Wednesday morning, is spread across six galleries on the ground floor of the Memorial. Nirbhik Subhas consists of photographs and documents, graphic panels and projections, Netaji files loaned from the National Archives of India and original artefacts loaned from the Archaeological Survey of India museum on Netaji in the Red Fort complex in Delhi. “It will be on for two years, and will act as a ‘living’ exhibition, since we will keep adding things to it,” said Victoria Memorial curator Jayanta Sengupta. The exhibition has been designed by a Delhi-based agency that has also put together the Netaji exhibition at Red Fort. The exhibition asks 125 questions about Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary and provides information in the form of stories while answering them. Like with the picture of a Time magazine cover on Netaji, there was a question: ‘Why did Time magazine carry Netaji on its cover?’ The answer: “Netaji was the first Congress president to appear on the cover of Time magazine in the edition dated 7 March 1938. This demonstrated his popularity and status in the freedom struggle.” The memorial will also run a light-and-sound show on Netaji and the freedom movement on the eastern façade from February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Private practitioners get Covid vaccine shots at SSKM||Over 200 private medical practitioners were administered Covid-19 vaccine doses at a special session at SSKM Hospital on Wednesday. This was the first time a vaccination session was held in the city for private practitioners, doctors not attached to any government or private hospital, nursing home or clinic. Since the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination on January 16, doctors from private and government hospitals, nursing homes and clinics have been receiving Covid vaccine shots. Health workers associated with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) are being inoculated against Covid at ward health clinics of the civic body. But before Wednesday, no drive was undertaken for private medical practitioners. “The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had requested the health department to include private practitioners in the list of healthcare workers to be vaccinated first. They listened to our request. Today, the department organised a session for private practitioners. We helped them in the drive,” said Santanu Sen, the secretary of the IMA’s Bengal branch. “Another vaccination drive for private practitioners will be held at Sambhunath Pandit Hospital next Wednesday.” A state government official involved in the supervision of the Covid-19 vaccination in the city said the government was mulling to open other channels to vaccinate private practitioners. “Wednesday’s session at SSKM was dedicated to private practitioners. We are working out a plan to vaccinate small numbers of private practitioners at some other vaccination sites every day,” said the official. “A few private practitioners might have been vaccinated at one or two sites earlier, but not on the scale witnessed on Wednesday.” An IMA official said they had prepared a list of 4,500 private practitioners across the state, 1,800 of them are from Calcutta, and sent it to the health department. “These were names that reached us. The actual number of private practitioners will be much more. Some of them filled in a form and emailed it to the department, many others used other channels to get themselves registered,” the official said. The CMC had delivered a printed sheet with 24 columns at chambers of private practitioners in Calcutta. “The doctors have to fill in the columns and email a scanned copy of the document to an ID to get their names registered,” an official said. The private hospitals that have been allowed to run vaccination sites on their campuses have been asked to administer the jabs to a certain number of health workers not attached to the respective hospitals. “When vaccination of health workers attached to hospitals will be near completion, more and more private practitioners will be called,” said another state government official. About 4,000 health workers were vaccinated in the city on Wednesday, said a health department official. The jabs were administered from 43 sites in the city on Wednesday. The CMC sites did not run Covid vaccination during the day because Wednesdays are reserved for routine immunisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Floating library sets sail on the Hooghly||A floating library on a ferry on the Hooghly set sail on Wednesday. Trips start from the Millennium Park jetty at 11am, 1.15pm and 3.30pm. The launch has a collection of around 500 books and facilities like free WiFi and a tuck shop. Visitors can enjoy the river while browsing through books in the library, which has been curated by Oxford Bookstores. The cost of a two-hour trip is Rs 50 for kids and Rs 100 for adults. “We are planning longer trips on the weekends,” said a transport department official. “We have named this the Boat Library. There will be year-long activities for children, including story-telling sessions, dramatised readings, book launches and poetry sessions on board the Boat Library,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation. “The books will include several genres to cater to the interests of all age groups, particularly children.” One launch can accommodate around 20 passengers on each trip. “This initiative is one of our efforts to celebrate the river that has immense cultural significance for Bengal,” said Priti Paul, director of the Apeejay Surrendra Group, which is collaborating with the government for the project. “Children will be able to discover our roots and history on board this floating library.” In September, the transport corporation launched a library on an air-conditioned tram that connects Shyambazar with Esplanade and trundles through Calcutta’s boi para on College Street.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Pangolin rescued at New Town, 3 held||A Chinese pangolin that had been trapped in the forests of the Northeast was rescued by a team of foresters at the New Town bus terminus late on Tuesday, an official of the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB) said. Three men, who had allegedly come to sell the pangolin, have been arrested. The Chinese pangolin is listed as critically endangered species by the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). In India it is found in the foothills of the Himalayas and can be spotted in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim, among other states. The pangolins are believed to be the world’s most trafficked mammal, apart from humans. Tens of thousands of pangolins are poached every year, killed for their scales that are used in traditional Chinese medicines and for their meat, a delicacy among the wealthy in China and Vietnam. According to a WCCB official, they had received information that three men were trying to sell a pangolin. “Our officers got in touch with these men. They posed as buyers and asked them to show the animal before any deal could be struck,” said the official. Another officer from the state forest department’s Barasat range said the men asked them to meet at one point and then suddenly changed the rendezvous point. “It became clear to us that they were quite wary. However, finally we asked them to come with the animal to the New Town bus stand,” said the officer. Officials from the forest department, the wildlife crime control bureau as well as plainclothesmen from New Town police station spread out in the area around the bus stop. After the officers established contact with the trio, they showed the pangolin stuffed inside a bag. “We immediately arrested the three men. The pangolin was alive. We took it to the Wildlife Rescue Centre in Salt Lake,” said the officer. Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director, wildlife crime control bureau, said they were surprised but relieved to find the pangolin breathing. “It must have endured a long journey and in most cases, the trauma is too much for the animals to take and they don’t survive. We are overjoyed as it seems to be in good health,” said Mitra. The three men — identified as Abdul Rashid Halder, 36, a resident of Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas; Kedar Maity, 42, and Atul Jana, 52, both from Egra in East Midnapore, were produced in a court that sent them to custody. Another forest department official said pangolin scales were valued at nearly Rs 3 lakh a kilo in the grey market and the price of its meat was as high as Rs 30,000 a kg.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Sector V at mercy of parking rackets||Parking rackets are fleecing motorists like never before in Sector V at a time many office-goers are being forced to use private vehicles to avoid public transport amid the Covid pandemic. Many companies in Sector V have employees working from their offices now, although the staff of several others are still working from home. Nearly all restaurants, cafes and lounges are back in business. Most of the “parking lots” in Sector V are on main roads. Some are authorised parking lots, leased out by the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) to private agencies to run them. But many areas, where “No Parking” boards have been put up by the Bidhannagar commissionerate, have been illegally converted into parking zones and agents collect exorbitant rates from the owners. The parked cars constrict the carriageways, triggering bottlenecks. The parking rates fixed by the NDITA, which looks after the civic amenities in Sector V, are Rs 10 an hour for four-wheelers and Rs 5 an hour for two-wheelers. People who are commuting to the IT hub in private vehicles said this was far from the case. Metro drove around Sector V on Wednesday and saw parking “agents” take anything from Rs 20 to Rs 50 an hour for cars and between Rs 10 and Rs 20 an hour for two-wheelers. After driving through nearly all major thoroughfares and visiting at least six such “parking lots”, a board announcing the parking charges was spotted opposite the Vocational Rehabilitation Centre for the Handicapped, run by the labour ministry in EN Block. But the section where the rates were written have been covered by patches of paint. “Since there is absolutely no way to figure out what the stipulated rates are, we are at the mercy of the agents. The rates keep increasing as the day progresses and at night, parking attendants — or the ones posing as parking attendants — charge anything between Rs 100 and Rs 300 for two hours,” said Tanima Chowdhury, who works at a Sector V-based company and is working from office twice a week. This newspaper spotted a long line of cars parked on the pavement around the RDB Boulevard in EP-GP Block. On Sunday night, Soham Chakraborty, a resident of EE Block who had gone for a family dinner at a restaurant opposite the RDB Boulevard, was forced to cough up Rs 100 to park his car for an hour. “When I protested and asked the man who claimed to be a parking agent, three more men appeared. One of them was carrying a brick and threatened to shatter my windshield,” said Chakraborty. Avinash Kumar, 27, a Phoolbagan resident who rides a motorbike to his Sector V workplace every day, said parking agents charge him Rs 10 per hour on working days. “On weekends, the charge can be anything,” said Kumar. The chairman of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority said their directives clearly stated that boards depicting rates would have to be put up by the agencies running the parking lots. “We will take stern action against this,” said Debashis Sen. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they would look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav in hospital after discomfort||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly got admitted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Wednesday after he complained of discomfort and might undergo angioplasty on Thursday to remove two remaining blockages in coronary arteries, hospital sources said. Ganguly, 48, was discharged from Woodlands Hospital 20 days back after undergoing angioplasty to remove a blockage in his right coronary artery. He was admitted to the hospital on January 2 after suffering a heart attack at home. “Sourav Ganguly has come for a check-up for his cardiac condition. There is no change in his parameters since his last hospitalisation (at Woodlands) and his vital parameters are stable,” a spokesperson for Apollo said. Hospital sources said the team of doctors treating the BCCI president, including cardiologists Saroj Mondal and Aftab Khan, were planning to implant two stents. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman and founder of the Narayana Health group, is likely to come to Calcutta from Bangalore and be present during the angioplasty, sources said. “The initial plan was to evaluate his health after January 26…. However, after he felt the discomfort, Ganguly got admitted,” said one of the doctors treating him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||Bengal schools seek nod for practical classes ahead of Higher Secondary exams||A number of school heads have sought clarifications from the higher secondary council on whether they could reopen campuses for practical classes to “impart the bare minimum hands-on training” ahead of the HS exams in March. The move comes in the wake of frantic calls from students concerned about how they will take the HS practical tests, set to start on March 10, without any class having been held in the current academic year because of the Covid pandemic. All that the students have had since March, when campuses shut down as a precaution against Covid, are virtual classes on theory papers. The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education had announced the exam dates in December and the topics to be covered by the practical papers on January 18. But it is yet to clarify when campuses can reopen, leaving examinees as well as school heads worried. Parimal Bhattacharya, the headmaster of Jadavpur Vidyapith, said they were ready with a plan to reopen the institution for practical classes, but could not proceed in the absence of clarity. “I will get in touch with the council this week seeking to know whether we are free to reopen the school. Until the council gives the go-ahead, we cannot execute our plans,” said Bhattacharya. A teacher of the school said they had prepared a plan on how classes could be held from February, but it could not be implemented without the council’s approval. Kazi Masum Akhtar, the headmaster of Katjunagar Swarnamayee Vidyapith in Jadavpur, said he would visit the council’s office on Thursday to find out whether the campus could be reopened for classes. “Students and guardians are requesting me to resume practical classes. I will visit the council's office on Thursday and ask officials whether I can do so,” he told Metro. When the president of the HS council, Mahua Das, was told on Wednesday about the schools seeking clarification, she said: “The council does not have anything to add to what has been stated in the notice.” An official of the council said they could not say anything beyond that until the department gave the go-ahead. Repeated calls to education minister Partha Chatterjee and the school education secretary, Manish Jain, went unanswered. Sources in the department said they were aware about the situation and were in constant touch with Nabanna on what could be done. “The decision on this issue has to be taken at the highest level because the health of students and teachers is at stake,” said a source. This newspaper had last week reported several schools affiliated to other boards were ready with their calendars for on-site rehearsal exams, but were yet to announce the dates because the state government had not given its nod. Minister’s meeting Education minister Chatterjee will meet state university vice-chancellors on February 3 to discuss whether colleges and universities can be reopened, an official in the education department said. The official said the issue of reopening campuses only for practical classes could be taken up at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Calcutta||67-year-old pedestrian hit by bike on Prince Anwar Shah Road, dies||An elderly woman standing along a road waiting to cross over was fatally hit by a motorcycle on Prince Anwar Shah Road early on Tuesday night. A 19-year-old college student, Harinder Singh, has been arrested for allegedly driving the bike in a rash and negligent manner, leading to the woman’s death. Police said Mira Das, 67, a resident of Vivek Nagar in Garfa, was waiting to cross the road in front of KK Memorial Club when a speeding motorcycle hit her around 8.30pm on Tuesday. Das suffered multiple injuries and was taken to a hospital along EM Bypass, where she died on Wednesday morning. The two-wheeler was intercepted and Singh, a resident of Naskar Para Lane in Garfa, was arrested. “The accused is a BCom first-year student at a city college. Initially, a case of rash and negligent driving was initiated against him. Later, after the death of the victim, he has been charged with causing death due to negligence,” said an officer of Garfa police station. Last year, a 23-year-old youth allegedly driving a Volkswagen Polo in an inebriated state had killed a cyclist and injured a pedestrian on Prince Anwar Shah Road. The accused, booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, is in judicial custody. Officers said Singh was not drunk and his documents were in order. “The offence of driving under the influence of alcohol attracts a greater penalty,” said an officer of the fatal squad of the traffic department. According to records at Lalbazar, two-wheelers are responsible for a large number of fatal accidents. Last year, of the 201 people who had died in road accidents, the death of at least 20 was caused by two-wheelers. As many as 64 two-wheeler riders and pillion riders lost their lives in road accidents last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-160
28-01-2021||Business||Market tumbles for fifth straight session||Extending its losing streak to the fifth straight session, equity benchmark Sensex plunged 536 points on Thursday, tracking losses in HDFC Bank, Infosys and HUL amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 535.57 points or 1.13 per cent lower at 46,874.36. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 149.95 points or 1.07 per cent to 13,817.55. HUL was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by Maruti, HDFC Bank, PowerGrid, IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Axis Bank, SBI, ONGC and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. "A continued pullback in domestic markets is mainly led by profit-booking ahead of union budget," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to traders, recent foreign fund outflows from the domestic capital markets also had an impact on investor sentiment. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,688.22 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with significant losses in early deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude futures slipped 0.27 per cent to USD 55.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
28-01-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 500 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 520 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index-heavyweight stocks like HDFC twins, TCS, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 523.14 points or 1.10 per cent lower at 46,886.79. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 167.80 points or 1.2 per cent to 13,799.70. HDFC Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2.50 per cent, followed by HDFC, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, SBI, and Nestle India. On the other hand, ONGC, NTPC, Reliance Industries and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, the Sensex tumbled 937.66 points or 1.94 per cent to settle at 47,409.93, while the NSE Nifty plunged 271.40 points or 1.91 per cent to close the session at 13,967.50. According to traders, recent foreign fund outflows from the domestic capital markets also had an impact on investor sentiment. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,688.22 crore on a net basis on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. US equities finished lower mainly due to lower earnings by tech giants and concerns overstretched valuation. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude futures, were trading 0.45 per cent lower at USD 55.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
28-01-2021||Business||AV Birla to acquire a 51% stake in designer brand Sabyasachi ||Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (ABFRL) is acquiring a 51 per cent stake in India’s leading designer brand Sabyasachi for Rs 398 crore in cash In a regulatory filing after market hours, ABFRL announced a framework agreement with ‘Sabyasachi Couture’, which will give it a 51 per cent stake in the Calcutta-based Sabyasachi brand. The Birla group firm now has brands such as Louis Philippe, Van Heusen, Allen Solly and Peter England under its fold. ABFRL has set its sights on emerging as a formidable player in the ethnic wear segment and in 2019 it had acquired Jaypore for Rs 110 crore. It had also bought a majority stake in Finesse International Design Pvt Ltd, a company engaged in the business of bespoke contemporary apparel for men and women under brand Shantanu & Nikhil. The company said in a statement that while Sabyasachi is India’s largest and most influential luxury designer brand with strong Indian roots and global appeal, the ABFRL platform will complement the brand on its journey to becoming a global luxury house out of India. “This partnership will add significant weight to ABFRL’s growing ethnic wear portfolio. This will accelerate the company’s strategy to capture a large share of ethnic wear market through a comprehensive and attractive portfolio of brands, across key consumer segments, occasions and geographies. The company expects to build a large ethnic wear business over the next few years to complement its strong and diverse portfolio in the western wear segment of the Indian apparel market,’’ ABFRL added. The Sabyasachi brand straddles categories such as apparel, accessories and jewellery and has a strong franchise in India, the US, the UK and West Asia. “Over the next few years, ethnic wear is going to be an important category as young Indians rediscover their culture and heritage. The Sabyasachi brand, through its emphasis on excellence in design and craftsmanship, has set new benchmarks and captivated the imagination of the global Indian consumer. We are proud to partner Sabyasachi in its journey to become the only global luxury brand from India,” Ashish Dikshit, managing director, ABFRL, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
28-01-2021||Business||Pine Labs eyeing one million users in a year||Pine Labs — a payments technology unicorn backed by Sequoia India and Temasek — is eyeing one million users in a year through its phone-based payments solution with the Reserve Bank of India enhancing the limits of contactless card payments from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 effective from January. Pine Labs on Wednesday launched the AllTap app to help small merchants with contactless card payment acceptance. The new app will help merchants start accepting digital payments on their NFC-enabled smartphone without the need of any additional hardware  like POS (point of sale) machines. The “tap and pay” feature within the app is secure and is  certified by PCI Security Standards Council, RuPay, Visa, Mastercard and Amex. “AllTap needs no additional hardware for merchants to start accepting digital payments, their NFC-enabled smartphone can become a  payments acceptance device. This can help small merchants, taxi drivers, self-employed individuals, tuition-givers, who want a simple digital payments acceptance solution,” Pine Labs CEO B. Amrish Rau said. Pine Labs will also take this solution to other markets in South East Asia and West Asia, Rau said. Incorporated in Singapore, Pine Labs’ key investors include Actis Capital, Mastercard, PayPal, Sequoia India and Temasek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Emami Ltd comes out with strong numbers for third quarter||City-based FMCG major Emami Ltd came out with a strong set of numbers for the third quarter with sales, earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation (EBIDTA) and profit after tax coming ahead of the market’s expectation. The company also declared a second interim dividend of Rs 4 per share (400 per cent on Re 1 face value share), totalling Rs 8 per share announced so far. Revenue from operations grew 14.9 per cent in the third quarter to Rs 933.6 crore from Rs 812.6 crore a year ago while profit after tax went up 43.7 per cent to Rs 209.8 crore from Rs 146 crore in the same period last year. The Emami management attributed the result to the favourable season (winter), a strong demand across the brand, including the healthcare range, especially from the rural market and benign raw material costs. “Some of our brands in the healthcare and hygiene range, winter portfolio and 7 oils have done exceedingly well during the quarter, signifying positive consumer sentiment.  Rural offtakes continue to march ahead of urban,” Mohan Goenka, director of Emami Ltd, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||TikTok parent firm ByteDance starts large-scale layoffs||TikTok parent firm ByteDance has started large-scale layoffs in the country after the government permanently banned the China-based short-video service along with 58 other apps following responses from the companies on issues such as compliance and privacy. Speculation is rife about TikTok exiting the country, but sources insist the company will stay. However, the permanent ban by India and decision to downsize isn't helping the company. China said the government’s decision to keep the ban on the 59 Chinese apps was a violation of the World Trade Organization’s fair rules of business and would hurt Chinese firms. “We urge the Indian side to immediately correct its discriminatory measures and avoid causing further damage to bilateral cooperation,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement. These “apps collect and share data in a surreptitious manner and compromise personal data and information of users that can have a severe threat to the security of the state,” India’s ministry of electronics and information and technology had said. “We have worked steadfastly to comply with the Government of India order issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to make our apps comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns they have,” TikTok said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Axis Bank records 36 per cent fall in third-quarter net profits||Axis Bank has recorded a 36 per cent fall in third-quarter net profits in 2020 as provisions jumped. The private sector bank posted a net profit of Rs 1,116.60 crore against Rs 1,757 crore in the same period of the previous year. Provisions rose to Rs 4,604.28 crore from Rs 3,470.92 crore in the year ago period. Axis Bank said in its notes to accounts that it holds provisions as on December 31, 2020 against the potential impact of Covid-19 and that the provisions are in excess of RBI prescribed norms. The Supreme Court has directed that the accounts which were not declared non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31, 2020 will not be declared as a bad loan till further orders. Axis Bank said it has not declared any account as NPA but the bank has made provisions on defaults of more than 90 days (not classified as NPA) under current provisioning rules. This amounted to Rs 3,899 crore. Bank of Baroda Bank of Baroda on Wednesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,159.17 crore for the December quarter of 2020. The state-owned bank had posted a net loss of Rs 1,218.87 crore a year ago. Total income of the bank fell to Rs 22,070.52 crore from Rs 23,134.67 crore in the year-ago quarter, Bank of Baroda said in a regulatory filing. The lender improved on its asset quality with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 8.48 per cent of the gross advances by December-end 2020 from 10.43 per cent by the same period a year ago. Canara Bank State-owned Canara Bank on Wednesday reported consolidated net profit of Rs 739.20 crore in the third quarter ended December of the current fiscal. It had earned a net profit of Rs 406.43 crore during the same period a year ago. However, the profit of Q3FY21 is not comparable year-on-year as the latest figures are of the amalgamated entity after the merger of Syndicate Bank into Canara Bank. The bank’s total income (consolidated) rose to Rs 24,490.63 crore from Rs 15,531.80 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone to raise $500 million||Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone, the largest port operator in the country, is tapping the international debt market  to raise at least $500 million. This is the third large bond sale by a domestic entity after Exim Bank’s $1 billion issue. It was followed by the State Bank of India with a $6 billion sale. Adani Ports is the largest port developer and operator in the country in terms of volume with annual capacity of 478.6 million tonnes. “We are in the dollar debt market and are planning to raise $500 million through a Reg S issue,” a PTI report quoting a merchant banking source said. It had paid a coupon of 4.2 per cent for a $750 million issue last July. In December, the company had raised another $300 million to retire some of its debt. A Reg S issue in the market means resident American investors cannot subscribe to the issue. The company will use the proceeds from the issue to primarily refinance the early redemption of its dollar bonds due in 2022. The issue has been rated BBB- by Fitch and Baa3 by Moody’s. The company said in a filing to the bourses on Tuesday that the interest on the fixed rate unsecured notes is 3.10 per cent annually. Fitch Ratings in a note gave the proposed senior unsecured notes sale by the port operator a BBB- rating with a negative outlook. The rating reflects the company’s market leading position, the stability of long-term cargo revenue and its operational efficiency. Fitc said the pandemic may result in weaker domestic demand and exports, but cargo mobility is largely uninterrupted despite the global lockdown. Shares of Adani Ports today settled 0.92 per cent lower at Rs 518.65.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever Ltd reports 19 per cent growth in net profit||Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) on Wednesday reported a 19 per cent growth in net profit for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020 that met Street estimates as the economy recovered and more number of people stepped out of their homes. The FMCG giant posted a standalone net profit of Rs 1,921 crore against Rs 1,616-crore profit in the same period of the previous year. Domestic consumer growth — setting aside the impact of the merger of GSK Consumer Healthcare and the acquisition of VWash — grew at 7 per cent with underlying volume growth at four per cent. In the preceding quarter, domestic volume growth was one per cent. HUL said higher mobility among the population, consumer relevant innovations and investments in market development are driving the business. Its fundamentals remain strong with 86 per cent of the business gaining penetration. Health, hygiene and nutrition forming close to 80 per cent of its portfolio continues to grow in double digits, while discretionary categories reported significant improvement. During the quarter, sales grew to Rs 11,682 crore from Rs 9,696 crore in the year ago period a growth of 20.48 per cent. “With Covid cases coming down sharply and increasing mobility, economic activity in the country continues to improve. The rapid rollout of vaccines will give further impetus to economic growth. Our consumer relevant innovations, market development and execution excellence have enabled us to drive broad based growth across our categories in the December quarter,” Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of HUL, said while commenting on the results. “I am particularly pleased with the performance of our Nutrition business and with the recovery in the discretionary segments of our portfolio, these are structurally attractive and offer immense growth potential.” Mehta said the near-term demand outlook was improving and the company expects to see revival in the urban markets while rural markets fare well. CFO change HUL on Wednesday said it has appointed Ritesh Tiwari as chief financial officer, while incumbent Srinivas Phatak will move to parent firm Unilever’s headquarters in London. Srinavas Phatak, chief financial officer, said  in the urban markets HUL has staged a turnaround. Growth has come back to positive territory from flat to negative in the preceding three months. During the quarter, sales growth in the foods & refreshment and beauty & personal care segments stood at 19 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively. Shares of HUL on Wednesday settled at Rs 2,390.75 on BSE, down 0.87 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||Business||RIL loses 938 points on the Sensex, Nifty plunges below 14000-level||A sell-off in the banking counters and Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) ripped 938 points off the Sensex on Wednesday, while the Nifty plunged below the psychological 14000-level. The indices fell for the fourth straight session dragged down by outflows from foreign portfolio investors (FPIs), despite positive commentary on the economy from the IMF, which forecast a 11.5 per cent growth for the economy in 2021, the highest among the major economies. Investors are displaying nervousness after the violent farmer protests in the capital on  Republic Day amid heightened uncertainty on account of the budget on February 1. Analysts said the equities could see more volatility as the Budget day nears, though they admit the current selling is healthy for the markets. Both domestic and global factors were not conducive for a rally on Wednesday. Overseas stocks remained under pressure ahead of the US Fed meeting and uncertainty over the US stimulus. Back home, market heavyweight RIL faced rough weather over concerns of its deal with Future Group after Amazon.com Inc moved the Delhi high court to block the acquisition. The markets were also somewhat disappointed with the company’s third quarter results. The stock fell 2.66 per cent in intra-day trades to a low of Rs 1,888 after which it recouped some losses to close at Rs 1,895.25 — a drop of 2.29 per cent over its last close. This is the second consecutive trading session that RIL is among the worst-performing stocks in the Sensex. According to investment bank Macquarie, this may just be the beginning of the downfall for the oil-to-telecom conglomerate. In a recent report, Aditya Suresh and Abhinil Dahiwale of Macquarie cut their EPS (earning per share) estimate for RIL  by 3 per cent with a 12-month target price of Rs 1,350  even as it maintained the underperform rating. “With RIL’s shares today trading near our fundamental blue-sky valuation, we continue to flag a significant negative risk-reward skew in the face of potential execution challenges’,’ they added. The Sensex on Monday opened marginally higher at 48385.28, but could not sustain the gains for long as investors booked profits ahead of the F&O expiry on Thursday and the budget. Banking stocks witnessed the brunt of selling with Axis Bank leading the losers list as its shares fell by more than four per cent. At close, the index tumbled 937.66 points or 1.94 per cent to settle at 47409.93 – taking the aggregate four-session loss to 2382.19 points or 4.78 per cent. Intraday, the gauge swung 1117.65 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty tanked 271.40 points or 1.91 per cent to close the session at 13967.50. Over the last four sessions, the 50-share index has lost 677.20 points or 4.62 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-158
28-01-2021||India||India Today takes Rajdeep off-air for two weeks||Prime-time anchor Rajdeep Sardesai has been yanked off-air for two weeks by his employers India Today after he tweeted that Punjab farm protester Navneet Singh had been “killed allegedly in police firing” during the Republic Day tractor rally and that farmers had told him “the ‘sacrifice’ will not go in vain.”  Sardesai also repeated his statement on-air. The news anchor, though, retracted his statements on Twitter and on-air after the police released a video showing Singh losing control of the tractor and the vehicle overturning near New Delhi’s ITO crossing. A post-mortem confirmed that Navneet Singh had not been shot. On Tuesday afternoon, a group of protesters had refused to allow Singh’s body to be moved. They insisted to journalists that he had been shot though they refused to show the body to the reporters. “While the farm protesters claim that the deceased Navneet Singh was shot at by Delhi police while on a tractor, this video clearly shows that the tractor overturned while trying to break the police barricades. The farm protestors’ allegations don’t stand. Post-mortem awaited,” Sardesai said in a later tweet. The anchor, whose long reporting career has made him a household name in many quarters, had been reporting from what he called “ground zero” on the protests. He also tweeted that the police had exercised “great restraint despite grave provocation by the farm protesters” in dealing with the Republic Day demonstrations. Sardesai, who’s consulting editor at India Today, is said to have denied rumours that he has put in his resignation. It’s not the first time that the veteran journalist has been first with disseminating information that turned out to be wrong. Sardesai, who’s been a familiar face on our screens for over 20 years and is known for strongly supporting fact-based journalism, is just one more victim of today’s highly competitive 24/7 breaking news culture where TV channels, newspapers and online portals are all racing to be first with the scoop of the day to drive up ratings and views. Sardesai, himself, had last August prematurely announced that former president Pranab Mukherjee, who was in Delhi’s Army Hospital, had passed away. After being called out almost immediately, he quickly put out a tweet expressing his apologies: “My deep deep apologies for falling for fake news being circulated on Pranab Mukherjee passing away. I am deeply distraught for falling for this fake news… it was unprofessional of me not to reconfirm it before tweeting. Apologies to all.. and prayers with the family.” BJP party stalwarts have been calling for an FIR to be lodged against the TV celebrity over his Republic Day coverage and demanding that India Today dismiss him. The television anchor’s long-standing screen career has also made him a Twitter star with nine million followers. He believes that keeping up a high-profile Twitter presence is part of his job and he devotes around 30 minutes daily to the site. On Twitter, he’s ahead of his former colleague at NDTV Barkha Dutt who has 7.2 million followers. Both journalists, though, are way behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi who’s the country’s top Twitter star with 55 million followers. Besides Modi, India’s big names on Twitter are either movie stars or cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli. Deepika Padukone, is in 10th place with 27 million followers. The race to be first with the news has led to many other stumbles by many channels and newspapers. NDTV, for instance, called the 2015 Bihar elections for the BJP early in the counting and ended up apologising profusely when the RJD led the way, followed by the JD(U).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
28-01-2021||India||Government trying to end protest by blaming us, say farmers||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmers’ union, alleged on Thursday that  the government was trying to put an end to the farmers’ movement against the contentious agriculture laws by blaming it for the violence during the January 26 tractor rally. It also said that they won’t be intimidated by the notices sent to its leaders by Delhi Police. The Morcha has been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws at various border points of Delhi. In a statement, it said, “We will not be intimidated by the notices being sent by the Delhi Police and will respond to the same. The BJP government (at the Centre), along with its state governments, is trying its best to put an end to this movement by blaming SKM for the events of 26th January and this is not acceptable. The police are doing their best to evacuate several dharnas.” “Instead of taking action against the real criminals, the police are instead arresting farmers who were protesting peacefully. Police have also seized their vehicles. We condemn the eviction of protesters at Palwal where the police instigated locals and flared up divisive sentiments,” it added. The Delhi Police on Thursday issued lookout notices against farmer leaders named in FIRs in connection with the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. According to officials, the farmer leaders who have been named in the FIRs will also be asked to surrender their passports. “We condemn the action by Uttar Pradesh police in cutting off basic facilities for the protesting farmers at Ghazipur and its attempts to evict the farmers forcibly today. Leaders like Rakesh Tikait, Tajinder Virk and K K Ragesh resisted this police behaviour peacefully. “The government's efforts to discredit the ongoing farmers' movement are continuing. The nervousness of the government is evident from how it is installing security forces on all borders. The government wants to show this movement as ‘violent’ again and again, but the Samyukta Kisan Morcha has a unanimous approach to ensure that the movement will remain peaceful,” it said. On Thursday, a Sadbhavana Yatra was taken out by farmer union leaders at the Singhu border protest site. “This was against the divisive forces trying to divide the protesting farmers along religious lines and as per states and to reinforce the feeling of unity between the farmers,” the morcha said. The Delhi Police detained 15 more people on Thursday, for their suspected involvement in the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on January 26, officials said. Nearly 30 farmers who were camping at DDA Ground in Burari were also moved towards the Singhu border to clear the site, they said. The police also stepped up security at the Red Fort, which was stormed by a large number of protesting farmers who deviated from the designated parade route on Tuesday, and Singhu and Tikri borders, the officials said. Thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for the repeal of the legislations. Many of the protesters reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. “Around 15 people have been detained for their suspected involvement in the violence on Republic Day and for violating laws,” Additional Delhi Police PRO Anil Mittal said. Nearly 30 farmers who were protesting at DDA Ground in Burari have been moved towards the Singhu border, he said. The ground will be cleared soon, the police said. A senior police officer said security at the Red Fort has been stepped up after Tuesday’s incident. Police personnel have also been deployed in large numbers at the city's Singhu and Tikri borders, the officer said. Earlier in the day, the Delhi Police said its Special Cell will investigate the “conspiracy” and “criminal designs” behind the violence on Republic Day. As of Thursday, the police had filed 25 criminal cases, arrested 19 people and detained 200 in connection with the violence. Nearly 400 police personnel were injured in the clashes with the protesters, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||UP govt asks farmers to vacate Ghazipur border||The situation at Delhi's Ghazipur border, one of the prominent sites where farmers have been protesting for two months, has turned tense with the Uttar Pradesh government issuing an ultimatum to protesting farmers: vacate UP Gate by Thursday midnight or else be prepared to be removed. The “verbal” communication, routed through the Ghaziabad administration, comes a day after three unions pulled out of the farmers' collective that has been protesting against the three central farm laws over the violence in Delhi on Republic Day. “Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has communicated to the protestors camping at the UP Gate at Delhi border to vacate the spot by tonight or the administration will remove them,” a district official told PTI. However, according to a report by ndtv.com, farmers have refused to move, while their leader Rakesh Tikait said he is ready to face bullets. “The Supreme Court has justified the peaceful sit-in,” NDTV quoted Tikait as saying. “There has been no violence on the Ghazipur border. Despite this, the government is adopting a repressive policy. It is the face of the Uttar Pradesh government,” he added. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws on Tuesday. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. The Delhi Police meanwhile said that its Special Cell will investigate the case. It has already registered several FIRs against farmer leaders, including Tikait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||India to make available many more Covid vaccines, says PM||India will soon make available many more COVID-19 vaccines to other countries after two Made-In-India jabs have already been introduced to the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while emphasising the country's global responsibility in fighting the pandemic. In a special address at the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda Summit, Modi also said he wants to assure the global business community that situation will now change rapidly on the economic front also and invited businesses from all over to participate in the country's growth journey. Modi said that some had said in February-March 2020 that India would be the worst affected country by COVID-19 and would face a "tsunami of corona infections". "Some had talked about 70-80 crore people expected to get infected in India, while some talked about over 20 lakh possible deaths but India did not let the disappointment get better of it," he said. Modi said, "We transformed fight against coronavirus into a people's movement and today India is among the most successful countries in saving lives." "We focussed on developing COVID-specific health infrastructure, we trained our human resources to fight against this pandemic and we made full use of tech for testing and tracking," he said. Modi said India has started the world's largest coronavirus vaccination programme and its speed can be imagined from the fact that over 23 lakh health workers have been vaccinated in just 12 days. He said India has ensured that it follows its global responsibility by sending essential medicines to over 150 countries while COVID-19 vaccines are also being sent to other countries. "While two India-made vaccines have already been introduced to the world, many more vaccines will be made available from India," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Munawar Faruqui denied bail as 'investigation is in progress' ||Munawar Faruqui, the stand-up comedian who has been jailed  in a case against him for allegedly passing indecent remarks against Hindu deities, was denied bail by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday. It observed that it was the constitutional duty of every citizen and the states to promote harmony among people irrespective of the diversities. Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the high court also turned down the bail application of Nalin Yadav, another accused in the case. The single-bench had on Monday reserved the order on their bail pleas. Police had arrested Faruqi and four others on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA’s son that objectionable remarks were made by him and others about Hindu deities during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore. One more person was arrested later. Faruqui and Yadav are currently lodged in Indore Central Jail. A magistrate court and a sessions court had earlier rejected their bail pleas. In its order passed on Thursday, the court, while dismissing the bail pleas, said it refrains from commenting upon the contentions of the parties touching on merits, but based on the material seized, the statement of the witnesses and considering that the investigation is in progress, no case is made out for grant of bail. “The observations, if any, made in the order on facts are only for the purpose of deciding these bail applications and shall have no bearing on pending trial,” the order said. While dismissing the bail plea, the judge ruled, "This court has carefully perused the case diary. The statements of witnesses recorded under section 161 CrPC, particularly the statements of the complainant Eklavya Singh Gaud and witness Kunal." “Emphasis laid on some portions of the statements by the learned public prosecutor have already been reproduced in the form of his contention,” it said. “The evidence/material collected so far suggests that in an organised public show under the garb of standup comedy at a public place on commercial lines, prima facie, scurrilous, disparaging utterances, outraging religious feelings of a class of citizens of India with deliberate intendment, were made by the applicant,” it said. The ruling also pointed out that the counsel for the applicant tried to submit that the applicant, Faruqui, came on an invitation from the organisers of the comedy show and though present on the spot at the show, did not utter anything as alleged. “In the light of the statements of the complainant and the witnesses referred above, the seized articles, viz, video footage of the show and the seizure memos detailed above, at this stage it is difficult to countenance to the submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant as complacency of the applicant cannot be ruled out, besides vulnerability of his acts in public domain. It is not a case of no evidence. More so, the investigation is in progress,” it said. “The possibility of collection of more incriminating material and complacency of other persons cannot also be ruled out. Further, it has come on record that a similar nature of offence has been registered against the applicant at Police Station Georgetown, Prayagraj, state of Uttar Pradesh,” the order further said. “That apart, there is also specific assertion by the counsel for the complainant that the applicant, along with other co-accused persons, allegedly making outraging filthy jokes in social media deliberately against Hindu Gods, Lord Shriram and Goddess Seeta, hurting religious sentiments of Hindus for the last 18 months, despite protest on various social media platforms. There is nothing on record to the contrary,” it said. “Before parting with the case, it is considered apposite to observe that our country is a beautiful country and sets an example of coexistence amid diversities, be it religion, language, culture, geographical locations etc, to the world at large,” the order said. “Mutual respect, faith and trust amongst all citizens of India are basic tenets of coexistence, in a welfare society governed by the principles of rule of law. “It is the constitutional duty of every citizen of the country and also of the states to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India irrespective of religious, linguistic, regional or sectional diversities and to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture (Article 15A (e) and (f) of the Constitution of India,” it said. “States must endeavour that ecosystem and sustenance of coexistence in our welfare society is not polluted by negative forces and must strive for achievement of goals as enshrined under Article 51A(e) and (f) of the Constitution of India, in particular as these provisions are part of our vibrant Constitution and not dead letters,” the order said. According to the police, the comedy show was held at a cafe in 56 Dukan area of Indore on January 1. Eklavya Singh Gaud (36), son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud, had filed a complaint against Faruqui and others. Gaud said that he and his associates had gone to watch the show and when they heard the “indecent” comments, they forced the organisers to stop the programme. The complaint said that indecent remarks were passed against Hindu gods and goddesses and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the show. Faruqui and four others were later arrested by the police. All of them were booked under IPC sections 295-A (outraging religious feelings), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions. One more person was arrested in this connection later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Deep Sidhu floats conspiracy theory after snub||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been accused by farm bodies of trying to defame their agitation and termed a "traitor", has hit out at farm leaders for allegedly spreading false propaganda and hatred against him. The 36-year-old Sidhu, who is in the eye of a storm for being among the protesters who put up a religious flag atop the Red Fort on Republic Day, claimed that youth did not agree to follow the route which was decided by farmer leaders and the Delhi Police. He claimed people on their own marched towards the Red Fort from all the Delhi borders on January 26 and that not many people took the route as decided by farmer leaders. Slamming the farm leadership for accusing him of being a BJP and RSS man , he said, Will RSS or BJP's man put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag at Red Fort? At least think over it". Sidhu was present at the Red Fort when a religious flag and a farmer flag were put at the flagpole at the historic monument, triggering massive outrage. He sought to dismiss the claims of several farmer leaders who accused him of inciting protesters to head towards the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade January 26. "I am seeing that false propaganda and hatred is being spread against me," Sidhu charged in the latest video uploaded on his Facebook post. Sharing details about what happened on the night of January 25, Sidhu said youth and many people had told farmer leaders that they (farm leaders) had invited them to hold a protest inside Delhi on January 26 and that they had now changed their stand at the last moment. Sidhu said he reached the Red Fort after its gate was broken. Thousands of people had reached there, but there was "no farmer leader" present there, said Sidhu while claiming that nobody indulged in violence or damaged any public property. They put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag at the flagpole to register their protest, said Sidhu adding that many people were carrying 'Nishan Sahib' flags, farmer flags and the tricolour. "If you say by doing so I have turned traitor then those who were present there were traitors too," said Sidhu. "If you impose all these things on one person and give him a certificate of traitor then I think you should be ashamed of yourself," said Sidhu. "Had our farmer leadership and each person taken a stand and said that look, the scenario would have been different. It would have sent a message that these farmers can do anything to achieve there goal. "But I was given a traitor certificate by our own men," he rued. Farmer leaders on Wednesday had called Sidhu as a traitor and had given a call for his boycott in the state. They had also dubbed him as an agent of the government. Sidhu said lakhs of people could not come on the call of only one person, while rubbishing the accusation of farmer leaders that he had incited people to head towards the Red Fort. Stating that he did not bring any disrepute to the farmers' agitation, Sidhu further accused the farmer leaders of being "arrogant" and said that they wanted whatever decisions they take should be accepted by all. "You are so jealous and so arrogant that you do not listen to anyone. Whatever decision is taken must be accepted by all, If I reveal the deep secrets, then there will be no way to flee (for farm leaders)," he said. He also alleged that the government would send people after him to hurt him. On January 26, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had sought to defend the action of protesters at the Red Fort, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||16 Opposition parties to skip President’s parliamentary address on Friday ||As many as 16 opposition parties have decided not to attend the President’s address to the joint sitting of both the Houses of Parliament in solidarity with the farmers protesting the new farm laws, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Thursday. The 16 Opposition parties also demand a probe into the Centre’s role in violence on Republic Day in Delhi, said the leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha while speaking to the media with Congress’ chief whip in Lok Sabha, K Suresh, by his side. The Congress also released a statement on its Twitter handle, announcing the decision. The other parties who have decided to boycott the address include the SP, NCP, Shiv Sena and the CPI(M), among others. President Ram Nath Kovind would address the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament on January 29. The Congress had also accused the Modi government of being part of a concerted conspiracy to malign the farmers' agitation by allowing some miscreants to enter the Red Fort complex and hoist a religious flag, in their bid to ensure that the farmers bury their demand for the repeal of the three new agri laws. It has demanded the immediate dismissal of Union home minister Amit Shah, holding him “directly responsible” for the “anarchy” in the national capital on Republic Day and describing the Red Fort fiasco as a government-sponsored conspiracy to defame the peaceful farmers’ movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||India capable of meeting challenges on all fronts, says Modi||India showed last year that it is capable of taking all measures to overcome challenges, be it the Covid-19 pandemic or at its borders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing a rally of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in New Delhi, Modi said India has shown its capabilities on all fronts as he referred to production of Made in India vaccines against the virus. “Whether it is developing protective shields of the vaccine or destroying with modern missiles intentions of those challenging India, the country is capable on all fronts,” he said. India has been engaged in a border standoff with China for months now, along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). If India is ‘aatmanirbhar’ in the field of vaccines, it is also trying with equal vigour to modernise its armed forces, Modi said. The prime minister asserted that all steps are being taken to ensure that every wing of India’s armed forces is the best, adding that the country now has excellent “war machines”. Referring to the mid-air refuelling of Rafale fighter aircraft while they were on way to India, Modi said it was done in UAE and Saudi Arabia and Greece also helped. This highlights our growing ties with Gulf countries, he said. Speaking of his government’s efforts to boost domestic defence manufacturing, he said, “India will soon be known as a big producer of defence equipment instead of a big market as it is today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Jaishankar offers remedies to mend India-China ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday outlined eight broad principles for repairing ties between India and China that included strict adherence to all agreements on the management of the Line of Actual Control, mutual respect and sensitivity, and recognising each other's aspirations as rising Asian powers. In an address at an online conference on India-China ties, Jaishankar said the events in eastern Ladakh last year have profoundly disturbed the relationship and asserted that any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC is "completely unacceptable". The external affairs minister said any expectation that the situation at the border "can be brushed aside and life can carry on undisturbed" is simply not realistic. Jaishankar said the India-China relationship is truly at the crossroads today and choices that are made will have profound repercussions not just for the two nations but for the entire world. He said the Chinese actions in eastern Ladakh not only signalled a disregard for commitments about minimising troops level but also showed a willingness to breach peace and tranquillity. "Significantly, to date, we have yet to receive a credible explanation for the change in China's stance and massing of troops in border areas," he said at the All India Conference on China Studies. Elaborating on eight points for moving forward in bilateral ties, the external affairs minister said agreements already reached on management of the LAC must be adhered to in their entirety and in letter and spirit. "Whether handling of the border areas is concerned, the Line of Actual Control must be strictly observed and respected. Any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo is completely unacceptable," he said. While both nations are committed to a multi-polar world, Jaishankar said, there should be a recognition that a multi-polar Asia is one of its essential consequences. "Obviously each state will have its interests, concerns and priorities, but sensitivity to them cannot be one-sided. At the end of the day relationships between major states are reciprocal in nature," he said. Jaishankar said as rising powers, each nation will have its own set of aspirations and their pursuit to it cannot be ignored. He said peace and tranquillity in border areas is the basis for the development of ties with China in other domains and if it is disturbed, "so inevitably is rest of the relationship". The external affairs minister said far from mitigating already existing differences, events of 2020 have actually put the relationship under "exceptional stress" Any expectation that the situation at border can be brushed aside and life can carry on undisturbed is simply not realistic, he said. He said if ties are to progress, policies must take into account the learnings of the last three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Delhi police slaps notice on 20 farm leaders for R-Day violence||The Delhi Police have issued notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav and Balbir Singh Rajewal, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally, asking why legal action should not be taken against them, officials said on Thursday. The police have asked them to submit their responses within three days, an official said, adding that the notices have been issued to these farmer leaders as they did not comply with the conditions set for the tractor parade on Tuesday. The action comes after Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Wednesday alleged that the farmer leaders were involved in the January 26 violence and warned that no culprit would be spared. "We have issued notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav. They all have been asked to send their replies within three days," the official said. On Wednesday, the police had issued a notice to another farmer leader Darshan Pal, noting that the vandalisation at the Red Fort on Republic Day was "the most deplorable and anti-national act". Meanwhile, the Delhi Police will also issue lookout circular against farmer leaders who have been named in the FIRs registered after the violence on Republic Day. The officials said that farmer leaders named in the FIRs will also be asked to surrender their passports. The decisions have been taken following a series of meetings chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah since Tuesday when the large scale violence took place in the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally, a home ministry official said. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agri laws turned violent as protesters deviated from routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Delhi Police on Wednesday said that 25 criminal cases were registered in connection with the violence in which 394 personnel were injured and 30 police vehicles damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||AAP to contest elections in six states, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the party will contest elections in six states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. He made the announcement at the ninth National Council meeting of the Aam Aadmi Party. "Other parties have no vision and that is why they are talking about the past. AAP is the only party talking about the future and has the vision of 21st and 22nd century," Kejriwal said. "In next two years, AAP will be contesting elections in six states - UP, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat," the AAP national convenor said. Kejriwal urged AAP members to strengthen the party at the grassroots level. "I urge party members to strengthen the AAP grassroots-level hold of the party across the country. The organisation has to be strengthened on a very large scale. The country is important for us and AAP is the vehicle and we need to work towards the development of the party," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Shah to visit hospitals to enquire about injured cops in R-Day violence||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday will visit two hospitals to enquire about the health of policemen injured in the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day, officials said. Nearly 400 policemen were injured during the tractor parade of the farmers who have been protesting against three central farm laws at Delhi's borders since November. The home minister will visit two hospitals -- Shushrut Trauma Centre and Teerath Ram Hospital -- to enquire about the health of the injured police personnel, an official from the Home Ministry said. Both the hospitals are located in Civil Lines. The Delhi Police on Wednesday had alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured, as it warned that no culprit will be spared. Addressing a press conference here, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the parade that was supposed to be held from 12 pm to 5 pm with 5,000 tractors and accused them of betrayal. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. From Rajpath to Red Fort, the day unfolded in scenes of contrasts. One that Indians have seen for seven decades and the other that seared itself into collective memory with its imagery of protesters demanding a repeal of the three farm laws storming the Mughal era monument, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day. A protester died after his tractor overturned near ITO, one of the major flashpoints of trouble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||India records 11,666 fresh Covid cases, 123 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally of cases crossed 1.07 crore with 11,666 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the national recovery rate climbed to 96.94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total infections have mounted to 1,07,01,193. The death toll increased to 1,53,847 with 123 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,03,73,606 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.94 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 1,73,740 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.62 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,43,38,773 samples have been tested up to January 27 with 7,25,653 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 123 new fatalities include 32 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 10 from Punjab and 9 from Delhi. A total of 1,53,847 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,894 from Maharashtra followed by 12,333 from Tamil Nadu, 12,207 from Karnataka, 10,829 from Delhi, 10,139 from West Bengal, 8,636 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,152 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Cold wave grips Delhi as mercury plummets below 3 degrees Celsius||A cold wave gripped the national capital on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 3.8 degrees Celsius due to cold, dry westerly winds barreling through the plains, the India Meteorological Department said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave had swept the city on Tuesday, too, with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely on Friday as well. The minimum temperature is predicted to settle around four degrees Celsius. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years. Meanwhile, a low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.8 hit Delhi on Thursday morning, the National Centre for Seismology said. The epicentre of the earthquake was West Delhi and it occurred at a depth of 15 kilometres at 9.17 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha takes moral responsibility for R-Day chaos ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Wednesday took moral responsibility for the chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally and said January 30 — the anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s martyrdom — would be observed as a day of penance with a daylong fast. The Morcha, under whose banner almost 500 farmer organisations have gathered, called off its planned march to Parliament on February 1 but said the agitation for repeal of the three farm laws and the enactment of a legal guarantee for a minimum support price would continue, however long it took. “The call for the tractor rally was given by us, so we have taken moral responsibility,” Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakkaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh said at a late evening news conference of the Morcha. “We erred in not singling out those who had infiltrated our movement, and we are taking ownership of our mistake.’’ While accepting moral responsibility and offering regret, the Morcha leaders accused the Modi-Shah duopoly of orchestrating the violence through their agents to torpedo a movement that had gone national. On Republic Day, a tractor rally was held in Bangalore; protesting farmers hoisted the Tricolour at Azad Maidan in Mumbai; and Hyderabad saw a huge rally against the farm laws. The leaders acknowledged that the scenes of violence in the national capital had eroded support for the movement, but veteran farmer union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the Kisan Parade was historic and that 99.9 per cent of those who participated in it had remained peaceful. “Still, it became a victim of a government conspiracy to break the movement after several earlier attempts to discredit it and weaken it had failed,” Rajewal said, alleging the police themselves had directed the farmers towards central Delhi. The farmer leaders held actor Deep Sidhu, whom they described as an agent of the Modi-Shah duopoly, and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), a group that refused to stick to the designated parade route, responsible for the violence. About Deep Sidhu, who did a Facebook Live from Red Fort as the Nishan Sahib was hoisted, Rajewal said: “He was planted by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. There is enough evidence of his association.” Sidhu, who has from the start been persona non grata for the Morcha, was BJP MP Sunny Deol’s campaign manager in the 2019 polls. Deol has since distanced himself from Sidhu. The Morcha leaders asked why the police did not act when the KMSC publicly announced on Monday that it would not abide by the agreed parade route. The KMSC was neither among the 32 Punjab unions agitating at the Singhu and Tikri borders nor a member of the Morcha, they underlined. Accusing the KMSC of acting as an agent of the state, the Morcha underlined that it had arrived at the Singhu border 13 days after others but was allowed to sit right in front on the Delhi side of the barricade, where the police are posted, while the rest of the protesting unions were behind the barriers. “Why this special treatment for the KMSC?” a farmer leader asked, adding that senior police officers visited the KMSC regularly. Among the other questions they had was how the tractors were allowed to proceed to the heart of Delhi and reach the Red Fort on Republic Day, when security is at its highest, and how they were allowed to enter the complex and run riot for four hours. “It is the police who are squarely responsible for what happened at the Red Fort,” Rakesh Tikait said, asking the protesting farmers not to be disheartened by the turn of events. Tikait, who is from Uttar Pradesh, and Kakkaji, who is from Madhya Pradesh, smelt a government conspiracy to defame the farmers from Punjab. Countering allegations that the farmers had disrespected the national flag, the Morcha leadership underlined that practically every tractor had a Tricolour flying high. Even at the Red Fort, where the Tricolour had been hoisted for the first time by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1947, the protesters had not touched the national flag, Kakkaji stressed. Yogendra Yadav said the Sangh ecosystem had not much of a leg to stand on in the matter of honouring the Tricolour, considering the national flag was not hoisted at the RSS headquarters till 2002. Amid questions about the Morcha leadership’s ability to control a movement that is growing and inspired rallies across the country on Tuesday, several union leaders said it was this very leadership that had saved the day by deciding to stop the tractors from leaving the borders when word reached them about the breach at Red Fort. “The SKM leadership intervened effectively in a timely manner to resist a small section which was trying to force tractors to deviate from the designated route towards the Red Fort. It stopped movement of tractors from Singhu Border at 2pm itself and also called off the parade at 6pm,” the All India Kisan Sabha, a member of the Morcha, said in a separate statement. “This effectively isolated the group that played into the hands of the government.... The events point clearly to the complicity of the BJP government with the disruptive elements.” The AIKS asked why the police had allowed an alternative route for a small section of farmers when they drew up the route plan in consultation with the Morcha, and why Deep Sidhu had not been arrested yet. Asked about the possibility of police action against the farmer leaders, many of whom have been named in FIRs, Yogendra Yadav said this was part and parcel of organising protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Amit Shah silent, FIRs filed against farmer leaders||Union home minister Amit Shah, under fire for the intelligence failure and police’s lack of preparation after several places in Delhi witnessed chaos and violence on Republic Day, caused surprise by remaining silent through Wednesday. Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava accused farmer leaders of making provocative speeches and “betraying” his force’s trust, and threatened stringent action. An FIR has been filed against several senior leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Sources said Shah, who has charge of law and order in Delhi, had at a meeting directed strict action against farmer leaders who had given the police a written undertaking of a peaceful tractor rally through designated routes. But the rally deviated from the assigned routes at some places, leading to chaos and violence. Many farmers believe the police facilitated the chaos by allowing those at the front of some of the convoys to veer off route, and then cracking down when those behind innocently tried to follow them. Srivastava told a news conference that the police had made thorough preparations and this was why “no one died in the violence”. One of the protesters died near the ITO when his tractor overturned, which the police say was an accident. The farmers claim that police action caused the mayhem that led to the accident. Some have alleged the farmer was shot by the police. Srivastava said 394 police personnel had been injured in the violence but did not specify the nature of the injuries. There is still no estimate of how many farmers were injured. Srivastava claimed the police had realised by Monday evening that the farmer leaders planned to deviate from the agreed plan and were pushing aggressive and militant elements to the forefront. He did not explain why the police, with such advance knowledge, had failed to prevent the chaos. Srivastava said: “The farmer unions have betrayed us by not honouring the agreement. Nineteen accused have been arrested and 50 detained so far for questioning.” He said 25 FIRs had been registered. Sources said FIRs had been registered against farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Rajinder Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Buta Singh Burjgil and Joginder Singh Ugrahan for allegedly breaching the terms of the no-objection certificate issued for the tractor rally. An FIR also names Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait. Late in the evening, the name of Deep Sidhu, a Khalistani sympathiser and former BJP campaigner, was added to an FIR. Srivastava said the police’s crime branch, special cell and district police would work on the case and a special investigation team would be formed. “Leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu delivered provocative speeches at Mukarba Chowk. Darshan Pal Singh too violated the agreement. From Ghazipur, they started their movement from 8.30am while the time given to them was noon,” Srivastava said. “The leaders were instigating the farmers. They were the ones refusing to move along the predetermined routes. We have videos showing how the leaders were instigating the farmers. From Ghazipur, many from Rakesh Tikait’s team broke barriers and marched forward. The police had many options but showed restraint.” But Srivastava did not explain how a few groups of farmers had succeeded in reaching the ITO in central Delhi and the Red Fort despite the heavy police presence. Some of the farmers who had arrived at the Red Fort said the police had not put up any barricades on the way. “As we approached the Red Fort, the police did not stop us at all. They were mute spectators. This suggests the police wanted the protesters to enter the Red Fort and engage in violence,” said Jagvir, a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Supreme Court  won’t bin Tandav FIRs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay multiple FIRs registered across the country against streaming platform Amazon Prime and the makers of the web series Tandav but agreed to examine a plea for the clubbing of the cases for trial at one place. The court’s order means the series makers and actors can be arrested unless they get an anticipatory bail or the FIRs are quashed. Many have objected to what they have termed derogatory references to Lord Shiva in the series, with BJP members protesting in different parts of the country and also expressing anger at its depiction of a farmers’ protest and the machinations of a politician played by Saif Ali Khan. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said the petitioners were free to approach the respective state high courts for quashing of the FIRs. A battery of senior lawyers, including Fali S. Nariman, Mukul Rohatgi and Sidharth Luthra, had pleaded for the scrapping of the FIRs. The top court, however, issued notices to various states and complainants for their response on the possibility of clubbing the cases. Although Nariman and the other counsel pleaded that “no coercive action” be taken against the petitioners, the bench declined to pass any direction. While Nariman and Rohatgi represented Aparna Purohit, the creative head of Amazon Prime, Luthra appeared for Tandav producer Himanshu Mehra and director Abbas Zafar. Nariman had told the bench that the FIRs had no relevance since the makers of the series had already tendered apologies and had also withdrawn the scenes that had allegedly hurt the sentiments of Hindus. “You want the FIRs to be quashed. But why can’t you approach the high courts?” Justice Bhushan, heading the bench, asked. The senior counsel said they were registered in six states and it would be difficult for the petitioners to approach multiple high courts. “We have removed the objectionable content and still there are cases being filed,” Nariman said. But the court said the petitioners could not directly invoke the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Article 32 for alleged violation of their fundamental right to free speech. Justice Shah said the police could also file closure reports if apology had been sought and the objectionable content removed. Rohatgi referred to the recent case of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami when the apex court had agreed to examine his plea for clubbing multiple FIRs registered against him. “In Arnab Goswami’s case it has been established that after a violation of Article 19(1)(a) we can move the Supreme Court. Parties (petitioners) are in Mumbai, how many states will they go to to defend themselves? Rohatgi said. “People get offended with anything and everything these days. Please protect us with no coercive steps. We deleted content without any protest. Scenes have been deleted. It’s a political satire. (If) people are so sensitive in this country, then 19 (1)(a) would be destroyed. Arnab Goswami was also protected,” he argued. Article 19(1)(a) deals with freedom of speech and expression. “Your right to freedom of speech is not absolute. It is subject to restrictions,” Justice Shah told Luthra. Luthra said the court had a duty to step in when there was an infraction of fundamental rights. He referred to the T.T. Anthony case wherein the Supreme Court had abhorred the practice of multiple FIRs being registered over the same offence. “I (the petitioners) am being dragged all across the country and prosecuted. There are multiple FIRs against me,” he said. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub who plays the role of a reformist student leader, said: “I am an actor who was contracted to play a character. Views ascribed on screen cannot be prescribed to me in person.” However, Justice Shah shot back: “You cannot take up a role without reading the script…. You cannot play a role hurting the religious sentiments of others.” Rohatgi argued that at the end of the day, this was a single offence. “If a murder is reported 100 times, then there cannot be 100 offences against me. It is a genuine innocent case. Everyday there is an FIR. Where will a man go? At least club them in one place. This is not a transfer plea. This case will put a lot of people under great harassment. Article 19(1)(a) was completely brushed away,” Rohatgi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Congress seeks immediate dismissal of Amit Shah||The Congress has demanded the immediate dismissal of Union home minister Amit Shah, holding him “directly responsible” for the “anarchy” in the national capital on Republic Day and describing the Red Fort fiasco as a government-sponsored conspiracy to defame the peaceful farmers’ movement. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala told a news conference on Wednesday: “Amit Shah is directly responsible for the premeditated violence and anarchic scenes in the national capital during the farmers’ tractor rally. This is the second time when Delhi had been thrown into the vortex of violence and lawlessness, exposing Shah’s failure as home minister. If Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not sack him now, it will indicate he was part of the conspiracy.” By “second time”, the Congress was referring to the February 2020 Delhi riots in which 53 people lost their lives. Surjewala also alleged that the conspiratorial tactics visible during the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh and other places and the violence on the JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia campuses had been deployed to quell the farmers’ protest too. “Shah is the weakest home minister in India’s history,” the Congress spokesperson said. Wondering how could a group of 300-400 people capture India’s pride — Red Fort — Surjewala said: “Some people made public announcements at the protest sites on the night of January 25 that they would enter Delhi, defying the agreement reached between the farmers’ unions and Delhi police. What were the police doing? Sleeping? Why did the government not act on intelligence inputs? How were 30-40 tractors allowed to reach Red Fort when the police had acted brutally with protesters elsewhere? How were those who climbed atop Red Fort and hoisted a flag allowed to go back? Why were they not arrested?” Deep Sidhu, an actor accused of leading the group that hoisted the flag at Red Fort, was seen driving away from the spot on a motorcycle. Arguing that never in the history of independent India had any group succeeded in capturing Red Fort, Surjewala said: “Videos showed policemen sitting quietly when vandalism was going on. Who facilitated the passage (of the protesters) to Red Fort and the hoisting of the flag? Why was the main door not closed? What happened was a planned conspiracy. Photographs of Deep Sidhu with the Prime Minister and the home minister are everywhere.” Surjewala said: “It was a government plot. Deep Sidhu and his gang were allowed to escape from Red Fort as part of a strategy. The police remained a mute spectator. This conspiracy was hatched to defame the peaceful movement of the farmers and to break the unity among the unions.” Recalling that innocent people were now being targeted, much like what had happened in other instances of violence in the recent past including the Delhi riots, Surjewala said: “It is on Shah’s instructions that false cases are being slapped on leaders of farmers’ unions while Deep and gang have been spared. No FIR has been registered against the main culprits. “Shah has no moral right to stay in office for a minute.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers recount confusion, celebration ||Some farmers who took part in Tuesday’s Kisan Parade spoke of a “wonderful experience”, with people showering flowers from the roadside and agitation leaders ever alert to prevent any deviation from the agreed route. Some others described how they had unwittingly deviated from the route “just by following the tractor in front”. They suggested the confusion was a result of lapses, if not a conspiracy, by police who let some tractors veer off route and then cracked down on those following behind. It was difficult on Wednesday to find any farmer who defended whatever transgressions had happened during the Republic Day tractor rally. While many refused to talk after learning about FIRs being registered against their leaders, and some spoke guardedly, others were candid, having nothing untoward to report. Bhimlal, who had started off from the Ghazipur border with Uttar Pradesh, said confusion had led him and others to inadvertently violate the prescribed route despite their determination to play it by the book. “We had refused to join those who ventured out around 9am because our leaders had said the tractor rally had to begin only after the official Republic Day parade was over,” he told The Telegraph. “We started off at 11.30am. I was on a tractor along with other farmers but it appeared that nobody was familiar with the route. We learnt that some tractors starting from Ghazipur had reached the ITO and presumed we were allowed to go there. But the police stopped us, directing us to move towards Seelampur. “We were in a convoy of 1,200 tractors. There were barricades on the sanctioned routes but no policeman was present. Farmers pushed the barricades aside and proceeded. We reached Ghaziabad and then heard of clashes at the ITO and learnt that some tractors had reached the Red Fort. “We were astonished and wondered how the Red Fort had come into the plans. Local people offered us something to eat near Ghaziabad and then we were waylaid by the police on the way towards Meerut. We realised we were on the wrong route and turned back. We reached Ghazipur around 4pm.” Bhimlal suggested that most farmers’ lack of precise knowledge of the official route and the police’s initial failure to enforce it caused the mayhem. “We found out that the tractors that had reached the ITO had been allowed to do so by the police. They didn’t encounter any resistance while reaching the ITO, a place that wasn’t on the sanctioned route,” he said. Another farmer who was driving a tractor and requested anonymity backed up Bhimlal’s account. “We crossed Akshardham and reached the ITO. I just followed the tractors moving ahead of mine — this was my first visit to Delhi. I didn’t know I was committing any violation. The police didn’t stop us. Those who came later were stopped,” he said. “There was a jam at the ITO and we could hear some sort of ruckus at the front. We were told a few hundred tractors had been allowed to move, but the police started firing teargas after that. We were in a panic. “But after an hour, the tractors resumed moving and we all followed, presuming that was the route to be taken. We reached the Red Fort, oblivious of the circumstances that had led us there. “Hundreds of tractors were already parked there haphazardly. We presumed our leaders had negotiated with the police and we had been allowed to come to the Red Fort. We didn’t know what happened there. After some time, we returned.” On the other routes, most of the farmers were not even aware of any disturbances. Jasbir Kaur, who had set out with other women from the Tikri border with Haryana, said: “We had a wonderful experience. There was some confusion at Nangloi when we entered Delhi. Some tractors took a road that was not part of the sanctioned route but our leaders appealed over loudspeakers to stick to the route. “They repeatedly said our objective was to get the three laws repealed and not to damage public property or cause inconvenience to people. Our convoy of 2,000 tractors took the sanctioned route. “We were delighted to see people lined up on the roadside, showering flowers and distributing fruits, biscuits and water. People walked up to us and said they supported our cause. We felt proud and emboldened to sustain our peaceful struggle. “There was no police presence after Nangloi. We stopped at two places for refreshments. We arrived back at our camps at 7pm. There was no problem at all; we heard about the trouble on some routes only after returning to Tikri.” But Kaur’s sense of pride and achievement got somewhat injured when she heard how the electronic media had portrayed the parade. “We knew the media spoke for Modi and tried to defame us. But we never anticipated being projected as terrorists and rioters conspiring to ravage Delhi,” she said. “Initially, we were rattled. But we have regained our composure — our resolve to carry on despite the false propaganda and the government’s onslaught is intact. We aren’t going to cry off midway.” Ashish Mittal of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha accused the police of deliberately creating confusion. “Attributing motives to the farmers, saying they intended to trigger violence, is criminal. The media is behaving irresponsibly, calling us terrorists. There was utter confusion about the routes and the innocent farmers were perplexed,” he said. “Barricades had been put up on sanctioned routes, teargas was fired on tractors moving peacefully, routes were curtailed — all this to create chaos deliberately. Some tractors were initially allowed to reach the ITO and the Red Fort as part of a conspiracy by the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Farmers had rejected actor Deep Sidhu||Punjabi actor turned activist Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting farmers to deviate from their assigned route and storm the Red Fort on Tuesday, has from the start been persona non grata for most farmer unions because of his BJP past and open Khalistani sympathies. Sidhu’s Facebook Live webcast on Republic Day showed him at the spot where the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib was hoisted in front of the Red Fort’s ramparts — one of the protesters’ acts that has drawn the heaviest condemnation. Videos from the Red Fort, however, show Sidhu being chased away by some farmers after the flag-hoisting. Sidhu had campaigned for Bollywood actor and BJP candidate Sunny Deol during the 2019 general election but publicly distanced himself from the BJP and Deol after jumping onto the farmer-protest bandwagon in September last year. However, his pro-Khalistan utterances at a farmers’ demonstration in Shambhu, Punjab, in October as well as in interviews to journalist Barkha Dutt in November had made him unacceptable to the majority of the farmer unions that have historically opposed separatism. The hoisting of a religious flag at the Red Fort on Republic Day, in which Sidhu seems to have colluded, has played into the hands of a government that has been alleging Khalistani infiltration into the farmers’ movement. Amid these allegations, however, judicial activist Prashant Bhushan on Tuesday tweeted photos of Sidhu with Deol, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and current home minister Amit Shah. On Wednesday, BJP parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy tweeted: “There is a buzz, could be fake, or fake IDs of enemies that a BJP member close to high places in PMO acted as a (sic) agent provocateur in the Red Fort drama. Please check out and inform.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||BJP blames Congress and the Left of instigating farmers||The BJP on Wednesday accused the Congress and the Left of instigating farmers and also intensified its effort to discredit the peasants’ struggle by calling the Republic Day violence an “insurrection against a democratically elected government”. At a media conference at the BJP headquarters in the evening, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar accused “the Congress and the Left of instigating violence”. He said the two political forces were desperately trying every means to “spread anarchy” in the country to defame the Narendra Modi government. “All those who are facing defeat in elections have come together and are trying to anyhow launch violence and anarchy in the country,” Javadekar said. He referred to the Congress’s and Rahul Gandhi’s tweets in support of the “non-violent” tractor parade of the farmers and pointed to the violence that ensued. “Everybody saw policemen were attacked with swords, lathis and tractors.… How was it a non-violent protest?” the BJP leader asked. Javadekar said a similar attempt had been made during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, claimed it had failed and predicted that the current agitation would fail, too. “India will not tolerate the insult of the Tricolour at Red Fort. Action should be taken against all those who instigated the protesters,” he said. A Sikh religious flag had been hoisted atop a vacant pole at Red Fort during Tuesday’s violence and the Tricolour had not been touched. At a media briefing on cabinet decisions earlier in the day, Javadekar denied that the government had closed its doors for further talks with the farmers. The foot soldiers of the regime on Wednesday intensified their campaign to malign the farmers’ protest. “The anarchy we saw on the streets of Delhi, in the name of farmers, has nothing to do with either farm laws or farmers...,” tweeted the BJP’s social media head, Amit Malviya. “It is insurrection against a democratically elected government and if we the people, who elected this government, don’t stand up, they will come for us next!” he added. The BJP campaign was countered with multiple images on social media showing actor Deep Sidhu, who led the group that hoisted the flag at Red Fort and has been named in an FIR filed by Delhi police, with Modi, party MP Sunny Deol and other leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Concern on appointment of judges to high courts ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed “a matter of great concern” the manner in which the Centre was delaying the appointment of judges to high courts by not responding to collegium recommendations. “We need the update on pending names as on January 29. Suppose you have reservations and send back names to us, then we can reiterate. But if you don’t give comments for five months on collegium recommendations, it is a matter of great concern,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, one of the judges on the bench told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a hearing. “Tell us what is your timeline to respond to these recommendations of judges’ appointments…. We need to put the house in order,” the bench, also having Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justice Surya Kant, told the government. The CJI said the court would ask the high courts for details of vacancies so that suitable orders could be passed on both the judicial and the administrative side. He pointed out that 189 names were pending with the government for the past several months. Justice Kaul noted that during the past five or six months the collegiums had cleared the names of nine judges, but six of them were still pending with the government. The court said that if the government had any reservations, it could certainly send back the names for reconsideration. “The government has taken more than a year to respond. You say something is pending with the Intelligence Bureau and then some chief minister…. But we want to know your timeline” Justice Surya Kant observed. The court was dealing with the plea of an NGO to expedite the process of filling up vacancies in the high courts. The CJI told Venugopal that Justice Kaul had prepared a chart on the vacancies and the proposals pending with the government and the collegium. CJI Bobde noted that whenever the collegium makes a recommendation, there is a spate of complaints questioning the names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||SC stays Bombay High Court's ‘skin contact’ ruling||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed a Bombay High Court judgment that had acquitted a man on the ground that groping a child’s breasts without “skin-to-skin contact” does not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had rushed to the top court and sought an urgent stay on the January 19 judgment by Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, saying it would otherwise “set a dangerous precedent”. Making an oral request on behalf of the Centre, Venugopal said the government would file its appeal on Thursday. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian then stayed the judgment. The accused, Satish, had been awarded three years’ imprisonment by a lower court for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl, whose breasts he had pressed over her dress. But Justice Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court ruled there must be “skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent” for an act to be considered sexual assault under the Pocso Act. “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault,” the single-judge bench said. However, it added, under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage a woman’s modesty), “the act of pressing breast can be a criminal force to a woman/ girl with the intention to outrage her modesty”. Punishments for sexual assault under the IPC, however, tend to be lighter compared to those for similar offences under the Pocso Act. The apex court order said: “We permit the learned attorney-general to file an appropriate petition against the said judgment. In the meantime, we stay the acquittal of the accused..... Issue notice to the accused and the state of Maharashtra returnable two weeks.” A lawyers’ body, the Youth Bar Association of India, too filed a petition in the apex court on Wednesday challenging the high court judgment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||Covaxin works on coronavirus variant from UK||India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, generates immune responses against the fast-spreading coronavirus variant from the UK, scientists said on Wednesday after a study that they say should dispel speculation that the mutant might evade vaccine-generated antibodies. The study at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, has found that antibodies generated by Covaxin “neutralise” the UK variant that displays multiple mutations and had stirred concerns in some scientific circles that it might be able to resist effects of vaccines. The NIV researchers collaborating with the vaccine maker Bharat Biotech extracted sera from 38 recipients of Covaxin and observed through lab experiments that the vaccine-generated antibodies were able to neutralise the UK variant as efficiently as other novel coronavirus variants. “It is unlikely that the (UK) variant would be able to dampen the potential benefits of the vaccine,” Pragya Yadav, a scientist at the NIV, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and her colleagues said in a preprint paper on bioRxiv but not peer-reviewed yet. Covaxin is the third in the club of Covid-19 vaccines shown through lab studies as capable of neutralising the UK variant. Over the past week, Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna have also independently announced that their vaccines retain neutralising activity against the UK variant. Several research groups across the world have in recent weeks expressed concern that the emerging mutant coronavirus variants — the UK version marked by a mutation designated 501Y and others — could escape antibodies and reduce the efficacy of vaccines. “The UK variant doesn’t appear to be a problem for vaccines — but another emerging coronavirus variant from South Africa could be a challenge,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana). Scientists in recent weeks have tracked another coronavirus variant with a mutation designated E484, seen in South Africa and other countries, including India. The E484 variant is capable of evading three antibodies and thus appears to have a better chance at escaping vaccine actions than the UK variant. But such concerns about certain variants evading immune responses are for now “largely hypothesis-driven”, Nikhil Patkar, associate professor at the Tata Memorial Centre Advanced Centre for Treatment Research and Education in Cancer, Navi Mumbai, told The Telegraph. Patkar and his colleagues at ACTREC had last year detected three cases of the E484 variant in Maharashtra. The ICMR, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the department of biotechnology have initiated a genome surveillance initiative that will sequence 5 per cent of coronavirus samples nationwide to gain insights into the variants circulating across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||Guard dies in Odisha 3 days after Covid jab||A 25-year-old security guard at the Nuapada district hospital in western Odisha has died three days after taking a Covid-19 vaccine shot, prompting health authorities to launch an investigation into the “exact” cause of death. Doctors said guard Nanikram Keut, who was posted at the hospital for the past 13 months, appeared “perfectly healthy” and had no history of pre-existing health disorders prior to the vaccination. Nanikram was due to be married next month. Nuapada chief medical officer K.P. Behera told The Telegraph: “The security guard was perfectly healthy before being administered the vaccine on January 23. However, on January 25, he developed an illness and was admitted to the district hospital.” The district hospital referred the guard to the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, where he died on January 26 while undergoing treatment. Preliminary reports indicate that he had developed anaemia, an imbalance in his platelets, and an increase in his white blood cell counts. Behera said the investigations will try to determine why Nanikram developed anaemia. “We have preserved his viscera. An expert team is trying to ascertain the reasons for his death. We are all waiting for the post-mortem report.” Another security guard, who was senior to Nankiram, told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity: “Nanikram joined only 13 months back. He had also done duty at the Covid hospital. We have not seen any health related complication with him during the last 13 months. Though we get a paltry sum of Rs 7,500 as salary, he did his duty faithfully. He never refused any shift duty.” Nankiram’s brother Rupchand Keut, also a security guard, told this paper: “We are three brothers,. Nanikram was the youngest among us. He had no health complications. Our village is only four kilometres from the district headquarters. He used to come to hospital either on motorcycle or on his bicycle. He died only because of the vaccine. But we doubt if doctors will admit this in their report.” He said the whole family was shaken by the premature death of his brother who was to get married on February 19. Meanwhile, Garib Sena, a non-political outfit working for the cause of the poor, has demanded that Nanikram be declared a Covid warrior. “We have already launched an agitation. He should be given compensation as per the government guidelines. His family members should be given a regular job,” said its president Ravi Mangaraj. Earlier two health workers in the state, who took the Covid-19 vaccine last week, were admitted to a hospital after they reported Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI). They were released from the hospital after their condition improved. The Union health ministry has said none of the deaths among people who have received vaccine shots so far are related to the vaccine. Among over 2.3 million people who have received vaccines nationwide, the ministry’s AEFI tracking mechanism had until January 26 detected eight deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||Nitish Kumar nixes BJP ministry push for Bihar cabinet ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has thrown a spanner in the much overdue cabinet expansion by objecting to a couple of names suggested by partner BJP to be sworn in as ministers and refusing to meet its state in-charge Bhupender Yadav over the issue. This has left ally BJP wringing its hands and mulling about its future course of action. “Our party sent some names to Nitish to be included in the cabinet of ministers, but he objected to a few of them, and asked to replace them with others. This is not the way things are done in an alliance. We do not interfere in the affairs of the Janata Dal United (JDU) and do not want it to interfere in ours,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. As the situation unfolded, Bhupender landed in Patna on Tuesday to meet Nitish and resolve the issue. However, he was not given an appointment. “Our party’s Bihar in-charge (Bhupender Yadav) tried meet Nitish to discuss his objections on some of the names proposed for a place in the cabinet, but the latter did not give him time. Avoiding our senior leaders is against the spirit of the coalition,” the senior BJP leader added. With the cabinet expansion going into a deadlock, the BJP leaders are going to fall back on Union home minister Amit Shah to rescue the situation. “Where has been the delay? Everything (cabinet expansion) will happen on time,” BJP’s Bihar unit president Sanjay Jaiswal told mediapersons on Wednesday, but could not give any timeframe for it. On the other hand, Nitish has always held the BJP responsible for the delay in cabinet expansion. However, the cabinet expansion has been due in the state for the last two-and-a-half months since the new government was formed on November 16 last year following the Assembly elections. At present there are 14 ministers, including the chief minister, in the cabinet. Several of them have been given the charge of four to six departments, bringing development work and decision-making to a virtual halt. The state can have 36 ministers. Sources in the BJP said that the names which Nitish objected to include former ministers Samrat Chaudhary and Nitish Mishra, among others. Both of them were associated with the JDU till a few years ago, but had left it subsequently to join the BJP. In fact, Nitish is said to have chosen to make his party MLA Mewalal Choudhary a minister in an attempt to stymie the chances of Samrat as both hail from the Khagaria area and are from the same Kushwaha caste. Among the other reasons behind the deadlock in cabinet expansion has been that the BJP, which is now the bigger partner in the alliance with 74 seats, wanted more ministers than the JDU that won 43 seats. But the JDU wanted that the two allies should have an equal number of ministers. Moreover, the JDU is not in a mood to forget and forgive Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan’s concerted move during the Assembly polls to harm its prospects. The JDU holds the BJP responsible for it and wants to be compensated by having more ministers than its strength.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly passes resolution demanding rollback of farm laws ||The Bengal Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre and demanded that they be withdrawn immediately. The ruling Trinamul Congress had moved a resolution earlier in the day, while BJP MLAs staged a noisy walkout on Thursday. The CPI(M) and the Congress supported the resolution but demanded that the state government withdraw similar laws it had passed a few years back. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the Centre should either withdraw the new laws or step down. Speaking after the resolution was moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee amid vociferous protests by BJP lawmakers, Mamata demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene an all-party meeting to discuss the process of withdrawal of these laws. The assembly witnessed unruly scenes in the morning after Chatterjee moved the resolution, with BJP MLAs led by their legislative party leader Manoj Tigga rushing to the Well of the House, claiming the TMC government has launched a “misinformation campaign” against the laws. Tigga, along with his party MLAs, subsequently walked out shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. “We oppose the anti-farmer laws. We demand their immediate withdrawal. Either the Centre should withdraw the laws or step down,” the chief minister said. Banerjee said the Union government, which has in the past, waived corporate loans, should also extend the same benefit to farmers. She also claimed the Delhi police “mishandled” the tractor parade by farmers which resulted in the situation going out of hand on the Republic Day. “Delhi police is to be blamed for that. What was the Delhi police doing? It was a complete intelligence failure. We will not tolerate farmers being branded as traitors. They are the assets of this nation,” she said. Banerjee appealed to the Congress and the Left Front to keep aside ideological differences and come together in support of the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly undergoes angioplasty||Doctors on Thursday performed an angioplasty on BCCI President Sourav Ganguly, said an official of a private hospital where he is admitted. Two stents have been implanted to clear blocks in a coronary artery of the 48-year-old former Indian cricket captain, he said. The decision to conduct an angioplasty was taken after noted cardiologist Devi Shetty went through reports of tests conducted on Ganguly and consulted doctors treating him at the hospital. "After diagnosing his condition, we have decided to carry out angioplasty," a senior doctor told PTI. Earlier, a series of tests were conducted on Ganguly who was hospitalised on Wednesday for a checkup for his cardiac condition. Ganguly had complained of chest pain while exercising at his residence around three weeks ago. He was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries then and had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery in another hospital. The BCCI president "slept well all night. He had a light breakfast," the senior doctor said. According to a source in Ganguly's family, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee may visit him at the hospital. She also called him up in the morning to enquire about his health, Senior CPI(M) leader Ashok Bhattacharya also paid a visit to Ganguly at the hospital. The former left-handed batsman was on Wednesday afternoon rushed to the private hospital on EM Bypass here from his Behala residence as he felt "dizzy with slight discomfort in chest". A green corridor was created by the city police for his smooth travel to the hospital. A statement issued by the medical establishment on Wednesday evening stated that several tests were carried out at the emergency ward, but there was "no change in his (vital health) parameters since his last hospitalisation".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Glare on Padma Shri choice||The Centre’s decision to confer Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in India, on an activist of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-backed All India Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram of Malda, has come under scanner because of her alleged religious conversions. Kamali Soren, who is also known as Guru Maa in and around Gazole of Malda, has got the award for her “social work”. “She was instrumental in persuading several tribal people, mostly Christians and some Muslims, to embrace Hinduism as part of Sangh Parivar agenda by offering monetary and other incentives. Her selection as a Padma Shri awardee has raised several questions even in her locality,” said Krishnendu Choudhury, a former minister and a senior Trinamul leader of the district. Soren, 50, said she encouraged people to “return to Hinduism”. “I help those who changed their faiths return to Hinduism. In the past 25 years, I helped several people embrace Hinduism again,” she told The Telegraph. According to Soren, a resident of an ashram at Kotalhati village in Gazole 1 panchayat of Malda, she goes around tribal and Dalit-dominated villages, interacts with the marginalised people and propagates the tenets of Hinduism. “I have taught many tribal families the basic rituals of Hinduism. I speak of the basic practices like the need to keep and worship “Tulsi” plants in every household and believe it is my duty,” she said. The All India Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram that was opened in 1952 is known to work among tribal people and has its branches spread across the country. Last year, a mass marriage of tribal girls, organised by Soren, had to be cancelled amid allegations by local people that there were plans to “forcibly convert” the would-be couples to Hinduism. Her selection drew criticism from the Congress and the Left. “It is unfortunate that the award has been used as a political instrument before the Assembly elections. I have serious doubts whether even the residents of Gazole block are aware of this social worker,” said Ambar Mitra, the district Left Front convener. Ajay Ganguly, a vice-president of the BJP in Malda, said: “She is the pride of not only the tribal community but also the entire district. Any attempt to demean her achievement would be suitably answered by people who take pride in Kamali Soren’s Padma Shri.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata ties Duare Sarkar to district reviews||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the Duare Sarkar programme was the “third stage” of her government’s 500-odd district review meetings which she had conducted since the Trinamul Congress had come to power in 2011. The chief minister’s clarification seemed to be aimed at countering the BJP’s narrative that the Bengal government had launched the reach-out to woo voters ahead of the Assembly polls. “We are not doing it (providing services to people) today. When we came to power in 2011, we decided to hold review meetings in districts with all officials, ministers and line departments. We have already held 500 such meetings and Duare Sarkar was planned as the third stage based on the feedback we received during the meetings,” said the chief minister at a programme at a Nabanna auditorium. It was not clear what the second stage of the programme was. Bengal’s Opposition parties, especially the BJP, have been critical of the initiative saying the last minute reach-out programme by the government indicated that it didn’t deliver in the past 10 years. Mamata’s insistence that Duare Sarkar was a continuation of the administrative meetings was aimed at swatting away the charge. During the one-hour-plus programme on Wednesday, some beneficiaries under government schemes accepted the scheme-related documents from the chief minister, who also launched the fifth phase of Duare Sarkar. A select set of audience, including the diplomatic core in Calcutta, representatives of various multilateral organisations like the World Bank, UNDP and Unicef, and senior editors of both local and national media outfits, was present at the programme with whom the chief minister held a free-wheeling discussion. After rolling out figures — like more than 2.5 crore people have visited the camps set up under the Duare Sarkar scheme — on the success of the scheme and its follow-up initiative, Parai Samadhan (solution at neighbourhood), the chief minister took care to explain why the programme had been launched. “During the district review meetings, we realised that some people need support from the government and they need the support at their door steps. That is why the programme was launched,” said Mamata. According to a government report, 76 lakh families were brought under the Swasthya Sathi scheme after they had applied through the Duare Sarkar camps. A total of 15.04 lakh people secured caste certificates through the camps and 11.18 lakh people got job cards under the 100 days’ work scheme through the camps. Junaid Kamal Ahmad, the country head of World Bank, who attended the programme virtually, lauded the initiatives of the government saying those had helped people during the Covid-19 pandemic. “According to our assessment, 95 per cent people in the state received at least one service from the government during the pandemic,” he said. “This is highly appreciable.” Indicating that she was not complacent with the accolades that Duare Sarkar initiative had drawn, the chief minister told officials that the follow-up of the applications received at the camps had to be carried out seriously so that the beneficiaries got the services they deserved. The interaction on Wednesday afternoon, sources said, was part of Mamata’s strategy to bring the development issue to the centre-stage in the run up to the polls to take on the BJP’s narrative that they were all set to wrest the seat of power in Bengal. “Our government has done so much of work for the people and even the multilateral agencies are recognising the efforts... This will help us to make development the main focus of the campaign,” said a source close to Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Job data show migrant woes||The Mamata Banerjee government has provided jobs to 6,46,299 migrant workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) since April last year. As the figure was about 2 lakh till mid-July, a senior government official said the data suggested that more than 4 lakh out of 15 lakh migrant workers, who had returned from their workplaces in different states during the lockdown, did not go back even after the lockdown norms were relaxed. “Initially, we were receiving reports that most of the migrant workers had gone back to their workplaces. Now, the latest figures suggest that more than 25 per cent of the migrant workers did not go back to their workplaces after the lockdown was relaxed and depended on 100 days’ work to earn livelihood,” said a senior government official. Sources said district authorities had recently sent reports to Nabanna that many of the migrant workers informed the officials that they could not go back to their workplaces because operations at those places had come to a halt. The recent report that 3.81 lakh migrant workers were issued new job cards since April last year also suggests that a significant number of workers don’t see any hope of getting back to their work places in near future. “Many of the migrant workers had enlisted their names in their existing family job cards. But issuing 3.81 lakh new job cards to migrant workers means the problem is deeper. These people did not have any job card in the name of their families. As they applied for new job cards, it is assumed that they found no hope in near future in their workplaces,” said an official. The reports drawn up on applications received through the Duare Sarkar camps pointed out that 11.18 lakh people applied for job cards under the 100 days’ work scheme. “This means, about 7 lakh people have applied for fresh job cards through the Duare Sarkar camps in the state after they lost their livelihood in the post-lockdown period. It is clear they did not apply for job cards before the lockdown and they faced troubles to earn livelihood in the post-lockdown period,” said an official. Senior government officials said the chief minister had realised the need to lay stress on 100 days’ work scheme to meet the demand of work since May last year. “That is why the state could generate more than 36 crore man-days since April last year, which is the highest in the country. It is also important to note that 1.1 crore were given jobs under the scheme during the period,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Subrata to feel Nandigram pulse||Panchayat minister and former Calcutta mayor Subrata Mukherjee will spend three days in East Midnapore’s Nandigram starting February 1 to “gauge the situation” in the wake of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement that she would contest Assembly polls from there. Mamata’s big announcement at the January 18 mega rally in Tekhali threw the gauntlet at turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP last month and whose turf Nandigram is perceived to be. However, party sources said her surprise announcement riled a few district leaders. Apparently, zilla parishad deputy chief Sheikh Sufian had expected to be Trinamul’s Nandigram candidate, and after Mamata’s announcement, his “body language became extremely negative”, said a district worker. Sufian has been skipping most party meetings since then. Trinamul insiders, fearing fissures, appealed to Calcutta mayor Firhad Hakim to send someone from the party for a ground assessment. That’s why Mukherjee will go there before Mamata’s next visit, party sources have said. Sufian was absent on Tuesday at a district meeting held by president Somen Mahapatra, which over 50 leaders including panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher attended. Sources said Taher appealed to Hakim last week to send an observer to Nandigram to ensure no fissures appeared in the wake of Mamata’s announcement. “Despite Suvendu’s defection, a massive setback, we have managed well. Not too many people have left the party for his sake,” said a source, adding that Taher and Sufian were Suvendu’s adversaries. “The chief minister will visit here in February, and so (Subrata) Mukherjee will (be here before that to) tie up any loose ends and to set the campaign trail,” the source added. Suvendu held a rally in Nandigram on Tuesday where he proclaimed that in 14 of 17 parts of Nandigram, Mamata would be “washed out” in the polls. Sources said Mukherjee was coming to Nandigram to assess its ground realities and read the pulse of party workers and local leadership. “Suvendu had an iron grip on the area and many leaders were close to him. The party wants to have in place a foolproof election strategy for Nandigram and rule out any chance of sabotage. Mukherjee’s survey will assess the ground reality in an area where none other than (party supremo) Mamata Banerjee has decided to contest,” said a Trinamul leader. Law minister Malay Ghatak will also visit Nandigram later this month, sources said. Mukherjee told reporters on Wednesday that he was going to Nandigram to “discuss party matters in person”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logged 5,868 active cases||Bengal on Wednesday logged 386 Covid-19 recoveries, 234 new infections and eight deaths, including one from Calcutta. Bengal’s total active cases dropped for 93 days straight, from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26, to 5,868 now. “We have undone around seven months of damage in three months,” said a minister. The state’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose for 96 days on the trot to touch 97.19 per cent. “We are looking at taking the total down to less than 5,000 in another month and the recovery rate past 98 per cent in that timeframe,” the minister added. “Not even in our most optimistic assessments could we have predicted this position at this stage of the pandemic.” Bengal now has nearly 5.69 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 5.53 lakh recoveries and 10,139 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.78 per cent now, lagging behind the national rate of 1.43. The state has attributed 8,513 of the deaths or 84 per cent of the toll to comorbidities. However, the state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.21 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 68 days ago. “Steady fall in positive confirmation rate means only one thing that the outbreak is shrinking for Bengal,” the minister said, calling the state’s pandemic management “spot on”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Tourism carnival boon for returnees||A 10-day tourism carnival hosted across various locations of north Bengal to promote rural destinations and homestay accommodations has come as a boon for many youths from these places who had been migrant workers before the Covid-induced lockdown to explore new earning opportunities from their homes. The event named “Travelling Carnival” was organised by the Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT) in collaboration with the Union tourism ministry to improve rural and cultural tourism in the state. The ministry, sources said, launched a campaign “Incredible India, weekend gateway” and intends to promote new and smaller destinations which most of the tourists are preferring to visit in the new normal instead of clustering at popular destinations like before. “The idea is to enhance rural tourism. With this carnival, we have highlighted a series of attractions that tourists can enjoy during their stay. Among these include local agricultural practices, cuisine, culture and architecture,” said Raj Basu, the convener of the ACT. “We want to encourage tourists to join different local activities instead of simply viewing a place and its activities from a comfortable distance. This includes getting to know the people who live there, sharing meals, learning the language, or perhaps lending a hand at a farm,” added Basu. According to sources, the carnival had started on January 14 and continued till January 24 across different locations such as Rajabhatkhawa in the Dooars, Bungkulung, 12th Mile, Lolegaon, Takdah, Rimbick, Meghetar, Sonada and Mungpoo in the hills. At the carnival, attendees included people from other states and even from countries such as Brazil and the UK. Artists, poets, rural tourism experts and villagers — including those who had been migrant workers before the pandemic but now back home — joined the carnival at different locations. At each location, experts elaborated before the local residents about the potential of their place and how rural tourism activities can boost the economy and create alternative earning opportunities for them. It was during the carnival that the organisers found the former migrant labourers — local youths who had come back other states or even abroad in 2020 to try and make a living — very enthusiastic about the potential of tourism. “Many of them approached us inquiring whether they can start homestays or other facilities so that they no longer need to go out and can make a living sitting at their homes. In fact, some of them even said that the possibilities highlighted during the carnival indicated that they could earn more from home. It is good that along with the promotion of offbeat destinations, it has also encouraged former migrant workers,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul worker dead, party blames BJP||A Trinamul worker from a village on the outskirts of Raiganj in North Dinajpur district was found dead at a deserted location on Wednesday. Police suspect that Mohammad Ali, 55, of Krishnamuri village under Raiganj police station, was shot dead. The body has a suspected bullet wound and two bullets have been recovered from near the spot. While Trinamul suspected the BJP to have a hand in the death and the BJP dismissed the charges, the police have detained one of Ali’s relatives. Ali had been to a public meeting organised by the party nearby on Tuesday and was supposed to reach home by afternoon. When he did not return by Tuesday evening as well, his family members started searching for him. On Wednesday morning, some residents of Maharaja, an adjoining village, spotted his body at a deserted place, and informed the police. As the news of the body spread, Ali’s family members and neighbours went to the spot and identified him. Investigating police officers also found two bullets near the body. “It seems that the victim has been shot from close range. The seized bullets would be examined and we are also waiting for the victim’s post-mortem reports,” said an officer. So far, the police have detained Sikandar Ali, one of the nephews of the victim. Police sources said Ali had been having problems with his brother Tepu Ali over the possession of a plot of land. “A few days back, the two brothers had an altercation which had eventually led to a skirmish. Preliminary investigations suggest the victim was murdered over the family dispute. We are exploring all angles,” said a police officer. Local Trinamul leaders, however, have accused the BJP of having a hand in Ali’s death. “He (Ali) was an active party worker and popular in his village and surrounding areas. We suspect the BJP behind the attack,” said a Trinamul leader. The BJP local leadership denied these charges. “If the police impartially probes the case, the truth will be revealed,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Lynching finger at BJP, 8 held||A Trinamul booth committee president in East Burdwan’s Mangalkot, Sanjit Ghosh, 38, was lynched and another party worker accompanying him badly beaten up allegedly by BJP workers on Tuesday evening. Police have arrested eight BJP workers after family members of the slain Trinamul leader filed a written complaint against 26 persons. “We have arrested eight persons named in the complaint. We have started a probe and raids are on to arrest the rest,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, East Burdwan police chief. Trinamul and police sources said a group of BJP supporters allegedly waylaid Sanjit, Trinamul’s No. 198 booth committee president, when he was riding home on his motorbike in Nigon village of Mangalkot on Tuesday evening. Trinamul worker Ibrahim Khan, who was injured in the attack, was riding pillion. “BJP goons stopped Sanjit’s motorbike and started to beat him with iron rods and sticks. Ibrahim suffered injuries in the attack and fled to save his life. Sanjit was first taken to Katwa subdivisional hospital and shifted to Burdwan Medical College and Hospital where he died,” said Apurba Chowdhury, Trinamul block president in Mangalkot Trinamul leaders said the murder took place after BJP’s Soumitra Khan attended a political meeting in the village on Monday. “Khan instigated BJP supporters at the rally, prompting them to kill our party leader,” said a Trinamul leader. Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s minder for Mangalkot, said those involved in Sanjit’s murder would not be spared. “It (the crime) was the result of anger as very few people went to the BJP meeting of Khan. If BJP leaders think and take to violence, we will be more violent than them. I won’t allow any of the BJP workers to step out of their homes,” said Mondal. BJP’s Katwa president Krishna Ghosh claimed Sanjit’s murder was the fallout of Trinamul’s infighting. “Trinamul’s internal feud led to the death of the person known for leading violent attacks on political opponents. Trinamul is accusing the BJP of the murder for political mileage ahead of the Assembly polls. We don’t believe in the politics of murder and violence (that) is an integral part of Trinamul’s politics,” said Ghosh. Trinamul sources said that Sanjit had been involved in minor clashes with BJP workers since the past few months. He had allegedly been earlier attacked twice in Nigon, a region that has emerged a BJP stronghold ever since the party made electoral gains in the region in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Sanjit had earlier protested against a rally that the BJP had organised in support of farm bills and allegedly beat up a BJP worker. A couple of months ago Sanjit was also attacked by BJP workers,” said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC head count at Mamata’s home ahead of Shah’s visit to Bengal||Mamata Banerjee has summoned all her party MLAs and MPs for a meeting at her Kalighat residence on Friday, a day ahead of Amit Shah’s scheduled visit to Bengal, with sources saying she was likely to issue a stern message of “zero tolerance” for sabotage from within. Sources in Trinamul said the party chief was expected to clearly tell those looking to jump ship before the Bengal elections to do so right away. “It will be a head count of sorts. Those skipping that meeting — without good reason — will certainly be viewed as the most likely to switch sides before the elections,” said a senior c MP. The ruling party has been jolted on many occasions since November with desertions. A Howrah faction — comprising the likes of former minister Rajib Banerjee and Laxmi Ratan Shukla, besides MLAs Baishali Dalmiya and Jatu Lahiri, and MP Prasun Banerjee — is likely to defects. Some, if not all, of them may join the BJP during Union home minister Shah’s weekend trip to Bengal, said the Trinamul MP. A Hooghly faction is likely to sway. Since Suvendu Adhikari’s defection, the BJP is trying to engineer en masse switchovers. “We still have 200-plus MLAs left, besides 21 Lok Sabha MPs and 13 Rajya Sabha members. Absences will be carefully noted,” he said. Other than the unofficial roll call, Mamata is likely to issue guidelines for the party’s poll campaign. “The national political scenario, especially in the context of the farmers’ movement, will be factored in...so that we can create optimal discomfort for the BJP,” a minister added. The party issued a whip for all its MLAs to attend the brief Assembly session on Thursday to discuss and pass a resolution against the controversial farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal BJP to focus on turncoats||The BJP leadership in north Bengal has decided to draw up a plan to ensure the consistent presence of new entrants of the party in political events that the party is carrying out in the region. “There is a perception within the leadership that the presence of those who have recently joined BJP, particularly from Trinamul, in political programmes can prove more effective for the party. It is not that leaders who are with us for years now will take a backseat but in public meetings, a speech against Trinamul by a former Trinamul leader can help draw support from people,” said a BJP insider. He pointed out that the strategy worked in south Bengal, where political activities of Suvendu Adhikari, Sovan Chatterjee, Arjun Singh and Soumitra Khan — all Trinamul turncoats — brought in extra political dividend for the saffron camp. In north Bengal, the BJP is still in search of prominent Trinamul turncoats. Unlike in the south, the BJP in the north managed to get only three MLAs and a former MP on board. Though state leaders have hinted that some popular Trinamul leaders will eventually defect, that hasn’t happened yet. “Those who joined us so far (in north) can’t match the popularity of Suvendu or even Sovon. Even so, it has been decided that they (turncoats) should be called at political events organised across north Bengal, not just their areas,” the BJP leader added. Since 2019, BJP has been focussing on north Bengal as it won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats. For 2021, the party has set a target to secure 50 of 54 Assembly seats in the region. BJP central leaders tasked with spreading the party’s base in north Bengal have held a number of indoor meetings in Siliguri. But a political observer said that in north Bengal most BJP events were held in the presence of one or more state leaders or even central leaders. “It appears that those from Trinamul are yet to participate in a full-fledged manner. That is why, it seems, the leadership has come up with the plan (to make turncoats more visible),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Founder of Siliguri schools no more||Rambilash Agarwal, a nonagenarian known for his contributions in the field of education in Siliguri, passed away on Tuesday midnight. Agarwal was the founder and the president of Bidya Bharti Foundation that runs two schools and an engineering college in Siliguri and another school at Joka in Calcutta. Born in 1929, Agarwal had taken the task of forming the foundation that opened up the Delhi Public School, Siliguri, one of the largest educational institutions in north Bengal. The foundation then opened two other schools — Delhi Public School, Joka, and Delhi Public School, Fulbari (on the southern end of Siliguri) — and the Surendra Institute of Engineering & Management at Dagapur in Siliguri. “It is a great loss for us. It was under his able guardianship that the foundation could come up with four leading educational institutions,” Sharad, his grandson, said. People from different walks of life have mourned Agarwal’s demise. “He will always be remembered for his benevolence and his contribution to the society. His initiative to come up with educational institutions has largely helped residents of Siliguri and north Bengal as a whole,” said Sandipan Bhattacharya, an academic of the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-219
28-01-2021||West Bengal||Kalyani AIIMS opens with limited OPD||The out-patient department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Basantapur in Nadia’s Kalyani was inaugurated on Wednesday with large number of people, including many from neighbouring districts, turning up but most of them returning without treatment as they did not have prior appointment. Bengal’s first and the nation’s 15th AIIMS commenced “limited OPD services” with executive director of the institute in Kalyani, Ramji Singh, launching the facility on Wednesday morning. Speaking to The Telegraph, Singh said: “At present, there will be no emergency, laboratory, diagnostic, medicine and in-patient service for patients since the limited outpatient care services have been launched to help our MBBS students get exposure in clinical education.” For the time being, only 100 patients will get treatment through prior appointment from Monday to Friday between 9am and 1pm. However, only 15 patients could eventually get treated on Wednesday for lack of clear information about the services available at the facility at the moment. Saswati Guha, 51, a resident of Chinsurah, who had to return as she did not have prior appointment, said: “I read in newspapers about the inauguration of AIIMS OPD. But I had no knowledge that treatment would be provided only to those who have prior appointment. It would have been better if AIIMS had issued a detailed advertisement in public interest.” Rajesh Yadav, 43, of Barrackpore, who has been suffering from eye-related problems, also returned home for the lack of prior appointment. “I could get treatment at the OPD since I had no prior appointment,” he said. A good number of patients from Nadia, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly and East Burdwan turned up for treatment but returned home without getting to enter the OPD. Sharmila Ganguly, 56, a resident of Serampore, was among the lucky few to get the treatment at the OPD because she came with a prior appointment. She paid Rs 10 to seek the advice of expert doctors. “It was a great experience for me. I hope that the AIIMS Kalyani will change the health-care scenario of the state, particularly in south Bengal,” she said. Utpal Pramanik, 43, a private security guard at AIIMS and resident of Krishnagar, was the first patient at the OPD. “Since I joined my duty at AIIMS in Kalyani I have been eagerly waiting for this day. I have problems of indigestion and am happy to get the advice of doctors in the general medicine wing of the OPD,” he said. A spokesperson for the AIIMS, Kalyani, told The Telegraph: “At present, we are taking appointments over telephone. Anybody can call 033-29516005 between 10am and 4am for the next day’s appointment at the OPD. There is no provision for instant appointment. However, patients will be able to make online appointments very soon.” “We will also soon launch a mobile application for prior appointment,” he said and added there would be no service on Saturday, Sunday and on the central government holidays. At present, limited OPD service will be offered only in the departments of general medicine, general surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT and psychiatry. “We are hopeful to offer complete OPD service by April or May,” Singh said and added efforts were on to launch in-patient service by September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-220
28-01-2021||North East||Crackdown on protesting Tripura teachers||Seventy teachers and 17 policemen were injured in Tripura’s capital Agartala early on Wednesday during a police crackdown on terminated schoolteachers holding a peaceful demonstration for the past 52 days seeking permanent jobs. Altogether 10,323 teachers were terminated in 2017 after the Supreme Court upheld a Tripura High Court order of 2014 because of a faulty recruitment process. The teachers were employed in ad hoc posts till March 2020 and since been rendered jobless. The police action was launched near the Agartala City Centre where the terminated teachers are on a sit-in for the past 52 days under the banner of Joint Movement Committee of 10323. Altogether 223 teachers were detained and later released. Two FIRs have also been registered against those indulging in violence, an official said. A well-equipped police and Tripura State Rifles team reached the site at around 4am and the area was vacated around 5.30am by clearing the makeshift dharna site and detaining over 300 teachers because of imposition of prohibitory orders, the teachers alleged. On Tuesday evening the teachers had taken out a torchlight rally. The restive teachers then mobilised themselves and led a march to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s residence at IGM Chowmuhani, 200 metres from City Centre, around 10.30am. They were stopped around 200 metres from the chief minister’s residence by the policemen who resorted to lathicharge and fired tear gas and water cannons to disperse the teachers. Satyajit Dey, a committee member, told The Telegraph that they were taken aback by the early morning “shocking and surprising” police action against the peaceful protesters. “Over 125 of our members have been injured, of whom 55 have been hospitalised. Around 425 have been arrested. What is our fault? We were asking the BJP-led government to fulfil the pre-poll promises made by it to permanently rehabilitate us. They forcibly vacated the site and detained us today. Later during our march they resorted to lathicharge, tear gas and water cannons,” he said. Dey added: “What has happened is very unfortunate and shameful. The chief minister had assured us in September that a solution to our problem will be found in two months. After nothing happened, we formed the JMC and launched the indefinite protest. We will meet and decide our next course of action but our protest will continue.” The West district administration imposed Section 144 in the Agartala Municipal Corporation area on Wednesday morning. West district deputy commissioner S.K. Yadav told this newspaper that the crackdown was launched following specific intelligence inputs about the protest turning violent. There were also social media posts suggesting the protest will become more aggressive, he added. “We did not use force in the morning, gave them time to vacate. Force was used during the march to the chief minister’s residence. Those in the protest march created trouble. Policemen suffered injuries because of stone pelting while the protesters were hurt in the lathicharge. Altogether 87 people were injured but these are minor injuries. Prohibitory orders have been extended by 24 hours,” Yadav said on Wednesday evening. The Opposition Left and Congress condemned the BJP-led government for the crackdown, saying the ruling dispensation had allegedly betrayed the teachers after assuming power. The ruling BJP alleged that a section of the terminated teachers indulged in clashes under the influence of the CPM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
28-01-2021||Opinion||Peasants vs state: critical distinctions hold the key  ||What happened in Delhi on Republic Day was almost an inevitability, brewing not least because of the Centre’s dismissive response to what has come to be known as the farmers’ movement. The business of apportioning responsibility can come later. First, however, we have to focus on a critical element of what’s been going on – the almost universal representation of the agitation as a ‘farmers’ movement’. Once we’ve unpacked that misleading description, we have to focus on, second, what the impugned farm laws are all about. And, finally, we have to see how these laws could affect different sorts of ‘farmers’. First off, ‘farmer’ is a catch-all category; it could be substituted by ‘agriculturist’, which is also a meaningless category because it fails to make critical distinctions. In other words, anyone who ‘farms’ – which is itself a concept open to disputation – is a farmer. ‘Peasant’ is the category more usually associated with studies of agrarian society. And agrarian, or peasant, society is deeply stratified. Let’s do a 101. If we stick to four categories – large peasant, middle peasant, small and marginal peasant, and landless labourers – we will have covered peasant society. The classification of peasants in terms of landholding varies – for instance, according to the government’s criteria a large ‘farmer’ is one who has over 10 hectares (ha) of land; a middle peasant 4-10 ha; a semi-medium peasant 2-4 ha; a small peasant 1-2 ha; and a marginal peasant below 1 ha (https://pib.gov.in/newsite/PrintRelease.aspx?relid=188051). One hectare equals about 2.5 acres. Since this classification could vary, the important thing is the functional roles of peasant classes in the agrarian economy. The rule of thumb is that large peasants sell a preponderant portion of the grain they grow – that is, they cultivate for the market. Medium and semi-medium peasants also cultivate for the market, selling most of whatever grains they grow. Obviously, proportions are inflected by landholding size – 2-10 ha (around 5-25 acres) constitutes a pretty wide spectrum. Small peasants cultivate for subsistence, often having to supplement even their grain requirements, which is almost universally true for marginal peasants. The supplementary work undertaken to make ends meet differs widely, including through migration. The point now is how the three contentious farm laws affect different peasant classes. We are dealing with the three laws that are primarily contentious. The three laws passed last year were the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The first piece of legislation effectively abolishes the monopoly of trading in mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), thus allowing for trade in agricultural produce in general anywhere, without being regulated by APMCs or other authorities. Any entity can engage in trade both within a state and between states. The second establishes legal conditions for contract farming, which involves a cultivator entering into a pre-cultivation agreement with a given entity specifying crops to be grown, prices, etc. The third significantly decontrols the magnitude of stocks of, among other things, agricultural commodities that can be held by an entity, by diluting the conditions under which the government can regulate stockpiling. Before we get to the three laws and the opposition to them, we must take note of another significant, non-negotiable condition stipulated by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the apex body of farm unions, which is fronting the movement. This condition, unconnected to the primary demand for the repeal of the laws, is for legislation to mandate procurement of agricultural produce at a minimum support price (MSP). As of now, there is no statutory guarantee for procurement at a given MSP. If a legal guarantee is provided, there are two options: either, the government would have to buy the entire marketable surplus of the 23 crops currently on the MSP list; or, it would have to force private traders to buy at the minimum guaranteed price as well. The former is obviously the more feasible proposition though it would entail an increased financial commitment. There is also a dispute over the formula for calculating MSP, with peasant unions agitating for the implementation of the formula proposed in the M.S. Swaminathan reports and the government fudging. Without going into those somewhat complex details, it is obvious that MSP is more important to farmers who grow huge marketable surpluses than small and marginal farmers who consume most of their produce, especially given that MSP covers seven cereals, five pulses, seven oilseeds and four commercial crops, rather than, say, vegetables, which small farmers sell in the market. It is no surprise, therefore, that the ‘farmers’ movement’ is being spearheaded by presumably rich peasants from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, the laboratories of the Green Revolution of the late 1960s, who grow huge marketable surpluses, rather than those from, say, West Bengal, Bihar or Odisha, who don’t. Does this mean that this movement is, as some apologists of the farm laws have argued, essentially a rich peasant affair and that in reality semi-medium, small and marginal peasants are not participating in the stir because they will gain rather than lose if these laws are implemented? The simple answer is: No. Let’s get back to the three laws. What the agitators are saying, reduced to its basics, is that they are designed to facilitate the takeover of the agricultural sector by the corporate sector. The amendment to existing legislation on regulating stocks of essential commodities is the weakest link. In a country where hoarding and price-fixing already shafts producers and consumers alike, without big players being significantly involved, the suspect nature of this amendment is a no-brainer. As for allowing unregulated trade, it’s hardly a stretch to imagine that once corporates get into the game, a lot of small traders and merchants are going to get elbowed out. It’s not as if today’s middlemen don’t exploit farmers and consumers, but the establishment of monopolistic conditions, economic logic assures us, will make matters worse. The smaller the participant in the market, the worse will be his or her plight. The large peasants’ fears will apply more massively to semi-middle, small and marginal farmers. Deregulation in Bihar, implemented by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in 2006, has been disastrous for peasants. It is sometimes assumed that contract farming is necessarily beneficial to peasants with small holdings because it assures them the necessary inputs and guarantees a market. Where big corporate entities are involved, this hasn’t been the case. Small peasants have very little bargaining power against those whom they contract with (or will). Once tied to particular arrangements, with regard to crops to be grown, input sources and supplies, and other details, whatever wiggle room they have, will go. This has been the experience throughout the developing world where contract farming exists on a significant scale – Mexico, Nigeria, Thailand and India for example. In best-case scenarios, it has been a mixed blessing. Between them, the laws relating to trade and contract farming could cause de-peasantization on a significant scale – that is, the conversion of small and marginal peasants to landless labourers because of the loss of their land. Which is why what happened on 26 January was not a surprise. The government has been stringing the agitators on for a couple of months. Over a hundred agitators have died of various health-related causes, sitting around in the biting north Indian winter, rendered worse by a longer-than-usual spell of wet weather. Is it a stretch to imagine that those with more to lose in the sense that they have less to cling to will go on the offensive? (Suhit K. Sen is a freelance journalist and an independent historian)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Ready bias: media trials in India||The freedom of the media cannot mean undue licence. This message was conveyed strongly this month by two high courts. The Delhi High Court reportedly said that the presumption of innocence, a basic tenet of Indian jurisprudence, must be protected to maintain the dignity of the courts and not be jeopardized by the media. This came in response to a plea from Umar Khalid, detained under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which claimed that media reports of his alleged confession of involvement in the Delhi riots would prejudice a fair trial. He had refused to sign the supposed disclosure statement. The court said that the media had the power to mobilize the thinking of numerous people; unless they discharged their duty with care and caution, their biased representations could result in media trials. It rebuked the media for not clarifying that confessions to the police are not admissible as evidence. Reporters should know this, and the media’s duty would be to educate people unaware of the law. It also condemned assumptions in phrases such as ‘anti-Hindu riots’, since all communities had been affected by the violence. Media trials can be prevented by the media’s self-regulation, according to the Delhi High Court. These not only go against a cardinal principle of the law in a democracy, but also hurt the dignity of the accused, thus violating their guaranteed constitutional rights. A variant form of this concern, with regard to an innocent person whose reputation can be destroyed, was stated by the Bombay High Court in its scathing criticism of media trials in response to public interest litigations against prejudicial reporting after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Satiating a thirst or competing against rivals cannot excuse unregulated media trials, the judges said in effect, and provided an ‘indicative but not exhaustive’ list of what reports must not do during an ongoing investigation. The list, ending with a warning that violating provisions of the programme code and other media regulations would lead to contempt of court, is most valuable when much of the media seem to have surrendered fair and meticulous reporting in favour of sensationalism and, possibly, of pleasing certain political elements. In their condemnation of medial trials, the two high courts have provided a stern corrective urgently necessary in these times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Changing tide: protest against arrest of Alexei Navalny||Sir — The arrest of Alexei Navalny, one of the most prominent critics of the Russian premier, Vladimir Putin, has left the country in a disarray. Navalny, who gained a massive following for exposing the corruption within the government, called for nationwide protests after his detention. Soon unauthorized protests were held across the country with more than 3,000 people arrested. The support for Navalny is a testament to the growing clamour for governmental transparency and accountability in Russia. It is the duty of all democratic nations to extend their support to the dissenting Russians. Aveek Saha,Calcutta Ray of hope Sir — There is no doubt that the newly sworn-in president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, is a capable leader (“Four turbulent years end”, Jan 21). Unlike his predecessor, Donald Trump, Biden is considerate and humane, and will serve the nation to the best of his abilities. On the inauguration day, Biden struck a chord with his audience through his powerful and emotive speech. His stress on the importance of democracy, and a fervent call to end the “uncivil war” plaguing America indicated that he is best suited to repair the damage done by the Donald Trump administration. His idea of peace is not separate from the notions of justice, equality and liberty and his assertion that the “dream of justice for all will be deferred no longer” is a testament to his firm belief in racial equality and his resolve to act to that end. The flurry of executive orders that Biden signed on the first day in office, such as making masks mandatory on federal grounds, rejoining the Paris climate change accord and the World Health Organization, lifting the travel ban on several Muslim majority countries and halting the construction of the wall on the US-Mexico border, among others, were a clear repudiation of Trumpian policies. It is hoped that the Biden administration will serve in a transparent and accountable manner as is expected from one of the oldest democracies in the world. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The American president, Joe Biden, lost no time in reversing the controversial decisions of Donald Trump, whose policies over the years have thrown the country into chaos. It is unusual for a head of state to issue 15 executive orders on the first day in office. Through his swift action, Biden has sent out a strong signal that he fully intends to repair the damages of his predecessor, under whose watch the country’s diplomatic relations with several nations have deteriorated. His decision to rejoin the Paris climate accord, reverse the travel ban on people from certain Muslim-dominated countries and the termination of the construction of the wall on the US-Mexico border will go a long way in cementing Biden’s status as one of the most important presidents in American history. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — Joe Biden, the 46th president of the US, has inherited a deeply divided nation as witnessed by the events preceding his assumption of the Oval Office. It is important to remember that in spite of criticisms, over 70 million Americans voted for Donald Trump. The unprecedented violence witnessed at the Capitol on January 6 indicates that the next four years are not going to be a smooth ride for Biden. He seems to have started on a strong note by passing 15 executive orders on his first day in office. He will, however, need the cooperation of the Republicans to heal the deep chasms within the country. There is a long way to go before America can regain its credibility as a democratic nation. Bal Govind,Noida Divisions within Sir — In his article, “Resistance map” (Jan 23), Asim Ali has rightly stated that the meekness of the Opposition parties in combating the divisive rhetoric of the Bharatiya Janata Party has led to the increase in Islamophobia in India. It is a matter of shame that both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi had welcomed the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. We must, however, remember that it would not have been possible for the BJP to polarize the country along religious lines unless a large section of the population already believed in the party’s bigoted ideas. It is because of our failures that the saffron brigade could flourish in India, bringing into question the ideals of secularism enshrined in our Constitution. The menace of communalism can only be contained if strong laws are put in place and swift action is taken against the perpetrators. But with innumerable lawmakers at the helm spewing vitriol against minority communities, there is little chance for the situation to improve anytime soon. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Flames rising: Delhi R-Day chaos||A nation that has, over the years, thundered with the echoes of the beloved slogan, ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, witnessed, on Republic Day, disturbing images of the farmer and the security men turning against each other. Unprecedented clashes took place between farmers who, for months, have been protesting against three contentious agrarian laws and the police in parts of India’s capital city on the occasion of a tractor rally that was meant to coincide with the Republic Day celebrations. Farmer unions must shoulder their part of the blame. Several protesters broke through checkposts and, most damagingly, deviated from pre-scheduled routes to lay siege on parts of Delhi, including the Red Fort, drawing an aggressive response from law-keepers. There was a clear lack of coordination among the unions and their failure to rein in or be aware of the presence of rogue elements must be condemned. But it also takes two matches to light a fire. The Union home ministry’s preparation for the rally was far from adequate: policemen found themselves outnumbered by farmers at some spots. Of greater concern is the allegation by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — it represents 41 farm unions — that vested interests are at work to discredit their movement. This claim, too, must be investigated impartially. Mayhem has no place in a democratic protest. Tuesday’s violence thus has the potential of sullying the image of the protesting farmers. There are even signs of fissures in their solidarity. It is possible that these developments would lessen the pressure on, and even please, the Narendra Modi government. After attempting to stonewall, defame and wear down the protesters, the Centre is now in a position to claim the moral high ground that it had lost. It is this battle of attrition between the government and the aggrieved farmers that constitutes the sorriest sights of Indian democracy today. There are well-established protocols of resolving a crisis in a democracy. The Centre, armed with a brutal electoral majority, did not pay heed to these codes of deliberation while enacting the set of laws in the first place. Its attempts at resolution, the farmers allege, have been insincere. The farmer unions, too, are on uncertain territory after the flare-up. The escalating bitterness on both sides means that the flames of the farm laws would continue to simmer in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||A case for Dalit journalism||This is the 150th year of Sooryodhayam, the first Dalit journal in Tamil. It is also, arguably, the first Dalit journal in India. As India celebrates the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, it is not known that Dalits in Tamil Nadu had started a journal in the same year as his birth. The mainstream history of Indian journalism gives little space to Dalits. The need to recover the history of Dalit journalism is, therefore, a pressing task. The apathy of historians apart, this task is complicated by the unavailability of sources. Back volumes of most 19thcentury Tamil journals are unavailable. We have to rely on colonial records to glean information about them. In the case of Sooryodhayam, not a single issue has survived. Here too, we have to rely on colonial documents. Given that for Madras Presidency, the Native Newspaper Reports begin only from 1872, this becomes further complicated. But from colonial records we know that Sooryodhayam was published from Pudupet, Chennai, and that its proprietor, publisher, printer and editor was one Pandit Thiruvenkatasamy who was described as ‘a Hindu Pariah’. The general opinion about Sooryodhayam was that “this journal had an influence among the lower classes” —“lower classes” being a euphemism for Dalits. Apart from this information, the great Tamil intellectual, Pandit Iyothee Thass, wrote that, “Even before Reverend Percival’s effort [the editor of Dina Varthamani and Professor of vernacular literature, Presidency College, Madras], there was a journal called Sooryodhayam, which was published by an Adi-Dravida, Pandit Thiruvenkatasamy. He also published several books such as Siddhar Gnana Kummi, Theraiyer Vaithiyam Ainooru, and Dhanvinthiyar Nigandu.” We know that Dina Varthamani was started in 1855. If Iyothee Thass is right, then Sooryodhayam’s origin will be pushed back further. How unique was this considering the perception that Dalits did not have a robust intellectual tradition? During the late 19th century, many Dalits gained access to modern education owing to the efforts of the colonial government and the Christian missionaries. ‘Panchama’ schools were started by the Director of Public Instruction. The Education Commission constituted by the Government of India in 1882 made a full-fledged study of the socio-economic conditions of the ‘Panchamas’ and identified some major economic and social factors responsible for their backwardness. The commission recommended “that no boy be refused admission to a Government college or school merely on the ground of caste”. Colonial efforts apart, the Dalits in Tamil Nadu had a traditional learning system where Tamil literature, epics, and classical texts were taught in Thinnai schools. Pandit Iyothee Thass was among those who learned through such traditional schools. Iyothee Thass claims that during his time hundreds of Dalit scholars existed in and around Chennai. This intellectual tradition bore fruit in the changing media ecology of British India. Records show that Dalits published over 50 journals between 1869 and 1943 although copies of only a few have survived. These journals touched upon all spheres of life; they propagated anti-caste thought, criticism of Brahminism, Buddhism, writings against everyday caste oppression, education for Dalits and women, representation of Dalits and minorities in government jobs, prohibition, atheism and so on. Dalit journals also published Tamil fiction in the form of stories and serials, moral stories, and the retelling of Tamil literary texts. Some humour journals were also run by Dalits. Maha Vikata Duthan, started by B.A.A. Rajendram Pillai in 1886, was one such journal. In politics, Dalits questioned the claim of the Indian National Congress to be the sole representative of Indians. Arguing that self-rule would lead to Brahmin rule, they stressed social transformation rather than political transformation. Dalit journalism’s vibrancy during this period not only contributed to debates within India but also extended offshore to reach the diaspora. The history of Dalit journalism also points to diasporic networks in production as well as in reception. Adi Dravidan was started in Colombo by migrant Dalits from south Tamil Nadu. Pariyan, Tamilan, Bhooloka Vyasan had a good number of subscribers from Rangoon, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Fiji, Mauritius, Singapore, Malaysia and Tanzania, where Tamil people, especially the lower castes, had migrated to for jobs. Another important aspect of these journals was the participation and contribution of non-Dalits. Although edited and published by Dalit intellectuals, significant content contributions were made by non-Dalits. J.S. Kannappar, the editor of Dravidan, the pre-eminent daily of the non-Brahmin Justice Party, penned many articles in Adi Dravidan. Swapaneswari Ammal, the first woman editor of a Tamil journal, wrote extensively in Iyothee Thass’s Tamilan. M. Masilamani Mudaliyar was another important contributor to Tamilan who wrote a series of articles refuting the authority of the Vedas. M. Singaravelar, the first communist of South India, contributed to Tamilan. P. Lakshmi Narasu, the author of the Essence of Buddhism that influenced B.R. Ambedkar, was another important contributor to Tamilan. This rich history of Dalit engagement in the public sphere and the circulation and spread of ideas that challenged the dominant discourses are missing in mainstream histories. These vibrant Dalit voices shatter the myth of an ignorant community awaiting saviours from outside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Potted philosophy||It is entirely possible that three days from now, on February 1 — Budget Day — the Union finance minister would assure the nation that she has spotted the green shoots of economic recovery. But green shoots — of the literal, not the metaphorical, variety — have been sprouting since March 2020, the month India was locked up hastily by its minder. The pandemic, there is evidence to suggest, led to a strange, global bloom. This proliferation of public interest in gardening led Ferns N Petals, India’s most prominent retailer of flowers, to witness an unprecedented surge in demand for herbs and plants such as giloy, tulsi and jade. Meanwhile, lettuce, coriander and beetroot were striking deep roots in Britain. On March 16 last year, the day the British government ordered patrons to avoid pubs, Suttons Seeds struck gold, selling seeds of lettuce, coriander and beetroot. The same month, on the other side of the Atlantic, Burpee Seeds and Plants, the firm that germinated in Philadelphia in 1876, witnessed its highest ever sales. By May, market research by GlobalData had found that gardening had become the second most popular recreational activity — second only to watching television — during the lockdown, beating cooking, reading and — astoundingly — sex. ‘Gardening Movements’ are not novel. In a piece for the Earth Island Journal, Jennifer Atkinson, an intrepid researcher of gardening in the US, has argued that the phenomenon — the unexpected mushrooming of gardens — has, more often than not, intersected with periods of social transformation with attendant collective anxieties. The dawn of industrialization, she writes, led to the flowering of urban gardens; the obnoxious Jim Crow era encouraged Black people to take to, and reimagine, gardening as a refuge; ‘Guerrilla Gardening’ — growing gardens on plots that are legally inaccessible — has become a popular contemporary strategy for the greening of greying landscapes as well as for energizing community and environmental fraternities in an era that is being made to watch, helplessly, the eerie unfolding of the Anthropocene. Getting one’s hands dirty with soil and trowel, Atkinson believes, resonates with a deeper meaning. In the time of Covid, a time that has precipitated the experiences of social and physical isolation, gardening has become an unconscious expression of the human urgency to confront its fear of a creeping disembodiment. Awakened, momentarily, from its entrancement with a different, dangerous bloom — the upending of reality and the concomitant impoverishment of sensory encounters by the virtual — green-thumbed humans have transformed gardening into an allegorical shovel to dig deep into the recesses of the memory of a time in which the primordial cord with the natural world was yet to be cut. Even Jean-Jacques Rousseau, a man of reason, was not dismissive of the symbolic potential of gardening. In his stimulating piece, “Beans and Melons: Rousseau’s Vegetable Garden”, Jérôme Brillaud attributes the following quote to the enlightened Genevan: “If the study of plants purges my soul that is enough for me, I do not desire any other pharmacy.” Rousseau, however, did confess in Confessions that he was no gardener. But that could be because, as Brillaud shows, he used kitchen gardens — beans and melons were Rousseau’s thing — as sites of philosophical experiments. Indeed, gardens and gardening can be, Vivian Swift noted in Gardens of Awe and Folly, far from demure spaces. They have, over the years, served as sites of radical, if inadvertent, social experiments, some of which even attempted to alter the status quo. For instance, leafing through the pages of the rather somnolent Instructions in Gardening for Ladies (1840), one may be lulled into believing that Jane Webb Wells Loudon was attempting — rather dourly — to put readers to sleep. But Lady Jane is asdeceptive as the garden. For the discerning reader would soon realize that hidden amidst those dull instructions on ‘sowing’, ‘fixing’ and ‘covering’ seeds was a code: Mrs Loudon was actually encouraging women to enjoy gardening independently, out of the sight and the supervision of men, even though she took care to inform her pupils that the vapours arising out of damp earth could have unhealthy consequences “under women’s skirts”. Concealed among flowers and earthy scents is, always, the alluring possibility of the garden being a space for renegotiating gender relations. In Gender and the Garden in Early Modern English Literature, Jennifer Munroe echoes Loudon by arguing that the transition of the garden from a unit of subsistence to an arena of aesthetics led to the kindling of intense tensions in gender relations. Perhaps it is apt that the setting of The Luncheon on the Grass — in which Edouard Manet challenged the politics of class as well as of the gaze by depicting a nude woman looking away from her conversant, male companions, towards the viewer — resembles a rather resplendent garden. The garden, the fruit of gardening, isn’t benign in other ways too. In its gentle rhythms — a leaf falling, unhurriedly, in the breeze, a butterfly or a bee gliding from one flower to another, light dripping from a silvery gossamer web — the garden endures as a philosophical site celebrating the antithesis of express modern living. Calcuttans have an additional reason to ruminate about gardens because annus horribilis — 2020 — happened to be the bicentennial year of the foundation of the Agri-Horticultural Society of India. Our man Rousseau despised horticulture. Botany, he believed, shared a symbiotic relationship with philosophy because of its encouragement of reflection, while horticulture, Rousseau thundered, “offer[s] the soul no solace”. But William Carey, the founder of the AHSI, had foresight — the AHSI contributed to the widening of India’s pedagogies on gardening, agriculture and patterns of food consumption. Even Rousseau would have to concede that the expansion of the frontiers of knowledge need not burden the soul. As gardens recede from public spaces, the AHSI, a delightful sanctuary of mellow light, long silences, plants — mundane and exotic — and birds, that strives to keep out the cacophonous sounds and ugly sights of metropolitan life, could be the perfect ambience for contemplation. Would the Covid-induced bloom of miniature gardens, now sprouting on unfamiliar, but intimate, turfs — terraces, windowsills, even kitchens — be enough for humanity to renew its elementary, but fraying, relationship with nature and the wondrous web of life?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress tractor rally in Santhal Pargana||Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in Jharkhand, announced on Thursday that it will hold a tractor rally in Santhal Parganas on January 31 in a show of solidarity with protesting farmers in Delhi who are demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws. Addressing a press conference at the party office here, senior leader and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said, “The tractor rally on January 31 will begin from Godda district’s Kargil chowk and will end in Rohini in Deoghar district. “We are calling it ‘Hul tractor rally’ as this event will mark the farmers uprising against the Union government’s autocratic way of functioning in favour of its capitalist friends. Hul rebellion in Santhal Parganas has a historic significance in India’s freedom struggle as it marked the tribal uprising against the British regime then.” State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon will flag off the rally which will cover a distance of about 80km. “Farmers across 24 districts will attend the rally, besides all MLAs of the party, and functionaries. This will be a peaceful rally,” he said. Patralekh called for a judicial inquiry into the Republic Day violence in Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally, claiming that it was orchestrated by certain groups to defame the peaceful protest of farmer groups for the last two months. “Farmers have laid down their lives during the agitation in Delhi, facing extreme cold and other vagaries of the weather amid the Covid-19 pandemic. But they never resorted to violence. Even on Republic Day, they took out a peaceful tractor rally, but certain sections resorted to violence as part of a well calculated move to defame the stir,” he said. Also, Patralekh asked, how was it that the Union home ministry did not have any intelligence about the possibility of violence. “How come rogue elements managed to sneak in through the security apparatus to scale Red Fort?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tatanagar-Badampahar electrification work to be completed by July||The electrification work of Jamshedpur-Badampahar is expected to be completed by July this year as the ambitious project of the South Eastern Railway has gained momentum. This work was supposed to begin in February last year, but that could not happen due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It ultimately kicked off in November 2020, a year after the one year-long survey work got completed. The electrification of the route would not only help in introducing MEMU ( Mainline Electric Multiple Unit) trains but would also help in improving train speed. Currently, trains in that section move at an average speed of 40-50 Kmph. The electrification work would help in improving the train speed between 100-120 Kmph. Station director of Tatanagar Railway Station H.K. Balmuchu said  the electrification of the nearly 80 Km route  between Tatanagar and Badampahar is expected to take another six months or so. "The electrification work is going on in a war  footing manner and the project is expected to complete by July. It is an ambitious project. Around Rs 100 crore is being spent in the project,"  he said. Currently, a train- Tata- Badampahar DMU ( Diesel Multiple Unit) Passenger with a diesel locomotive ( engine)   ferry passengers between the two destinations apart from a few goods trains which majorly carry iron-ores. Tata-Badampahar section assumes significance as Gorumahisani, which is famous for iron-ore mines falls in that section. Apart from historical importance the place also has commercial value. " It will help in increasing the prospects of loading. The railways  therefore took a decision to develop that section, " Balmuchu added. Notably, Tata-Badampahar was the only railway section under South Eastern Railway jurisdiction that was left without electrification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand|| Coal labourers clash at Kusunda area, 6 injured||At least six workers were injured when two rival groups of coal loaders clashed at the Vishwakarma Project site of Kusunda area, hurling stones and wielding sticks in the presence of police on Wednesday. Two of those injured at the BCCL project site, Sampurna Devi and Lakshmi Devi, had to be admitted to a private hospital for treatment. The clash lasted half an hour. Finally, the police were able to control the crowds after a lathi-charge. Windscreens of two vehicles, a tipper and a truck, were broken. On the prodding of Dhanbad administration and police, Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) management agreed to suspend coal loading work for the time being. Officials of the PSU said loading operations would be resumed after holding talks with the rival groups to try and find an amicable solution. While one group of coal loaders is being backed by the Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC) and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the other is supported by the BJP. BJP leader Amrendra “Guddu” Singh said, “We are not averse to coal loading by local residents. But only genuine local residents should be given the opportunity. As agreed earlier during a meeting under the chairmanship of Dhanbad SDO Surendra Prasad, labourers should deposit their Aadhar cards to verify their credentials.” Singh blamed the BCCL management, saying its officials had allowed coal loading without following due procedure leading to the tension. Local resident Dharm Kumar Roy blamed Singh and his men for the trouble. “We have been loading coal from the very start of the Vishwakarma Project. But due to the disturbance caused by muscleman backed by Singh manual coal loading operations have been suspended since January 2018 creating a problem of livelihood for us,” he said. Dhansar police station OC Jaiprakash Rai, who was present at the site, denied they had resorted to lathi-charge or firing. “The two labourer factions congregated at the site demanding work. But we managed to remove men and women of both factions. On our suggestion, BCCL has agreed to hold talks with the factions before resuming loading operations,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Stephan Rothlin to speak at XLRI lecture on business ethics||Fr. Stephan Rothlin, director of the Macau Ricci Institute, is set to deliver a lecture on China’s emergence as a superpower, at the 28th annual JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics, organised by XLRI, on February 6. Like many other events of the institute, this lecture will also be held on a virtual platform for the first time, amid the outbreak of Covid-19. Rothlin, also the CEO of CEO of Rothlin International Management Consulting Ltd., will deliver his lecture on the topic “China The Emerging Superpower: The Ethical Underpinnings”. “We are delighted to have Fr. Stephan Rothlin, S.J. to deliver the oration on the 28th year of JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics and inspire our students with his thought-provoking words,” XLRI director Fr. P Christie said. “XLRI has been organising the JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics for our students to listen to their role models and leaders and understand the need and importance of ethics in business. It also inspires them to follow these ethical codes of conduct in their professional and personal lives,” he added. Rothlin is a Jesuit priest from Switzerland, who has been working in China for the last 22 years. His teaching and research interests are focused on international business ethics and responsible entrepreneurship, focusing on China. A sought-after speaker, he provides educational consulting services to encourage corporate social responsibility. Rothlin advocates business communities and society at large with the values of honesty, integrity, respect, transparency, and responsibility as indispensable elements for business excellence. From 2005 –2013, he was secretary-general for the Center for International Business Ethics, Beijing, and chairman of the Association of International Business Ethics in Hong Kong. Christie further talked about XLRI’s role in placing on the forefront the importance of pursuing an ethical code of conduct in the corporate world. “We believe that no management education curriculum is really complete unless and until the students are instilled with a set of abiding values - that are indispensable ingredients for any aspiring business leader in today’s world. XLRI is the first B-school in the country to introduce a core course on Managerial Ethics for its HRM and BM programmes. Each year, the B-school confers a medal to the best student in Managerial Ethics at the institute’s annual convocation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Arjun Tudu to lead 19-member cross country team ||National medalist Arjun Tudu will lead a 19-member East Singhbhum district team in the 12th Jharkhand State Cross Country Championship, the squad announced on Thursday. The event will be held in Deogarh on January 31. Tudu was picked on the basis of performance of athletes during the District Cross Country Championship, which was conducted at Jaipal ground in Karandih locality of Jamshedpur on January 2. Other than Tudu, male athletes including Manish Hansda, Ravi Murmu, Vivek Kumar, Anmol Bhandari, Ajay Yadav and Prince Kumar have been selected in the 10-km event. Chandni Gope is the lone women candidate in the category. The boys’ Under-20 side for eight kilometre run include Chutai Majhi, Mirjai Murmu, Shankar Mardi, Brijmohan Gope, Rahul Kumar,  while boys in the Under-18 age section for 6 km event are Lakhan Soren and Sawan Hansda. Jamuna Soren will run in the six kilometre event for Under-18 girls’, while Sahil Mardi and Santosh Soren will try to prove their mettle in the two kilometre run for Under-16 boys. Nikita Kanduliya will compete in the two kilometre event for Under-16 girls. The distinct outfit will leave for Deogarh by Tata-Danapur special train on January 30, said East Singhbhum District Athletics Association (ESDAA) secretary Ravinder Murmu. “Despite the lackings (poor condition of the Jaipal ground), we have tried our best to select a good team. We have some talented athletes who are expected to shine in the state meet,” Murmu said. The participants displayed great enthusiasm during the district cross country championship, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Covishield: adverse effects minor, but mostly in Ranchi||Over 75 per cent of those who complained of minor adverse effects after receiving the vaccine against coronavirus in Jharkhand are residents of Ranchi, according to data collected by the National Health Mission (NHM). Doctors spearheading the vaccination campaign in Jharkhand, however, could not state any scientific reason behind the higher rate of adverse effects reported in the state capital, barring that more people were vaccinated in Ranchi compared to the remaining 23 districts. “Most of the people who complained of adverse effects after vaccination only suffered from minor pains in the arm. We have not reported any case of severe adverse effects following immunisation in Jharkhand,” said Dr Ajit Prasad, the nodal officer for the vaccination programme in the state. As per records with the NHM, as many as 193 people have complained of adverse effects following immunisation in Jharkhand and at least 145 of them were residents of Ranchi.  So far, Covishied shots have been administered to 24,000 residents of Jharkhand. Of them, 1,774 got the shots in Ranchi. None of the remaining 23 districts has administered shots to more than 1,500 people. While figures clearly indicate that more Ranchi residents suffered from adverse effects than those in any other district of Jharkhand, some doctors believe that psychological barriers may also be playing a role in making people feel dizzy or unwell after vaccination. Dr Siddharth Sinha, a senior resident at Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry and Allied Sciences (RINPAS), said that every vaccination has some or the other mild side effect. However, people suffering from anxiety disorders might exaggerate their symptoms while talking to doctors after vaccination and even feel an aggravation in their symptoms. “When you are already anxious about taking the vaccine shots, your mind might trick you to feel adverse symptoms triggered by anxiety,” said Dr Sinha, adding that the fear of taking the vaccine shots was evident in many sections of society and many were reluctant to get the vaccine shots until they are sure of not having to face any side effects. As per figures compiled by NHM, Jharkhand has achieved 60 per cent of its vaccination target so far by administering Covishield shots to 24,000 of 40,245 registered beneficiaries. As per government protocol, every person who is administered the Covishield vaccine is kept under observation for at least 30 minutes. Their blood pressure levels, heart rate and pulse are monitored during the time to check for any abnormality, doctors said. Dr Vijay Mishra, director of Medica hospital here, who got his Covishield shot on Day 1 of the vaccination drive at Sadar Hospital in Ranchi, clarified that he did not feel any side effects after the immunisation and was doing well even 12 days later. “I am leading a normal life with no side effects whatsoever,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hockey queens return from Chile to a warm welcome||Hockey Jharkhand accorded a warm welcome to three Team India members from Simdega district upon their return here late on Wednesday, congratulating the juniors for their emphatic win over Chile in a six-match series that ended in Santiago earlier this week. The Indian women’s junior team went there for a six-match series, held between January 18 and 25, with the Chile senior team. India won five matches while one was a draw. The Jharkhand trio of Beauty Dungung, Sangita Kumar (both forwards) and Sushma Kumari (midfielder) emerged as the key players, scoring between them 10 of the 18 goals that India scored in the series. They reached their home district on Thursday morning where Hockey Simdega also felicitated them. “It was a great outing and learning experience for us to be playing in Chile,” remarked Beauty who scored five goals. “We resumed playing hockey after a long gap due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The tour has induced fresh confidence in the side ahead of other meets later this year,” she added. Her teammate Sangita contributed 4 goals while Sushma scored one. General secretary of Hockey Simdega Manoj Konbegi said that Team India won whenever Jharkhand players scored goals during the tournament. In the first match, India beat Chile by 5-3 in which Beauty scored three goals and Sangita one. In the second match, India won by 4-3 with Sangita scoring one goal. In the next match too, Sangita scored once in India’s 3-2 win,e while the fourth match was a draw at 2-2 where no player from Jharkhand scored a goal. In the fifth match, Sangita and Sushma both scored a goal each, giving India a 2-0 win,  while in the sixth match Beauty scored 2 goals to win the match 2-1. “It’s a matter of great pride that our players are now emerging as key players in the national squad,” said Konbegi, adding that the girls deserved all the applause as they kept themselves motivated through the pandemic despite battling poverty and lack of resources. “When all training and sporting activities remained halted last year, our girls remained fit by practicing on their own at home. They stayed mentally fit and composed as a result of which they found a place in the Indian side and went on to play crucial roles in the team’s performance at the international stage.” The last time, the Indian team played international matches was against Australia and New Zealand in a three-nation tour in 2019. The team had a fair outing in Australia where they played four matches: two against New Zealand and two against Australia. The juniors won two matches, drew one and lost one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Decomposed body of jumbo recovered in Palamau Tiger Reserve||Forest officials launched a probe when the carcass of a 60-year-old female was recovered from the Ramandag forest range in compartment 3 of the south division of Palamau Tiger Reserve. The decomposed body of the female elephant was found dead deep inside the jungle on Wednesday night, officials said on Thursday. They suspected that her death could have occured a week back, as the body was found during routine patrolling, owing to the foul smell emanating from the area. Confirming the incident, Mukesh Kumar, deputy director of the south division of Palamau tiger Reserve, said that the body didn’t have any external injuries. “The location where her corpse was found is too deep inside the jungles. The forest guards reached only when the odour spread, and then they found about the death,” he said. Old age could be a reason behind the death,” said the official, adding that they are awaiting the postmortem report. This is the second casualty of elephant of the tiger reserve within one week. On January 18 night, two wild tuskers had killed a captive elephant named Kaal Bhairav in Palamau Quila when he was resting. The incident had raised questions over upkeep of captive elephants in the palamau Tiger reserve. DS Srivastava, a wildlife expert based in Daltonganj had accused officials of being callous over wildlife management, while speaking with reporters. He asked why Kaal Bhairav was shifted from its original earmarked shed in Betla to the Quila, making it vulnerable to such threats. He had also asked the authorities why a proposed trench around the places, where captive elephants are lodged, wasn’t in place to prevent such incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Saraikela police nab Naxal leader based on a tip-off||Acting on a tip-off, the Seraikela-Kharsawan police nabbed a Naxal belonging to the outlawed outfit CPI-Maoist in the wee hours of Wednesday. Identified as Nazir Munda (28), the arrested Naxal fell into police net at about 1.30 am on Tuesday night while he was carrying posters in a bike, with the intention of putting them up in Adityapur and Gamharia localities by taking advantage of the unearthly hours. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that they had got an intelligence input that some rebels will pass through the Kuchai-Kharsawan main road in a bike sometime around 1 am on Wednesday. "On getting the information, we set up a team and assigned the sub-divisional police officer, Seraikela, Rakesh Ranjan to carry out an operation.  Rakesh Ranjan set up a checking point at Chandni Chowk on Kharsawan-Kuchai road and started checking each and every vehicle that passed the area.  At about 1.30 am, a bike appeared from the Kuchai end of the road and on checking the vehicle, the team found a bag containing hand-written posters.  Then the police team soon took the man into custody and later interrogated him at Kharsawan thana," said Arshi while addressing newsmen at the police station in Seraikela on Wednesday. The SP said the accused Nazir Munda divulged that he had joined the Naxal outfit one-and-half-years-ago and was working along with dreaded rebel leaders like Maharaj Pramanik and Analda who are active in Seraikela-Kharsawan and also in adjoining West Singhbhum district. "The content in the posters that Nazir was carrying were written against the farm law and those posters were supposed to be fixed along the Tata-Kandra Road in Adityapur and Gamharia," said senior police officers. The SP pointed out Nazir Munda had confessed that he had also fixed Naxal posters along the Tata-Kandra Road in Adityapur and Gamharia in November last year. They sent the arrested rebel to Seraikela divisional jail after producing him before a judicial magistrate in the evening, The police have also seized over a dozen posters and his bike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Over 5500 people administered with Covishield shots in a day||Over 5500 people were administered Covishield shots in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the total count of people vaccinated in the state so far to 24,000, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. On Wednesday, the state achieved 59 per cent of its vaccination target as 5587 of the 9414 people registered for vaccination at various centres across Jharkhand turned up at their respective vaccination centres and was administered the shots. Bokaro achieved 90 per cent of its target on the day by vaccinating at least 270 of the 300 beneficiaries registered for vaccination in the district. Ranchi, on the other hand, vaccinated only 432 of the 800 registered beneficiaries here, thereby achieving only 54 per cent of its target for the day, highlighted figures with the NHM. As per figures compiled by NHM, Jharkhand has achieved 60 per cent of its vaccination target so far by administering Covishield shots to 24,000 of 40,245 beneficiaries registered for immunization. At least 22 people, including 18 from Ranchi alone, complained of adverse effects following immunization on Wednesday. So far, as many as 193 people have complained of adverse effects following immunization and at least 145 of them were residents of Ranchi. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each in Ranchi and Dhanbad, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1066, the NHM stated in a separate bulletin released on Wednesday night. As per the bulletin, the toll in Ranchi reached 232 on the day, while that in Dhanbad jumped to 112. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day in Jharkhand, causing a fall in the count of active cases. As per government data, as many as 117 Covid patients recovered on Wednesday, while 70 people were found infected. As many as 723 people were battling the infection in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday. Ranchi accounted for more than half of the fresh cases reported in Jharkhand. At least 38 of the 70 people found infected on the day were residents of Ranchi. While 12 districts did not report fresh cases on the day, East Singhbhum reported 11 cases while Dhanbad reported seven. Ranchi reported 68 recoveries, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported 16 and five recoveries respectively. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.05 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 11,372 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Of the 118495 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, at least 116706 have recovered, helping the state achieve a Covid recovery rate of 98.49 per cent against the national average of 96.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-159
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Witch-hunt survivor to Padma Shri glory||Once branded a witch and after surviving inhuman atrocities, 62-year-old Chutni Mahato of Jharkhand has come a long way. Since then, she has rescued hundreds of women branded witches and created awareness against witch-hunting across the state for the last two decades. On Tuesday, she was awarded the Padma Shri for her work and her unwavering courage. Chutni, who was in state capital Ranchi on Wednesday, is, however, unflustered about receiving one of the highest civilian awards of the country. “Award or no award, I will continue what I have been doing since the last two decades. I will not only continue to save women from being tortured after being branded witches but also create awareness against this practice of witch-hunting based on superstitious beliefs and the word of quacks,” Chutni told The Telegraph. A resident of Bholadih village in Birbans panchayat under Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district, Chutni was branded a witch in 1995. Villagers even seized her property and made her drink urine and paraded her semi-naked. “I was married at the age of 12. When my elder brother-in-law’s daughter suffered from illness, a quack claimed that I was a witch and was the reason for her getting ill. My house was attacked, I was insulted, forced to drink urine, was paraded semi-naked around the village. I ran away to my parent’s house. During my stay there, I got in touch with the Association for Social and Human Awareness (ASHA) which had been working against witch hunting.” Bholadih is around 130km from Ranchi. Chutni is now the in-charge of the rehabilitation centre under Birbans panchayat. She has a team of over 90 women from various villages of Seraikela-Kharsawan district who keep a watch on incidents of torture or harassment in the name of witch-hunting. The team informs Chutni, who in turn, reaches the spot to provide justice to the victim with the support of the police and administration. Chutni has three sons, two of whom are married while the younger son is yet to be married. She has already prepared two crusaders from her family against witch-hunting. “My two daughters-in-law are fully behind me and accompany me to the meetings and awareness sessions against witch hunting. I want them to carry on the battle after me. I am happy that my elder daughter-in-law (Sangeeta Mahato) and second daughter in-law (Anjana Mahato) have picked up my skills. When I am busy with other things they go around to the affected villages to create awareness and also help me in rescuing women,” said Chutni. Murder, driven by the belief in black magic, is common in Jharkhand. In 2019, the state reported 27 deaths related to allegations of witchcraft, according to police data. Till September 2020, 19 deaths had taken place over alleged witchcraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
28-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two held for killing Nilgai in Jharkhand||Forest officials on Wednesday arrested two villagers and seized the flesh and skin of a nilgai (Indian antelope) and recovered two muzzle-loading guns and two axes from their possession in Jharkhand’s Betla Wildlife Sanctuary. According to deputy director of the north division of Palamau Tiger Reserve, Kumar Ashish, they got a tip-off that a nilgai had meandered to a village under Chhipadohar forest range in the sanctuary from neighbouring Palamau district and had been hunted down by some villagers on Tuesday evening. “There are no nilgais in the Betla sanctuary. We got information that one nilgai from the neighbouring district of Palamau had come to the sanctuary and had been hunted by a few villagers yesterday (Tuesday) evening. I directed the forest ranger Subhendra Kumar to conduct a raid and we succeeded in recovering the skin and the flesh of the nilgai. We also managed to nab the two villagers who had hunted the animal along with the weapon used in the killing. They have been sent to jail,” said Ashish. Nilgai is a protected species under Schedule 3 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and hunting it is prohibited. The two accused villagers — Gudan Singh and Kari Lohra — have been booked under Section 429 of the IPC (mischief by killing cattle of any value or animal above the value of Rs 50) and under Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Wildlife Protection Act. They have been sent to Latehar jail. “We have in the last few years recovered more than 50 muzzle-loading guns from the villagers as they are available at cheap rates and are sold by poachers who come from other districts. We will be intensifying our raids to recover more such muzzle-loading guns which are used to hunt animals in forest areas,” said Ashish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-160
