29-01-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2019: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurates Biswa Bangla Gate on January 31. She inaugurates it remotely from the dais of the Kolkata International Book Fair held in Salt Lake’s Central Park. The New Town structure has a hanging restaurant and viewing gallery 25m above the ground and soon becomes a popular tourist destination. 1866: One of the first trains in the country is launched between Calcutta and Delhi on January 1 and is later extended till Kalka, Haryana, in 1891. The train is introduced mainly for British civil servants who move to and from Calcutta to their summer capital in Shimla. In 2021 Kalka Mail is renamed Netaji Express to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Subhash Chandra Bose, who escaped from the British on board the train in 1941. 1966: Nuclear physicist Homi Bhabha dies in a plane crash over Mont Blanc in Europe on January 24. The official reason for the crash is a misunderstanding between Geneva airport and his Air India pilot but conspiracy theories float about the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) having assassinated him to stymie India’s nuclear program. 2001: A massive earthquake takes place in Gujarat on the morning of January 26. Known as the Bhuj earthquake, the calamity claims more than 13,000 lives including those in south Pakistan, and flattens more than 3 lakh buildings. 1911: Pilot Eugene Ely makes the first shipboard aircraft landing on January 18. Ely lands his Curtiss Model D aircraft on board the USS Pennsylvania in San Francisco Bay. Two months back, he had taken off from another ship — also a first — although the aircraft plunged downwards soon after and the wheels dipped in the water before rising. Both were experiments to explore military uses for aviation within the navy. 2000: American actress, film producer and inventor Hedy Lamarr dies on January 19. Born in Vienna, Lamarr starred in European films before moving to Hollywood, where she was promoted as the most beautiful woman in the world. But besides a successful film career comprising the likes of Algiers and Samson and Delilah, Lamarr co-invented a version of frequency-hopping spread spectrum communication for torpedo guidance that is later used in Bluetooth and Wi-Fi technology. 2010: Japanese engineer Tsutomu Yamaguchi, dies on January 4, at the age of 93. Back in 1945 Yamaguchi had travelled to Hiroshima when the atomic bomb exploded. He was at a 3km distance but was blown away by the force, his eardrums ruptured, eyes blinded temporarily and with radiation burns. He received treatment and returned to his hometown, Nagasaki. A few days later he was describing the blast to a colleague when the second bomb exploded, again 3km away. Yamaguchi is believed to be the only person to have survived both atom bombs. 1879: During England’s tour of Australia, Australian bowler fast bowler Frederick Spofforth takes the wickets of Vernon Royle, Francis MacKinnon and Tom Emmett in three successive deliveries. It is the first hat-trick in Test cricket. Nicknamed “The Demon Bowler”, Spofforth claims a total of 13 wickets in that match and Australia wins the Test played between January 2 and 4. 1883: Kahlil Gibran is born on January 6 in what later becomes Lebanon. He grows up there and in the US to become an artist, poet and writer. He is best remembered for his 1923 book The Prophet that becomes one of the best-selling books of all time, to be translated to over a 100 languages. 1978: South Korean actress Choi Eun-hee attends a meeting in Hong Kong to discuss an upcoming film project but is abducted instead. The kidnap is staged by Kim Jong-il, who later becomes the dictator of North Korea. Kim also kidnaps Choi’s ex-husband, director Shin Sang-ok, and forces them to make films for his country. The duo remain captive making films till 1986, when they manage to flee from a film festival in Vienna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Smart Street||A 400m stretch in front of New Town Mela Ground was re-introduced to residents as Smart Street. The service road with two flanks which serves as a parking lot when events are held in the fairground now demonstrates why New Town calls itself a Smart City. “Many people come from other cities or even other municipal areas and ask us what makes us a Smart City. We have 565 CCTVs, we have wi-fi hotspots all along the Major Arterial Road, we have a plastic road near City Centre 2, we have 115 smart streetlights in front of Central Mall... But is it possible to take people everywhere and show them? So we thought of a stretch where all the smart initiatives we have undertaken in various corners of New Town and things that we are planning to do can be showcased together. The first smart benches and solar trees, for instance, have been installed here. If the pilot projects work well, we will introduce them in other parts of the township,” said Hidco and NKDA chief Debashis Sen at the inauguration of the Smart Street on Tuesday evening. The Telegraph Salt Lake takes a tour with him to understand the smart features. Two bins have radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags on them in which their locations have been integrated. RFID is a tracking system that uses smart barcodes in order to identify items. “Our sweepers have a card reader in their mobile phones. When they scan the tag, we get to know that the bin has been cleared and at what time,” said an NKDA official. A person wanting to charge his e-vehicle needs to download the app ElectreeFi from Google Playstore. The app shows the locations where the EV charging stations are — there are 16 in New Town in eight locations, including one on Smart Street. On choosing the location, one needs to choose the type of charger, the Smart Street one being AC, which is slower than DC and takes three to four hours to charge a vehicle fully. An e-vehicle can run 100km on full charge. On typing in the vehicle registration number and the duration for which one wants to charge and pressing the start button, the app deducts payment from a digital wallet or a card. “For now, we are offering the charge free here, as a promotional drive,” said an official of Energy Efficiency Services. Five car parking bays on the street have been fitted with sensors and an electronic board connected to them displays how many parking spaces are still free. One can also prebook parking space on an app called Newtown Smart Parking. Free wifi is available on Smart Street. A hotspot zone has been created through a tree-like structure that provides connectivity to Smart Street. The wifi password is mentioned on a board and will be changed periodically. A drinking water dispensing outlet has two slots — 250ml and 500ml. There is no wastage as the flow stops automatically once the specified quantity is collected. Since it is IoT-enabled, it sends alerts to the start-up company maintaining the facility on the amount of water dispensed and if the quality deteriorates. One has to bring  a bottle to refill. There is no charge involved. The company has installed a similar machine at Eco Park. Two ramps allow wheelchairs to travel from the adjacent smart bus shelter straight to the New Town fair ground or to the senior citizens’ park next to it. The ramp uses paver blocks created out of plastic waste. Asif Khan, a resident of Sunny Fort, was provided 1,700kg of plastic by the solid waste disposal unit of NKDA from which he has generated 2,850 paver blocks, 200mm by 100mm in size and 40mm in thickness. “Each paver block has about 25 per cent plastic. They may be more costly than normal blocks but will last 50 years,” said Khan. “This is the first time paver block using plastic is being used in India,” added Sen. Artefacts made out of waste materials have been recycled and crafted into decorative as also utility items. The shop also collects clothes in good condition and upcycles them after proper cleaning. These are then sold at cheap rates, thus promoting recycling. Three smart benches have been installed with solar panel generating 375kwp of power on their roofs and sensors on the bench. A 12W sensor-based lamp stays lit from 6pm to 11pm, but afterwards the light gets turned on and off automatically depending on when someone sits on the benches or get up. The solar panel provides shade to the bench. The lamp is lit by power from the electricity grid which in turn gets the power that the solar panels generate. It will save Rs 6,000 to 8,000 worth of electricity annually, an engineer explained. One can even charge one’s phone or laptop using the USB ports in each bench. If one is ill or in danger, a panic button can be pressed which would send an alert to the integrated command and control centre which is being set up. Indeed, on the button being pressed, a message flashed on the official laptop screen: “SOS triggered at Mela Ground service road”. These street signs bearing the block name and street number are backlit and hence easy to spot at night as well. A map on the pole shows one’s location in relation to the surroundings. It also has a panic button. The person pressing the button can be seen through a pinhole camera. His location can also be understood at the control centre. A battery stores power through the day and lights up automatically after sunset. It dims after 10pm to save energy but will brighten up if it senses movement below. They can be turned on or off remotely through software also. Smart cycle stand An app cycle docking station has come up at the Swapno Bhor end of the stretch. Five trees have been “planted” on Smart Street. A tree has 20 leaves under each of which there is a solar lamp, connected to sensors, that stays lit automatically from dusk to dawn. The solar panels are so thin and flexible that they have been given shape of banana leaves. They help reduce emission of seven tonnes of carbon dioxide in the air had fossil fuel been burnt to generate an equal amount of electricity. “At 3am, a sprinkler goes off to wash the leaves,” said an official of Agni Power and Electric. Solar road stud The street has 1,886 solar studs embedded in it. These are lighting devices with flashing LED lights that delineate centerlines and edges of roads. Four hours of sun provide enough power to make them blink all night. Each polycarbonated stud can take 20 tonne load. “They help drivers, who might be sleepy at dawn, stay alert. We plan to install them all along the Major Arterial Road,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours’ league||The sixth edition of Uniworld Premier League, held in association with The Telegraph Salt Lake, kicked off at the Harmony Grounds last Friday. The tournament will be on till February 7, and has 21 men’s teams, five women’s teams and 10 junior teams fighting it out for the title. “We decided to go ahead with the tournament as our residents needed a release after months of staying indoors. The Covid situation has also improved. We gained in confidence after we could organise Durga puja without any unfortunate incident, followed by a low-key Uniworld Football League in December,” said Board member of Kolkata Uniworld City Apartment Owners Association Dhrubajyoti Ghosh. The number of teams in the cricket league has remained the same as last year. “Still we curtailed the opening ceremony for the sake of Covid safety. There was no marchpast as that would have meant a gathering of all the team members. Instead, the team captains and their sponsors were felicitated,” said Ghosh. The torch run followed by athlete’s oath, another feature of the ceremony in the Olympic Games tradition, was also dispensed with. Nor did they hold cultural programmes. Since all this meant a part of the evening was free before the first match, we brought the sub-junior match forward to the opening night,” said the captain of Gully Boyz, who was also wielding the microphone. “Since school is shut we didn’t have any sporting tournaments last year. I took part in Uniworld’s football tournament last month but UPL is the real deal,” said Arham Imroz of Class VIII. The thrill was everywhere. Neighbours were meeting after months and one could almost see them smiling from behind the masks. Neelabh Banerjee of Class VII said he can hardly wait for his online classes to get over these days so he can rush to practice from 2 to 5pm. “I’ve been counting the days for UPL to start,” he smiled. There are families in which every member is playing. “My wife Richa is in Queens XI, 10-year-old son Akshaj is in Immortals, six-year old son Aarav is in the sub-junior Gavaskar XI and I’m playing for Unity,” said Brajesh Raman. “It’s going to be a fun-filled fortnight.” In the men’s category, the defending champions are Knights but others are not giving up without a fight. “This is my first year in Uniworld but I used to play cricket in my old neighbourhood,” said Pratik Jaiswal of Amigoes. “In fact, I usually play with leather ball. Here were are playing with tennis balls and the bounce will be different but I’ll do my best!” While many end up practising only beforehand because of the UPL, there are those like Atul Ahuja who exercise round the year. He’s part of the running group Uni Runners, that has floated a cricket team. “We run every day and have stamina but frankly, cricket is a different ball game.” Well, surely their running between the wickets will be fast! And besides, Atul is optimistic. “Actually the Test win in Australia has made me believe anything is possible,” he smiled. Debraj Saha didn’t have a game on the opening night but he and his Strikers teammates came anyway. “We have to watch the others play so we can make notes,” he laughed. “We’ll play them soon and want to know their strengths and weaknessses.” The teams have come up with introductory videos to be shown on the big screen before the matches and Pravin Saraf, of Steel Icons, proudly showed their preview on his tab. It was an intimidating clip, with players not just hitting over-boundaries and taking diving catches but also tearing open coconuts with their bare hands! The background score was suitably that of Baahubali. “Gender has nothing to do with sport. The boys in our team can’t hit sixes but Shyla hits one after another. She’s strong,” said captain Arham about a 10-year-old. The unassuming Shyla Senapati is a tennis player. “I don’t watch cricket and play the sport only during UPL but I look forward to the break from tennis,” smiled the girl. “If I end up hitting a six in the tennis court, however, my coach will be cross!” “I’m playing cricket for the first time but our teammate Sangita aunty (Prasad) taught us the ropes,” said Anuvrinda Anand, a 14-year-old member of Daring Divas. “My inspiration is Renu aunty (Singh), who must be 60. She’s on our team and is rather fit for her age.” “If aunties can find time to play cricket after chores I have no excuse, do I?” said Manya Nimodia, a Class IX student who plays for Queens’ XI. “And with most of us getting limited exercise during the lockdown, this was the least I could do for myself.” Her father Sandeep is playing for Uni Runners, brother Vatsal for Destroyers and her mother said she would join next year. Despite the cheerful gathering at the inauguration, Ghosh said it was a but a third of the crowd last year. “People are not coming out due to the pandemic,” he said. There were food and games stalls too but even these were fewer in number. “Usually I take up a stall selling kebabs and biriyani but this time I’m only here to watch the games,” said resident Nazish Pervez Khan, who herself recovered from Covid last year. The teams too have had to bear the brunt. “Our team Steel Icons is named so as we comprise mostly employees of Tata Steel. But this year due to the pandemic many are working from their hometowns. We have had to take in non-Tata Steel employees this time,” said Saraf. But then Ganesh Singh of Strikers said that after the lockdown everyone was pouncing on any excuse to go out and cricket was something they loved anyway. The first match after the inauguration was a friendly one for kids up to the age of eight. But moments before taking the field, Nora Matthew was in a pool of tears. “I was practising my shot and my bat hit your nose by mistake. I didn’t mean it!” her Border XI teammate Pranay Mishra tried his best to pacify. The sub-junior match had Border XI facing off against Gavaskar XI. “We chose the name keeping the recently concluded Test series in Australia in mind,” smiled Ghosh. The trophy that Ajinkya Rahane’s men brought back from Brisbane is called Border-Gavaskar Trophy, after the two legends from either side. But neither Vir Mishra, 8, nor Pramit Ganguly, 7, the captains of Gavaskar XI and Border XI respectively, who stepped up for the toss, had heard of Sunil Gavaskar and Allan Border. Gavaskar XI won the toss and elected to bat. “We will score 70 runs,” the young captain declared, on being asked. Smitik Kukreja came to the match with a huge reputation. “Watch out for that boy,” said one of the organisers. His mother Ritika was close at hand as he took position behind the stumps, donning his wicket-keeping gloves. “He has full cricket gear, including helmet and leg guard,” she said. And as the second ball sped past the boy as byes, she shouted: “Eyes on the ball, Smitik.” He would later redeem his reputation by taking a fine catch. The boundary line had been drastically reduced for the match and so few balls were connecting with the bat that many a delivery would race to the fence untouched by either bat or keeper’s gloves. Captain Pramit took position behind the keeper but there was still no let-up in the byes. Thankfully, for both sides, umpire Bharabi Kar decided not to count the extras. The occasion fazed some of the kids. While a few jumped about in excitement, others looked overawed. The case might have been the latter with Avigna Das or she simply might have lost sight of the tennis ball which was miscued and skied. Audience shouts of “Catch, catch,” rent the air but the little girl did not move from her fielding position at square leg, leading to an easy boundary. When Nora, who had by now wiped off her tears, came in to bowl to Anaya Pratik, her delieveries kept going haywire and the umpire explained to her where to aim. “The kids are so young they barely understand the rules. I actually sat down my son Sarthak before the match and explained the game to him the best I could. But at the age of eight, it’s enough if he just has fun,” said Ahuja. Harsh Gupta hit the first six of the tournament in the fourth over. And in five overs, Gavaskar XI set the opponent a target of 27 to win, which they would fail to achieve. Other than doubling as scorer, the umpire was also conducting the match, deciding vital issues like the bowling order. “They wanted each player to get a chance to bat and bowl so we broke out of the six balls-per-over rule to accommodate all. Each player is allowed three deliveries,” said Kar, a member of the Umpires Association of North 24-Parganas. Ansh Kandoi, a Class I student, was adjudged  the player of the match. With two sixes, he had scored 13. The fan of Andrew Russell, M.S. Dhoni and Virat Kohli, wore a sad smile. “Wish our team won,” said the boy who came back from out of town just two days earlier and hence walked into the team as a last-minute registration. But little Araddhay Chandra refused to smile for the photographs after the game. “He is sad that he got out for a duck despite being a good player,” said his father Subodh Chandra, who himself is playing for Warriors. “Sports teach us how to deal with losses in life and he has to learn.” “Some of the kids showed great potential,” said Pratik Jaiswal, who is playing for Amigoes and had come to watch the tots. “Just hope they don’t get sucked into PUBG and other mobile games. Potential will amount to naught without practice.” The first official match had defending champion Knights take the field, IPL style, versus Band of Brothers. If matching up to the defending champions was a challenge in itself, losing the toss only made things more complicated. Vikas Rathore and Srijit Aon of Knights started on a positive note. Soon Vikas hit three sixes in a row, hitting the tennis balls out of the park. “After the tournament you can find 200-250 balls on that side of the ground,” one of the organisers quipped. After Srijit got out, Abhishek Ganguly took the field and the flurry of sixes continued. As he hit consecutive sixes, his mates cheered from the dugout: “Good batting, Ganguly!” in a deliberate reference to the more famous Ganguly from Bengal, Sourav. And as Vikas hit three in a row at the other end, all-rounder Touseef Azim was asked if the team was under pressure to defend the title. “No pressure, total domination,” the all-rounder responded with swagger. Knights, the defending champions, had defeated Warriors in the last edition to lift the trophy. “They were four-time finalists, including two-time victors. This tournament has four or five really good teams,” Srijit, the captain, had told The Telegraph Salt Lake before the match. Rohit Kolte’s commentary added life to the evening. When Knights was cruising at 126 for one in seven overs, watching yet another delivery sail overhead he quipped, “Yeh gendh shayed Indigo flight ke andar chali gayi. Ab 200 ka ankra dur nahin hai.” That got the goat of Siddharth Pandey, fielding close by on the boundary. “200 kya bol raha hai! Settle for 150,” he protested. He was doubly committed to the team’s fortunes, being the sponsor as well. But Kolte’s words did prove prophetic. Knights posted 230 in 12 overs. In response, Band of Brothers got whittled out in 11 overs at 103. Other than Piyush Ranjan and Sumit Singh, no one could reach double figures. Among the Knights, Vikas top-scored with a quickfire 76 off 25 and was named Man of the Match. “Uniworld’s Ganguly” Abhishek was a close second with an equally destructive 74 off 21, with 10 sixes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Smart plaza opens by Biswa Bangla Gate||Smart Plaza, adjacent to Biswa Bangla Gate and diagonally opposite Rabindra Tirtha, was declared open on Republic Day. A beautifully landscaped park overlooked by Metro piers with vertical garden welcomes people not just to spend leisure time but also to work. “The space has free wifi. The password would be on display here. It has rounded laptop tables made of granite which can withstand the elements. They will have facility for charging electronic devices too. There is a coffee kiosk and a containerised toilet next door,” pointed out NKDA chairman Debashis Sen at the inauguration, urging people to work in the outdoors rather than from the confines of home. People of New Town, he pointed  out, had all settled from outside. “That is why we are creating community space for them to meet,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Statue unveiled in Sector V||A statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was unveiled near Manikanchan Special Economic Zone in Sector V on Saturday. The 14ft statue is placed on a concrete platform and is located in a patch of green, measuring 126ft x 29ft, that was named Jay Hind Park. In his address, minister Sujit Bose warned the hawkers gathered in the audience against the use of plastic sheets that can pose a fire hazard, citing the Gariahat junction blaze a year ago that had started from a pavement stall. “NDITA has provided you with kiosks. Try to maintain those,” he said. The officials also spoke of a toilet cum cafeteria next door that was inaugurated a few days earlier. “There are at least 200 competitive examinations that take place here round the year. So a waiting area cum toilet was sorely needed for examinees and their companions,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Park in Netaji name||New Town got its 15th park at the onset of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary year. Subhas Chandra Bose Udyan opened in AE Block, opposite New Town Business Club, on Saturday. So far, Action Area 1 had 11 parks and Action Area II had three, which are maintained by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). The park, spread over 60,000sq ft, was inaugurated on Saturday by fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose. It offers a pictorial overview of Netaji’s life through 20 sidelit panels that are aglow after sunset. The panels, at a height of about 5.5ft., are divided into three segments — Subhas in his youth and in leadership on one side and Subhas in his struggles on another. It starts with childhood pictures in Cuttack and highlights phases like expulsion from Presidency College. The second is on his days in active politics. The third and longest segment showcases his military missions abroad, with the formation of Azad Hind Fauj. Another aesthetically pleasing element is a cluster of ceramic tiles that carry photo prints of him in various phases of life, mostly alone but a couple also with wife Emilie Schenkl and Jawaharlal Nehru. They provide  a curved backdrop to a 15 ft fibreglass statue. “The statue is modelled on a photograph of Netaji during his tenure as president of the Indian National Congress,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The ceramic tiles light up in hues of the tricolour in the evening, lending an aura of patriotism to the park. But what catches the eye the most is the riot of colours, thanks to seasonal flowers everywhere. Dahlia, chrysanthemum, calendula, petunia, phlox and marigold greet visitors and flank them as they take pedestrian walkways fitted with anti-skid tiles winding through the park. There is also a stage built against the wall in the central section. This will be the third park in New Town to have a stage after Vivek Tirtha Sishu Udyan in AE Block and Rabindra Tirtha Sishu Udyan in DD Block. Officials said the theme component of the park was developed over barely 15 days with the flower beds prepared in nine. “There must be over a million flowers here,” said one. Residents of nearby houses are delighted with the park. “It was a vacant plot of land. We heard about a month and half back that a park would come up here. Hundreds of workers were deployed over the last few days to get it ready in time. It has turned out to be better than in our dreams. Now we only hope it is maintained equally well,” said Manindra Kumar Singh, who stays in the building right next to the park and goes for morning walk behind Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Government College. “Now I can walk here,” he said. The chief minister has also announced building a monument named after Azad Hind Fauj in Rajarhat but land for that has not been identified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta|| Whites flies are more dangerous than coronavirus: S.N. Dutta||Others may be living in fear of Covid but S.N. Datta gets sleepless nights over whiteflies. “They are more dangerous than coronavirus,” he says about the pest that attacks plants. An avid gardener, Dutta tries his best to guard his terrace garden from insects and pests, and despite the lockdown and Amphan, has quite a beautiful collection of pots to boast of. My passion for gardening grew out of visiting flower shows where I would be amazed at the size and colours of Dahlias and Chrysanthemums. I hired a gardener who I thought would teach me the ropes but alas! He only knew how to water the plants and sweep off fallen leaves! I realised that most of the so-called gardeners around us are simply unemployed youths with nothing better to do. Last winter, I was blown away by the exhibits at Bidhannagar Horticultural Society show, especially those from Unnayan Bhavan, that won many prizes. I spoke to their gardener and hired him. But then the lockdown happened. I didn’t give up. I searched the internet and taught myself gardening. Others worried themselves sick about the pandemic but I didn’t have a minute to spare. I spent five hours a day on the terrace, in the morning and then in the afternoon till it got dark. I didn’t leave the house so, frankly, I wasn’t worried about coronavirus. I was more worried about whiteflies. Now I have Petunias, Pansies and Salvia but I got late with the Dahlias and Chrysanthemums so they will not bloom before March. I’m using light therapy — keeping them under lit-up bulbs all night — and will have to keep them under the shade once it starts getting warmer. I’m also trying to grow vegetables. Four of my six Cauliflowers have started bearing the vegetable and one of my Cabbages too. There’s also Peyajkoli, Sorse Shak, Palong Shak, Tomatoes and Cherry Tomatoes. These are so tangy and tasty that we use them as substitute for ketchup when having Maggi. The most breath-taking flowers I’ve seen are on Kalyani Expressway. The gardener there handed me a measuring tape and I measured Dahlias 14 inches wide! I took tips from him. I would also follow the late S.K. Maiti, gardening columnist of The Telegraph Salt Lake and have all his write-ups filed neatly. Last year, I participated in the flower show for the first time but didn’t win anything. I have taken it up as a challenge now. I’m preparing hard and next time I shall surely win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Sea of blooms at carnival show||New Town’s second annual flower exhibition took place over the weekend at the clock tower. Held as part of New Town Carnival, the exhibition showcased the best of blooms grown by residents and nurseries of the neighbourhood. There were Dahlias, Chrysanthemums, Petunias and visitors admired them and clicked them aplenty. “I love gardening and visit the flower show at Alipore every winter but had never thought of joining a competition,” said Mita Bhadra. Her friends insisted she join this time and she submitted a pot of Anthuriums and one each of single and bi-coloured Petunias. The Greenwood Sonata resident ended up bagging third place. The second place went to K.P. Saha, a retired eye surgeon. “I have been a member of the horticulture association in Malda and have forwarded my suggestions to the organisers here. For instance, next time they could include fruit and vegetable sections to show visitors that it’s possible to grow them in pots,” said the CE Block resident. His trio of Marigolds, Dahlias and Chrysanthemums won the prize. The first prize was handed over to Mitali Puitandi by Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), that organised the show. “I feel terrible when I see trees being felled to bring up buildings. While I know development is important we can all compensate by growing plants on our terrace — even four or five are a good start,” said Puitandi, a resident of New Town’s CD Block. “Such shows arouse interest in gardening among people.” “Ours wasn’t strictly a flower show as that has several requirements,” said an organiser. “This was an exhibition to offer visitors a soothing sight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav Ganguly stable after angioplasty||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly on Thursday underwent angioplasty to remove blockages in two coronary arteries and had two stents implanted. The condition of Sourav, 48, was stable, said doctors at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where he was admitted on Wednesday after complaining of discomfort in the chest. “The procedure was uneventful. Sourav Ganguly is stable and under close observation,” a spokesperson for Apollo said on Thursday evening. The angioplasty started around 3.30pm and went on for almost two hours, said doctors. He later talked to family members and had a normal diet at night. The BCCI president had his first angioplasty at Woodlands Hospital on January 2. He got admitted to the Alipore hospital after suffering a heart attack at home and investigations revealed he had blockages in three coronary arteries. Sourav was discharged from Woodlands 21 days back and was under medication. “We wanted to see whether the two other blockages reduced with the help of medicine. Angiography done on Thursday showed that there was no improvement in the condition of the blockages and both had increased. So we decided to implant two stents,” said one of the doctors treating Sourav. “We are hoping to discharge him next week.” The doctor said Sourav was expected to go back to his normal life soon. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee called on Sourav in the afternoon and said the former cricketer was doing well. “The procedure was successful. He spoke to me after the procedure. Sourav is fine and doing well. I want to congratulate the team of doctors,” Mamata said. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana Health group, had come from Bangalore and was present during the procedure. Sources said Shetty paid a second visit to Sourav before leaving the city late on Thursday evening. The surgeon had called on Sourav at Woodlands, too. Doctors had deferred implanting stents in the two coronary arteries immediately after the first angioplasty because there could have been small blood clots. "We had kept him under surveillance at home and planned a check-up after January 26," said a doctor. However, Sourav complained of severe chest discomfort and could not sleep on Tuesday night and went to Apollo the next morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Strong northwesterly winds trigger chill||A strong northwesterly wind from places like Kashmir that have received intense snowfall resulted in a chill on Thursday that made Calcuttans put on an extra layer of clothing. The day’s maximum temperature was 24.3 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 13 degrees, both two notches below normal. A week, back, on January 21, the maximum temperature had touched 27.2 and the minimum 19.2. The minimum temperature then was five degrees above normal. The Alipore Met office forecast a slight rise in the temperature on Saturday, followed by another dip that is likely to continue for four or five more days. A few days ago, Calcuttans were lamenting a hasty retreat of winter. “Strong northwesterly winds blowing in from Jammu and Kashmir that experienced intense snowfall for the last few days have brought the temperature down,” said G.K. Das, the director of Indian Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “The temperature is likely to rise slightly on Saturday morning because of some local clouding but will drop again. The cold spell is likely to continue till February 4 or 5,” Das said. A resident of Jadavpur said she had to close the window of her room on the northern side because cold air was blowing in around noon. “I did not expect such a cold air to blow around noon. It was pretty cold. So I shut the windows quickly,” she said. The day was not foggy and bright sunlight made the cold pleasant. A Gariahat resident who had stepped out in the afternoon also spoke about an unexpected cold wind. “The wind was hitting me on my head, face and ears. I did not expect such a strong wind in the afternoon. We are used to such strong winds during the Gangasagar Mela,” he said. Das said some parts of eastern India might get rain in a day or two and it may bring down the temperature in Calcutta further for a brief period. “A late but good spell of winter will be experienced for the next few days,” said Das. On Calcutta’s streets, the drop in temperatures meant people were out wearing their bright winter wear. A Sovabazar resident who had gone to New Market on Thursday for shopping said he noticed everyone was wearing a jacket or a sweater. Some were wearing woollen caps, too. “A week back, we did not have to wear a jacket even during the evening. On Thursday, people were wearing woolen caps even during the afternoon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine query: When is our turn?||A senior doctor in the city posted in a WhatsApp group of the residential complex where he stays: “I received the Covid-19 vaccine today.” The response came soon and from many neighbours, known and unknown. One wrote back: “Congratulations Doctor Saab! But when will we get the vaccine?” The others raised the same query, too. Health workers across the country are getting Covid-19 vaccine doses and doctors and health department officials in Calcutta are flooded with queries from people in other professions about when their turn would come. Many are deferring their holiday plans and waiting to get their shots before boarding a flight. But there is no clarity yet in this regard, said health officials. “We are getting a lot of queries every day from people regarding when they will get their shot. There could be some clarity on this after a month,” Bengal home secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Health department officials said they were expecting to vaccinate all 6.6 lakh-odd health workers in Bengal in another one-and-a-half months. Till Thursday, about 1.8 lakh health workers have been vaccinated, said officials. The Covid-19 vaccination drive had started across the country on January 16. Only doctors and other health-care workers will get their doses in the first phase. In the second phase, frontline workers, including police personnel, civic body workers and others involved in dealing with people, will be vaccinated. One health department official said it would take about three-and-a-half months from now before the elderly people and younger people with comorbidities could start getting their doses. The process of identifying elderly people and those with comorbidities is yet to start. “We are yet to receive any guideline from the Centre on how to prepare the list. Once it comes, we’ll immediately start the process,” said Nigam. Doctors and public health experts said that before the vaccine doses had arrived, the confusion among people was about which vaccine would be available in Bengal and whether it was safe to take it. “After the vaccination drive started and people have seen there are only mild adverse actions in a small percentage of recipients, many patients are asking when they could get their doses so that they could step out of their homes without fear,” said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya. Another doctor said he had patients asking him when the Covid vaccines would be available in the market so that they did not have to wait for the government to call them for their doses. Health department officials said there were many younger people with comorbidities and they were worried about how long they would have to wait for a vaccine shot. People suffering from comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are more vulnerable to the novel coronavirus, which causes Covid-19. “Many cancer patients are getting worried about when they could get a dose. Now they are scared of visiting clinics or hospitals for check-ups,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. Metro had earlier reported that many cancer patients could not consult doctors for months because of the lockdown triggered by Covid pandemic. There are also many who are deferring their travel plans because they want to get vaccinated against Covid first. Calcutta businessman Sanwar Agarwal has to travel frequently to Europe. "I import medical equipment and have to travel to several countries in Europe. I had last visited Europe just before the lockdown was announced. I want to get vaccinated before travelling out of the city again," he said. Tour operators said many people were reluctant to travel because of news of a fresh surge in Covid cases in Europe or America. “Several clients have deferred their holiday plans because they want to get vaccinated first. We are telling them all safety protocols are being followed at the airports and on the flights. There is no clarity yet on when we can get a vaccine but they are not ready to travel,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Tallah block on train tracks for 20 days in February||Trains on the Circular Railway route connecting Majerhat to Dum Dum will be suspended for a few hours daily for around 20 days in February once the railways allows the PWD to start construction of two pillars of the proposed Tallah bridge. The 24.58-km Circular Railway tracks run mostly along the Hooghly and through Calcutta’s central business district, carrying around 36,000 passengers daily. Railway officials said 14 pairs of trains run on this route, of which Tallah is one of the 14 stations. A “traffic block” on the route — leading to partial scuttling of the train services — will be required because the PWD wants to start the foundation work of the two pillars immediately. The state government has appealed to the railways to facilitate the construction of the pillars for the proposed rail-overbridge at Tallah, which will connect Calcutta with the northern fringes. The bridge will replace the one that was pulled down last year after engineers had opined that it had become unstable and could collapse any moment. Six pillars will hold the 230-metre-long deck of the bridge, which will pass over railway tracks on land owned by the railways. The two pillars whose construction will necessitate partial suspension of Circular Railway services will come up between train tracks. “We will try and work out the timings of the traffic block in a manner that would have least impact on movement of trains. The timings will be worked out in consultation with PWD engineers,” said a railway official. “We will require a traffic block from the railway for 10 days each for the foundation work of two pillars,” said an official of the PWD, which is executing the Rs 340-crore Talah bridge project. “Machines will have to be moved in for digging the ground and once the piling work is over, the pile caps will be laid,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Rough rides on Salt Lake cratered roads||Roads across Salt Lake have fallen into disrepair and are full of potholes. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has not undertaken any repairs in the past year apart from some patchwork in the run-up to Durga Puja. On Thursday, Metro drove through the township and found roads in all three sectors in a bad state. Traffic police have placed guardrails and traffic cones ahead of some cratered stretches to ensure motorists and two-wheeler riders don’t drive into them. A huge crater in front of the GD Block island has prompted the police to place a traffic cone in front of it. The surface of the road is broken and the crater is at least one foot deep and four feet across with metal rims of a manhole sticking out. Huge craters have also formed in front of Tank No. 9 near CK Block. The roads in all blocks of Sectors I, II and III, too, are in a rundown state. “It is a big problem riding bikes or driving through these stretches. Craters and potholes make it very risky,” said Subhabrata Karmakar, an EE Block resident. Officials of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said a Rs 140-crore road repair proposal for all its 41 wards in Salt Lake and Rajarhat had been sent to the urban development department for approval. “We are waiting for their clearance,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Elderly man suffers fatal burns while lighting cigarette, dies in Kasba||An elderly man suffered fatal burns while striking a match to light a cigarette at his Kasba home. The 68-year-old man, whose windcheater caught fire, was hospitalised on Tuesday afternoon and he died early on Wednesday. Police said Jayanta Bhattacharjee, the victim, was a retired bank official. He was apparently a chain-smoker. “Family members took him to hospital, where he recorded his statement. He died of the burns the next morning. No foul play is suspected,” said an officer of Kasba police station. Bhattacharjee’s son Subhojit said his father was alone on the first floor of their house on Sarat Ghosh Garden Road when the accident happened. “My wife heard my father’s screams and rushed upstairs. By then his apparel was burning. He was wearing a windcheater that had instantly caught fire,” Subhojit told Metro on Thursday. This was the fifth incident in the city in the last three months of an elderly person dying of burns. A police officer said there had been instances of a room catching fire from a burning cigarette while the person holding it fell asleep. “But what happened at the Kasba home on Tuesday is rare,” the officer said. Bhattacharjee’s family members said they had tried their best to douse the fire by pouring water on him. “My wife and I tried our best to douse the fire with water. My father was in his senses and responding. We called a local doctor, who asked us to take him to SSKM Hospital,” Subhojit said. In October 2020, Dola Mitra, 63, had died of burns after her silk sari caught fire while she was performing Lakshmi Puja at home. Chaya Nag, 74, has suffered fatal burn injuries while cooking at her daughter’s house in Radha Madhab Dutta Garden Lane in Beleghata in December 2020. An LPG cylinder leak was suspected to have triggered the fire. Four days after the death of Nag, 60-year-old Manjula Dutta, a resident of Bosepukur Prantik Pally in Kasba, died of burn injuries after her apparel caught fire while lighting the lamp during her morning puja at home. Earlier this month, a 64-year-old woman died of burns while performing the last rites of her husband in Kasba. Pedestrian hit by auto, driver held South Port: A 55-year-old pedestrian was injured after being hit by an autorickshaw on Circular Garden Reach Road on Wednesday evening. Paritosh Mandal, a resident of Kidderpore, was taken  to SSKM Hospital. He was treated and discharged. The offending vehicle was intercepted and seized and the driver arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||Traders get back shops at Bonorini market||Shopkeepers who had been operating out of a crumbling market building in Bonhooghly, off BT Road, for years till it was pulled down in 2018 were handed over keys for their shops in a newly built market complex on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee handed over keys to 10 shopkeepers at a programme in Netaji Indoor Stadium in the afternoon. The rest of the shopkeepers got their keys at a programme held in Bonhooghly. The new market complex, which has come up on the plot where the old shops were located, was built in a joint venture between the state government and Eden Realty, a real estate company. The market — named Bonorini — occupies two floors of a three-storey building. Most of the 112 shopkeepers who received the keys are from families who came over from the erstwhile east Bengal during Partition. After they moved out of their old shops in the crumbling building, located in a lane opposite Indian Statistical Institute, most of the traders had been operating from temporary sheds. Partha Sarkar, 46, a tea seller who got a shop in the new market complex, said the new shops would end their hardship of running their business from makeshift sheds. “We handed over the keys to the shop owners today. The new market has been named Bonorini by the chief minister,” said Tapas Roy, the minister of state for parliamentary affairs and the MLA from Baranagar. Pinaki Das, 49, a grocery store owner, said the land where the market complex has come up was part of a large tract of land where families that came over from east Bengal during Partition live. “The flats where the families were rehabilitated were built by the government immediately after the Partition. They were in a dilapidated state. New flats were built and handed over to us in 2017. Work on the market complex began in 2018,” said Das. “We were given a 99-year lease of 17.84 acres (of the refugee rehabilitation colony). We built 540 flats for the families on a portion of the land and gave Rs 11 lakh compensation to each of 260 other families who did not take the new flats. We have built the new market complex in another portion of the land,” said Arya Sumant, the managing director of Eden Realty. “Two floors of the market complex are meant for shopkeepers who have been here for long. Under the agreement, we can use the top floor for other commercial purposes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Calcutta||ICSE session delinked from Class X and XII board exams||The ICSE council has said schools should start the next academic year any time between the middle of March and the first week of June and delinked the commencement of the new school year from the Class X and XII board exams. A circular issued by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Thursday does not mention explicitly when the Class XI session will start and gives no indication as to when the Class X board exams will be held. The circular comes in response to a spate of queries from heads of schools about the calendar of the next academic session. The circular by the council's chief executive and secretary, Gerry Arathoon, says: “Academic Year — the beginning of the academic year in Schools affiliated to the Council shall be from the middle of March and the first week of June each year. However, the Hill Schools may begin the academic year from February each year.” It further says: “Heads of Schools are requested to please adhere to the same. This must be maintained to ensure uniformity and parity across all CISCE affiliated schools in India and abroad.” Arathoon in the circular has said the council is in “receipt of several queries from the Heads of Schools regarding the start of the New Academic Session” for the year 2021-22. “This has probably been raised since the ICSE & ISC Examination have not been scheduled yet,” the circular says. “Please be informed that the two matters are unrelated. Without a doubt, the schedule for the ICSE & ISC 2021 Examinations will not take place at the regular time in February/March given the current pandemic situation in the country and notwithstanding the upcoming elections in five States as well. The dates for the Examinations will be announced later, at the appropriate time.” In December, the council had requested the chief election commissioner to share the election dates of the states that are set to go to the polls in April and May, so the council could “finalise” the schedules of the ICSE (Class X) and the ISC (Class XII) exams. The circular on Thursday says: “However, the start of the Academic Year in 2021-22 for all Council affiliated schools will remain the same, as in the previous years.” Usually in Calcutta, the schools begin the new session in April. In many schools, the session for Class XI begins after the end of the Class X board exams, but before the publication of the results. In some schools, Class XI students from other institutions begin classes on the basis of provisional admission granted to them. In some schools, outside students are admitted after the board results are published. Some school heads said they might not be in a position to start Class XI till the time the Class X board exams are held. “The children’s attention will be on clearing the board exams. How can we begin the session for them till the board exams are held,” said a principal of an ICSE school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-159
29-01-2021||Business||Benchmarks fall for 6th session||The domestic equity market continued its downward journey for the sixth session in row on Friday, with the BSE Sensex plummeting over 588 points and the NSE Nifty tumbling nearly 183 points due to across-the-board selling. Both benchmark indices fluctuated between gains and losses in a highly volatile session. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the Economic Survey 2020-21 in the Lok Sabha, ahead of the Union Budget to be presented on Monday next. The 30-share Sensex closed 588.59 points or 1.26 per cent lower at 46,285.77 -- taking the six-session aggregate loss to 3,506.35 points or 7.04 per cent. Intra-day, the index swung 1,263.20 points. Likewise, the NSE Nifty furthered its loss by 182.95 points or 1.32 per cent to settle at 13,634.60. Over the last six days, the NSE barometer has shed 1,010.10 points or 6.89 per cent. On the Sensex chart, 26 shares closed in the red. Dr Reddy's, Maruti, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, Infosys, TCS and Bajaj FinServ were the major losers. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank ended with gains. Analysts are of the view that the continued pullback in domestic markets was mainly led by profit-booking ahead of the Union Budget and important global events. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded shares worth a net Rs 3,712.51 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia on Friday, stocks markets closed lower and also saw their worst weekly losses in months. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 9 paise higher at 72.96 against the US dollar on Friday. The global oil benchmark Brent crude futures rose 0.66 per cent to USD 55.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
29-01-2021||Business||Audi A4 vrooms into Calcutta||The new Audi A4, the latest addition to the German marque’s line of luxury vehicles, is now available in Calcutta. The facelifted version of the entry-level luxury sedan is the first of the multiple launches Audi has planned in India this year. Available in two variants — Premium Plus and Technology — the A4 is priced upwards of Rs 42,34,000 (ex-showroom) in Calcutta. It comes in five colours, including a new shade of grey, and with a four-year service package. The fifth generation of the A4, available globally since 2019, gets an upgraded 2.0-litre four-cylinder TFSI petrol engine that generates 190 hp of power and a torque of 320 Nm. The “sporty” sedan can go from 0 to 100 kmph in 7.3 seconds and reach a top speed of 241 kmph. The engine is paired with a seven-speed, dual-clutch automatic gearbox that delivers power to the front wheels. There is no diesel option. The other changes since the A4’s last facelift in India in late 2019 include a design refresh, featuring a broader and flatter single-frame grille, new LED headlights with daytime running lights, and changes to the front and rear bumpers and the tail lights. The customisable interiors sport a high-resolution 10.1-inch touch display. The infotainment system comes with natural-language voice control and Audi’s Virtual Cockpit digital instrumentation. Cruise control, keyless entry, gesture-based boot lid opening, power front seats, a glass sunroof, wireless charging and three-zone climate control are some of the other prominent features. Safety is covered by eight airbags, ABS with EBD, parking sensors, a backup camera and electronic stability control. The A4, which is being locally manufactured in India, is competing with the Mercedes-Benz C-class, BMW 3-Series, Jaguar XE and the upcoming Volvo S60. Balbir Singh Dhillon, the head of Audi India, said: “The new Audi A4 is a perfect blend of class, elegance and sporty appeal. It is equipped with the latest technology and sets a benchmark with the features on offer. The mid-size luxury sedan segment is competitive and we are confident that the new Audi A4 will be a game-changer in the arena.” “We are delighted to launch one of our bestselling models, the Audi A4, in Calcutta. We believe the new sedan will be the preferred choice for customers who desire their car to have a sporty appeal with the convenience of new-age technology,” said Aditya Agarwalla, director, Audi Calcutta. The A3, Q3, Q5 and Q7 are some of the other Audi models that could be launched in new avatars this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
29-01-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds over 400 points tracking Asian peers||Indian equities made a smart recovery on Friday morning after five sessions of hefty losses, with the BSE benchmark Sensex rebounding over 400 points led by gains mainly in banking, energy and auto stocks. The 30-share Sensex was trading higher by 403.16 points or 0.86 per cent at 47,277.52 in opening deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty was up 118.65 points or 0.86 per cent at 13,936.20. On the Sensex chart, IndusInd Bank, Mahindra and Mahindra, L&T, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and Bajaj Auto were prominent gainers. On the other hand, Axis Bank, HUL, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement, Maruti and TCS were the top losers. Over the previous five sessions, the Sensex had lost 2,917.76 points, while the Nifty had shed 827.15 points. Analysts are of the view that a continued pullback in domestic markets was mainly led by profit booking ahead of the Union Budget and important global events. The government will table the Economic Survey 2020-21 in Parliament on Friday and present the Union Budget 2021-22 on Monday, February 1. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded shares worth a net Rs 3,712.51 crore on Thursday, according to exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia on Friday, stocks markets were trading higher but heading towards settling with worst weekly losses in months. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark, Brent crude futures, rose 0.18 per cent to USD 55.20 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
29-01-2021||Business||Narendra Modi pitches for greater foreign investment in the country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday has pitched for greater foreign investment in the country’s  infrastructure, while promising more vaccines to fight the coronavirus. “India has in these times of crisis fulfilled its global responsibilities from the beginning by setting up infrastructure related to vaccination. So far only two made-in-India vaccines have been introduced, but in the future many more vaccines will be made available… We are not only fulfilling our needs for PPE kits and masks, but also exporting and helping other countries,” Modi said at a virtual meeting hosted by the World Economic Forum (WEF). He said the country faced many challenges when the coronavirus outbreak happened but it kept on moving ahead. “In just 12 days, we have inoculated more than 2.3 million of our health workers. In a few months, we will inoculate around 300 million senior citizens,” he said. The Prime Minister said India needed $4.5 trillion in infrastructure by 2040 and invited global businesses to participate in the exercise. This target will be achieved by both the government and the industry. The government is working tirelessly to provide an enabling environment. Modi said at the WEF meeting, attended by global business leaders, that infrastructure is one of the foremost priorities of the government. About $1.5 trillion worth of projects will be implemented in the next five years. Modi said the reforms to increase competitiveness were an ongoing process and announced the government has completed work on the logistics policy. Inviting global CEOs to participate in the productivity linked incentive scheme, the Prime Minister said his government has made rapid strides in improving the conditions for doing business. The government has improved the infrastructure and adopted latest technologies  in various fields. Even as he cited the various measures taken up by the government, the Prime Minister gave a miss to the recent farm laws, termed as major reform. The recent laws and amendments in the farm sector bills have been highly controversial and led to massive protests by farmers in the national capital. “Our Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is committed towards global good and global supply chain. India has the capacity, capability and reliability to strengthen the global supply chain,” he said. "Industrial Revolution 4.0 is not meant for robots, but humans. It should become a tool for ease of living, not a trap. Structural reforms are being supplemented by production-linked schemes. In India, from tax regime to tax norms, all are in a predictable and friendly manner," he said. The government has continuously taken several majors steps to boost manufacturing in India. Corporate Tax brought down to 15% for new manufacturing units. GST rates have been reduced. Through GST and Faceless Assessment tax structure has been simplified. Labour laws have been reformed. Several points have been decriminalised in Company Law. To raise competitiveness, connectivity infrastructure is being strengthened, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Benchmark indices continue to slide ahead of Union Budget||Benchmark indices continued to slide ahead of the Union Budget on rising concerns that the government will not dole out reliefs to the corporate sector in the form of tax breaks. The sell-off in global markets was a dampner too. The Sensex fell close to 534 points to close at 46874.36 and it has now lost 2917.76 points over the past five trading sessions, while the broader Nifty has skidded 827.15 points. However, investors bought some banking stocks at the fag end of the trade on hopes that the markets may be nearing its bottom for now. However, experts do agree that the key event to watch out for will be the Budget even as good corporate results has already been discounted by the markets. The 30-share index began below the 47000 mark at 46834.57 and fell to a day’s low of 46518.48 as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) continued to press sales on apprehensions over how the Union Budget would turn out. However, it recovered from these levels to finish at 46874.36. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tumbled 149.95 points or 1.07 per cent to 13,817.55. Gold on Thursday fell Rs 109 to Rs 48,183 per 10 gram in the national capital following muted global trends. Silver also dipped Rs 146 to Rs 65,031 per kg. The rupee depreciated by 13 paise to settle at 73.05 against the US dollar following the sell-off in the stock markets and a strengthening greenback. The domestic unit opened at 73.13 against the US dollar and hit an intra-day high of 73.04 and a low of 73.15. It finally finished at 73.05, lower by 13 paise over its last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India consolidated net profit of rises 26 per cent||The consolidated net profit of Maruti Suzuki India, the country’s largest car maker, rose 26 per cent to Rs 1,996.7 crore for the third quarter, driven by higher sales on a lower base and cost reduction. The auto major had posted a net profit of Rs 1,587.4 crore in the October-December quarter of the previous fiscal. Total revenue from operations rose 13 per cent to Rs 23,471.3 crore for the third quarter against Rs 20,721.8 crore in the same period last fiscal, MSI said in a statement. During the December quarter, the company sold 4,95,897 vehicles, up 13.4 per cent over the same period previous fiscal. Sales in the domestic market stood at 4,67,369 units, growing by 13 per cent. Exports were at 28,528 units, higher by 20.6 per cent. The company attributed the improvement in margin to higher capacity utilisation, lower sales promotion expenses, cost reduction efforts and higher fair value gains on invested surplus. However, cost reduction efforts were partially offset by the increase in commodity prices and adverse foreign exchange movement. IndiGo loss narrows Budget carrier IndiGo on Thursday reported a net loss of Rs 620 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020. It had posted a net profit of Rs 496 crore in the same quarter of the previous fiscal. In the June and September quarter this fiscal, the airline had incurred a net loss of Rs 2,884 crore and Rs 1,194 crore, respectively. The airline’s total income declined 50 per cent year-on-year to Rs 5,142 crore in the third quarter. Its total expenses in the December quarter slipped 41 per cent to Rs 5,765 crore. “The high level of consumer confidence in our product has indeed been heartening and we are glad to be making graduated and measured steps to a full recovery,” IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said. The airline is looking forward to a gradual resumption of scheduled international flights as increased aircraft utilisation is critical to its return to profitability, he added. The airline said its occupancy rate or load factor during the quarter was 72 per cent, compared to 87.6 per cent a year ago MSI said “these results have to be viewed in the context that in the previous financial year, sales volume had declined 16 per cent for the company and about 18 per cent for the industry”. On a standalone basis, the company posted a net profit of Rs 1,941.4 crore, up 24 per cent against Rs 1,564.8 crore in the year-ago period. Standalone revenue from operations rose 13 per cent year-on-year to Rs 23,457.8 crore. For the April-December period, Maruti Suzuki reported a 29.7 per cent year-on-year decline in net profit at Rs 3,063.60 crore. For the nine-month period, April to December, Maruti sold a total of 965,626 vehicles during the period, lower by 18.0% compared to the same period previous year. Sales in the domestic market stood at 905,015 units, lower by 17.8%. Exports were at 60,611 units, a decline of 21.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Citroën starts commercial production in India, rolls out C5 Aircross SUV||Citroën has started commercial production in the country and rolled out the C5 Aircross SUV from its manufacturing facility at Thiruvallur, Tamil Nadu. The flagship SUV is the first product from the Citroën brand and will be launched in this quarter. Citroen is part of the Stellantis group that was formed by the merger of two global auto majors — FCA and Groupe PSA. Groupe PSA has two joint ventures with the companies of India’s CK Birla Group for assembly, distribution and powertrain manufacturing of its cars in India. The company said the production of the C5 Aircross  has started after rigorous testing of the vehicle for over 2.5 lakh kilometres in different terrains and varied weather conditions in the country. Emmanuel Delay, executive vice-president, Stellantis, and chairman, PCA Automobile India Pvt Ltd & PSA AVTEC Powertrain Pvt Ltd, said, “We are excited to officially roll out the first Citroën C5 Aircross SUV, which will be the first of many differentiating products for India from the brand.” “There is lot of market anticipation for the new Citroën C5 Aircross SUV, which will set a benchmark in style, comfort and innovation in its segment in India,” Delay said. The brand will be targeting key Indian cities in the first leg with its globally renowned “La Maison Citroen” showroom concept. The C5 Aircross crossover is expected to carry a price tag of Rs 30 lakh and above. I would like to congratulate all our employees at the plants who have worked tirelessly to achieve this key milestone despite the challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic. We are looking forward to welcoming the customers to the La Maison Citroën dealership network, which means ‘the home of Citroën’  in a few weeks from now, across key cities of India” The Citroën C5 Aircross SUV will be powered by a 2 litre diesel engine and eight-speed automatic transmission. Earlier this month, Citroen India top management shared details of its India retail plans. The brand will be targeting key Indian cities in the first leg with its globally renowned ‘La Maison Citroen’ showroom concept. It plans a roadmap to establish 10 La Maison outlets in the country, in order to establish the brand in India as it sets off with the premium C5 Aircross crossover, which is expected to retail at price points upwards of Rs 30 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||TPAPs allowed UPI payment do not store customers data outside India: RBI tells Supreme Court ||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday told the Supreme Court that third party applications (TPAP) such as Amazon, Google and WhatsApp, which had been allowed to facilitate UPI payments (unified payments interface) through mobile and internet banking, do not store customers data outside India. However, it added that the decision to permit them to operate in the country was taken by the National Payment Corporation of India (NCPI). According to the RBI, the TPAPs have access to a large customer base running into several million accounts and connect to the UPI system operated by the NPCI only through  multiple PSP (payment service provider) banks. The TPAPs provide the customer interface, while the transactions are processed  through the sponsor PSP banks. However, it said: “The decision to allow an entity to operate on UPI is solely taken by the NPCI under the system rules governing the UPI payment system, which have been framed by NPCI as an operator of UPI.” “The NPCI has allowed Amazon under the single sponsor bank model of UPI, Google and WhatsApp under the multi bank model to operate as TPAPs,” the apex bank said in an affidavit. The affidavit has been filed in response to a PIL filed by Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam seeking privacy safeguards and data protection for UPI platforms such as Google Pay, Amazon Pay, Paytm, PhonePe and BHIM. Viswam had alleged that the RBI and the Centre had compromised the interests of millions of Indians by providing access to these TPAPs to carry out UPI transactions without any proper regulations. “It is important to note that the RBI does not give any approval to TPAPs (as they do not operate a payment system) and thus they are not system providers as defined in Section 2(q) of the PSS (Payments Settlement System) Act, i.e. authorised payment system operators, and, therefore, they do not fall under the regulatory domain of the RBI directly.” “NPCI is the system provider of UPI and, therefore, comes under the regulatory radar of the RBI. Since it was NPCI that allowed Amazon, Google and WhatsApp to operate under the UPI, the responsibility to ensure that these entities comply with all the rules governing UPI lies with  it,” the RBI said. However, RBI said that it had, issued a circular dated April  6, 2018, by giving directions under section 10(2) read with  section 18 of the PSS Act, 2007, mandating all system providers to, ensure that the entire data relating  to payment systems operated by them is stored in a system  only in India. “This data should include the full end-to-end  transaction details / information collected / carried /  processed as part of the message / payment instruction. “…The circular places the onus on  the system providers, which in the case of UPI is NPCI, to  ensure that the entire data (i.e. end-to-end transaction details  / information collected / carried / processed as part of the  message / payment instruction) related to the payment  systems operated by them is stored only in India.” Adding : “It is submitted that RBI’s directions issued vide circular dated April 6, 2018 on Storage of Payment System Data pertain only to payment data storage and not data sharing or privacy. “RBI has not issued any instructions on data sharing by TPAPs or the participants of UPI. Matters related to data privacy and data sharing come under the domain of the Government of India,”the affidavit added. The case would come up for hearing on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel successfully tests live 5G service||Bharti Airtel on Thursday successfully tested live 5G service over its commercial network in Hyderabad, throwing down the gauntlet before Reliance Jio which plans a launch in the second half of the year. The government on Thursday eased the path for 5G rollout in the country by reducing to six months the notice period for offering any new technology using the spectrum being put up for auction in March, according to PTI. Earlier, the Department of Telecom (DoT) has asked telecom operators to give one year notice before starting any technology using spectrum across the seven frequency bands that will be offered in auction on March 1. Airtel demonstrated its 5G readiness on the 1800MHz band but sought exclusive spectrum bands to deliver the full capabilities of the technology that promises to download full-length movies in a matter of seconds. The government plans to auction 2,251MHz spectrum in seven bands ranging from 700MHz to 2500 MHz but has no plans to sell 5G spectrum  in the 3300MHz to 3600MHz bands. The bidding will commence on March 1, with airwaves worth at least Rs 3.92 lakh crore  up for sale. Airtel said it demonstrated the capability in Hyderabad using its existing liberalised spectrum in the 1800MHz band through the NSA (Non-Stand Alone) network technology. It seamlessly operated 5G and 4G concurrently within the same spectrum block using a first of its kind, dynamic spectrum sharing method. Gopal Vittal, chief executive officer of Airtel, said the telco can commercially launch 5G services without the mid-band (5G exclusive) as its network fully supports the high-speed technology. “When we launch 5G and make it available commercially, it must have a full power of 5G. Delivering experience is a must and you need more spectrum, especially in the mid-band. That doesn’t mean 1800, 2300 and 2100 MHz can’t be used...true 5G will be enabled through mid-band.” He said the telco would  be able to roll out the services across several parts of the country as soon as the DoT permits the commercial launch of 5G and auctions spectrum in the mid-size bands that is 3,300-3,600MHz. “The moment we receive  approval and the right spectrum bands in adequate quantities, we will be able to roll out immediately. Even on the existing bands 5G can be turned on. But full power of 5G can only be felt when adequate spectrum is available from the government,” Vittal said. "Our network is already 5G ready. We don’t believe that there is going to be any significant change in the capex cycle going forward as a company," he added. He, however, added that it is premature to launch 5G using existing 4G bands since the 4G ecosystem for devices and applications is fairly matured. “We have been working on this since last one year to make our networks 5G ready. It is a flick of a button. It is important to have the right amount of spectrum for true 5G,” he added. Airtel, however, reiterated the need for the adoption of global 5G standard in India for the rollout and for a flouring ecosystem of applications and devices. “The more widely embraced ecosystem, more innovation can happen. That doesn’t contradict make in India. We also embrace it fully and encourage partners to make it in India. The ecosystem should be a common global ecosystem to be able to get lower prices and interoperability. That’s an advantage of the standard-based ecosystem,” Vittal said. The Airtel 5G will be capable of delivering ten times the speed and latency in addition to 100 times concurrency compared to the existing technology available in the country. This, in turn, will enable users to download a full-length movie in a matter of seconds on a 5G phone. However, the company added that the full impact of the 5G experience, will be available to customers only when the adequate spectrum is available and government approvals are received. Meanwhile, research firm Counterpoint said the 5G smartphone shipment is expected to rise more than nine times to reach 38 million units in 2021, driven by a strong portfolio of products from brands like OnePlus and Apple. The research firm said the key to higher adoption of 5G smartphones is bringing their prices below the Rs 20,000 mark given that 89 per cent of all the smartphones shipped to India in January-November 2020 had a price lower than Rs 20,000. The lowest-priced 5G device currently costs Rs 20,999, it said, adding that availability of cheaper 5G chipsets will make it feasible for OEMs (handset brands) to bring down the price. Qualcomm and MediaTek, the biggest chipset vendors, have unveiled affordable 5G chipsets. "The market in India is price-sensitive and OEMs aggressively try to undercut the competition. It is a matter of time before this intense competition pushes the cost of an entry-level 5G phone below the Rs 20,000 mark. We estimate these devices to hit the Rs 15,000 mark by the third quarter of 2021, which also marks the arrival of India's festive season and the related e-commerce sales," Counterpoint said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||Business||ED initiates probe against Amazon for possible FEMA violations||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has initiated a probe against Amazon.com Inc to examine if it has violated any provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) in a 2019 deal with the Future group. The development came on a day the online retail giant urged the Delhi high court to order the enforcement of the award given by Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) that restrains the Future group from selling its retail assets to Reliance Retail. On Thursday, a PTI report quoting official sources said that the ED had initiated a probe under various sections of Fema against Amazon after it received a communication from the commerce ministry seeking “necessary action” against e-commerce players pertaining to certain multi-brand retail businesses. The ED step also came after an observation made by the Delhi high court last month when it was hearing the dispute between the Future group and Amazon. However, an Amazon spokesperson said  the company was “not aware of any new case by the ED against Amazon India”. The high court had then said that the attempt made by the e-commerce giant to control Future Retail through a conflation of agreements with the unlisted unit of the Indian company would be considered as violative of Fema and foreign direct investment (FDI) rules. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of one of Future group’s unlisted firms Future Coupons Ltd, which owns 7.3 per cent equity in Future Retail through convertible warrants, with the right to buy into the latter after a period of three to 10 years. While the ED could now seek details from Amazon and other stakeholders”, it started the probe on the basis of a recent communication sent to it by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) that functions under the commerce ministry. The DPIIT had forwarded a representation made by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) alleging that major e-commerce players like Flipkart and Amazon violated Fema and FDI rules. In the high court on Thursday, Justice J. R. Midha said he would  continue with the hearing on Friday. During the hearing, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, representing Amazon, said the EA passed a detailed interim order in October 25 2020 after hearing all the parties and had found that he has jurisdiction to adjudicate the issue. He said the question of jurisdiction was raised before the EA and it was rejected on account of the group of companies approach. He claimed that no action has been taken by any of the respondents to reverse or modify the emergency award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-157
29-01-2021||India||Minor IED blast outside Israeli Embassy in Delhi, no injuries||A minor IED blast took place outside the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi on Friday evening, police said on Friday. No one was injured. Some cars were damaged in the blast, an official said, adding that three fire tenders were rushed to the embassy on APJ Abdul Kalam Road. “A very low intensity improvised device went off... No injury to any person was reported and nor was there any damage to property except the glass panes of three vehicles parked nearby,” Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. He said initial impressions suggest it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation. The fire department received the call at 5.11 pm, as the Beating Retreat ceremony was going on at Rajpath a few kilometres away. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other high-level officials were present at the Vijaya Chowk during the event, barely 1.4 kilometres away from the site. The bomb disposal squad of the Delhi Police carried our searches to find out if there were more explosives in the area. Forensic experts are also examining the blast site, an official said. There is a heavy deployment of police personnel and APJ Abdul Kalam Road road has been cordoned off. Officials said that they are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby to ascertain the sequence of events. Senior officers of the Delhi Police are on the spot. Reacting to the blast, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said any attempt to disturb peace should be firmly dealt with. “Concerned by the news of a blast near Israeli Embassy in Delhi. Agencies are determining the nature and cause of the blast. Thankfully, no loss of life has been reported yet. Any attempt to disturb the peace of Delhi should be firmly dealt with,” he tweeted. After the blast, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) which guards vital installations in the nuclear and aerospace domain, civil airports and central government buildings in the national capital has put on alert all its units across the country, official sources said. It has asked its personnel to enhance vigil and maintain a "high level of alert", they said. Taking notice of the incident, the Israeli foreign ministry on Friday said all its diplomats and embassy staff are “safe and sound” following the blast. “An explosion occurred a short while ago, close to the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi. There are no casualties and no harm was done to the building. All Israeli diplomats and embassy staff are safe and sound,” a foreign ministry release said. “The event is being investigated by the Indian authorities who are in contact with Israeli officials,” it said, adding that the foreign minister is frequently being updated on the situation and has directed to take all necessary precautions,” it said. “We will report further developments as they occur,” the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Throw agri laws to waste paper basket, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the only solution to the farmers' issue was throwing the new agri laws in the "waste paper basket" and warned that if not resolved, the agitation will spread to other parts of the country. In a no-holds-barred attack at the Centre, Gandhi accused the government of trying to intimidate and discredit the farmers, using the National Investigation Agency. "It is very obvious that the farmers are very agitated because the government is destroying their livelihood. It is destroying the livelihood of our labourers and it is going to give the middle class a shock in the coming times because the prices of food are going to skyrocket," the former Congress chief said at a press conference. "What is being done to the farmers is absolutely criminal. You (government) are beating them, you are threatening them, you are bullying them, you are trying to discredit them," he said. The government needs to talk to the farmers and provide a solution to them, he said. Gandhi asserted that the only solution is repealing these laws and "putting the laws into the waste paper basket". "The government must not think that the farmers are going back home. They are not going home and my concern is that this situation is going to spread. We do not need this situation to spread, we need a conversation with farmers and we need a solution," Gandhi asserted. Responding to a question, he said the farmers' movement is going to spread to other states and cannot be suppressed. The whole issue is not just about farmers and this will go from farmers to workers to urban areas and slums, he said. Asked about the Republic Day violence, he said, "Who allowed the farmers to enter the Red Fort; is it not the home ministry's job to stop them from doing so."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Anna Hazare backs off from indefinite fast against farm laws||Social activist Anna Hazare on Friday said he won't be proceeding with the indefinite fast against the new farm laws and claimed that the Central government has agreed to some of his demands. "The Union government has agreed to some of my demands and also announced setting up a committee to improve the lives of farmers. I have decided to suspend my proposed indefinite fast starting from Saturday, Hazare said. In a statement earlier in the day, Hazare (84) had announced that he will be starting the hunger strike from his village Ralegan Siddhi in Maharashtra on Saturday. In that communication, Hazare had said he had written to the prime minister and Union agriculture minister five times on the plight of farmers but to no avail. "I have been demanding reforms in the agriculture sector, but the Centre doesn't seem to be taking right decisions," he said in a statement issued on Thursday. "The Centre has no sensitivity left for farmers, which is why I am starting my indefinite fast at my village from January 30," he said. Hazare, 83, also appealed his supporters not to flock to his village in Ahmednagar district in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders demanding rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Virus battered economy to grow by 11 per cent in FY22, says Economic Survey||India’s coronavirus-battered economy will grow by 11 per cent in the financial year beginning in April, fired up by a mega-vaccine rollout and rebounding consumer demand, forecasts the Economic Survey tabled in Parliament on Friday. As impressive, though, as the headline growth number looks in the survey it is key to remember the projected double-digit expansion comes off an extremely low base. India’s growth rate is estimated to have contracted an estimated 7.7 per cent in the current financial year due to the pandemic, said the survey, a snapshot of the government’s annual pre-budget economy. India’s Covid lockdown at the end of March decimated businesses and wiped out jobs, resulting in the economy shrinking an unprecedented 23.9 per cent in the June quarter from a year earlier. Recovery began in the second quarter. But growth remained in negative territory throughout 2020. The massive contraction in output means that it will take time for the economy to recover ground lost in the pandemic. The survey forecasts India’s growth will slow to trend levels of 6.5 per cent in 2022-23. “This path would entail a growth in real GDP by 2.4 per cent over the absolute level of 2019-20, implying that the economy would take two years to reach and go past the pre-pandemic level,” the survey said. Even looking out to 2025, India will still fall short of achieving 6 per cent to 7 per cent expansion in actual terms if we use the pre-pandemic 2019-20 economic output as a base, the International Monetary Fund says. The government uses the survey data to draft the budget to be announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. The survey’s growth projections broadly echo the IMF’s prediction of 11.5 per cent growth for India in 2021-22 and 6.8 per cent the following year. “The rebound will be led by the low base and continued normalisation in economic activities as the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines gathers traction,” the survey said. India’s growth for the next two years would allow the country to reclaim its title as the world’s fastest-expanding major economy ahead of China, whose expansion the IMF pegs at 8.1 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 the following year. China returned to its pre-pandemic projected output level in the fourth quarter of 2020, ahead of all large economies. India’s ambitious vaccination programme will curb the pandemic and a more benign inflation climate should allow the central bank to lower interest rates which would spur investment and business activity, the Economic Survey says. Through the “early, intense” lockdown, India “benefited from successfully pushing the peak of the pandemic curve to (last) September," said Chief Economic Advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian. Nominal economic growth, which indicates inflation for next year of 4.4 per cent, is pegged at 15.4 per cent for 2021-22. “Agriculture has remained the silver lining while contact-based services, manufacturing, and construction have been hit the hardest by the pandemic. Government consumption and net exports have cushioned the growth from diving further,” said Subramanian. But “with the economy’s returning to normalcy brought closer by the initiation of a mega-vaccination drive, hopes of a robust recovery in the services sector, consumption, and investment have been rekindled,” the survey said. At the same time, the survey said that the government will have to maintain an “expansionary” fiscal policy to support economic recovery. In other words, this means the government is going to miss its fiscal deficit target -- and by a wide margin. The government’s fiscal deficit for the financial year 2020-21 is projected at 6.5-7.5 per cent, way beyond the budget estimate of 3.5 per cent. Economists project a fiscal deficit target of around 5.5 per cent for the next fiscal year. IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said the IMF hiked its 2021 forecast by 2.7 percentage points from its estimate issued in October on the back of an unexpectedly strong economic pickup which started the second half of 2020. Boosting India’s outlook is the fact the country has not faced a strong second and third wave of the pandemic as experienced in other countries, she said. According to the IMF, the US economy will expand by 5.1 per cent in 2021, driven by strong second-half momentum and a $900-billion relief scheme. US President Joe Biden is also looking for Congressional approval for a further $1.9 trillion in assistance. The IMF revised up its 2021 forecast for growth in Japan to 3.1 per cent from 2.3 per cent in October on the back of an over $700 billion Japanese stimulus plan. But due to the pandemic’s resurgence in Europe, it cut its euro-area forecast by a percentage point to 4.2 per cent. The IMF also lowered the UK’s projected expansion to 4.5 per cent, a drop of almost 1.5 percentage points. Still, overall, the IMF sees a much rosier outlook for the world economy than it did a few months ago, thanks to multiple vaccine approvals and the start of vaccination programs in many nations as well as the fiscal stimulus by many large countries. “Multiple vaccines have seen unexpectedly strong success and some countries have started ambitious vaccination drives,” Gopinath. The global economy is estimated to have shrunk by 3.9 per cent in 2020, nearly a full percentage point less than the IMF projected in October, but that would still be the worst peacetime contraction since the 1930s Great Depression. Growth will jump by 5.5 per cent in 2021, buttressed by strong US output, the IMF said. At the same time, Gopinath warned the global economy continues to face “tremendous uncertainty” and overall global output will be far below economic forecasts made before the outbreak of the devastating pandemic. In just three months since October, “deaths have doubled to over two million, as new waves have lifted infections past previous peaks in many countries,” said Gopinath. “Much now depends on the outcome of this race between a mutating virus and vaccines to end the pandemic and on the ability of (government) policies to provide effective support until that happens,” she added. Also, “because of the partial nature of the rebound, over 150 economies are expected to have per-capita incomes below their 2019 levels in 2021,” Gopinath said. That number declines only modestly to around 110 economies in 2022. “At $22 trillion, the projected cumulative output loss over 2020–2025 relative to the pre-pandemic projected levels remains substantial,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||India reaping 'lockdown dividend' by saving lives and livelihood||India's economy is likely to rebound with a 11 per cent growth in the next financial year as it makes a “V-shaped” recovery after witnessing a pandemic-led carnage, the Pre-Budget Economic Survey said on Friday.  The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is projected to contract by a record 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021.  India witnessed its last annual contraction of 5.2 per cent in fiscal year 1979-80.  The Economic Survey 2020-21 said the agriculture sector is the only silver lining while services, manufacturing and construction were most hit by the lockdown that was imposed to curb the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.  "After an estimated 7.7 per cent pandemic-driven contraction in 2020-21, India's real GDP is projected to record a growth of 11.0 per cent in 2021-22 and nominal GDP by 15.4 per cent. These conservative estimates reflect upside potential that can manifest due to the continued normalisation in economic activities as the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines gathers traction," the survey said.  The growth will further be supported by supply-side push from reforms and easing of regulations, push for infrastructural investments, boost to manufacturing sector through the Productivity Linked Incentive Schemes, recovery of pent-up demand for services sector, increase in discretionary consumption subsequent to roll-out of the vaccine and pick up in credit given adequate liquidity and low interest rates, it said.  The survey tabled in Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there is likely to be a fiscal slippage during the year based on the available trends for April to November 2020. The document also said despite the hard-hitting economic shock created by the global pandemic, India is witnessing a V-shaped recovery with a stable macroeconomic situation aided by a stable currency, comfortable current account, burgeoning forex reserves, and encouraging signs in the manufacturing sector output.  "India is reaping the 'lockdown dividend' from the brave, preventive measures adopted at the onset of the pandemic...," it said in the opening chapter titled 'Saving Lives and Livelihoods Amidst a Once-in-a-Century Crisis'.  Unlike Oscar Wilde's cynic, 'who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing,' India's policy response to the pandemic stemmed fundamentally from the humane principle advocated eloquently in the Mahabharata that 'Saving a life that is in jeopardy is the origin of dharma.'  India is expected to witness current account surplus during the current financial year after a gap of 17 years, the survey said. India has recorded a current account surplus of 3.1 per cent of GDP in the first half of the year largely supported by strong services exports.  "Given the trend in imports of both goods and services, it is expected that India will end with an annual current account surplus of at least 2 per cent of GDP after a period of 17 years," it said.  The contraction of 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal is on account of disruption in normal activities due to the pandemic. However, India is expected to be the fastest growing economy in the next two years, the survey said.  Earlier in the week, the International Monetary Fund projected an impressive 11.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, making the country the only major economy of the world to register a double-digit growth this year amid the pandemic.  As per the advanced estimates of national income released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), India's GDP is estimated to contract by a record 7.7 per cent during 2020-21 as the COVID-19 pandemic severely hit the key manufacturing and services segments.  Other global agencies too have projected contraction in the country's economic growth for the fiscal 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Clashes break out at Singhu border||Violence broke out at the Singhu border protest site after large groups of people claiming to be locals reached there to vacate the area, leading to a clash between them and agitating farmers and prompting police to resort to baton charge and use tear gas shells. Delhi Police SHO (Alipur) Pradeep Paliwal was injured in the violence after a man attacked him with a sword, an official said, adding that some people were also wounded. The official said that police detained the man who attacked the station house officer. The locals demanded that the farmers vacate the Singhu border protest site as they had "insulted" the national flag during their tractor parade on Republic Day. Armed with sticks, the group of locals reached the site and asked the farmers to leave while raising slogans against them. Both sides also pelted stones at each other. The protestors at the Singhu border, much of which is barred for entry from outside, were coming out in numbers to resist the locals. However, they were promptly stopped by farmer union volunteers which helped the situation from turning ugly. "They are not locals, but hired goons. They were throwing stones, petrol bombs at us. They attempted to burn down our trolleys also. We are here to resist them. We won't leave the place," said Harkirat Mann Beniwal, 21, from Punjab's Khana district. The security forces turned the border into a fortress on Friday by arranging multi-layered security, putting barricades everywhere and sealing all entry points. The nerve-centre of the ongoing farmer's protest is being thronged with thousands of security personnel marching at the site. No one, even media personnel, are being allowed to enter the protest site with the area cordoned off by multiple concrete barricades and intermodal containers. "These batons, tear gas shells and ammunition can't scare us. We won't budge, we won't leave till our demands of repealing three farm laws are met," said 26-year-old Manjeet Dhillon, from Haryana's Kaithal, while standing on the other side of the barricade. While there was a sense of unease among some protestors, nothing changed at the respective stages of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti (KMSC), where decibel levels, courtesy the fiery speeches, were high like before. The SKM has blamed the KMSC, actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu and the central government for the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. Ram Bhados, the only shop open at the whole stretch, said he opened it after being asked to do so by the security forces. "I didn't want to open the shop. I am afraid things might get violent. They (the security personnel) asked me to open the tea-shop and serve them. They said they'll protect me," said the visibly-tensed 18-year-old. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Contribute to fulfill people’s needs, Modi tells MPs ahead of Budget||On the first day of the Budget Session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked MPs to debate and discuss all the issues that concern people of the country. The session, which commenced on Friday, is set to be stormy with the opposition parties boycotting the President’s address to the joint sitting of Parliament. Modi also hoped that the members will not shy away from contributing to fulfill people’s aspirations, by making full use of Parliament and following all the propriety of democracy. He added that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had to give four-five mini-budgets in the form of packages in 2020 and expressed confidence that the upcoming budget would also be seen as part of that series. In his remarks to the media before the commencement of Parliament’s Budget Session, Modi said the first session of this decade commences on Friday and emphasised that this decade is very important for the bright future of India. “And, therefore, a golden opportunity has come before the nation to fast fulfill the dreams seen by the freedom fighters. There should be proper utilisation of this decade and, therefore, there should be discussions and presentation of different views this session for meaningful results keeping in mind this entire decade,” he said adding that these are the expectations of the country. The prime minister expressed confidence that the hope and expectation with which the people of the country have sent all MPs to Parliament, they will not shy away from contributing to fulfill the aspirations of the people, by making full use of Parliament and following all the propriety of democracy. “I have full faith that all the Members of Parliament will make this session more productive,” Modi said. The Prime Minister’s remarks came even as 19 opposition parties boycotted the President’s address to a joint sitting of both houses, in solidarity with the farmers agitating against the three contentious farm laws. He also said,”Perhaps, for the first time in the history of India it has happened that our Finance Minister (Niramala Sitharaman) had to present four-five mini budgets in the form of separate packages in 2020.” “The series of mini budgets continued in a way in 2020,” he said. Modi expressed confidence that the upcoming budget will also be seen as a part of the series of those four-five budgets. “I along with all the MPs of both the Houses are committed and will strive to further the message of the President under his guidance,” he said. Sitharaman is scheduled to present the annual Union Budget in Parliament on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||BJP slams Opposition for boycotting Kovind speech||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Opposition parties for boycotting President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, calling it "unfortunate" and noting that he as the constitutional head of the country is above political differences. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad singled out the Congress, the largest Opposition party which is among the 20 parties that boycotted the address, in his attack, saying its "arrogance" is the "real problem" as it believes that it is bound to rule the country despite not having the popular mandate. Opposition parties violated parliamentary conventions, he said, adding that the BJP never boycotted a presidential address to Parliament despite many "scams" during the Congress-led UPA government. Attacking the Congress, Prasad said it has not denounced the violence and alleged insult to the national flag at the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26. That Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu raised slogans during Kovind's address was very painful and unfortunate, he said. Opposition parties boycotted the address in support of the protesting farmers' demand for repeal of the three agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Kovind condemns R-Day violence in Parliament speech||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday strongly defended the three contentious agri laws that have sparked intense protests from a section of farmers and condemned as "'very unfortunate" the Republic Day violence and the "insult" to the tricolour during the farmers' tractor parade here on January 26. In his customary address to the joint sitting of Parliament that marks the start of the Budget session, Kovind also referred to the Chinese aggression on the border and asserted that his government is vigilant and fully committed to protecting the country's interests. Additional forces have been deployed to safeguard India's sovereignty, he said while paying tributes to the 20 soldiers who made supreme sacrifices in a clash with the Chinese army at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year. India and China are locked in a tense military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last. He also noted that the new farm reform laws enacted in September last year have immediately benefited 10 crore small farmers, and said various parties in the past had supported these measures. Criticising the violence which marred the farmers' protest on the Republic Day, he said if the Constitution gives us the right to freedom of expression, it also teaches us to take laws and rules seriously. The President's hour-long address was boycotted by over 20 opposition parties in support of the demand of the protesting farmers for the repeal of the three farm laws. Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu raised slogans like 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' during the address and demanded repeal of the three laws. Some opposition MPs were heard raising slogans in the Central Hall's gallery. Noting that the Supreme Court has put the implementation of the three laws on hold, Kovind said the government will respect whatever is the decision of the apex court. "My Government has always respected freedom of expression and holding of peaceful agitations in a democratic set up. However, the recent acts of dishonouring the National Flag and showing disrespect to the auspicious occasion of the Republic Day are unfortunate," he said. The President also said the rights and facilities available under the system prevailing before the enactment of the three new laws are not affected in any way. "Rather, through these agricultural reforms, the Government has provided new facilities to the farmers and has empowered them". Acknowledging that the Budget session is being held at a challenging time of COVID-19, the President said no matter how big the challenge is, India will not stop. Whenever India is united, it has achieved impossible goals, he added. The President expressed sadness that in the fight against the pandemic, India has lost many countrymen and paid homage to his predecessor Pranab Mukherjee and six MPs who passed away during the period last year. Kovind expressed his satisfaction over the government's measures to fight the pandemic and asserted that its timely decisions saved lives of millions of people while also helping the economy. Over 80 crore poor people were provided free ration for eight months, he said. In his speech, the President highlighted the views of the government approved by the Union Cabinet. Lauding the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' programme, the President said it is not just confined to manufacturing in India but is also a campaign aimed at elevating the standard of living of every Indian as well as boosting the self-confidence of the country. Referring to the country's vaccination programme, he said, "It is a matter of immense pride that India is conducting the world's largest vaccination programme. Both the vaccines rolled out under this programme are produced indigenously."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Kunal Kamra defends his tweets in SC, says hyperbole an essential tool||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra defended in the Supreme Court on Friday his alleged scandalous tweets against the judiciary saying if the court believes he has crossed the line and wants to shut down his internet indefinitely, then he too will write Happy Independence Day postcards every 15th August, "just like my Kashmiri friends." He said irreverence and hyperbole are essential tools for the comedic enterprise and a comic raises questions on issues of public interest in his own unique way. "We would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs if powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism," he said. Kamra, who filed his reply affidavit in a plea seeking contempt action against him for the alleged scandalous tweets said, I may disagree with many decisions by many courts in many matters, but I promise this bench that I will respect any decision that comes my way with a broad smile. I will not vilify this bench or the Supreme Court in this matter specifically because that would actually be contempt of court. "Should powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism, we would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs. If this court believes I have crossed a line and wants to shut down my internet indefinitely, then I too will write Happy Independence Day post cards every 15th August, just like my Kashmiri friends," he said. The comedian said that he believes that there is growing culture in intolerance in this country, where taking offence is seen as a fundamental right and has been elevated to the status of a much loved national indoor sport. "We are witnessing an assault on the freedom of speech and expression, with comedians like Munawar Farooqi being jailed for jokes that they have not been made, and school students being interrogated for sedition. At such a time, I hope that this court will demonstrate that the freedom of speech and expression is cardinal constitutional value, and recognise that the possibility of being offended is a necessary incident to the exercise of this right," he said. "The Language and style I resort to are not with the intention to insult, but to draw attention to and prompt an engagement with issues that I believe are relevant to our democracy and which have also been raised in the public domain by more serious and learned commentators," he said. Kamra further said he believes that constitutional offices -- including judicial offices -- know no protection from jokes. "I do not believe that any high authority, including judges, would find themselves unable to discharge their duties only on account of being the subject of satire or comedy, he said. Defending his tweets he said, that they were not published with the intention to diminish the faith of the people in the highest court of our democracy. He said the suggestion that the tweets could shake the foundation of the most powerful court in the world is an over-estimation of his abilities. "Just as the Supreme Court values the faith the public places in it (and seek to protect it by the exercise of its criminal contempt jurisdiction), it should also trust the public not to form its opinion of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter. The public's faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution's own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it," he said. Kamra said that jokes are based on a comedian's perception, which they use to make the audience that shares that perception laugh. "Most people do not react to jokes that don't make them laugh; they ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics. That is where the like of joke must end. The truth about the attention economy is that the more attention one gives to criticism or ridicule, the more credible it appears to be," he said. On December 18 last year, the top court issued a show-cause notice to Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court and exempted him from personal appearances. Attorney General K K Venugopal had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra, saying the comedian's tweets were in "bad taste" and it was time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly would attract punishment. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Criminal contempt of the Supreme Court is punishable with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and imprisonment of up to six months. One of the petitions in the Kamra case has been filed by law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and others. They have claimed that the stand-up comedian had started publishing tweets on November 11 last year when the top court was hearing the appeal of Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting the journalist's plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment-to-suicide case. The plea alleged that after the top court granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra "again published various tweets and thereby scandalized" the apex court and "further lowered" its authority. PTI MNL ABA SJK||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Will join investigation, says Deep Sidhu||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been booked in connection with the religious flag incident at Red Fort, has said he needs some time to bring out the truth and then will join the investigation. The 36-year-old Sidhu is in the eye of a storm for being among the protesters who put up a religious flag atop the Red Fort on Republic Day. "An arrest warrant has been issued against me and also a lookout notice has been issued against me. First I want to give this message that I will join the investigation," Sidhu said in a video uploaded on Facebook. He said he needed some time to bring out the truth. "Because whatever has been spread, it is false information and it is misleading the public at large. Therefore, I need a couple of days to bring out the truth and then I will join the investigation," said Sidhu. "I am requesting the investigation agencies...I have not done anything wrong then why should I run away and why should I be scared. I am not scared.I have done nothing wrong and that will come out," he said. He told the investigation agencies and the police department that he will come to them in two days. The kind of rumours being spread is not based on facts. I need two days to bring out the truth based on the facts and I will collect all the evidence and proof, he stated. The Delhi Police had named actor Deep Sidhu in an FIR lodged in connection with the Red Fort incident. Sidhu was present at the Red Fort when a religious flag and a farmer flag were put at the flagpole at the historic monument, triggering massive outrage. Sidhu had been accused by farm bodies of trying to defame their agitation and termed a "traitor". On Thursday, he had hit out at farm leaders for allegedly spreading false propaganda and hatred against him. On January 26, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had sought to defend the action of protesters at the Red Fort, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Spike in fresh Covid cases, tally crosses 1.7 crore mark||With 18,855 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,20,048, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,94,352, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.96 per cent, the health ministry said on Friday. The death toll due to the viral disease in the country has climbed to 1,54,010 with 163 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,94,352, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country remained below two lakh for the 10th consecutive day. There are 1,71,686 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for only 1.60 per cent of the total number of cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 19,50,81,079 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 7,42,306 on Thursday. The 163 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 35 from Chhattisgarh, 19 from Kerala, nine each from Punjab and West Bengal, six each from Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 1,54,010 deaths caused by the viral disease, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 50,944, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,339), Karnataka (12,209), Delhi (10,835), West Bengal (10,148), Uttar Pradesh (8,642) and Andhra Pradesh (7,152). The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Cold wave prevails in Delhi as mercury stays below 4 degrees Celsius||Cold wave conditions prevailed in Delhi on Friday as the minimum temperature settled at four degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, the India Meteorological Department said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. This is the third cold wave day this week. No relief is predicted on Saturday, too, it said. The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Vaccines safe for those on aspirin: ICMR||People on blood thinners such as aspirin may take Covid-19 vaccines without hesitation, Balram Bhargava, the head of India’s health research department, said on Thursday. He said the country’s drug regulatory authority would clarify this soon. Bhargava’s assurance is relevant to people prioritised for Covid-19 vaccination but taking blood thinners such as aspirin or clopidogrel. Doctors say a significant proportion of the elderly are likely to be on either of these two drugs. The fact sheets for the two Covid-19 vaccines currently used in India — Covishield and Covaxin — flag blood thinners. The Covaxin document says people “on a blood thinner” should not receive Covaxin, while the Covishield document says people on a blood thinner should mention this to their healthcare providers before they receive Covishield. Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said both companies have written to the Drugs Controller-General of India (DCGI) about changing these points on the fact sheets. He said there are two classes of blood thinners — anti-platelet medications such as aspirin or clopidogrel, and anti-coagulant medications such as heparin. “Aspirin and clopidogrel — (they) are not a problem at all,” Bhargava said. People who are on anti-coagulants have a higher tendency to bleed. “The only worry is that there can be a local hematoma or a local swelling at the site of the injection,” Bhargava said. He said people on anti-coagulants may stop the medication for one or two days before receiving the vaccination. These points, Bhargava said, will be incorporated into the corrected fact sheets once approved by the DCGI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Karnataka BJP strikes deal with Opposition JDS||The ruling BJP in Karnataka has reached an understanding with Opposition Janata Dal Secular with the sole aim of wresting control of the Legislative Council where it doesn’t have the sufficient number to pass crucial bills. According to the arrangement, which comes more than a year after the BJP toppled the JDS-Congress coalition by poaching 17 of their lawmakers, a JDS member would be made the chairman of the council while the BJP would settle for deputy chairmanship. The ruling party was quick to fulfil its promise to JDS by nominating M.K. Pranesh for  the post of deputy chairman on Thursday. Senior JDS leader Barasavaraj Horatti, who is tipped to replace council chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty of the Congress, has already held meetings with chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Horatti had on Wednesday told reporters that he had already sent his resume to BJP national president J.P. Nadda. “This deal was in the making for sometime,” said a JDS functionary who declined to be named. “But this arrangement will be limited to the Legislative Council and not the Assembly, at least for now,” the JDS leader added. Yediyurappa had taken the initiative for a rapprochement with JDS leaders, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, after sensing strong opposition from within the BJP, with several leaders wanting a change in leadership. The current presiding officer, Shetty, has proved more than a handful for the ruling party to control the Upper House. He had twice adjourned the House before the government could table a contentious cattle slaughter bill after passing it in the state Assembly in December last year. With the JDS joining hands with the BJP, the ruling party would enjoy a clear majority in the Upper House, as well. This would help the government “pass crucial bills without the Opposition and Shetty coming in the way”, the JDS functionary said. In the House of 75 seats, the BJP is the single-largest party with 31 members, Congress has 29, including the chairman, JDS 13, one Independent and one vacancy. Indications of a possible truck between the BJP and JDS was evident on December 15 when a one-day special session of the council was convened to move a no-trust motion against Shetty and pass The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020 that provided for up to seven years in jail for violators. The BJP had made deputy chairman S.L. Dharmegowda of the JDS occupy the chairman’s seat after closing the doors of the chairman’s chamber to stop Shetty from entering the hall. But that led to the Congress members physically removing Dharmegowda from the chair. On December 29, Dharmegowda was found dead after being run over by a train in Chickmagalur in a case of suicide. His family had then admitted he was under treatment for depression, which apparently worsened after the ruckus in the council. The state government had then taken the ordinance route to enact the cattle slaughter law, which has come into force. The relationship between the JDS and Congress had gone sour after the collapse of their coalition government. The two parties had come together to keep the BJP out of power after the 2018 state polls produced a hung Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Congress fears conjurer’s budget||The Congress on Thursday expressed fear that the Union budget, to be presented on February 1, would be dressed up with “false numbers” to create a “conjurer’s illusion” for the next financial year. It predicted a slow and painful recovery for the Indian economy, which it accused the Narendra Modi government of having wrecked. “We are afraid that the finance minister will present dressed-up revised estimates for 2020-21 and attempt to build an attractive narrative for 2021-22,” former finance minister P. Chidambaram told a news conference. “The revised estimate for 2020-21 will be a set of false numbers and, therefore, the budgetary estimate for 2021-22 will be a conjurer’s illusion.” Rahul Gandhi too took at dig at the government a day before the budget session of Parliament starts. “Mr Modi’s governance is a lesson in how to ruin one of the world’s fastest growing economies,” he tweeted. Chidambaram argued that the government was “exceptionally obstinate, impervious to good advice and uncaring about the calamitous consequences of its economic policies”. He said the Opposition had a duty to show the mirror to the finance minister, who is presiding over the country’s first recession in four decades. Chidambaram rued that the six years of Modi’s rule had witnessed “the slow but inexorable descent into a deep hole”. “The conclusion of a recent study by Brookings using IMF and World Bank data is humiliating but not surprising at all: the biggest rise in poverty will be in India and India will overtake Nigeria and become the country with the largest number of poor people,” he said. He recalled how the Congress had earlier emphasised that the assumptions behind the 2020-21 budget were wrong and the targets set were unattainable. “Even without the pandemic, the economy would have continued on the downward path that had begun in the first quarter of 2018-19 and continued for eight successive quarters,” Chidambaram said. “The pandemic pushed the economy into an abyss: minus 23.9 per cent in Q1 of 2020-21 and minus 7.5 per cent in Q2. The year 2020-21 will end with negative growth. None of the numbers estimated at the beginning of the year will be achieved. “The revenue targets will be missed by a large margin, capital investment will take a hit, the revenue deficit will be close to 5 per cent and the fiscal deficit will exceed 7 per cent.” Chidambaram predicted that GDP growth in 2021-22 (in constant prices) will not be more than 5 per cent and that the unemployment rate would remain high. He said agriculture would grow at a satisfactory rate if the government does not arbitrarily disrupt the sector with anti-farmer laws and retrograde import-export policies for farm products. Chidambaram flagged hurdles such as inadequate credit growth, protectionism, crony capitalism, encouragement of monopolies, the climate of distrust and vindictive administrative actions. He suggested certain measures on behalf of his party. “Impart a large fiscal stimulus, make direct cash transfers to 20-30 per cent of the families at the bottom for at least six months, formulate a rescue plan for MSMEs, reduce tax rates (especially GST and other indirect tax rates, eg, on petrol and diesel), increase government capital expenditure and recapitalise public sector banks,” the Congress leader said. He advised the government to abandon protectionist policies, re-engage with the world, enter into bilateral trade agreements with as many countries as possible, and remove the bias against imports, apart from formulating sector-specific revival packages for telecommunication, power, mining, construction, aviation, and tourism and hospitality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Opposition to boycott President’s speech at joint Parliament session||The Congress and 15 other Opposition parties have decided to boycott the President’s address to the joint session of Parliament on Friday in protest against the government’s “insensitive” handling of the farmers’ movement. In a joint statement, the Opposition parties also accused the government of “orchestrating” the chaos and violence witnessed at some places during Tuesday’s tractor rally by the farmers in Delhi. The boycott of the President’s address heralds a stormy Parliament session, and the Opposition has not ruled out boycotting the budget presentation too although the final decision has not been taken yet. All the Opposition parties are agreed, however, that it cannot be business as usual in the House given the government’s treatment of the farmers. If the government tries to clear the protest sites by force, one of the consequences could be a washed-out budget session. Some in the Opposition, however, favour participating in the parliamentary proceedings to highlight the government’s failures and misdeeds on issues ranging from the economy and China to the farmer protest. Senior Congress leaders P. Chidambaram and Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday repeated the allegation that the Red Fort transgression during Tuesday’s Kisan Parade had been instigated by people close to the BJP. They wondered why the police had stood and watched when a few hundred people climbed atop the fort and hoisted a flag, and said this inaction showed “the government’s connivance”. Chidambaram and Kharge said the home minister must own responsibility for what happened and demanded a probe into the “link between the BJP and those involved in the Red Fort incident”. The Opposition parties’ joint statement that announced the boycott of the presidential address said: “India’s farmers have been collectively fighting against the three farm laws arbitrarily imposed by the BJP government that threaten the future of Indian agriculture which sustains over 60 per cent of India’s population and the livelihood of crores of farmers, sharecroppers and farm labour. “Lakhs of farmers have been agitating at the gates of Delhi braving biting cold and heavy rain for the last 64 days for their rights and justice. Over 155 farmers have lost their lives. “The government remains unmoved and has responded with water cannons, tear gas and lathi-charge. Every effort has been made to discredit a legitimate mass movement through government-sponsored disinformation campaign. The protest and the agitation have been largely peaceful. “Unfortunately, there were (a) few acts of violence on January 26, 2021... which was condemned universally and unequivocally. We also express our sadness over the injuries sustained by Delhi police personnel while handling the difficult situation. But we believe that an impartial investigation will reveal the central government’s nefarious role in orchestrating those events.” The statement added: “The Prime Minister and the BJP government remain arrogant, adamant and undemocratic in their response. Shocked by this insensitivity of the government, we, the following Opposition political parties, reaffirming the collective demand for the repeal of the anti-farmer laws and in solidarity with the Indian farmers, have decided to boycott the President’s address to both the Houses of Parliament on Friday.” The signatories were the Congress, Trinamul Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, DMK, Shiv Sena, CPM, CPI, National Conference, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Indian Union Muslim League, RSP, People’s Democratic Party, MDMK, Kerala Congress (M) and the AIUDF. The statement described the three farm laws as an assault on the rights of the states that violated the federal spirit of the Constitution. “If not repealed, these laws will effectively dismantle the edifice of national food security that rests upon MSP (minimum support price for crops), government procurement and public distribution system (PDS). The farm bills were brought without any consultations with states and farmer unions and lacked national consensus,” it said. “Parliamentary scrutiny was bypassed and the laws were pushed through muzzling the Opposition, in brazen violation of parliamentary rules, practices and conventions. The very constitutional validity of these laws remains in question.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Sedition FIR on journalists, Shashi Tharoor||Noida police have registered an FIR for sedition and other offences against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, six journalists and an unknown person over their tweets and comments about a farmer’s death during Tuesday’s tractor rally. Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha and three editors of The Caravan magazine — Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K. Jose — and the unknown person stand accused of “spreading violence and disharmony” through their social media posts. Lookout notices were issued against 30 farmers and leaders named in the FIR on the violence during the tractor rally, police sources said. However, actor Deep Sidhu, seen at Red Fort during the hoisting of a Sikh pennant and a farmer union flag there, was missing, the police sources said. Farmer leaders have accused Sidhu of acting as a government agent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Govt whip ignites farmers' demoralised spirits||The government’s apparent attempt to evict farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders and crack down on their leaders seemed on Thursday night to have injected fresh energy into the movement, which had appeared demoralised after the turn of events on Republic Day. Overnight, thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab set out for the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders after emergency village meetings. Earlier in the day, huge police contingents had been deployed at all three sites as the government tried to strike at a time public support to the farmers seemed to have eroded because of the chaos in the tractor rally. At Singhu, the approach road from Delhi was barricaded and earthmovers deployed on the road from Haryana amid speculation that the roads would be dug up. This would cut the supply lines of food and other essentials, and also make it difficult for the protesters to take turns at the site before returning home when a new batch arrives. But it was at Ghazipur that the administration moved first, snapping water and power lines, removing the makeshift toilets and ordering the farmers to vacate the site by Thursday night. Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, who has become the face of the protest at Ghazipur, said he would rather commit suicide than end the dharna without the repeal of the three new farm laws. “No violence has taken place at the Ghazipur border but still the Uttar Pradesh government is resorting to a policy of suppression,” he said, breaking down on camera as he accused the BJP regime of being bent on destroying farmers. The farmers had for two months been protesting peacefully on the highway, braving dangerously cold weather, seeking repeal of the farm laws that they believe will leave them at the mercy of big corporates and reduce them to labourers on their own lands. At least 150 farmers had died in the protests. But on Republic Day, during the tractor rally some participants breached the agreed route and schedule and clashed with the police. They also breached the Red Fort, where a Sikh pennant and a peasant union flag were hoisted from an empty flagpole. The turn of events left the farmers and their leaders upset and on the backfoot. But as the government appeared to be rolling up its sleeves to force out the protesters, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha declared it would not be cowed down and appealed to farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to join in larger numbers. By night, visuals from Tikait’s village of Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar showed a crowd of farmers converging and shouting slogans against the BJP. Late-night emergency khaps were held in Haryana’s villages. And overnight, farmers began leaving for Delhi. Even before this late mobilisation, union leaders at Tikri, which was relatively free of tension on Thursday, had expected 20,000 more tractors to join them. Lookout circulars had been issued against the farmers and their leaders, and the leaders were served with notices asking why there should not be action against them over the chaos at the tractor rally. The Morcha leaders in turn questioned the police delay in acting against those actually responsible for the violence. They had earlier blamed actor Deep Sidhu, who did a Facebook Live from the Red Fort, of acting as an agent of the government and instigating the trouble. Since the use of force against farmers who have decided not to retaliate to any provocation could once again turn opinion in their favour, the administrations in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had through Thursday tried to make it difficult for them to continue the protest. At most sites, from the largest at Singhu on G.T. Karnal Road to a comparatively tiny one at Palwal, people claiming to be residents turned up shouting slogans against the farmers and demanding action against them for the chaos on Republic Day. The Morcha said: “RSS-BJP-sponsored people came to Ghazipur site, and (the farmer) leaders explained to the public to remain peaceful against the government (plans) to sabotage the farmers’ struggle.” Police in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, both BJP-ruled, were busy through the past 24 hours evicting the local-level protests that have mushroomed across the two states in support of the demand for the repeal of the three laws. Jai Kisan Andolan leader Yogendra Yadav’s apartment block in East Delhi was targeted by a group of protesters on Thursday evening. Yadav also alleged that his phone number had been made public and he was receiving threat calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Haryana leader quits BJP in support of farmers’ protest||A senior farmer leader of the BJP in Haryana quit the party on Thursday in support of the farmers’ movement against the Centre’s new agriculture laws. The resignation of former MLA Rampal Majra came a day after Abhay Chautala, the lone MLA of the INLD, resigned from the Assembly to protest the Centre’s refusal to repeal the farm laws. Abhay is the first MLA from Haryana to quit over the farm laws. Majra, a three-time MLA, was a top INLD leader before he joined the BJP after the 2019 Haryana elections. “The BJP has failed to understand the farmers’ plight and safeguard their interests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Tractor rally returnees ‘beaten’ in UP||Police evicted 8,000 to 9,000 protesting farmers from a roadside venue some 100km from Delhi in a late night operation on Wednesday, allegedly baton-charging them brutally, damaging their tents and leaving many injured. The farmers at the site in Baghpat district — most of whom had just returned from Tuesday’s tractor rally in Delhi and would have left for their homes on Thursday — said the police took away all their belongings in trucks. Police officers denied any brutality, saying it was a simple exercise to clear the Delhi-Saharanpur highway. The farmers said they had been on a dharna against the three new farm laws for the past 40 days on a tract of fallow farmland about 10 metres from the highway, and had never blocked the road. The protest site in the Baraut area of Baghpat has been a transit point for farmers heading to or returning from the protest site at the Ghazipur border with Delhi. Its occupancy fluctuated between 20,000 and 8,000, with some sleeping in the 30-odd tents pitched there and the rest in the open. All the arrangements had been made by local khap panchayats. “Police officers had since Wednesday morning been trying to persuade us to leave. Just after 11pm, some 500 police and Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel arrived in trucks and brutally lathi-charged us. Many farmers have been admitted to hospital,” Chaudhary Surendra Singh, a farmer leader, said. He said that most of the farmers present had just returned from Delhi and were tired. “Most of us were asleep and didn’t realise what was happening. We started running helter-skelter. They tore our tents, scattered the food and took away our blankets, clothes, hookahs and other belongings,” Singh said. Baghpat additional district magistrate Amit Kumar Singh said: “We removed the farmers from the national highway peacefully. The National Highway Authority of India had written to the government saying the farmers’ protest was hampering its functioning.” The protesting farmers said Baghpat had sent the highest number of participants from Uttar Pradesh to Tuesday’s tractor parade in Delhi. “Baghpat is a stronghold of Chaudhary Ajit Singh’s RLD and Rakesh Tikait’s Bharatiya Kisan Union. Ajit Singh had asked his workers to support the farmers’ protest, and the BKU has been active in the protests at Delhi’s borders since the beginning,” said Mahendra Pal, a farmer. The leader of the Opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, on Thursday said instead of farmers, an FIR should be registered against the Delhi police commissioner and top BJP leaders for the violence in New Delhi on Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Arundhati Roy flags Delhi riots ‘parallel’ with R-Day clash||Author Arundhati Roy on Thursday flagged a similar “pattern” between the Republic Day clashes in Delhi and the communal riots last February, speaking at an online event to mark the 59th birth anniversary on Friday of murdered journalist Gauri Lankesh. “The pattern is so similar — spinning it into a pogrom. Politicians calling for violence and you could see police supporting that,” she said when Ahmedabad-based activist Teesta Setalvad asked her about an article on the pandemic Roy had written for London’s Financial Times that mentioned the protests in the winter of 2019. “During Republic Day, once again you see a person close to the ruling establishment using it to try and slide the ground under the feet of the spectacular and very peaceful protest. The farmers have shown a great deal of wisdom and political spine and I don’t think you can turn them over easily,” Roy said. Punjabi actor and former BJP campaigner Deep Sidhu is accused of inciting the farmers from the tractor parade who stormed the Red Fort, clashed with police and hoisted a Sikh pennant. The police were accused of complicity in the violence, which killed 53 people of whom 40 were Muslim. On Thursday, supporters of the new farm regime held counter protests at the sites of the farmers’ agitation, calling for the eviction of those protesting against the new laws. The similarity was unmistakable with the mobilisation of Right-wing groups and individuals against the anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) last winter. One such mobilisation was led by BJP leader Kapil Mishra who made an incendiary speech just hours before the riots began. Roy reminded the audience — in line with the work of Lankesh who was assassinated in Bangalore in 2017, allegedly by Hindu extremists — about the prophecy activists had made decades ago about an alliance between crony capitalism and religious ultra-nationalism. “There were these two locks which were opened in the ’80s and ’90s: the lock of the Babri Masjid and the lock of the bazaar. And they created two kinds of fundamentalism — economic fundamentalism and Hindu Right-wing fundamentalism — which produce their own cycles of violence. “Both led to this country increasingly becoming a police state, passing laws that could not possibly be called democratic. There are laws but how they are applied depends on your caste, ethnicity, gender and religion. You see the institutions of democracy being hollowed out.” Roy, a Booker Prize winner, quoted Oxfam studies that show that the cumulative wealth of India’s 63 richest people outstripped the 2018 budget outlay, and that the wealth of the country’s 100 richest grew exponentially during the pandemic that last April witnessed a loss of 170,000 jobs per minute. “If you critique these, they turn around and say, what is the alternative? Because we are then supposed to look for the person with the bigger chest or more money or more power, another king,” Roy said. “Whereas we actually need to look for people who understand this country, who have a heart, who love the people in this country. We have become a country of ordinances and ambushes and secret announcements. The citizenry is being treated as an enemy, including people who vote for it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Main accused in tractor rally violence Deep Sidhu goes missing||Police sources on Thursday said that Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting Tuesday’s violence during the farmers’ tractor rally and dubbed a “government agent” by farmer leaders, is “missing”. They said the police had issued lookout circulars against 44 people, including 30 farmers and agitation leaders, who have been named in 25 FIRs registered in connection with Tuesday’s violence. These circulars mean they cannot leave the country. The farmer leaders named in the FIRs will be asked to surrender their passports. It’s not clear whether there’s a lookout notice against Sidhu, a Punjabi actor turned activist, about whom an officer said: “His whereabouts are not known.” The Khalistani sympathiser and former BJP campaigner is accused of inciting farmers to deviate from the assigned tractor rally routes and storm the Red Fort on Tuesday. He had done a Facebook Live webcast as the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib was hoisted at the Red Fort. Late on Wednesday night, Sidhu was named in an FIR on the violence. Officers were, however, tight-lipped on whether he had been named as an accused or a suspect. Farmer leaders believe Sidhu was “planted” by the government to sabotage and defame the protest against the new farm laws. Sidhu had campaigned for Bollywood actor and BJP candidate Sunny Deol during the 2019 general election but they publicly distanced from each other after Sidhu jumped onto the farmer protest bandwagon in September last year. Photographs of Sidhu with Deol, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and current home minister Amit Shah began circulating on social media after Tuesday’s violence, but they appear to have been taken during the 2019 general election campaign. The decision to issue the lookout circular was taken on the instructions of Shah, whose ministry is in charge of law and order in Delhi, sources said. Shah has been under fire for the intelligence failure and lack of planning that allowed the situation to get out of hand on Tuesday. “The home minister has asked the police brass to take stringent action against the accused farmer leaders,” an IPS officer said. The farmers say thDeep e police engineered the chaos, misdirecting and misleading the farmers into veering off the designated routes and approaching the Red Fort and other unscheduled spots. Shah, who has so far been silent on Tuesday’s incidents, visited two hospitals on Thursday to enquire about the injured policemen admitted after the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal offers unqualified support to the farmers’ protest||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday offered unqualified support to the farmers’ protest and focused his attack on the BJP by deviating from the Aam Aadmi Party’s stand of targeting the Congress. The AAP leader also announced plans to contest all elections in six states. “The violence that happened on January 26 was unfortunate. Whoever is responsible, whoever is actually responsible, not the false cases that are being filed, whichever party is actually responsible, they should get the strictest punishment. But because of violence that day, it does not mean that farmers’ issues are over. Those issues for which they are sitting there (Delhi’s borders) for 60 days are still alive. How will the movement just end?” Kejriwal said. “A country where the farmers are unhappy can never prosper. We all have to support the farmers in our states, and our support should be non-violent. Whenever you do that, leave your party caps and flags in your homes. The support should be non-political, and you should support them as a common man,” he added. The Delhi chief minister’s stand is significant at a time when the BJP has launched a campaign against the farmers for the violence on Republic Day. The AAP has blamed people linked to the BJP, such as actor Deep Sidhu, for leading the violence. “Now, these three bills (farm laws) will snatch the livelihood of farmers, giving it to a few corporates. For the farmers, it is a question of existence. How will the farmers feed their families if farming is taken away from them? It is a question of their existence. If they do not sit in the biting cold, they would not be able to retain their livelihoods,” Kejriwal said. He announced plans to fight local body and Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat in the next two years. Of these, only Punjab — where most of the protesting farmers are from — is ruled by the Congress, with the AAP as the main Opposition. “Despite (the BJP) getting 325 seats, the UP government has not worked. They tell us that they too want free electricity, good hospitals, good schools, free medicines, free water, free road infrastructure, but since our governments are not able to do it despite a huge mandate, it’s only the AAP that can save the state,” Kejriwal said, naming BJP ministers in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand for allegedly making false promises of development. The AAP leader added: “All parties play the religion card, which is appealing to Hindus to vote for a Hindu party, appealing to Muslims to vote for a Muslim party, appealing to Thakurs and Pandits to vote for a Thakur and Pandit party. That’s how they please people to vote for their parties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Odisha’s Nandankanan zoo gears up for guests||Odisha’s Nandankanan zoo is gearing up to welcome new guests. Eighteen animals, including a pair of Himalayan black bears and three pairs of Asian brown tortoises, will soon be arriving at the zoo from the Aizawl Zoological Park in Mizoram. The animals are being brought to Nandankanan, located on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, as part of an exchange programme. “We have received the approval of the Central Zoo Authority for the exchange. The approval was granted under Section 381 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, for the purpose of breeding, pairing and conservation,” said a senior official of Nandankanan zoo. While the Himalayan black bears will be the main attractions, other animals, including a pair of wild dogs, the brown tortoises, a pair of Assamese macaques and three pairs of stump-tailed macaques, will also add to the appeal of Nandankanan, considered among the best zoological parks of the country. According to the agreement, the Odisha zoo has to bring these animals within six months. If it fails to do so within the stipulated timeframe, the permission will get cancelled. In return, Nandankanan zoo will send two pairs of common peafowls to the Aizawl Zoological Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee, who resigned from Bengal cabinet, quits as MLA||Senior TMC leader Rajib Banerjee, who recently quit the Mamata Banerjee cabinet in Bengal, on Friday resigned from the post of MLA. Banerjee, who represented the Domjur assembly seat, met Speaker Biman Banerjee at the state Assembly and submitted his resignation letter. “I have resigned as the MLA of the state assembly. I submitted my resignation letter to the speaker. I thank my party supremo Mamata Banerjee for providing me the opportunity to serve the masses,” Banerjee, a two-time MLA, said. “In the days to come, I would continue to serve the people of the Domjur constituency,” he added. Rajib Banerjee, who was the forest minister, had been keeping away from cabinet meetings. The Howrah leader met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan last week and submitted his resignation, following which he was dismissed from the state cabinet. The Domjur MLA is the third minister to exit Mamata’s cabinet after Suvendu Adhikari and Laxmi Ratan Shukla in less than two months. Adhikari is the only one who has formally joined the BJP so far. Sources said Rajib had handed to Mamata’s office at her Kalighat residence the resignation letter as minister. Citing procedural lapses in the resignation, the chief minister recommended to the governor Rajib’s ouster from the cabinet and the Raj Bhavan accepted it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav stable, removed from oxygen support||Indian cricket board chief Sourav Ganguly's health condition is stable and he had a good sleep on Thursday night, while doctors are planning to carry out requisite medical examinations on him on Friday, a senior official of the hospital where he is admitted said. The former India captain underwent another angioplasty on the previous day. Two more stents were implanted to clear his clogged coronary arteries. "Sourav Ganguly's health condition is stable. He had a good sleep at night. All his vital parameters are normal. Doctors will carry out necessary tests on him in the morning. "Senior doctors will carry out a thorough checkup following which a decision will be taken whether to move him to another ward," the hospital official told PTI. The 48-year-old cricket icon was in the ICU on Thursday night following the angioplasty conducted by a team of doctors including noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty and Dr Ashwin Mehta. His oxygen support has also been removed, the official said. Ganguly was hospitalised on Wednesday for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. He had suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted to clear a blocked artery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 289 more Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 94th consecutive day since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 last year with an improvement by nearly 84.5 per cent. The total active cases fell over these 94 days from a high of 37,190 to 5,781. The total is now back almost to where it was on June 30 last year, 212 days ago. On Thursday, the state logged 367 recoveries, 289 infections and nine deaths, including one in Calcutta. The recovery rate rose for 97 consecutive days to touch 97.2 per cent, having improved by 10 per cent. The national recovery rate is 96.92 now. “On Dashami, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas had nearly 15,000 active cases between them. On Thursday, that number has come down to less than 2,700. On Dashami, those two most high-incidence districts had 1.3 lakh recoveries between them. On Thursday, that total is 2.41 lakh,” said a Bengal minister. Since Dashami last year, the state recorded over 2.43 lakh recoveries, outweighing 2.15 lakh infections detected during the same period. “The turnaround throughout the state was possible largely because of the vast improvement made in these two districts. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court to ensure that the outbreak did not worsen during New Year celebrations. The numbers of infections from the festivals between October and January showed that the court’s instructions were effective. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.19 per cent now, having improved steadily from 8.27 per cent 69 days ago. On Thursday, the state reported 25,129 tests, taking the total past 79.19 lakh, at 87,996 tests per million people. The state attributed 8,521 of the 10,148 deaths — 84 per cent — to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78, while the national rate also was unchanged at 1.43 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress starts Matua outreach||The Trinamul Congress has begun an outreach initiative among the Matuas by communicating with small group heads — known as “Gosain”, “Pagal” and “Dalapati” who have strong influence on the community — ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to their stronghold of Thakurnagar on Saturday. On January 30, Shah is scheduled to address a public rally in Thakurnagar when he is expected to announce a timeline for implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act in an apparent attempt to pacify the Matuas. The community had supported the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in anticipation of the implementation of the new citizenship act, but has been sulking since the CAA has remained only on paper till now. “Senior Trinamul leaders like MP Saugata Roy and MLAs Bratya Basu, Jyotipriya Mullick attended such meetings with the community heads to convey our chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s stand that Matuas are Indian citizens and the BJP is confusing them by talking about the new act,” said a source. “The heads of small groups in the community wield significant clout and that’s why we are reaching out to them,” said another Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||JMM blow to BJP tribal plan||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday hinted that his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha would field candidates in the Jungle Mahal, a move that can deal a blow to BJP’s hopes of consolidating the tribal vote bank in its favour in the Assembly elections. “Every fight has its first step and today it is the first day for Bengal. I will come again and the movement for the tribal people will continue here. Our party will be with the adivasis and poor people of the region and you should be prepared for the elections,” said Soren while addressing a gathering of around 5,000 in Jhargram’s Jamda circus ground in West Midnapore. The BJP strategy to grab power in Bengal rests heavily on the 41 seats in the Jungle Mahal, which is dominated by tribal voters. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had managed to dent the tribal vote bank of Trinamul by leading in 35 of the 41 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal districts of West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia. Hemant’s announcement at his first political rally in poll-bound Bengal is likely to hit the BJP’s plan to consolidate the tribal vote bank in its favour. “We are ready to field around 40 candidates in Assembly polls this year mainly in the Jungle Mahal areas where tribal people remain deprived,” said Samir Kumar Mohanty, JMM MLA from Jharkhand’s Baharagora constituency and party’s observer for Bengal. JMM’s decision to contest in the Bengal polls has not gone down well with chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who accused Hemant of trying to play politics in Bengal. “I felt bad today that Hemant Soren came to Bengal to do politics. He should manage Jharkhand first before coming to Bengal. He came today as he wanted (to field) candidates for his party,” said Mamata. Sukhamoy Satpati, BJP’s Jhargram president, said: “The JMM will not be able to impact our tribal vote bank.” At the Jhargram rally, Soren also said the JMM would fight for inclusion of tribal areas in Bengal under the Fifth Schedule of Constitution. Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee in Jamshedpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to Hindi speakers: Stand by me||Mamata Banerjee has reached out to Hindi-speaking residents of Bengal, urging them to carry out their “huge responsibility” of standing by her in the Assembly elections and thereby defeating the BJP’s alleged polarising agenda that seeks not only to divide between religions but also on the basis of language. At an event titled “Hindibhashi Sang (Hindi-speakers with) Didi” at the Trinamul Congress headquarters here on Thursday evening, the chief minister vowed to keep standing by non-Bengalis and much as Bengalis in future, asking the attendees to support her in the polls and prove the BJP wrong. “It is a matter of pride for us that we don’t discriminate people against on the basis of language. We don’t judge people for their language…. You have a huge responsibility. After Hindu-Muslim, now the BJP is attempting to polarise on the basis of Bengali and non-Bengali. We want you to vote for us in a percentage even larger than that of Bengalis,” said Mamata to thunderous applause. Hindi-speaking civil society members were in the audience. Hindi-speakers comprise around a seventh of the state’s electorate, with a decisive say in around 20 of the state’s 294 Assembly seats. The BJP, with its traditional reputation as a party that speaks for Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan, considers itself favourites to win most of them. “Form little groups, go out, reach out, speak to everyone…. The man on the street. We cannot get traitors from outside to do this work for us, so you please do this for us. We will keep looking after you after the elections, I swear to you. We will show you everything we can do for you in future,” said the chief minister. Mamata — while repeatedly bringing up the farmers’ movement by Hindi-speakers from across the nation, reiterating her unconditional support for the cause — underscored her love for Hindi-speakers, their culture and their cuisines. “Since we came here, has there ever been a problem for Hindi-speakers here?” she asked, amid loud nays from the audience. “What Hindi will the BJP teach me? I will hold them by the ear and teach them instead. My Hindi might be a little broken, but at least I don’t read out from scripts — typed out in Gujarati — off a teleprompter,” she added, in an apparent jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mamata pointed out how her government was the first to give Hindi the status of an official language in Bengal, how it announced a two-day holiday for Chhath Puja and set up Hindi varsities and colleges. “People from around the country are here, Bengal is a big family, we all live here happily… our essentially cosmopolitan culture, none can destroy,” she said. “Always remember, Didi will die but will not fail to keep her promise,” she added. Didi Ke Bolo Mamata Banerjee issued a statement on Twitter on Thursday morning, announcing the completion of 500 days of the Didi Ke Bolo initiative designed by poll consultant Prashant Kishor, launched in the wake of the BJP’s unprecedented gains the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. “Over this course, 28 Lakh people reached out to the helpline 91370 91370 with more than 80 Lakh interactions taking place. I thank each one of you for your support & response,” she posted. “Through feedback received on @DidiKeBolo, GoWB implemented the 6th Pay Commission, expanded Samajik Suraksha Yojana & started programmes like Pathashree, Duare Sarkar, Paray Samadhan, Jai Johar, Sneher Paras, Prochesta Prakalpa, Taposili Bandhu & many others,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Left outfit’s support to defeat BJP||CPI-ML (Liberation) announced on Thursday that it would contest in 12 seats in the Bengal Assembly polls and support any party that could defeat the BJP in other constituencies. The assertion was in sharp contrast to the stand of the Left Front and the Congress, which held another round of inconclusive meeting on seat sharing between them. “We will contest in 12 seats in the state. We shall also lend support to some select candidates fielded by other Left parties or mass organisations,” said CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharyya. “Across the state, we will urge voters to defeat the BJP,” he added, indicating that the party didn’t have any inhibitions in supporting Trinamul to keep the BJP at bay. He also said his party would extend issue-based support to Trinamul. Bhattacharya had earlier said the Left parties in Bengal must identify the BJP as their “primary enemy”, which triggered an intense debate among the Left constituents in the state and the CPM leadership lost no time in debunking the CPI-ML (Liberation) leader’s theory. On Thursday, Bhattacharya, however, reiterated that his party — unlike the CPM — didn’t equate the BJP and Trinamul and explained why he thought so. “One cannot distinguish between national and state politics. We don’t think the BJP and Trinamul should be viewed as equal threats,” Bhattacharya said adding that this ideological difference led them to take a call on not being a part of the greater alliance proposed by the CPM. There was no formal reaction to the CPI-ML (Liberation)’s stand till late evening. A senior state CPM leader, on condition of anonymity, told this correspondent that it appeared that the CPI-ML (Liberation) had started a campaign in favour of Trinamul. “This (CPI-ML (Liberation)) party once said Trinamul is better than the CPM. Today, they are saying Trinamul is better than BJP. Are they running a secondary campaign for Mamata Banerjee?” a CPM leader asked on condition of anonymity. This person added that the Left parties maintained that Trinamul was as dangerous as the BJP. Even as the alliance partners stuck to their stand on the BJP and Trinamul, their differences over seat sharing for the Assembly polls persisted. After a meeting with the Left front leaders on Thursday, state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said a consensus had been reached on sharing 193 seats, including the 77 seats they had earlier decided to share amongst themselves. However, a Left leader said the announcement meant little as the seats were not identified. “We just had a consensus on the number, 193. But the problem still remains. What about the seats where both Congress and left have strongholds?” this leader asked. Sources in the Congress said the state leadership was unwilling to give away any seat in Malda and Murshidabad districts to the Left parties, hinting that an amicable seat sharing was still out of reach. The two hues have, however, decided to hold a joint public meeting at the Brigade Parade grounds in Calcutta on February 28, where Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and CPM’s Sitaram Yechury were invited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP MP Saumitra Khan’s gaffe on poet||A Bengal BJP leader on Thursday attributed to Jibanananda Das a line by 18th-century poet Bharatchandra Ray Gunakor, continuing his party’s misadventures with Bengali icons. Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan’s gaffe came at a rally in East Burdwan where he accused the Mamata Banerjee government of failing to generate jobs and flagged Bengali parents’ aspirations of a comfortable future for their children. “In the words of Jibanananda Das: Amar shontan jyano thakey dudhey bhaatey (Let my children live comfortably),” Khan said. The line was from Annada Mangal, a narrative poem in three parts by Bharatchandra (1712-1760), written in 1752-53. Jibanananda, one of Bengal’s most beloved poets, lived between 1899 and 1954. A Calcutta-based historian said: “Today, with so much information available through one’s smart phone, how do these mistakes keep getting made?” BJP sources admitted in private this was yet another “regrettable and avoidable” faux pas highlighting the party’s disconnect with Bengal’s history and culture. “We keep tying ourselves in knots while trying to appropriate Bengali icons,” a BJP leader said. Trinamul pounced on the opportunity. “This shows the cultural standard of the BJP and its associates. They are utterly ignorant of most things. Still, they go on speaking without shame,” Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy said. Asked to respond at night, Khan claimed he was “very well aware” of who wrote what. “I simply meant that Jibanananda once quoted from Bharatchandra,” he said, without elaborating. East Burdwan BJP general secretary Sunil Gupta defended Khan. “All Trinamul can do now is look for our mistakes. Khan may be guilty of misquoting and mentioning the wrong name, but the point he made was cent per cent correct.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to PM: Repeal laws or step down||The Bengal Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution demanding the repeal of the controversial farm laws of the BJP-led Centre as chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanded resignations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah should they fail to give in to the demands of the agitating farmers. Amid aggressive “Jai Sri Ram” slogans and ruckus by the BJP in the House, Mamata lambasted the saffron camp over apparent attempts to discredit the agitators. “If there is any good intention towards the greater interests of the people, I ask the Prime Minister to rescind the three legislations. You must. Either repeal the laws or step down,” said Mamata in the House, before demanding an immediate all-party meeting at the Centre. Comparing the farm laws with the notorious indigo cultivation during the British Raj, Mamata said the Centre was trying to push the country into a famine. “You deliberately had the bills passed when people couldn’t even go to Parliament because of Covid-19…. You didn’t even allow proper voting,” she added. Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee moved a government resolution, urging the Centre that the three laws be repealed. The Left and the Congress suggested some amendments, but did not oppose the resolution. After failing to prevent Mamata from addressing the House during the discussion, the BJP MLAs staged a walkout — while raising “Jai Sri Ram” slogans — and claimed the resolution was “unconstitutional”. Amid a controversy later in the day over the slogan being raised in the Assembly — Trinamul, the Congress and the Left were critical — the BJP aggressively defended the act. Mamata threw her weight behind the agitating farmers and brought up the incidents in Delhi on Republic Day. “If there is something they don’t like, they will go about maligning them, branding them as terrorists, is it correct?” she asked. “If 20 lakh farmers went to Delhi together, in a pre-announced programme, took due permission, a couple of small incidents took place, nothing major…. These are all lies. They are leveling such allegations that should never be levelled,” she added. Later in the day, during a Trinamul event, Mamata accused the BJP of trying to burn the nation. “Amit Shah had said in public, I have documentary evidence, that they have 50 lakh WhatsApp groups… and if they want, they can make even wrong information go viral. If the Union home minister says this, this is what happens. Farmers, bechara, without fault… terrorism and whatnot now, simply to discredit them,” she said. “BJP ka chamcha (the BJP’s acolyte)… that flag-bearer (actor Deep Sidhu). He was part of photo ops with Modi and Shah…. The Prime Minister and the Union home minister should resign,” she added. Mamata said at the event that she has seen many central governments from close proximity, since Raji Gandhi’s time. “Such audacity this one has…. These two (Modi and Shah, apparently)… such deliberate use of force, I never saw. Anybody you don’t like, goli maro (shoot them)…. You should go,” she said. Budget session The Assembly would reconvene for the budget session on February 5, with the vote-on-account likely to be passed on February 8. Sources in the treasury benches said there might be no gubernatorial address at the start, as the ongoing session is in continuation of a session from 2020, closed prematurely because of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee government hands over engagement letters to ex-KLO members||The Mamata Banerjee government on Thursday handed over engagement letters to over 1,500 people from across the state, including former militants of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation and family members of people killed in KLO attacks in north Bengal. At a programme organised at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Calcutta, chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched the distribution of engagement letters among these who would be provided with jobs as special home guards. “We have earlier provided jobs and today again, jobs were provided to some more people……now that you have returned to the mainstream, we want you to deliver your responsibility and lead a better life with your families,” Mamata said while addressing the audience. She asked them to be vigilant and take initiatives to discourage any attempt made to foment tension. Sources in the state government said around 600 former militants and linkmen and around 36 victims’ families had been provided with jobs. From Alipurduar, a group of 227 people were present at the programme. Dipankar Roy, a former KLO linkman who received his engagement letter, said: “It was a longstanding demand that the chief minister finally met. We are grateful to her as we can lead a better life now. Many of us were finding it tough to run our families.” Ruma Debnath Adhikary, a resident of ward 18 of Alipurduar, also sounded happy. Back in 2009, she had lost her father-in-law in a bomb blast at Chowpathi, the most prominent crossing of Alipurduar. “What the chief minister did for us is remarkable. It would be of immense help for us,” said Ruma. The induction of former KLO members, linkmen and victims’ families as home guards would help the Trinamul Congress consolidate its base in north Bengal, said political observers. “These people have been asking for jobs since those days when the Left Front was in power. However, it is Mamata Banerjee who met the demand. It would surely help her party earn some extra edge over its political contenders,” an observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP raises language issue to exert pressure on Mamata Banerjee||The BJP has raised the language issue to exert pressure on Mamata Banerjee during this election season with Darjeeling MP Raju Bista seeking the chief minister’s “intervention” to remove the disadvantage faced by youths from the plains who learn Nepali or Hindi as their main language, besides English. Nepali and Hindi speaking population can influence results in at least 15 of the 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. In a press statement on Thursday, Bista said: “It has been brought to my notice from several concerned citizens that under the current rules, knowledge of Bengali language is compulsory for all candidates in West Bengal government qualifying examinations, except for those who live in the hill subdivisions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong district.” The trigger of Bista’s demand is probably a recruitment notice issued by the West Bengal Police Recruitment Board for the post of sub-inspectors. In the language category, the notice reads that the “applicants must be able to speak, read and write in Bengali,” and even though residents of the hill-subdivisions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts are exempted, Bista’s argument is for Nepali and Hindi speaking candidates in the rest of the state. A large number of Gorkhas and adivasis reside particularly in the Dooars and the Terai, including the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. “I have requested her (Mamata Banerjee) to kindly provide options for Gorkhas and Hindi bhasis from Terai and Dooars region to write their government qualifying exams in their mother tongue if they so desire…..,” Bista said. The last date of filling up the police application forms is February 20. The other issue flagged by Bista is inclusion of Nepali language as an optional subject in the West Bengal Civil Services Mains exams. “Additionally, it has also been brought to my notice that Nepali language is not included as an optional subject in WBCS Mains exams whereas languages like Pali, Persian, Arabic are included in the exam,” he said. The MP said the exclusion had deprived a large section of students, who study Nepali for their bachelor’s and master’s degree, of chances to get selected as WBCS officers because their subject choice is not given. Bista is not the first to demand the inclusion of Nepali as an optional subject in the WBCS (mains). Language has always been a sensitive issue and Bista’s decision to flag this concern has the potential to be a major poll issue. The Gorkhaland agitation in 2017 was triggered on the language issue with the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha alleging attempts were being made to impose Bengali on hill students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||GNLF smells scam in footpath near Singalila National Park||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s decision to construct a 26km-long “footpath” at an estimated cost of Rs 15.5 crore near the Singalila National Park has come under the scanner for its expenditure and project priority. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has criticised the project and alleged smell a scam when elections are round the corner. “Tenders for two footpaths, one from Srikhola Trekkers’ Hut to Molay Fatak and the other from Molay Fatak to Sabargram at Rimbick has been floated but the tender amount defies logic,” said Sandeep Limbu, general secretary, GNLF Darjeeling branch committee. “Such a project before election smells of a scam.” The shortest road distance to Rimbick from Darjeeling is 60km. The GNLF not only raised the issue of overestimation, but also asked whether a footpath in the already popular trekking trail was needed at all. “People love to trek on natural trails. Instead of footpaths the amount could have been used to build motorable roads at five neighbouring villages as most roads in that area are unmotorable during monsoons,” said Limbu. Tender bids can be submitted till February 10 and will be opened on February 13. Dipendra Ghimiray, executive engineer, GTA engineering division-II, said the estimates were done according to the schedule of rate approved by the public works department and vetted at the level of chief engineer. “Estimates are done according to the schedule of PWD. Lot of factors like terrain difficulties are also taken into account,” said Ghimiray. The GTA official also said many might have got confused with the usage of the word “footpath”. “Along with footpath other allied development works like gazebos and resting sheds are also included in the plan,” he added. The tender papers describe the work as “construction of footpath….” and detailed description of other allied works could not be immediately obtained. The GNLF, however, insisted that the GTA’s priority was wrong. “We will soon meet the principal secretary of the GTA and request him to utilise the funds in projects which will be more beneficial for the villagers. In natural parks people want to be with nature,” said Limbu. The GTA is of the opinion that tourism has to be promoted along this popular trekking trail. A source said: “Hundreds of trekkers, including a large number of foreign travellers, visit this place. Improvement in tourism infrastructure is bound to help the region.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested for ATM robbery bids in Siliguri||Two persons, including an army sepoy who allegedly deserted from the force, have been arrested in connection with attempts to burgle a number of ATMs here in the past few weeks. The two Haryana residents were arrested by Siliguri Metropolitan Police and they purportedly made an attempt to burgle a bank also in the city. According to police sources, there were attempts to break ATMs at different locations in Siliguri on January 12 and 25. An attempt was also made on January 18 to break into a bank at Panitanki More here. “After the incidents, we formed a special team and intensified the vigil and night patrolling across Siliguri. When the miscreants tried to rob an ATM booth at Deshbandhupara in the city three days ago, they were nabbed red-handed,” said a senior police officer. The police, he said, seized some equipment which were used to dismantle ATMs and locks. Some cash has also been recovered from the duo. The arrested have been identified as Pravin Kumar and Rahul Kumar. While Pravin is from Haryana and was involved in similar crimes earlier, Rahul is also from the same state but has been staying in Siliguri for many years. D.P. Singh, the commissioner of the SMP, said: “During interrogation, we came to know that Pravin was a sepoy in the Jat Regiment of the army. In June last year, he was arrested in Gurgaon for his involvement in a similar case. After getting bail, he came here and involved the other person to carry out the crimes.” “We have officially contacted the army to get details of him. We are trying to gather more details about them,” he added. The police sources have said this is the second time in recent days that people from Haryana have been arrested. A few days ago, the police had arrested two others who were also from Haryana and had seized ATM cards and a swipe machine from them. Appeal for CCTVs Siliguri police commissioner D.P. Singh appealed to residents and different organisations to install more CCTV cameras at their respective houses and commercial places to curb crimes. As of now, around 250 CCTV cameras are operational on streets in the SMP jurisdiction. “We urge the citizens to install more CCTV cameras. It would improve surveillance on one hand and help in the quick detection of crimes on the other hand,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Derailment hits train movement between north Bengal and Northeast for three hours||Train movement along the principal route between north Bengal and Northeast was disrupted for around three hours on Wednesday night after a bogie of a goods train went off the tracks near the Khalaigram station in Jalpaiguri district. Sources said the goods train with 43 bogies was heading towards the Dhupguri station. While it started from Khalaigram around 10.30pm, the derailment occurred. Railway officials and RPF personnel from Khalaigram and Dhupguri reached the spot. Officials of the Alipurduar railway division of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) also arrived after some time. A number of trains were regulated at other stations and some trains were diverted via the Changrabandha-Mathabhanga route. The NFR engaged workers to remove the derailed bogie and the tracks were cleared. The traffic along the main route was restored on Thursday early morning. Railway authorities have ordered a probe into the derailment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||West Bengal||Hijacked truck seized, two arrested in Assam||A gang of six miscreants held the driver and cleaner of a truck at gunpoint in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri district and fled with the vehicle on Thursday morning. The truck was intercepted in the neighbouring Assam and two persons suspected to be members of the gang arrested. The seizure and the arrest were made on the basis of an alert issued by Jalpaiguri police. Sources said the truck was from Uttar Pradesh and had carried rice from Delhi to Siliguri a few days back. The truck was supposed to be loaded with potatoes at Maynaguri on Thursday morning and head for Bihar. Mohammad Akram and Mohammad Mukram, the driver and the cleaner, had their dinner on Wednesday night. They then parked the vehicle near Assam More in Maynaguri and were sleeping inside. Around 4am on Thursday, six miscreants broke the window and started beating them. As they protested, both were held at gunpoint. “They tied us up with ropes and gagged us with clothes. One of them turned on the engine and headed towards Dhupguri (along Asian Highway 48). On the way, two miscreants forced us to get down from the vehicle at a deserted location in Ranirhat while the remaining four fled with the vehicle,” said Akram, the driver. The miscreants left the driver and the cleaner off the highway, with their hands and legs tied. Later in the morning, some local people spotted the driver and the cleaner and informed the police. A team from Maynaguri police station reached the spot and rescued them. The police also circulated detail information of the truck to nearby police stations and the police in Assam and Bihar. After some time, the police could locate the truck’s location through GPS. They passed the information and soon, the vehicle was intercepted by a team of Chapar police station in the Dhubri district of Assam. “We have come to know that as the vehicle was intercepted, two miscreants managed to escape while the other two have been arrested. Both of them are from Uttar Pradesh. There is information that along with them, some miscreants from Manipur were also involved in the crime. A team from Maynaguri police station has headed for Assam,” said Vikramjit Lama, deputy superintendent of police (crime) of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-218
29-01-2021||North East||Arunachal police plea to Ulfa to release abducted 2||Arunachal Pradesh police on Thursday appealed to the proscribed Ulfa (Independent) to release the two employees of a private oil company kidnapped from the frontier state “unharmed” because it has “nothing” to do with the outfit or its demands. The appeal by director-general of police R.P. Upadhyaya was made after Ulfa (I) gave a February 16 deadline to the company to secure the release of its employees — Pranab Kumar Gogoi, 51, from Assam and Ram Kumar, 31, from Bihar — failing which they threatened to take “necessary action” against Kumar. The outfit, whose stated goal is “sovereignty” for Assam, has reportedly sought Rs 20 crore for the duo’s release. They were kidnapped by a joint group of suspected Ulfa (I) and NSCN (K) rebels on December 21 from Diyun in Changlang, one of the remotest and underdeveloped districts of Arunachal Pradesh bordering Myanmar and Assam. Upadhyaya told The Telegraph that he has also heard about the outfit’s deadline. “Our request to the organisation is to release both the employees as a goodwill gesture,” he said. He also said that it was their request to the Ulfa (I) “not to disturb” anyone from Arunachal Pradesh — either natives or those working in the frontier state. “Arunachal has nothing to do with Ulfa (I) or its demands. Their demands are known to the Assam government. Therefore, release the kidnapped duo and also don’t force the company to pay ransom as a goodwill gesture,” Upadhaya said. Gogoi, a drilling superintendent, and Kumar, a radio operator, are employees of the Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Limited, one of the “country’s leading and fastest growing drilling services contractors”. Quippo has its corporate office in Gurgaon and has been engaged by Oil India Limited for drilling activities in the Kharsang area of Changlang district. The outfit had on January 12 also warned that Kumar may face harm if the company failed to pay the amount for “exploiting” the natural resources of Assam and the Northeast. Kumar hails from Khagaria district in Bihar. This was followed by videos purportedly released by the outfit on January 20 where the two employees pleaded with their respective state governments — Assam and Bihar — to secure their safe release. The videos showed Kumar urging Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in Hindi to take up the matter with his Assam counterpart Sarbananda Sonowal for his safe return. He said he was a “victim of conflict” between his company and the militant outfits and he has been in the custody of NSCN and Ulfa (I) for a month. The NSCN (K) is said to be active in the Changlang area. In a separate video, Gogoi, who hails from Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district, made a similar appeal to Sonowal in Assamese. He also appealed to his employers and the company to secure his release. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav told this newspaper on Thursday that efforts were on to secure the safe release of the duo and he was “hopeful of a breakthrough” soon. Changlang is one of the three districts where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act was extended for another six months on October 1, giving the forces ample powers to carry out counter-insurgency operations in such “disturbed” areas. A senior Assam government official said Sonowal has taken up the issue with the Arunachal Pradesh government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
29-01-2021||North East||Arunachal protest against China||The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) on Thursday staged statewide protests against China’s “illegitimate” claim over the frontier state and the BJP-led central government’s “lethargic and half-hearted” approach against Beijing’s alleged “expansionist” policy. The hour-long sit-in was the second protest held by the leading student organisation of the state since January 21 following reports of China establishing a village in Upper Subansiri district, a claim dismissed by both the Centre and the state government, saying the area has been in possession of the neighbouring country since 1959. The sit-in was mainly aimed at “rejecting” Chinese claims over the frontier state and “conveying” the sentiments of the people towards the Centre’s “half-hearted” handling of the situation. Arunachal Pradesh shares a 1,080km-long porous and disputed border with China which considers the state a part of South Tibet. Altogether 12 Arunachal districts border China. Upper Subansiri was one of the affected districts in the 1962 Indo-China war which the neighbouring country won, exposing many chinks in India’s military preparedness. The protesters on Thursday sought a “strong and pragmatic” government response to China’s claim so as to allay and assuage the feelings of the people of Arunachal who are “staunch nationalists and patriotic”. The protesters also displayed placards articulating their concerns and angst such as “Speak up Indian government”, “Speak up Arunachal government”, “Arunachal is not Tibet”, “China your claim is illegitimate” and “China stop illegally occupying our land”, among others. AAPSU general secretary Tobom Dai told The Telegraph after the sit-in in Itanagar: “It’s a tragedy we have to protest now and then to tell the government that we are an integral part of India. You don’t need a war to defend the country; give major impetus to development of roadways, infrastructure, telecommunications connectivity... everything else will fall into place.” According to Dai, apart from strengthening the military apparatus in Arunachal Pradesh, the Centre should give a major thrust to development activities to bring it at par with developments taking place on the Chinese side. “Blame game needs to be stopped on such sensitive national issues. We just need a strong stand from the current central government. You just can’t keep harping on the wrong done by the past governments and pass on the responsibility,” Dai said. The BJP-led government blames the erstwhile Congress regimes for the border issues with China. During the January 21 protest, the AAPSU had also exhorted the Centre to take appropriate counter-measures to address the Chinese claim over the state. They had even burnt the effigy of Chinese President Xi Jinping. The North East Students’ Organisation expressed solidarity with the AAPSU protest. Neso adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya expressed his “strong resentment” against the Centre’s “inaction” on the Chinese village development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-25
29-01-2021||Opinion||What we can learn from our children  ||And you of tender years Can't know the fears That your elders grew by And so, please help Them with your youth (Teach Your Children _ Graham Nash) The young outnumber the old in today’s India, which like most parts of the world, is living through a time chequered by deep divisions. Fact, fiction, half-truths. Nationalism pitted against patriotism. We go through intermittent waves of outrage, often conveniently selective, amidst a sustained campaign of othering those who yearn for sanity; those who want to believe and look for some sense, truth even, in the madness that surrounds us all. But then, what is truth today? That what we see on television, read in newspapers and websites, or latch on to on twitter and WhatsApp forwards as mere reflections of what we want to believe? Or is there the other ‘truth’, the unsullied one, the old-fashioned one that we know deep down to be real, the kind we don’t need ancient scriptures and holy books to tell us about? And just when we thought that the ‘truth’ had been buried for good, a teenager from Texas held up a beacon for us to see, as did a bunch of school kids in Calcutta, doing a deep dive into the introductory words of the Constitution to remind us what they stand for. Jackson Reffitt assumed his father was planning “something big” in the lead-up to US President Joe Biden’s oath-taking. So, what did he do? He alerted the FBI even though he didn’t know what exactly his father, a gun-owning member of a far-Right militia, was going to do. He found out, like the rest of his country and the world, via television images on January 6 when rioters stormed the Capitol in Washington. Two days later his father returned home and warned him: “If you turn me in, you’re a traitor. And you know what happens to traitors. Traitors get shot.” We don’t know how Jackson might have reacted immediately after the threat. After all, it’s not normal for an 18-year-old to be faced with a death threat from his own father. Yet, Jackson’s later conversations reveal a self-assured young man, full of hope and faith in the inherent goodness within everyone. “I am afraid for him to know,” he said, unsure whether his father knew he’d turned him in. “Not for my life or anything, but for what he might think,” he clarified in the hope that his relationship with his father could be repaired. “It’ll get better over time. I know we will.” For Reffitt Senior, who was subsequently arrested, the lesson has just begun. He’s lucky he has his son as teacher. In Calcutta, a group of children not older than Jackson, had their own lesson to impart at school. On the eve of India’s Republic Day, they got together to celebrate the Constitution, the document the nation bequeathed itself 71 years ago. The focus was on secularism, liberty and “we the people”, the three words with which the Preamble begins. India has to be a “secular society”, not just a secular state, said a 17-year-old during the online programme. If the raison d’etre was to take the Preamble out of textbooks and have the children talk about it as a living document of ideas and ideals, the effort was well worth it. For it was the elders back home who were forced to take note when a class XI boy articulated them in succinct prose. The most important aspect of secularism, he noted, “is mutual respect, acceptance and inclusion of every person in society despite religious beliefs”, his understanding coming from an earlier personal experience of having his tiffin thrown away because he had brought a chicken sandwich to a “vegetarian school.” Amid the trying circumstances we were faced with, long before the pandemic, schools across the country have not shied away from meaningful discourse on ideas that matter. From a Third Theatre-style play on the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir to a pictorial depiction of human rights violations, these endeavours have done so much more than keep school children occupied during the lockdown. It’s as though Reffitt in the US and the young adults of our country have together, unbeknownst to each other, spoken in unison. As the world lurches towards self-defeating extreme intolerance from one day to the next, these boys and girls have planted their own flag. One that flutters in the sky to remind us elders of our miserable failings, telling us that the choice between right and wrong is easy if we want it to be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
29-01-2021||Opinion||Honoured: Quazi Sajjad Ali Zahir||Public functions often attract their fair share of attention. Republic Day is not an exception. This year, eyebrows were raised by the depiction of religious symbols in the tableaus rolled out by some states. January 26, after all, was the day when India embraced a Constitution that sought to uphold the principle of secularism. There has also been talk about some of the choices made by the Centre when it comes to the recipients of civilian awards. This year, an activist associated with an organization that reportedly enjoys the patronage of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh was conferred with the Padma Shri, the nation’s fourth-highest civilian award, in spite of her association with the endeavour of religious conversion. But this is not to say that the Centre got everything wrong when it came to bestowing national honour. There can be no disputing its decision to award Quazi Sajjad Ali Zahir with the Padma Shri. Mr Zahir, one of the two luminaries from Bangladesh who were honoured by India, is not only a veteran of the Liberation War of 1971 but has also spent much of his life educating citizens about the importance to remember and learn from periods of genocidal turbulence. New Delhi’s gesture must be applauded on two counts. First, this is a pragmatic decision in political terms, signaling to Dhaka and the world India’s resolve to deepen — and smoothen the creases in — the ties with its neighbour in the east. Second, there is also a certain degree of poignancy about the selection. Mr Zahir’s recognition, quite pertinently, coincides with the week in which Auschwitz — an enduring symbol of the horror of genocide perpetrated by Nazi Germany during the Second World War — was liberated. Mr Zahir’s life and work and India’s recognition of both are a testament to the need to educate citizens and mobilize collective resistance against oppression of every conceivable kind around the world. This is because genocides, much like a virus, have a propensity to return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
29-01-2021||Opinion||Moment of glory: Narayan Debnath awarded Padma Shri||Sir — While there were no malls, multiplexes, cable television or smartphones in the 1970s-80s, children growing up in Bengali households at the time had unique cartoons in comic books as their companions. They had Batul the Great, Handa-Bhonda, Nonte-Phonte as well as characters illustrated in the detective stories penned by Swapan Kumar. These cartoons are still etched in the minds of their readers, as is their creator, Narayan Debnath. This year, Debnath has been named as a Padma Shri awardee. Although a belated move, the committee must be congratulated for officially recognizing this extraordinary cartoonist. Subhayu Saha,Murshidabad Wrong turn Sir — It is unfortunate that the farmers’ protests in Delhi went out of control (“Flames rising”, Jan 28). The incident that took place on Republic Day is a blot on this agitation, which had thus far largely been peaceful. Everyone must condemn violence. The clashes and the hoisting of a flag by protesters at the Red Fort will result in a number of people losing sympathy for the farmers. That this happened on Republic Day is a shame as it is the day when India officially became a republic and the Constitution came into force. The Constitution has given us the right to protest but violence must be shunned. In most cases, agitators are emotionally charged; it is more likely for a large crowd to get carried away, often culminating in incidents of mob violence. Then, of course, starts the blame game. But as keepers of law and order it is the duty of the authorities to make sure that such things do not happen. It is therefore also a failure on the part of the Delhi police and related agencies that the protest could not be managed. The Central government should conduct a thorough enquiry into this incident. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — The violence that erupted during the tractor rally in New Delhi on Republic Day as part of the protest against the three farm laws is unfortunate and could have been avoided by undertaking better-planned strategies. Not only has a farmer lost his life in an accident but several police officials have also been injured. On a positive note, one must acknowledge that the authorities upheld the constitutional right of the farmers to protest by granting them permission to proceed with their tractor rally even on an occasion like Republic Day. The police commissioner, S.N. Srivastava, must be commended for his efforts to keep the crowd in control without resorting to brutality, although there were some instances of baton-charge and use of tear gas. I have been witness to several peaceful protests by farmers in the past. Strictly speaking, there was no need to use symbols of farming activities, such as tractors, at the rally, this could have avoided the accident. A long, peaceful walk down the permitted route would served the purpose better. It is time for all the parties concerned — farmers and leaders alike — to get the situation under control. The farmers should once again approach the government with the core issue. This could stop further escalation of the conflict. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — It was noble of the farmers to take moral responsibility for the mayhem during the Republic Day tractor rally. Now one must wait for the home minister to apprise the people of the reason why there was inadequate security even when the Centre was fully aware of the potential numerical strength of the agitators at the rally. J. Sengupta,Calcutta Sir — Violence must be condemned unequivocally. At the same time, it must be highlighted that the events that took place on Republic Day are being misrepresented by some on social media in order to incite hatred against the protesters and diminish public sympathy for the farmers. It is wrong to claim that the farmers replaced the Indian flag at the Red Fort. The flag that was raised was not Khalistani either. Yet such allegations are being spread like wildfire, to a large extent by the supporters of the ruling dispensation at the Centre. The crisis that the farmers are facing with respect to the farm laws and the larger problem awaiting them if the laws are not repealed must not be forgotten because of a rally gone wrong. A thorough, impartial investigation must be undertaken so that the people know the exact details of the incident. People must not confuse mutual clashes with one-sided violence. It is true that the conflict between the police and the protesters was unwarranted. But the size of the rally was no secret; the security planning should have been better. Sourabh Gupta,Jamshedpur Sir — The chaotic turn of events during the farmer’s rally is unfortunate. It should not have been allowed to happen. Violence in any form needs to be condemned. The farmers were given a designated path to hold the rally after the Republic Day ceremony was over. But the storming of the Red Fort and the unfurling of a religious flag was unwarranted. One person was reportedly killed in an accident related to a tractor. The farmers have also lost the sympathy of a section of the people. Their demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws has also lost significance. A high-level probe should be ordered and the culprits should be brought to book. A march to Parliament on Budget Day was on the cards for farmers. But it has now been called off. In the future, care should be taken to avoid violence. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — The eruption of violence at the tractor rally has certainly tarnished the image of the farmers’ protests. The blame for the incident lies with the leaders who mistakenly assumed that there would be self-discipline on the part of the protesters. But the incident also raises other questions. Why did the Delhi police allow the marchers to take a route other than the one decided upon? The videos being circulated show that there was little police presence at the Red Fort to stop protesters from hoisting their flag on its ramparts. The police is thus as much to blame as those who perpetrated the violence. The culprits must be put behind bars at the earliest. Above all, those who incited the violence have done the farmers — who were already trying to steer clear of malicious government propaganda — great disservice. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
29-01-2021||Opinion||Narrow scope: sex crimes against children||In India, where the prevalence of sexual crimes against children is no secret, citizens look to the judiciary as a beacon of hope. It was thus a relief that the Supreme Court stayed a perplexing judgment by the Bombay High Court, which had ruled — that too few days before National Girl Child Day — that groping a child without “skin-to-skin contact” would not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The court deemed it fit to acquit the accused on the grounds that there was no ‘specific detail’ as to whether he had removed the victim’s clothes. The interventions by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights — it asked the Maharashtra government to file an urgent appeal against the controversial judgment — and, now, by the apex court are justified on several counts, not least of which is the problematic reading of the law by the Bombay High Court on which it based its acquittal order. Under Section 7 of POCSO, sexual assault comprises acts with sexual intent, including those involving non-penetrative physical contact with a child. This provision was necessary to broaden the archaic definition of sexual assault under Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, which still equates rape with the outdated notion of penetration. In a nation that treats sexual crimes against minorities with shocking indifference, a regressive legal reading of legislations can be profoundly disheartening. Already, the prevailing culture of shame and silence, augmented by parental unwillingness to teach children to differentiate between good and bad touch, puts minors at risk. Judicial ambiguity on the matter could add to the existing, formidable challenges, the poor conviction rate being one. According to the National Crime Records Bureau in 2018, there was an 18 per cent jump in registered POCSO cases in 2017, but convictions at the end of 2016 stood at a mere 28 per cent. Tardy legal proceedings — ironically, POCSO was enacted to hasten prosecution — give the accused time to intimidate victims and their families into withdrawing complaints. The reluctance to prosecute deepens when the accused is a family member. In 2020, a special POCSO court was told that 80 per cent of the accused were known to the victims, with a majority of them being relatives. The signals sent out to a vulnerable constituency from institutions tasked with protecting it are as dismal. In 2018, several young girls were found to have been sexually assaulted for months in a shelter home in Muzaffarpur. For too long, the onus of identifying and disclosing sexual crimes has been on the victim, even though POCSO seeks to correct this inversion. The reluctance of victims, guardians and investigative bodies to pursue justice will only grow in the light of judicial misreadings of law and crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
29-01-2021||Opinion||How to shred a fabric: the Assam Repealing Act||Things are falling apart in Assam. The state is being made witness to a manufactured breakdown of the plurality of Assamese society and its tolerance for difference. Fascism and chauvinism of various kinds have constantly worked to fill the lives of minorities with fear, intimidation and humiliation. There is evidence that institutions and laws of the land are being moulded to suit the majoritarian interest. One example of this kind of intervention is the Assam Repealing Act, 2020. The ARA was passed in the state assembly last month. It repeals the Madrassa Education Provincialisation Act, 1995 and the Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutional) Act, 2018. The ARA violates a number of constitutional safeguards designed for minorities, such as Article 26, Article 29, Article 30, Article 330A and Article 330B. It is true that these articles are not absolute in nature and can be challenged based on public order or morality. That they are challenged and compromised, as is evident from ARA, is suggestive of an erosion of democratic principles. The silence and the lack of political opposition to the weakening of minority rights tell us something about the changing contours of political sentiments in India. ARA violates Article 26, which reserves the right of minorities to establish instructions for religious or charitable purposes. Article 29 aims to conserve distinct language, script or culture of minority groups in the Union. The ARA violated this article by denying the right of minorities to learn in their mother tongue. Article 350A and 350B relate to linguistic minorities in the Union. By dissolving the government funding for madrasa institutions, the Assam government has potentially withdrawn from investing in the rights of a significant political and linguistic minority in the state.Things fall apart The ARA puts in perspective the debate that took place in the Constituent Assembly on December 8, 1948. Many members of the assembly thought that granting minority rights would amount to appeasing minorities and would create grounds for communalism. Such a thing appeared ‘anti-secular’ in their eyes. In response to the demand made by Maulana Hasrat Mohani to reinstate Urdu as a medium of instruction in schools, a member of the assembly told Mohani that ‘he may go to Pakistan’ instead. Pandit Thakur Biswanath Das and Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant were in favour of the removal of Urdu as the medium of instruction in schools. Other members, such as Z.H. Lari, Begum Aizaz Rasul, Kazi Syed Karimmudin, Maulana Mohani, Mihir Lal Chattopadhaya and Pandit Hriday Nath Kunzru, offered their vigorous defence of the right of minorities to receive education in their mother tongue. The former education minister of India, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, was also of the opinion that education in secondary stages should be in their mother tongue. Azad was acknowledging a universally accepted fact pertaining to the benefits of a child learning in its mother tongue. Those ideals are far removed from the philosophy of the current education minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who stressed the fact that madrasa education was initiated by the Muslim League in Assam and, hence, the need to repeal it. Things fall apart when minorities find themselves discriminated against by the State, by the bureaucracy, by dominant groups and culture. The proposed National Register of Citizens and the enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act have put minorities under severe duress. The ARA should be read in the same spirit and materiality in which the NRC and the CAA were given life by local and national cultural nationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
29-01-2021||Opinion||Seductive narratives||We, human beings, are story-telling animals. The ability to create narratives to help make sense of who we are, where we come from, where we may (or may not) be going, what we need to do to get there, how best we may do the things that need to be done (and avoid those that we ought not to do) and so on and so forth, is — as far as we know — not present in any other species of animal. Who we are is shaped by, and crucially depends on, the stories we hear, discuss, tell, and retell. In his 1936 essay, “The Storyteller: reflections on the works of Nicolai Leskov”, the noted critic, Walter Benjamin (1892-1940), had made a distinction between the story and the novel. The former he saw as fundamentally social, leading to thought and discussion; the latter he characterized as being essentially solitary, and far too preoccupied with information, rather than with what he characterized as “counsel” — a kind of practical social wisdom that stories can impart, but novels cannot. In this, Benjamin was echoing the words of his contemporary, Thomas Stearns Eliot (1888-1965), who had lamented, “Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge? Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?” in his 1934 poem, “Choruses from “The Rock””. “In every case,” asserts Benjamin, “the storyteller is a man who has counsel for his readers. But if today “having counsel” is beginning to have an old-fashioned ring, this is because the communicability of experience is decreasing. In consequence we have no counsel either for ourselves or for others. After all, counsel is less an answer to a question than a proposal concerning the continuation of a story which is just unfolding. To seek this counsel one would first have to be able to tell the story. (Quite apart from the fact that a man is receptive to counsel only to the extent that he allows his situation to speak.) Counsel woven into the fabric of real life is wisdom.” Although the novel, too, takes its raw material from ‘real life’, its essential quality is solitude, and isolation. “The novelist has isolated himself. The birthplace of the novel is the solitary individual, who is no longer able to express himself by giving examples of his most important concerns, is himself uncounselled, and cannot counsel others.” For Benjamin, “If the art of storytelling has become rare, the dissemination of information has had a decisive share in this state of affairs… Every morning brings us the news of the globe, and yet we are poor in noteworthy stories. This is because no event any longer comes to us without already being shot through with explanation. In other words, by now almost nothing that happens benefits storytelling; almost everything benefits information.” The problem with information, as both Eliot and Benjamin realized, is that it is useful as long as it is new; stories, on the other hand, remain valid for as long as they are told and retold. That is the source of their power; and that is also why our most successful storytellers are those who are able to create narratives that are concerned less with facts and more with ‘counsel’ — even if such counsel is often at odds with the facts as we know them. The mob which stormed the US Capitol on January 6 was least concerned with whether the story that enraged and inspired them to act (‘this election was stolen’) was based on accurate information, just as those who claim an eternal and unending conflict between Hindus and Muslims to justify their demands for a Hindu rashtra in our own country could not be bothered with a shred of evidence to the contrary. In both cases, the actors are guided by their own retelling of the stories they have been fed and encouraged to make their own — the ‘wisdom’ and ‘counsel’ that Benjamin wrote of so eloquently having been turned into the inspiration for their own acts of violence against those whom their stories classify as villains (opponents of Donald Trump, Muslims). They are merely carrying out, in deeds as well as words, the continuation of stories that are still unfolding. In Benjamin’s vision, the storyteller belongs to “the ranks of the teachers and sages. He has counsel — not for a few situations, as the proverb does, but for many, like the sage... This is the basis of the incomparable aura about the storyteller... The storyteller is the figure in which the righteous man encounters himself.” Yet he must have been aware that the power of the storyteller, and of the story, could be used for radically different, unrighteous purposes: for dividing instead of uniting or reconciling, for demonizing those who were different from those being told the stories, for encouraging the story’s listeners to carry forward the tale themselves — often at great cost to others unlike them. As a Jew who had been forced to flee a Germany where the new, divisive, vicious stories propagated by the National Socialists had taken firm hold among the (non-Jewish) populace, it seems unlikely to have been otherwise. When we take this into account, it becomes possible to read “The Storyteller” as a melancholy epitaph for a time when human beings lived richly social lives, and the storyteller was the repository of a lived, embodied wisdom that could, at least in theory, benefit everyone by bringing, in Benjamin’s evocative words, “soul, eye, and hand… into connection”. When thus contextualized, his essay can also be read as a cautionary tale of how isolated modern human beings, lacking authentic social selves, and bereft of real social interaction, can all too easily fall prey to the phantasmagoric stories spun by demagogues and rabble-rousers. We live in a time when, on the one hand, human connection has become increasingly attenuated (a process intensified and accelerated by the ongoing pandemic), and, on the other, terabytes of information wash over us, through electronic and other means, on an hourly basis. Seeking to make sense of ourselves, and the world we live in, we take refuge in, and seek comfort from, stories that claim to make sense of our increasingly confused and chaotic existence. The power of the story has never been as strong, or as seductive, as now. Sadly, though perhaps inevitably, those peddling the most attractive stories are less intent on giving us counsel for leading richer, fuller, more connected lives, and more concerned with holding on to power and fulfilling their own narrow political agendas. To combat this, perhaps the only way lies in reclaiming our stories from those who would use, abuse, and manipulate us for their own selfish ends, even as they claim to speak for all (or a majority) of us. The women of Shaheen Bagh, and the farmers still encamped in protest in our nation’s capital — to take but two examples — have sown the seeds of the kind of new, humane, social and collective stories that we need at this hour. It is for us to retell their tales, inaugurate discussion, reopen dialogue, and continue a story that is still unfolding if we want to fulfil the true task of the storyteller. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||70 vaccinated at Dhanbad Central Hospital amid server glitch||Vaccination against Covid-19 kicked off at Central Hospital of Dhanbad on Friday with  Dr Pradip Kumar of the ENT department getting the first jab, while a total of 70 doctors and hospital staff were inoculated. The number of beneficiaries could have gone up if the server had not faced a glitch for sometime, Chief Medical Officer of the hospital Ranjit Kumar Thakur told The Telegraph Online. “We began the drive without any formal inauguration at 10:30 am. We believe action speaks louder than the word. There was no adverse reaction on any of the beneficiaries during the drive,” he added. A total of 237 beneficiaries were inoculated at four vaccination centers of Dhanbad, including Sadar Hospital, Central  Hospital, and two community health centres. District reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad Dr Vikash Kumar Rana said the vaccination drive at all the four centres will be carried out everyday, except on Thursdays and Saturdays. Health workers of Sarvamangla Nursing Home, and IIT(ISM) Health Centre will be vaccinated on Saturday, he added. The vaccination drive in the district began at two rural centres January 16 and continued till January 20. In urban areas, it began on January 22 and is still continuing The drive at two other centers, including Community Health Centre of Jharia and Govindpur, began on January 27 and is also going on. Preparations are also being made to launch the vaccination drive at some of the private hospitals of the district from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||3 labourers of illegal brick kiln found dead in Dhanbad||Three labourers of an illegal brick kiln, who were sleeping in a tent within the factory compound, were found dead on Friday morning at Tetulmari in Dhanbad with police suspecting that they may have died of carbon monoxide poisoning. Police have sent the bodies of the labourers, all from Purulia in Bengal, for post-mortem and are investigating the factory operations as they believe it was being run illegally. Talking to the media, Katras inspector, Bhikari Ram said, “The trio was working in the factory at Rengunitand for the last several months. They used to live in a tent within the factory compound,” said Katras police inspector Bhikari Ram. “They used to cook their meals in the tent during the night and had kept a coke oven inside. It seems they died due asphyxiation due to carbon monoxide emanating from the factory,” he said, but added that a final conclusion could be reached only after the post-mortem report was made available to police. The incident came to light at 9am on Friday when the factory owner, Sonu Sao, went to check on the three -- Mithun Bhumij, Prantosh Bhumij and Pradip Mura -- since they had not reported for work. He found them dead in the tent where they lived and immediately informed Tetulmari police over the phone. Soon, a joint team of Tetulmari and Katras police reached the site. Policemen retrieved the bodies and sent them for post-mortem to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College. “We will also carry out an investigation to find out if the factory was operating illegally and take appropriate action,” said Ram, adding that prima facie, it seemed, it was an illegal unit. OC of Tetulmari police station Manish Kumar said they had informed the families of the trio. “They will be reaching the site by the evening and will lodge a case as per the statement of family members after the arrival of the postmortem report,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi Smart City Corporation hard sells flagship project||The Ranchi Smart City Corporation Ltd on Friday organised the Investors' Meet - 21 for Ranchi Smart City Project, where 96 people participated. Held at the Tata Auditorium-XLRI in Bistupur, the event opened up an opportunity for city-based builders, hoteliers, architects and industrialists, who will explore the business opportunity as the project of Ranchi Smart City makes progress. Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, Amit Kumar addressed the event and interacted with participants on how to take part in the mega project. “Ranchi Smart City is a mission. Let us complete it together for the pride of our state. This is, of course, a great opportunity for the builders, businessmen, hoteliers and the ones associated with the infrastructure front to take advantage of it.  The Ranchi Smart City Corporation will safeguard the investors' interest,” Kumar said. Jamshedpur Notified Area Corporation special officer Krishna Kumar, who organised the meet, said its aim was to explore investors from the steel city for promotion of the Ranchi Smart City project. “Under the Ranchi Smart City project, construction in different fronts, including housing development, educational infrastructure, health care infrastructure, entertainment and recreational, parks and river front development will be done. These apart, works also will be done in the public transport, smart water supply, connectivity infrastructure, commercial hubs, convention centre as well as hotels will also be done. For making all this possible, the Corporation needed the active participation of the builders, hoteliers and stake-holders from other areas operating in the steel city so as to make the ambitious project a great success,” he told The Telegraph Online. Kumar stated that the turnout of the investors from the steel city was as per their expectation and hoped that they will get on the bandwagon once the smart city project starts to roll. He pointed out that the state government has already acquired 656 acres of land for area-based development work under the Ranchi Smart City project. "Now is the time to give the concept of the smart city a concrete form, which is not possible without the active participation of investors from a vibrant city like Jamshedpur," said the JNAC special officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Lalu Prasad bail hearing deferred to February 5||The Jharkhand High Court deferred the bail hearing of RJD supremo Lalu Yadav to February 5 on Friday, denying some respite to the jailed RJD chief who was recently shifted to AIIMS in Delhi for treatment. The court of Justice Apresh Kumar Singh, who was hearing Lalu’s conviction in a fodder scam case pertaining to the Dumka treasury, posted the hearing to the first week of February after the CBI sought time to file a counter affidavit. Lalu, who is fighting multiple cases of corruption related to the fodder scam _ alleged fraudulent withdrawals from district treasuries is seeking bail in the Dumka case for which he has been sentenced to 14 years. He is seeking bail now on health grounds, claiming that he has already served half of his sentence. Speaking with reporters, Lalu’s counsel Prabhat Kumar confirmed the developments. “The court has posted Lalu’s bail hearing in regard to the Dumka case till February 5 as the CBI required some time to prepare for arguments,” he said. The Dumka treasury scam involves illegal withdrawals to the tune of Rs 3.13 crore. Other fodder scam cases against him pertain to illegal withdrawals in Ranchi, Chaibasa (misappropriation of Rs 33.67 crore) and Deoghar treasuries. In the Chaibasa case, he was granted a five-year jail sentence. In the Deoghar treasury case, he was sentenced to 3.5 years, but was granted bail in the 2013. Last week, Lalu who was being treated at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), was diagnosed with pneumonia which led to respiratory distress. A RIMS medical board then decided to send him to AIIMS in Delhi for treatment via air ambulance on January 23. His wife and former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi, sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and daughter Misa had come to visit him at RIMS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Many districts experience unseasonal rains||Two induced cyclonic circulations caused by the impact of a western disturbance passing through the northern parts of the country led to unseasonal showers in several districts of Jharkhand on Friday. Weathermen said the circulations, coupled with wind convergence (easterly and westerly in the lower and middle levels of the atmosphere), resulted in adverse weather conditions. The convergence of westerly and easterly winds resulted in heavy moisture incursion in the lower levels of the atmosphere, bringing rain. The condition also resulted in a rise in minimum temperatures,” explained Abhishek Anand, the deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He went on to say that weather conditions would improve from Saturday. "This would again result in a drop in night readings," he added. Met statistics revealed that light rain occurred in several parts of the state since Thursday evening. Lohardaga recorded the highest rainfall of 8mm while Palamau headquarters Daltonganj recorded 5.5 mm rain. Capital Ranchi, steel city Jamshedpur, Ramgarh, Khunti, Bokaro and several other places woke up to overcast skies. Ranchi witnessed rainfall in traces (which cannot be measured) while Jamshedpur and several other parts of Kolhan region experienced over 1mm rain. Light showers were also reported from Koderma, Simdega and Giridih. The adverse weather resulted in a rise in minimum readings. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5  degree Celsius, two notches above normal, while the minimum temperature in Jamshedpur rose to 11.3 degree Celsius, one point above normal. Even as the minimum temperatures rose, maximum temperatures in several districts fell due to cloud cover. A duty officer at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said satellite pictures suggested improvement in weather conditions after the next 24 hours. "Dry weather conditions are expected over Jharkhand from Saturday. But shallow to moderate fog would continue to prevail during the next few days in isolated pockets of the state," said the duty officer. He said minimum readings were expected to fall 2-4 degree Celsius, signalling a return of the cold conditions in several districts after the next 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad craftsmen stage protest, demand resumption of exhibitions||Over 50 Dhanbad craftsmen, facing economic issues due to closure of exhibitions, staged a day-long protest at the Rajiv Chowk on Thursday, demanding permission for resumption of fairs across the state. The protesters also also handed over a memorandum addressed to the chief minister Hemant Soren and Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, demanding the same. These people, including makers of Bamboo handicraft, jute handicraft, paper handicraft, wood handicraft, weavers, embroiders and dhokra artisans, are dependent on sale of their articles through stalls put up in exhibitions and fairs, and are facing their worst economic crisis since the Covid-induced lockdown. Dharmjit Chaudhary,  who led the Dharna on Thursday, said “More than a lakh of people across the state, including the around 10 thousand from Dhanbad, who directly or indirectly depend on the income through the exhibitions are facing difficulty in managing bread and butter since the last ten months. We are on the verge of starvation and some have drowned deep into debts, taking money from money lenders to manage the household expenses.” “We ask the state government to allow us to organise exhibitions. We will follow all SOPs recommended by them,” he added. Mahendra Sao (51), a Jharia-based jute artist said his income has gone down to almost zero after the lockdown. “I used to earn around Rs 20 to 25 thousand per month through the sale of different jute articles like table mats, wall mats and carpets. Now I have lost all my savings in managing the home expenses for seven family members.” The emotions were common among protesters like Simaldih-based crockery artist Sanjay Kumar Barnwal and Jharia-based Raju Sao, who used to put up balloon stalls at fairs. Barnwal said most of his sales were done during these exhibitions. “My family of four, including me, my wife and two children, have also turned hand to mouth due to the present scenario,” he added. “No one in our family had ever imagined that we will have to face such a situation when fairs will be debarred for such a long time,” Raju said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Sabal awards to be hosted on YouTube this year||The second edition of the annual Sabal Awards instituted by the Tata Steel Foundation to acknowledge the spirit and talents of Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) will be hosted online on Saturday. It will be hosted on  YouTube and will reach out to achievers across the country. The Tata Steel CSR has received entries from 306 individuals spanning across 53 unique locations representing 18 states and union territories. Sabal Awards are designed as a step forward to reach out to several exemplary persons in an effort to recognise the ultimate expression of spirit through their talent, and who are engaged in contributing to the larger cause of disability in their own unique ways. The awardees comprise individuals whose journeys of relentless struggle and dauntless courage are an inspiration to thousands of people out there who are pursuing their passion and are often motivated by the adversities they face. Many among the PWD awardees are extremely popular on social media with one of them having a Facebook group with 70,000 members from across 100 countries to take forward disability advocacy for employability, vocational training, and others. The list also includes dancers, singers, writers, and performers whose unmatched enthusiasm has outdone challenges with many of them publishing books to participating in reality shows. Awards will be given in seven categories spread across two broad benchmarks - Sabal Spirit of Expression aimed at unearthing and recognising the talents of PWDs in the creative fields and Sabal Outstanding Vision which is an attempt to recognize individuals with inspiring stories of overcoming adversities. The competitive categories include exceptional dancer, vocalist, wordsmith, poetry, artist, and an exceptional performer for participants with intellectual disability. The award ceremony would also witness the felicitation of change agents - the ‘Sabal Saathis’ – thereby acknowledging their contribution towards the vision of an equitable world. As many as 67 awards will be conferred during the ceremony. State Disability Commissioner, Jharkhand, Satish Chandra; Director, Tata Steel Foundation Chanakya Chaudhary and Patron for Centre for Hearing Impaired Children, Ruchi Narendran among others, will be at the online event. “The annual awards not only honour persons with disability but also salutes their determination to pursue their aspirations. While setting an example for others from the community they are also working to ensure equality of opportunity,” said chief (corporate social responsibility), Tata Steel, Sourav Roy over a telephonic press conference. Tata Steel Foundation in partnership with EnAble India, a leading organisation in the field of disability empowerment, instituted Sabal - Center for Abilities in 2017 in Noamundi. Sabal is based on the principles of creating a participative infrastructure that will allow PWDs to find a one-stop resource centre for skilling, employability, and financial independence. Sabal has so far reached more than 5,000 lives through disability certification, linkages with government schemes and job opportunities, digital literacy, and capacity building workshops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab trafficker, rescue seven girls from Ranchi airport||Ranchi Police on Thursday arrested a woman trafficker and rescued seven tribal girls from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi while they were being trafficked to New Delhi to work as domestic helps in households. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), SK Jha told The Telegraph Online that the police swung into action after receiving a tip-off from an informer about minor girls from Khunti district being sneaked to the national capital by air. “Thanks to our informers, we got to know that the girls were being trafficked to work as domestic helps in Delhi. Our team was quick to nab the trafficker and rescue the girls before they could board the flight,” Jha said. The rescued girls, all residents of Khunti, have been sent to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Ranchi for counselling, said Jha, adding that the woman trafficker arrested during the operation has been identified as one Poonam Barla. Thursday’s sweep could possibly be the first-ever such operation conducted at the Ranchi airport, police said. So far, victims of human trafficking were mostly rescued from railway stations and bus stands in Jharkhand. “We are investigating the matter. Once the girls give their statements to CWC, we will get a clearer picture of who all were involved in the deal and how were the girls convinced to go to Delhi,” said the SSP. Several hundred children are trafficked every year from Jharkhand to work as domestic helps in the metros, especially Delhi. Activists working against human trafficking in the state claim that most of the girls trafficked to other states are subjected to physical, mental and sexual torture by trafficking agents and employers. While some victims manage to escape the clutches of traffickers and return home, many end up developing severe ailments and mental trauma after years of oppression, say activists. As per figures with the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), as many as 373 women were trafficked from Jharkhand in 2018. Representatives of Save the Children, an international NGO working for child rights, said that the number of children trafficked from Jharkhand was much higher than what the NCRB claims. Mahadev Hansda, the State Programme Manager for the NGO said, “While we assisted rescue operations in Khunti, West Singhbhum and Ranchi districts, we realized that the number of Jharkhand’s children rescued from New Delhi was nearly 700 per year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Para-teacher detained for rape of minor in Palamau||A para-teacher has been detained for the alleged rape and murder of a 13-year-old student in Palamau district of Jharkhand. According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s father at Panki police station, the accused Shambu Singh, 35, had raped her daughter on the night of January 25 and threatened them of dire consequences if they informed the police about the crime. On Tuesday night, the accused had given the girl something to eat after threatening them again, according to the father. The girl’s health started deteriorating the next day and she died on Wednesday night. “My daughter had gone to relieve herself at around 8pm in the toilet situated at a little distance from our house. When she did not return, I went in search of her and saw the para-teacher raping her at a distance from the toilet. When I started shouting the para-teacher shoved a pistol to my head and threatened to kill me,” the father has alleged in the complaint lodged at Panki police station on Thursday. Frightened, the girl and her family kept mum. However on Tuesday night, the para-teacher in the Upgraded Primary School at Karri, who is a resident of the same village, again came to their house and threatened to kill the family members if they informed the police, according to the father of the girl, who was a Class VII student. “Then he took my daughter to a corner and made her eat something. My daughter complained of intense stomach pain from January 27 afternoon and started vomiting in the evening. Before we could take her to hospital she died on the same night,” the complaint said. Palamau superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar said the complaint had been received and the para-teacher had been detained. “We have received the complaint. I have asked Lesliegunj deputy superintendent of police Anup Kumar Baraik to investigate the case. We have detained the para-teacher for interrogation. We have sent the girl’s body for post-mortem to the Medininagar Medical College and Hospital. Everything will become clear after we receive the post-mortem report,” the SP said. Meanwhile, a police officer investigating the case expressed surprise at the father’s complaint. “They live in a densely populated area. It is not possible for a man from the same village to rape a girl and also threaten her family and have the audacity to visit their house again the next day. The teacher does not have any criminal history. Some relatives have also claimed that the girl had been complaining of stomach pain earlier. However, everything will become clear after we receive the autopsy report,” said the police officer. Karra village in Panki block is around 150km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
29-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren eyes Bengal tribals for Fifth Schedule||Jharkhand chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren on Thursday made a strong pitch for including tribal areas of Bengal under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution. Addressing a rally at Jamda Circus Ground in Jhargram, Bengal, Soren made it clear that the JMM would be fielding its candidates in all the tribal-dominated areas during the Assembly polls in the neighbouring state. The rally was attended by over 3,000 JMM cadres mostly from Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore. “The JMM has a history of fighting for the cause of tribals and we would fight for inclusion of tribal areas in Bengal under the Fifth Schedule of Constitution. Jhargram and nearby districts were a part of our original greater Jharkhand proposal. We would want these districts to be included under the Fifth Schedule so that tribals have a say in governance at every level,” said Soren, who spoke in Santhali for most of his speech. The Fifth Schedule deals with administration of scheduled areas where tribal communities are in a majority. Tribal Advisory Councils (TACs) are constitutional bodies formed under the Fifth Schedule to deal with welfare and advancement of Scheduled Tribes in states. Taking a veiled dig at the BJP-led central government, Soren asked the people to beware of the party which had a history of selling lands of the poor to the corporate sector. “We should be cautious of those people whose only agenda is to sell property and resources to capitalists. If this continues, then the day is not far when blood would be cheaper than water in our country,” said Soren. Other senior leaders who attended the rally included Jharkhand transport minister Champai Soren, labour minister Satyanand Bhokta (from the RJD) and JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya. Another rally by Soren is planned for the second week of February at Raghunathpur in Purulia district, while the third is going to be held at Alipurduar in north Bengal in early March. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the JMM had fielded candidates in 23 constituencies in Bengal, which were spread across Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, Birbhum, Darjeeling and Alipurduar districts. Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Birbhum share their borders with Jharkhand, while Darjeeling and Alipurduar have sizeable tribal population, who migrated to work in tea estates. Bhattacharya, however, was non-committal on whether the JMM would forge an pre-poll alliance with either the ruling TMC or the Congress in the polls. “At the moment we are planning to contest the polls on our own without thinking too much about an alliance,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-158
