30-01-2021||Calcutta||Police campaign against bank fraud||The city police have launched an awareness campaign against online bank frauds. Around 4,000 cases of online frauds are reported in Calcutta every year. Three other projects were also announced on Friday — an initiative to seek assistance of NGOs in tracing missing persons, setting up of an all-woman help desk at the cyber police station and opening of cyber labs in all nine police divisions to handle the increasing number of cases of cyber frauds. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma launched the projects during the monthly crime conference on Friday. Bank fraud The police said they would contact housing societies and schools, colleges and other institutes and hold awareness campaigns to emphasise the importance of not sharing one-time passwords (OTPs) with any stranger, even if the person claims to be a bank official or says that one’s debit card or e-wallet is about to be blocked. Officers said a large number of online frauds are perpetrated because victims share their OTPs over the phone with people who claim to be bank officials. The police have named the project “Rakshakavach.” Sandhan A project named Sandhan (meaning whereabouts) was launched to trace people who have been missing for years. A large number of people, including women and children, go missing from the city regularly and many remain untraced for years. The police said they would collaborate with NGOs and use their contacts across the country to search for missing people. Help desk for women An all-woman-help desk has been set up at the cyber police station in Lalbazar, where women complainants can seek assistance related to problems of cyber fraud, which they find it difficult to discuss with male officers. “Women and children often fall victim to online frauds. Many of them express their willingness to speak to women officers. The desk has been created to help such victims,” an officer said. Cyber labs A cyber lab has been set up in each of the nine police divisions to reduce the load on the cyber police station at Lalbazar. Till now all online frauds reported at the police stations across the city used to be forwarded to the cyber police station. On an average, around 200 cases of cyber offence are registered with the Calcutta police every year. However, the actual number of cases police receive is almost 20 times more. Many of the cases are solved before an FIR can be registered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Child rights panel calls for school reopening||The state commission for protection of child rights has recommended to the education department that schools be reopened for senior classes and students called to the campuses in a staggered way. The commission fears the inability to reopen schools soon could result in dropouts. All schools have been closed since March last year as a precaution against Covid-19 and classes are being held on digital platforms. “The majority of stakeholders stressed on the importance of reopening the schools immediately (specially Class IX and above) for the benefit of rural children, many of whom are drifting into child labour or are being forced into child marriage by their families,” the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights said in a statement issued on Friday. “Classes are to be held in staggered manner in shifts after taking certain precautions to handle children…,” the statement read. “It is important for schools to reopen, especially in rural areas or for the urban poor, because there is an apprehension that children will drop out or be married off,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborti, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Students need to go to school for practical classes,” said Chatterjee Chakraborti. The commission has stressed the need for the schools to be “cleaned and sanitised” before reopening. The commission sent the recommendations to the education department on Friday, a day after it held a meeting with school principals, members of the right to education forum, medical professionals and parents. Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools in Calcutta, who was present at the meeting, said staggered timings should be followed for entry and exit, as well as for lunch break. “There has to be a teacher on duty during break to ensure distancing,” she said. “Parents who attended the meeting said they should be told well in advance about reopening,” said Yashabanti Sreemany, a member of the commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Activists hit the streets in solidarity with farmers’ protests||Two demonstrations on Friday, one in the city and another in South 24-Parganas, called out the BJP-led central government for unleashing the state machinery on farmers protesting three contentious farm laws. A few hundred people marched from Moulali to Esplanade via SN Banerjee Road in the afternoon under the banner of “Bengal Against Fascist RSS-BJP”. The protesters shouted slogans in solidarity with the farmers in the capital. “We want to expose the RSS-BJP ploy to malign the farmers’ movement,” said Amitabha Bhattacharya, a convenor of the platform. Around 40km away, in South 24-Parganas’ Bhangar, another demonstration was under way. Over 500 farmers and residents of the area joined the protest against the farm laws and the citizenship thrust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet  inaugurated in Victoria Memorial Hall||Singer Kaushiki Chakraborty performs at the Eastern Quadrangle of the Victoria Memorial on Friday, the inaugural day of the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet in association with Victoria Memorial Hall and The Telegraph. At the inaugural session, poet Srijato shared his thoughts on the poetry of Jibanananda Das. The 10th edition of the festival is being live streamed on the Facebook page and YouTube channel of Kolkata Literary Meet. On Saturday, American naturalist, zookeeper and author Lee Durrell will discuss her husband Gerald Durrell’s Corfu trilogy with Sandip Roy; Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni will discuss her latest book The Last Queen with festival director Malavika Banerjee and Amitav Ghosh will introduce his new book Jungle Nama to the readers. The final day — Sunday — will see author Kevin Kwan discuss his new book Sex and Vanity and Chandril Bhattacharya focus on Satyajit Ray’s adaptation from book to screen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Sourav Ganguly shifted from critical care unit||Former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty on Thursday and got two stents implanted in coronary arteries, was shifted from the critical care unit to a private room on Friday. Sourav, 48, is likely to be discharged on Saturday or Sunday, officials at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, where he is admitted, said. “Sourav Ganguly is doing well. He has been shifted to a private room from the critical care unit,” a spokesperson for Apollo said on Friday. Hospital officials said Ganguly was having a normal diet and speaking to family members. “He is almost fit to go home. Doctors are planning to release him on Saturday or Sunday,” said a hospital official. A doctor said Sourav was expected to resume normal life soon. The BCCI president had complained of severe discomfort in the chest and got admitted to the Bypass hospital on Wednesday. On January 2, he had been admitted to Woodlands Hospital after suffering a heart attack at home. Investigations revealed he had three blockages in coronary arteries. An angioplasty was done to remove the blockage in one of the arteries. On Thursday, an angiography revealed that the blockages in the two other arteries had not reduced even though Sourav is on medication. So, doctors decided to perform angioplasty to remove the blockages. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana Health group, was present during the procedure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira charges reduced fees||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira in Belur has been charging reduced hostel and college fees since November because of the financial constraints students are facing amid the pandemic. The extent of reduction varies from 30 to 40 per cent on an average for undergraduate and postgraduate students. The partial waiver is likely to continue till in-person classes resume. A comparison with the fee structure in effect till October reveals that the monthly college fee for the third-year English (honours) students has been reduced from Rs 700 to Rs 500. The fee for the second-year students has been brought down from Rs 900 to Rs 600. The college fee for economics (honours) students has been reduced from Rs 900 to Rs 600. A second-year chemistry (honours) student has been paying Rs 1,000, instead of Rs 1,400, since November. Those who are in the third year are paying Rs 1,200, instead of Rs 1,800. The reduction has been extended to MA and MSc programmes as well. “The partial waiver was initially in force till January, but it has been extended till February because of the pandemic-induced economic hardship being faced by students and their families,” Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college, said on Friday. “A large number of our students come from economically weaker sections. They have been hit hard by the hardship. Even those from middle-class families have been hit hard. So, we have reduced the fees…. We are periodically reviewing the situation to decide on the continuation of the reduced fee structure.” Vice-principal Swami Mahaprajnananda said they had plans to continue with the reduced fees till the resumption of in-person classes. The monthly hostel fee for the third-year students has been reduced from Rs 1,100 to Rs 800, and for the second-year students from Rs 800 to Rs 600. For the second-year postgraduate students, the fee has been reduced from Rs 1,100 to Rs 800. Vidyamandira is an entirely residential college and the students have been attending classes on digital platforms since the start of lockdown from home. “Since the hostels have to be maintained and this incurs expenses, we are collecting the bare minimum hostel fees,” said Swami Ekachittananda. A number of institutes have reduced their fees in the wake of financial constraint brought on by the pandemic. The students of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, are not paying the mess advance and water and electricity charges this semester. The students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Durgapur, too, have been granted some fee relief. An official of Vidyamandira said many of their students depended on scholarships offered by the state government and the Centre and a reduction in fees would enable them to buy data packs for attending online classes. “No one knows when in-person classes will resume. So we thought fee reduction will help them attend classes on digital platforms,” the principal said. Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, reduced the hostel fees by over 50 per cent in April last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Class XI entry based on Class IX marks||Several schools affiliated to the ICSE council and the CBSE have started the admission process for Class XI but heads of the institutions said they were considering the report cards of Class IX and not of Class X. The results of the Class IX exams are “more reliable” because the students wrote the papers in school, a head said. Among the schools that are yet to start the admission process, some have decided to give weightage to Class IX marks or are considering holding tests. Usually, schools consider the Class X and the pre-board marks for provisional admission to Class XI. But pre-board exams are yet to be held in many schools and the online assessments throughout Class X are forcing schools to give more “weightage” to Class IX marks. “We consider the Class X first-term marks but this time we have taken into consideration Class IX marks. In Class X, there has not been any pen-and-paper exam and students may have taken the help of other devices,” said Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School. The school held a qualifying online test for math and conducted viva for the science subjects. At Loreto House, admission forms will be available from February. “We will not be giving much weightage to Class X marks,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations on Thursday told heads of schools to start the next academic year any time between the middle of March and the first week of June and delin-ked the commencement of the new school year from the Class X and XII board exams. Some of the schools, which interacted with students, have noticed stark differences between the Class IX final-term and Class X results. “We are considering Class IX marks and counselling students,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Don Bosco Park Circus will start the admission process in the end of February or beginning of March. “We will consider the marks of the Class IX exams, which were held in school, and not just the Class X marks,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. In many schools, the Class XI admission starts after the pre-boards and classes begin after the students finish the board exams. South Point has admitted their own students largely on the basis of their Class IX results and an eligibility test for some. “Every year, we give more weightage to Class X and a slight weightage to Class IX but this year it has been reversed,” said Krishna Dam-ani, a trustee of South Point. At Indus Valley World School, director Amita Prasad said Class IX results are “more reliable”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
30-01-2021||Calcutta||Covaxin consent form silent on efficacy||The consent form sent by the Centre for recipients of Covaxin does not mention that the data on the efficacy of the homegrown vaccine against Covid-19 is still pending, health department officials said. Recipients of Covaxin, which is still undergoing Phase III trial, have to sign the form before they are administered doses of the vaccine. The state health department will distribute copies of the forms to teaching hospitals where Covaxin shots are likely to be administered from Tuesday. The four venues in Calcutta selected so far are the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, School of Tropical Medicine, SSKM Hospital and the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. The consent form mentions that the recipient has read the Covaxin information sheet or been told about the content and has understood the “benefits and risks of the vaccination”. It says the recipient will be “entitled to medical management and compensation for serious adverse events related to the administration of this vaccine”. “We will send the forms to the venues where Covaxin doses will be administered, mostly likely from Tuesday. Prospective recipients will be given copies of the form on reaching the vaccination site. They will get time to read it. The jab will be given only if one signs the form,” an official of the health department said. The form, the official said, does not mention that efficacy data of Covaxin is still not available. An immunologist attached to a research institute under the central government told Metro that the form should clearly mention that Phase III trial results of Covaxin are pending. “The Phase III trial data, still unavailable, will show whether the vaccine will work against the disease for a considerable point of time. If consent is being taken before administering the vaccine, the recipients should be told clearly that the Phase III trial results are pending. The form should also mention phone numbers which a recipient can call if some serious adverse events develop after getting the jab,” said the immunologist, who did not want to be named. The fact sheet supplied with Covaxin mentions that the vaccine is undergoing efficacy trials. “A Phase III efficacy study is ongoing in 25,800 participants and administered with first dose of vaccination with Covaxin, no vaccine related adverse events were observed,” the document states. An official of the state health department said that the form, in English, was recently sent by the Centre. The state government will translate it into Bengali and other languages. Metro had on January 24 reported that the Centre had told state health department officials in a video conference that Covaxin recipients would have to sign a consent form before they are administered the doses. Recipients of Covishield, the other Covid vaccine granted emergency use approval in India, do not have to sign any consent form. Bengal has received 1.6 lakh Covaxin doses so far. The department has decided to conduct extensive awareness campaigns so that refusal to get Covaxin doses does not become a worrying point for them. “There are plans to run awareness campaigns through seminars, WhatsApp messages, and by involving different professional organisations, prior to the initiation of and during the Covaxin vaccination programme. The purpose is to remove the misconceptions and to allay anxiety surrounding Covaxin,” said Santanu Kumar Tripathi, former head of clinical pharmacology at the School of Tropical Medicine, who is a member of a committee formed by the state health department for Covid-19 vaccination. Frontline workers The health department also decided on Friday to begin vaccination of frontline workers from next week. So far only healthcare workers have been inoculated. “Among the frontline workers, police, municipal workers and revenue officials in the district magistrate’s office will be given priority,” said an official of the state health department. The inoculation of frontline workers will continue simultaneously with that of healthcare workers. “We will not wait for all healthcare workers to be vaccinated before we begin to vaccinate frontline workers. Frontline workers too will be called to the sites to receive doses from next week,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-158
30-01-2021||Business||Tata Motors posts 67% growth in net profit||Tata Motors on Friday beat Street estimates to post a 67 per cent growth in consolidated net profit for the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, as the demand situation improved amid a strong festive season and more preference for personal mobility. The auto maker posted a net profit of Rs 2,906.45 crore against Rs 1,738.30 crore in the same period of the previous year and a loss of Rs 314.45 crore in the preceding three months. Analysts were expecting Tata Motors to post net profits of around Rs 2,000 crore. The better-than-expected performance came as the global economy began to recover from the adverse effects of Covid-19, leading to a sequential sales improvement in its luxury car arm Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). Back home, a good festival season and people opting for personal mobility saw its passenger vehicle (PV) business posting its highest sales in the last 33 quarters. For the quarter, Tata Motors’ net revenues came in at Rs 75,654 crore, a rise of 5.5 per cent over the previous year’s Rs 71,676 crore. JLR saw a strong sequential recovery in retail sales across all the markets, except the UK, where the third quarter is seasonally weak. The revenues of JLR rose to £5.98 billion from £4.35 billion in the second quarter,  though it was lower than last year’s £6.40 billion. However, profit before tax came in at £439 million compared with £65 million in the previous quarter. Tata Motors said the business achieved strong positive free cash flows of £0.6 billion, reflecting the recovery in sales. During the period, retail sales were 128,469 vehicles, up 13.1 per cent over the preceding three months but still 9 per cent lower than pre-Covid levels a year ago. Sales in China were higher by 20.2 per cent against the prior quarter and 19.1 per cent over the year ago period. according to the company, most of the other regions also witnessed a sequential recovery though still below prior year. On a standalone basis, Tata Motors posted a strong performance with revenues rising 36 per cent over the same period of the previous year to Rs 14,507.50 crore. The company added that domestic passenger vehicle volumes were up 87.5 per cent. Losses here narrowed to Rs 600.54 crore against Rs 1212 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 1024 crore in the year ago period due to better volumes, improved product mix and cost savings. This was however offset partially by lower proportion of commercial vehicle in total sales, commodity inflation and financing costs. “The auto industry witnessed a strong sales momentum in the third quarter, driven by the pent-up demand and a steady recovery of the economy. We could leverage the improved demand by a consistent ramp-up of production, addressing supply chain bottlenecks... We improved our operational and financial performance by reducing costs, generating free cash flows, providing best in class customer experience. Despite the current global challenge of semiconductor supplies, we are confident of keeping our performance improvement on track in this quarter to close the year on a high for an even stronger play in 2021-22’’, Guenter Butschek, CEO and MD, Tata Motors, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
30-01-2021||Business||Swedish firm ends talks to buy Tata Steel's Dutch unit||Swedish steel maker SSAB has called off the potential acquisition of Tata Steel’s Dutch unit, citing technical and commercial reasons, dealing a fresh blow to the Indian company’s plans to restructure the European business and deleverage its balance sheet. The Swedish company said that it found that the proposed transaction, whereby Tata Steel was to sell the Ijmuiden plant in the Netherlands, would not be financially viable. Tata Steel had entered into a discussion for the sale of the the 7-million-tonne Dutch unit with SSAB in the middle of November 2020, which analysts had guided could fetch as much as $3 billion to the Indian company. Announcing the fourth quarter results on Friday, Martin Lindqvist, president and CEO of SSAB, said: “After deeper analysis and discussions, it became clear that there were limited possibilities to integrate IJmuiden into the framework of SSAB’s strategies.” He said the acquisition would be difficult for technical reasons as it ‘cannot be sufficiently certain’ that SSAB could implement its industrial plan with the preferred technical solutions as quickly as it would like to, given that Ijmuiden could not be aligned to SSAB’s ‘sustainability strategy’. Tata Steel, however, said the IJmuiden plant is among the most environmentally efficient and cost competitive steel producers in Europe. It said the company would stay on course to find a strategic solution to the European business. “Around two thirds of the business of Tata Steel is based in India with the best in class, highly cost competitive assets and strong cash flows and Tata Steel remains committed to undertake significant de-leveraging in FY21 and beyond,” the company said. The Tata Steel stock took a hit after it confirmed SSAB’s withdrawal from the talks. It came off by 3.26 per cent to close at Rs 601.15 while the benchmark BSE Sensex lost 1.26 per cent. In 2018, the company had to abort a potential merger of the entire European business, which also includes a 3 million tonne plant in the UK, with Germany’s Thyssenkrupp after failing to get a nod from European competition commission. SSAB suggested that the synergy benefit would outweigh the cost of transforming Ijmuiden into the company’s sustainable strategy. “Furthermore, the synergies that we saw in the transaction would not fully justify the costs required for transformation. This means that overall, the transaction would not meet our financial expectations,” the CEO said. The end of the talk would mean that Tata Steel would have to look for a new partner for the European business which has been a drag on the company’s balance sheet for the most part since 2007 when it acquired the business for 6.2 billion GBP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
30-01-2021||Business||IndusInd Bank net profit falls 34% on provisions||IndusInd Bank on Friday reported a 34 per cent fall in net profit at Rs 852.76 crore for the third quarter ended December 2020 because of a rise in provisions. The net profit stood at Rs 1,300.20 crore in the year-ago period. Provisions for credit and other losses increased to Rs 1,853.52 crore from Rs 1,043.45 crore in the same period of the previous year. Asset quality during the quarter was stable with gross NPA standing at 1.74 per cent of gross advances against 2.18 per cent as on December 31, 2019. Battery maker Exide Industries on Friday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 239.87 crore in the third quarter ended December 2020 on robust sales. The company had posted a consolidated PAT of Rs 118.15 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations during the quarter under review stood at Rs 4,196.53 crore against Rs 3,553.64 crore in the corresponding year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Essar CNG for Calcutta vehicles||Motorists in Calcutta will soon get access to clean fuel CNG (compressed natural gas) with two gas dispensing stations on the outskirts of the city getting ready for commission. A gas cascade mounted on a truck has been dispatched from Ranigunj on Friday which will supply fuel at the CNG stations coming up at Garia and Newtown, Rajarhat, kicking off the process of throwing open these facilities for public use. Essar Oil & Gas Exploration and Production Ltd (EOGEPL), the company which is operating a coal bed methane block at Ranigunj, east Burdwan, will initially supply CNG (natural gas compressed under 250 times of atmospheric pressure due to ease of transportation) to the stations which will be run by Bengal Gas Company Ltd. BGCL is a joint venture between GAIL (India) Ltd and Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Ltd (GCGSCL). While the central PSU GAIL holds a 74 per cent stake, GCGSCL, run by the Bengal government, holds 26 per cent. BGCL plans to set up 186 stations in six south Bengal districts — Calcutta, Howrah, North & South 24-Parganas, Hooghly and Nadia. It targets to set up at least 30 such CNG pumps by the end of this year. Santosh Chandra, CEO of EOGEPL, said the Ranigunj field is producing 6.5 lakh standard cubic metres per day (scmd) and the plan is to scale this up to 1 million scmd by the middle of the year. GAIL is building a pipeline linking the field’s produce to Calcutta. Once completed, the city will get cost-effective and a steady supply of the gas, which is less polluting than fossil fuel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business|| Sensex and Nifty buckle under selling pressure ||The Sensex and the Nifty buckled under selling pressure for the sixth session on the trot on Friday as the pre-budget economic survey failed to cheer investors amid continued selling by foreign funds and a bearish trend overseas. Both the benchmark indices fluctuated between gains and losses in a volatile session. The 30-share BSE Sensex crashed 588.59 points, or 1.26 per cent, to finish at 46285.77 — taking the six-session aggregate loss to 3506.35 points, or 7.04 per cent. Intra-day, the index swung 1263.20 points. The NSE Nifty fell 182.95 points, or 1.32 per cent, to settle at 13634.60. Over the last six days, the NSE barometer has shed 1010.10 points or 6.89 per cent. On the Sensex chart, 26 shares closed in the red. Analysts feel the continued pullback in domestic markets was mainly led by profit-booking ahead of the Union budget. “The pace of recovery in the US and Europe has slowed down, having implications on Indian exports and FII inflows. The Budget will be the key to provide strength and perform better compared to the rest of the world,” said Vinod Nair of Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Bad loan crisis in Indian banks blamed on UPA and its cohorts||Under-capitalisation of banks and the pernicious phenomenon of zombie lending (lending without due diligence) or ever-greening  (not recognising sticky assets) that led to the bad loan crisis in Indian banks has been blamed on the UPA and its cohorts who provided regulatory forbearance, thereby allowing lenders to conceal the magnitude of the problem. The Economic Survey 2020-21 cited this history as it made the case for implementing such reliefs as only a short-term or emergency measure and not to extend them after the economy recovers. The Survey also called for another round of asset quality review to clean up bank balance sheets after the withdrawal of the forbearance given by the RBI to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic. Regulatory forbearance is offered in the form of relaxing the norms for restructured assets. The relaxation may see these assets no longer being classified as stressed loans. The annual document, which devoted a chapter to regulatory forbearance, said the global financial crisis of 2008 had sparked the need for such a relaxation. However, the forbearance continued for seven years though it should have been discontinued in 2011, when GDP, exports, industrial output and credit growth had all recovered significantly. It added that amid the relaxed provisioning requirements, banks exploited the forbearance window to restructure loans even for unviable entities. The inflated profits were then used by the lenders to pay increased dividends to shareholders, including the government in the case of PSU banks. Consequently, banks became severely undercapitalised. This fostered risky lending practices. The views expressed in the Survey comes at a time when the Supreme Court has directed banks that accounts which were not declared non-performing asset (NPA) till  August 31, 2020 will not be declared as a bad loan till further orders. Moreover, the RBI had also announced a one-time restructuring scheme (which ended on December 31, 2020) under which banks can restructure assets without classifying them as bad loans. Here, the Economic Survey went on to say that forbearance represents emergency medicine that should be discontinued at the first opportunity when the economy exhibits recovery and that it should be used as ``a staple diet that gets continued for years’’. It also issued a veiled warning by using a quote from George Santayana as an epigraph to the chapter: “Those who do not learn from history are condemned to repeat it.” According to the Survey, by the time forbearance ended in 2015, restructuring had increased seven times while NPAs almost doubled when compared to the pre-forbearance levels. This led to the RBI, under former governor Raghuram Rajan initiating an AQR.  However, this review could not detect ever-greening of loans or bringing out all the hidden bad assets in the bank books, ultimately leading to episodes like that of Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank. ``A clean-up of bank balance sheets is necessary when the forbearance is discontinued... While the 2016 AQR exacerbated the problems in the banking sector, the lesson from the same is not that an AQR should not be conducted. Given the problem of asymmetric information between the regulator and the banks, which gets accentuated during the forbearance regime, an AQR exercise must be conducted immediately after the forbearance is withdraw’’, the Economic Survey suggested. It added that if done in the near future, the AQR must account for all the creative ways in which banks can ever-green their loans. Further, the regulator may consider penalties on bank auditors if ever-greening is discovered. In banking parlance, ever-greening happens when a bank gives fresh loan to a defaulter or a stressed borrower who then repays the old loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Union govt’s fiscal deficit soared to 145.5% of the budget estimate||The Union government’s fiscal deficit soared to Rs 11.58 lakh crore, or 145.5 per cent of the budget estimate, at the end of December 2020, mainly on account of lower revenue realisation. Revenue realisation was hit by disruptions in normal business activities following the coronavirus pandemic and a nationwide lockdown. According to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), the fiscal deficit at the end of December in the previous financial year was 132.4 per cent of the Budget Estimate (BE) of 2019-20. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit stood at Rs 11,58,469 crore at December-end. For the current fiscal, the government had pegged the fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore, or 3.5 per cent of the GDP, in the budget which was presented in February 2020. The fiscal deficit or gap between the expenditure and revenue had breached the annual target in July this year. According to the data, the government received Rs 11.21 lakh crore (50 per cent of corresponding BE 2020-21 of total receipts) up to December 2020. Of this, Rs 9,62,399 crore was tax revenue, Rs 1,26,181 crore was non-tax revenue and Rs 33,098 crore was non-debt capital receipts. Non-debt capital receipts consist of recovery of loans (Rs 14,202 crore) and divestment proceeds (Rs 18,896 crore). The total receipts till December 2020 works out to be 49.9 per cent of the BE. The receipts were 56.6 per cent of the BE 2019-20 at the end of December 2019. The CGA also said that Rs 3,71,640 crore has been transferred to state governments as devolution of share of taxes by the central government up to December 2020. The Centre’s total expenditure stood at Rs 22.80 lakh crore or 75 per cent of corresponding BE 2020-21. Of this, Rs 19,71,173 crore was on revenue account and Rs 3,08,974 crore was on capital account. Of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 4,72,171 crore was towards interest payments and Rs 2,27,352 crore is on account of major subsidies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||India slams rating agencies of bias||India on Friday  slammed the rating agencies of bias and buttressed its arguments with issues relating to defaults and debt that indicate the fiscal deficit for the fiscal is likely to be way off prudent levels, while an overseas bond issue may be back on agenda. “Never in the history of sovereign credit ratings has the fifth largest economy (India) in the world been rated as the lowest rung of the investment grade (BBB-/Baa3), the Economic Survey said. Reflecting the economic size and thereby the ability to repay debt, the fifth largest economy has been predominantly rated AAA. China and India are the only exceptions to this rule – China was rated A-/A2 in 2005 and now India is rated BBB-/Baa3. Do the fundamentals that supposedly drive sovereign credit ratings rationalise this historical anomaly? The attack on ratings signifies the fiscal deficit will be higher in 2020-21 — possibly at over 7 per cent against the budgeted 3.5 per cent or Rs 7.96 lakh crore — and will stay elevated next year. This implies a break from the trajectory of FRBM targets. Besides, the government is likely to reconsider a sovereign bond flotation, which finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had spoken of in her first budget. “India’s sovereign ratings do not reflect the fundamentals of the Indian economy. Ratings methodology needs correction. Ratings basically reflect the probability of default which corresponds to willingness to repay or ability to repay. India’s willingness to repay is gold standard. India has never defaulted even in 1991,” the Survey said. Our ability to repay is also very very high,” Subramanian said. Pointing towards India's bulging foreign exchange reserves to make the case for a significant ratings upgrade, he said the reserves currently stand at $585 billion, which is close to all time highs. "To understand whether our reserves cover our debt, we need to take into account private sector debt. Our short term debt, a default by India is a 0.1 percent probability event," he said. "Our total debt obligation in foreign exchange, the amount is less than reserves. Which is why India should have the highest rating. And that is one of the reasons why our stock markets do not react to (adverse) credit ratings changes." As the fiscal deficit is likely to sour in the next fiscal year too and the country would need global funds for its infrastructure and economic growth, the economic survey in an aggressive stance on the rating agencies slammed them for not reflecting the strong economic fundamentals of India and accused them of bias. The chief economic adviser K. V. Subramanian has hit out against sovereign ratings agencies in the Survey 2020-21 means that the fiscal deficit will be higher in 2020-21 (possibly at over 7 per cent against the budgeted 3.5 per cent or Rs 7.96 lakh crore) and will stay elevated next year. \This implies that it would be a break from the trajectory of FRBM targets, which may be justifiable because of the Covid impact. “India’s sovereign ratings do not reflect the fundamentals of Indian economy. Ratings methodology needs correction,”Subramanian said. “Ratings basically reflect the probability of default which corresponds to willingness to repay or ability to repay. India’s willingness to repay is gold standard. India has never defaulted even in 1991. Our ability to repay is also very very high,” the adviser added. Pointing towards India’s bulging foreign exchange reserves to make the case for a significant ratings upgrade, he said the reserves currently stand at $585 billion, which is close to all time highs. “To understand whether our reserves cover our debt, we need to take into account private sector debt. Our short term debt, a default by India is a 0.1 percent probability event,” Subramanian said. "Our total debt obligation in foreign exchange, the amount is less than reserves. Which is why India should have the highest rating. And that is one of the reasons why our stock markets do not react to (adverse) credit ratings changes."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||Business||Union  Budget 2021: economy projected to grow 11%||The Indian economy is set to expand 11 per cent in the next fiscal 2021-22 after a contraction of 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal on the back of a vaccination drive and robust consumer demand, according to the Economic Survey for 2020-21 tabled in Parliament on Friday. However, it will take at least two years before the economy returns to the pre-pandemic growth path. The Survey says the contraction in the Indian economy this year will be the fourth since 1960-61. “The contraction in 1965-66 and 1971-72 coincided with wars and droughts while the year 1979-80 was associated with a severe drought and political instability,” the report said. The common thread in those years was a steep fall in agriculture output. However, that hasn’t happened this fiscal because of abundant monsoons, which means that the agriculture sector has emerged as a “silver lining for the economy”. The NSO has forecast farm sector growth of 3.4 per cent this year against 4 per cent in 2019-20. The Survey said at the end of 2021-22, India’s real gross domestic product (GDP) in absolute terms would be 2.4 per cent -- better than what it was in 2019-20. The Survey forecast a V-shaped economic recovery which was predicated on a robust recovery in the services sector, consumption and investment. The projection of 11 per cent growth next fiscal over the smaller base this fiscal is in line with the IMF’s forecast of 11.5 per cent growth. India is expected to emerge as the fastest growing economy in the next two years according to the IMF, the Survey noted. It also projected that in nominal terms, India’s GDP would expand 15.4 per cent in 2021-22, implying a retail inflation of 4.4 per cent. The nominal GDP assumption would be the highest since Independence. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra, said: “The Survey’s forecasts of real and nominal GDP growth for 2021-22 of 11 per cent and 15.4 per cent, respectively, will require a substantial push from central and state spending.” Private sector capacity expansion announcements are anticipated to be intermittent, and sector-specific in the next couple of quarters, she said. “Moreover, private consumption is likely to chart a differentiated recovery across income and age groups.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
30-01-2021||India||Delhi Police receive 1,700 videos related to R-Day violence||The Delhi Police has received 1,700 video clips and CCTV footage from public so far related to the violence during farmers' Republic Day tractor rally and is taking help from forensic experts to analyse the material and identify the culprits, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) B K Singh said on Saturday. Singh said the Crime Branch, which is investigating the nine cases related to the violence including at the Red Fort and ITO, is also examining dump data of mobile phone calls and registration numbers of tractors. He said a team from the National Forensic Sciences University has been called to analyse the video clips and CCTV footage related to the violence that left 394 police personnel injured and one protester dead. On Friday, the Delhi Police had issued an appeal in leading newspapers asking people to share any evidence or information about the violence. "After our appeal, Delhi Police has received 1,700 video clips and CCTV footage from public related to the violence that took place during the tractor parade on Republic Day. Through videos, we will identify culprits who indulged in the violence," Singh told PTI. He said that investigators are also analysing footage and photos taken from drone-mounted cameras and carrying out 3D mapping of the area vandalised at the Red Fort. A team of forensic experts on Saturday visited the Red Fort to collect samples. Delhi witnessed violence during the January 26 tractor rally organised by protesting farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. In its appeal, the Delhi Police said, "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com." (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Security beefed up at Singhu border a day after violence||Security has been increased on Saturday at Delhi’s Singhu border as several barricades have been put up, a day after violence erupted during a demonstration by 'locals' against agitating farmers.Presence of increased security personnel was also observed in the area. The venue on the GT Karnal road, one of the major protest sites, also had a thinner presence than previous days even though protesting farmers asserted that it was "swelling" with more people from Punjab and Haryana coming to join them. The entry to the farmers' protest venue was closely guarded by police and para military personnel with even mediapersons finding it difficult to reach there. A senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said "There is a blanket order not to allow free movement across the protest site in view of yesterday's violent protest as any mischief could aggravate the situation." Police fired tear gas and baton-charged on Friday to break up a clash between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border. A police officer had sustained serious injury when attacked by a man carrying a sword. The GT Karnal road leading to the protest site at Singhu border was blocked with five layers of barricades erected by using concrete blocks, that were manned by large numbers of police and para military personnel. The final barricade near a toll booth at Singhu border was further buttressed with inland containers and concrete blocks and soil was being dumped there to prevent movement of vehicles. Even a street along the highway was dug up to 8-10 feet and rimmed with concrete blocks to prevent any vehicular movement to and from the farmers' protest venue. The protesting farmers expressed their resolve to continue the agitation against the Centre's farm laws, saying it will gather momentum in the coming days. "The presence of farmers had dipped after the incident of violence and vandalism on Republic Day but now more are coming from Punjab and Haryana to join in," said a protester from Patiala refusing to be named. Randhir Singh, a social activist from Nabha said the farmers were determined to continue their struggle against the farm laws till the Centre repealed it. The 'langars' at the protest site were seen to be less crowded, as umbrella organisation of the protesting farmers- Samyukta Kisan Morcha- had given call for a one day fast to observe Sadbhavna Divas (Harmony day) on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Myntra to change logo after complaint it is 'offensive' to women||Fashion e-tailer Myntra has decided to change its log following a complaint by a Mumbai-based activist, who alleged that the brand’s signage was offensive to women. Sources close to the company confirmed the development and said Myntra is changing the logo across its website, app and packaging material. Myntra did not respond to queries. The complaint had been lodged last month with the cyber cell in Mumbai. “A complainant (woman) had approached the cyber crime police station in the matter. We called a meeting with Myntra following the complaint, they (Myntra) came and agreed to change the logo. They have sent an email as well on the same,” DCP Rashmi Karandikar of Mumbai Police’s Cyber Crime Department said. In a tweet, Avesta Foundation said, “Congratulations to our founder. She did what apparently seemed impossible. Thank you everyone for your support. We’re overwhelmed by the response. Kudos to @myntra for addressing the concerns and respecting the sentiments of millions of women”. However, the matter has drawn a mixed response from netizens. While some welcomed the company’s decision to change the logo, many said such demands seemed whimsical. Myntra is one of the largest fashion retailers in the country. During its End of Reason Sale last month, it sold 11 million items while catering to more than 5 million orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||BJP scripted R-Day violence with Delhi Police’s help, claims AAP||The violence that took place during the tractor parade on January 26 was scripted by the BJP with the help of Delhi Police to “defame and discredit” the farmers’ movement, the Aam Aadmi Party claimed on Saturday. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj called BJP leaders the “greatest anti-nationals” and demanded that cases of sedition must be filed against them and probed by the NIA. An immediate reaction was not available from the BJP. “Police and BJP together scripted the violence of January 26 and the days after. This script was prepared by the BJP with the help of Delhi Police to defame and discredit the farmers’ movement,” the AAP leader claimed. He said on January 26, BJP agent Deep Sidhu was allowed by the Delhi police to start his march to enter Delhi much before the farmers. “On BJP's instructions, the Delhi police allowed this person to reach and vandalise the Red Fort. The BJP and the Delhi police also allowed this person to hoist a flag of Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort and to create a ruckus,” Bhardwaj claimed. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. The AAP leader claimed that “BJP goons” on Saturday attacked the farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders and were not local residents. “To push their divisive agenda, the BJP set up this script. Immediately after the event, if you see the chronology, you will understand how the events unfolded. “Suddenly some people arrive and talk about some Panchayat where a decision was taken to push these protestors out of the borders. I am from Delhi but I have not heard about any such panchayat from the local people who want the farmers to leave the borders,” he said. He said,”Yesterday these so-called local people reached the Singhu and Tikri border and assaulted the farmers. The police have barricaded these borders. Despite that, how can these people reach the protest venue?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Govt offer on farm laws still stands, says Modi at all-party meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told floor leaders of various political parties that his government's offer on agri laws made to protesting farmers "still stands" and it was a "phone call away" for talks, days after violence broke out in parts of the national capital on Republic Day. Addressing these leaders at the customary all-party meeting convened by the government for the smooth conduct of the Budget Session, the Prime Minister, responding to the references by Opposition leaders about the "unfortunate incident" on Republic Day, said that the "law will take its own course". Sharing the details of the meeting chaired by Modi and attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "The Prime Minister assured that the Centre is approaching the farmers issue with an open mind." "The Prime Minister said the Centre's stand is same as it was on January 22, the last meeting between the protesting farmers and the Centre and proposal given by Agriculture Minister on the farm laws still stands. Modiji reiterated what Tomarji had said - that he (Narendra Singh Tomar) is phone call away for talks," Joshi said quoting Modi. Emphasising on the need for the smooth functioning of Parliament, Modi said smaller parties suffer the most due to disruptions as they do not get chance to raise their issues. "It is for the bigger parties to ensure Parliament functions smoothly, there are no disruptions and thus, the smaller parties are able to voice their views in Parliament," Joshi said citing Modi's remarks. The all-party meeting is convened for the government to put forth its legislative agenda before political parties. Leaders from various parties flag issues they wish to raise during the meeting. The Prime Minister also condemned the vandalism of Mahatma Gandhi's statue in California in the US, the parliamentary affairs minister said. At Friday's meeting, various leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad of Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamool Congress, Balwinder Singh Bhunder of Shiromani Akali Dal and Vinayak Raut of Shiv Sena raised the issue of protesting farmers, sources said. All major Opposition parties sought discussions on farmers' issues during the meeting. While almost all Opposition parties condemned the violence and vandalism at Red fort by a group of protesting farmers on Republic Day, they asserted that other farmers protesting peacefully should not be held responsible for it. Meanwhile, the BJD demanded the passage of women's reservation bill during the budget session which was supported by the YSR Congress and the TRS. TMC's Bandyopadhyay said boycott of President's address by 20 Opposition parties was a strong message for the government to withdraw the farm laws, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Delhi blast: Police team finds most CCTVs non-functional||Investigators probing the minor blast near the Israeli Embassy have not come across "anything concrete" yet as most of the CCTV cameras near the site of the explosion were "non-functional" at the time of incident, official police sources said on Saturday. An investigation team of Delhi Police's Special Cell had earlier in the day visited the site near the embassy to collect more evidence as part of its ongoing probe, sources said, adding that it managed to get access to footage from some of the CCTV cameras in the area. "We have recovered some CCTV footage but have not obtained anything concrete yet as most of the CCTV cameras in the area near the embassy are non-functional," an official source said. Earlier, footage retrieved from CCTV cameras showed a vehicle moving suspiciously near the embassy just before the explosion, sources said. Another source said that forensic experts have also collected some samples from the crime scene that will ascertain the chemical composition used in the low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED). Official sources said ball bearings seized from the spot were found scattered on the ground and the impact of the explosion was felt within a radius of 20-25 metres. The minor blast took place on Friday evening in a high-security zone of the national capital. No one was injured. An envelope addressed to the Israeli Embassy and containing a note was found at the site of the blast, sources had said. A case has been registered and the Delhi Police's Special Cell is investigating the matter. Initial investigations revealed that the IED was planted in a flower pot on the median near Jindal House on A P J Abdul Kalam road outside the Israeli embassy, sources said on Friday. A 10-member team from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) had on Friday visited the blast site and collected residues which include metallic swab and ball bearings. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava too had visited the site in the evening and took stock of the situation. All materials seized from the spot have been handed over to the investigating officer of the Delhi Police, a source said. "We are yet to receive the samples collected from the spot. Once the investigating officer submits the samples conclusively, we will be sending them to our explosives team. Only a chemical test will help us identify the exact composition of the samples," FSL sources said. The blast took place when President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were present a few kilometres away at the Beating Retreat ceremony at the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. The explosion took place on a day when India and Israel marked the completion of the 29th anniversary of establishment of their diplomatic relations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||R- Day breach: forensics team at Red Fort||A team of forensic experts on Saturday visited the Red Fort to collect evidence in connection with the violence that broke out at the iconic monument on Republic Day. Thousands of protesting farmers had breached the monument on January 26 after deviating from their tractor rally route triggering a conflict with the police. The Crime Branch of Delhi Police is investigating the matter and several teams have been formed to identify the culprits. The force has termed the vandalisation at the fort as an "anti-national act". "A team of forensic experts visited Red Fort and it is collecting evidence," an official said. The protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Around 50 police personnel were injured. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. On Friday, the Delhi Police had issued an appeal in leading newspapers asking people to share any evidence or information about the violence. "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com," the appeal stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||MHA orders suspension of internet at Delhi borders||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has temporarily suspended internet services at the Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders, where farmers have been protesting against the new agri laws, an official said on Saturday. Apart from the three borders of Delhi, internet services will remain suspended in their adjoining areas too.This will be effective from 11 pm of January 29 to 11 pm of January 31, the official said. The decision has been taken to “maintain public safety and averting public emergency” under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017, the official said. In a notification quoted by NDTV, the home ministry said, “...it is necessary and expedient to order the temporary suspension of internet services in the areas of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 11 pm on January 29 to 11 pm on January 31.” On Friday, the Haryana government has also suspended internet services in as many as 17 districts till 5 pm. These restrictions come after January 26, when large scale violence was reported during the farmers’ tractor rally, internet services were temporarily suspended in some parts of Delhi. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the “conspiracy” behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Collegium rescinds nod to 'skin verdict' judge of Bombay HC ||The Supreme Court Collegium is understood to have withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment of an additional judge of the Bombay High Court, Justice P V Ganediwala, as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases. The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a source said. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make skin-to-skin contact and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act. On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent. The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge. In two other judgments this month, Justice Ganediwala acquitted two men accused of raping minor girls after noting that the testimonies of the victims did not inspire confidence to fix criminal liability on the accused. "No doubt the testimony of the prosecutrix (victim) is sufficient for conviction of the accused. However, the same ought to inspire confidence of this court. It ought to be of sterling quality," she said in one of the judgments. Justice Pushpa Virendra Ganediwala was born on March 3, 1969 at Paratwada in Maharashtra's Amravati district. She was a panel advocate for various banks and insurance companies and was also an honorary lecturer in various colleges of Amravati and gave lectures to the MBA and LLM students of the Amravati University. She was directly appointed as a district judge in 2007 and was elevated as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court on February 13, 2019. Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Farm leaders on day-long fast on Gandhi's death anniversary||Farmer leaders agitating against the Centre's new agri laws are observing 'Sadbhavana Diwas' on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary on Saturday and holding a day-long fast at the various protest sites. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of farmer unions -- said the ongoing agitation will gain strength as farmers in large numbers will join them in coming days. During a press conference on Friday, the leaders slammed the ruling BJP at the Centre and accused it of trying to "destroy" their "peaceful" agitation. The farmer leaders claimed that the number of agitators at all the protest venues including Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders is swelling after the police allegedly tried to remove farmer leader Rakesh Tikait from Ghazipur border on Thursday night. Tikait’s emotional outburst in the face of an eviction order and massive force deployment led to a spontaneous mobilisation of people from several hundred miles away through the night. By Friday morning, a depleted and dispirited protest site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border was throbbing with a much bigger and boisterous crowd, ever more resolved to stand up to any bullying tactics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||President, PM pays tribute to Gandhi on his death anniversary||The nation on Saturday remembered Mahatma Gandhi on his 73rd death anniversary with President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi leading the country in paying homage to the Father of the Nation. President Kovind, Vice President Naidu, Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, among others, also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat in Delhi. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day. Paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Kovind said people should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means, and humility. "On behalf of a grateful nation, my humble tributes to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi who embraced martyrdom this day. We should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means and humility. Let us resolve to follow his path of truth and love," he tweeted. On Twitter, Naidu shared a quote of Mahatma Gandhi - "Ahimsa is the highest duty. Even if we cannot practice it in full, we must try to understand its spirit and refrain as far as is humanly possible from violence." "Gandhiji was a crusader of peace, non-violence & selfless service. Both, through his words and actions, he left an indelible imprint on the sands of time. He inspired countless people worldwide to follow the path of ahimsa," Naidu said. "Mahatma Gandhi worked relentlessly for the uplift of the vulnerable sections, downtrodden and socially backward. Gandhiji's glorious life and principles continue to inspire the entire world. As we remember him, let us emulate his teachings and resolve to follow the path shown by him," he said in another tweet. Paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi, Modi said his ideals continue to motivate millions "Tributes to the great Bapu on his Punya Tithi. His ideals continue to motivate millions. On Martyrs' Day we recall the heroic sacrifices of all those great women and men who devoted themselves towards India's freedom and the well-being of every Indian," he said in a tweet. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, saying his principles of truth and non-violence are still relevant through which any struggle for rights can be won. "Truth, non-violence, patience, bravery and 'Satyagrah'. These principles of Gandhiji that rendered ineffective bigger powers are relevant even today, through which any struggle for rights can be won," he tweeted in Hindi. In his tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on Twitter, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a quote of the Father of the Nation - "Truth stands, even if there be no public support. It is self-sustained". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi, remembering that he had said the "ruler who defies public opinion is cruel and any unjust law is a form of violence in itself". "Gandhiji was killed with the purpose of killing his ideas. But Gandhiji's 'Satyagraha' is the strength of the whole country and it is our responsibility," she tweeted in Hindi. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, "We must never forget the forces that assassinated the Father or the Nation - Mahatma Gandhi. The ideology of hate and fratricide that killed him will never be allowed to succeed." "Its inheritors will be fought and pushed back," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||India logs more than 13,000 cases, 137 casualties in a day||With 13,083 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,33,131, while 1,04,09,160 patients have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.98 per cent, the health ministry said on Saturday. The viral disease has claimed 137 more lives in the country in a span of 24 hours and the death toll now stands at 1,54,147, it added. There are 1,69,824 active coronavirus cases in the country currently, which account for only 1.58 per cent of the total number of cases, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent, it stated. According to the ICMR, a total of 19,58,37,408 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 7,56,329 on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and the 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The 137 latest fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 22 from Kerala, 11 from Punjab, seven from West Bengal, six from Delhi and four from Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 1,54,147 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,000, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,345), Karnataka (12,211), Delhi (10,841), West Bengal (10,155), Uttar Pradesh (8,646), Andhra Pradesh (7,152), Punjab (5,601) and Gujarat (4,385). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Delhi experiences slight rise in minimum temperature||The minimum temperature in the national capital rose slightly to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday, but is likely to dip again on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department said. Cold wave conditions had prevailed in Delhi on Friday with the minimum temperature settling at 4 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. A cold wave is predicted on Sunday, too. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barrelling through the plains, the IMD said. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Kunal Kamra to SC: No one beyond criticism||Comedian Kunal Kamra has told the Supreme Court in an affidavit that “to believe any institution of power in a democracy is beyond criticism is like saying migrants need to find their way back home during an ill-planned, nationwide lockdown: it is irrational and undemocratic”. The affidavit was filed in response to a notice asking why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for his tweets about the judiciary. Excerpts: “Some people who did not find my tweets funny have approached this court seeking that I be prosecuted…. “I believe there need be no defence for jokes. Jokes are based on a comedian’s perception, which they use to make the audience that shares that perception laugh. These jokes are not reality, and don’t claim to be so. Most people do not react to jokes that don’t make them laugh; they ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics.” Kamra’s affidavit continued: “Through my work, I attempt to abide by comedy’s tenet of comforting the afflicted, and afflicting the comfortable. “Take for instance the joke ‘Behind every successful Indian businessman there is a nationalised bank’. The humour attempts to blunt the grimness of the situation, and offers a measure of comfort to the afflicted, including the families of citizens who find themselves unable to withdraw their hard-earned money from their bank accounts. “Jokes like these at best make the comfortable squirm in their plush chairs, even as they sit secure in the knowledge that a joke cannot make the heavens fall. “My tweets were not published with the intention of diminishing the faith of the people in the highest court of our democracy…. The suggestion that my tweets could shake the foundations of the most powerful court in the world is an overestimation of my abilities. “Just as the Supreme Court values the faith the public places in it (and seeks to protect it by the exercise of its criminal contempt jurisdiction), it should also trust the public not to form its opinions of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter. The public’s faith in the judiciary is found(ed) on the institution’s own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it…. “Judges of our constitutional court are amongst the most powerful people in our country. They have extraordinary powers over the fundamental rights and lives of citizens of this country, and their office and tenure are constitutionally protected to shield them from political interference. “However, I believe that constitutional offices — including judicial offices — know no protection from jokes. I do not believe that any high authority, including judges, would find themselves unable to discharge their duties only on account of being the subject of satire or comedy. “Irreverence and hyperbole are essential tools for the comedic enterprise. A comic raises questions on issues of public interest in their own unique way. The language and style I resort to are not with the intention of insult, but to draw attention to and prompt an engagement with issues that I believe are relevant to our democracy and which have also been raised in the public domain by more serious and learned commentators. “Comedy does not permit an artist the luxury of articulating the basis of jokes through long, nuanced essays or measured prose. Brevity… continues to be the soul of comedy (and Twitter — with its 280 character limit)…. “We are witnessing an assault on the freedom of speech and expression, with comedians like Munawar Farooqi being jailed for jokes that they have not even made, and school students being interrogated for sedition. “At such a time, I hope that this court will demonstrate that the freedom of speech and expression is a cardinal constitutional value, and recognise that the possibility of being offended is a necessary incident to the exercise of this right. “Should powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism, we would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs. If this court believes I have crossed a line and wants to shut down my Internet indefinitely, then I too will write Happy Independence Day postcards every 15th August, just like my Kashmiri friends.” In the affidavit filed on Thursday, Kamra said he would respect the court’s decision. “I will not vilify this bench or the Supreme Court in this matter specifically because that would actually be contempt of court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Kisan Parade: diversion allegation to lead marchers towards Red Fort||A group of Calcuttans who had driven to Delhi to participate in the Kisan Parade on Republic Day have alleged the police set up “selective barricades” on the designated routes to “divert” marchers towards the Red Fort. The Calcuttans saw police barricades in at least two places that they said were part of the scheduled routes for the tractor rally: under a footbridge near the Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara and near Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi, some 3km from the Tikri border. “The police stopped the marchers from proceeding along the designated routes. This infuriated many participants, some of whom then headed towards the Red Fort,” said Ranjit Singh, 51. “The rallies had thousands of participants, and those at the tail were confused about the directions. In hindsight, it seems to have been a ploy by the police to instigate chaos and violence.” Ranjit and his group of 19 had left Calcutta in four cars on January 24 and reached Singhu on Tuesday morning. They returned to Calcutta on Friday evening. Around noon on Republic Day, a rally from the Singhu border that the group was part of reached the Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara only to be met with police barricades. The rally had hundreds of tractors and thousands of marchers, among them elderly men and women, Ranjit said. The Calcuttans were in their cars at the rear of the march. “The marchers asked the police why the route had been barricaded. There was a heated argument that led to a brawl. Some of the marchers at the head of the rally broke through the barricade and headed towards the Red Fort, around 6km from the gurdwara,” Ranjit said. He spoke of “a massive police deployment” on a footbridge at the spot and the road below. “As soon as the clash started, the cops started firing smoke canisters from the bridge,” Ranjit said. The alleged police assault prompted the members of the Calcutta contingent to leave the site and join another rally, coming from the Tikri border. A large police team met the rally near Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi. “The marchers were supposed to take a U-turn from the site and head back towards the Tikri border. But the police set up barricades before they could take the U-turn,” said Inderdeep Singh, 30, resident of Deodar Street in Ballygunge. “The angry marchers broke the barricades. Within minutes, the police came charging in.” A short clip shared by Ranjit, taken apparently from a flyover at Nangloi Chowk, shows thousands of marchers on the road below, some on tractors, cars or two-wheelers and some walking barefoot. A large number of Tricolours are seen fluttering. The high-decibel slogans against the Narendra Modi government are halted by scores of marauding policemen in riot gear, who are seen charging in and wielding their batons to disperse the protesters. The Calcuttans returned to the Singhu border in the evening. Internet connectivity was suspended at most places in Delhi for most of the day. But word spread soon that television and social media were highlighting the Red Fort breach and the violence rather than the largely peaceful movement. “Many of the farmers were bruised. But they were more hurt by the attempts to malign the movement. They also rued the role of the agents the government had planted to discredit the campaign,” Ranjit said. While accepting moral responsibility and regretting the violence and the breach of the Red Fort, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — under whose banner the tractor rally was held — has accused the Modi-Shah duopoly of orchestrating the violence through their agents to defame the movement. Members of the Calcutta group said they would take back memories of the goodwill and friendship they witnessed among the protesters rather than those of the sporadic violence. They said they had received a warm welcome at the Singhu border, with the farmers elated at receiving moral support from “Bangaal”. “We spent close to 48 hours at the Singhu border. We saw hundreds of residents — auto drivers, labourers and street dwellers — eating at the langars. Nobody who came to Singhu went back hungry,” said Ravi Saha, another member of the Calcutta group. An octogenarian woman from Punjab won his heart in particular. “She had been camping at Singhu for days. Every day, she would prepare rotis for hundreds of people,” Saha, a trader in fans and their spare parts, said. He said the woman told him: “My time is nearly up, but I cannot desert the fight for the future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Groups chanting 'goli maaro…' attack farmers at Singhu border||Groups chanting “goli maaro…” attacked farmers at the Singhu border on Friday, demanding they vacate the protest site because they had “insulted” the national flag on Republic Day, as policemen stood watching. One of the men in the group had the Tricolour crumpled up in his fist as he charged towards the farmers. The men, who claimed to be Singhu residents, wielded sticks and threw stones at the protesters, who have been sitting on a peaceful dharna on Delhi’s borders for two months to seek the repeal of three new farm laws. “They are not locals but hired goons. They were throwing stones and petrol bombs at us. They attempted to burn down our trolleys also,” PTI quoted farmer Harkirat Mann Beniwal, 21, as saying. The attack came a day after farmers at Ghazipur thwarted an eviction attempt. A group claiming to be locals chanted slogans against the protesters at Tikri too. The chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally, when some protesters clashed with police and a group hoisted the Nishan Sahib and a peasant union flag on an empty flag pole at Red Fort, had eroded public support for the movement and demoralised the farmers. But the heavy-handed action at Ghazipur border, where the administration cut off water and power supply and ordered the protesters to vacate, and Friday’s attack at Singhu where the so-called locals chanted the slogan “goli maaro… (shoot them down)” that was the clarion call for the Delhi riots last year have angered the farmers, instead of cowing them down, and infused new energy into the movement. These have also encouraged farmer union leaders to name the RSS-BJP as the villains. Union leader Yudhveer Singh said: “We do not need lectures on nationalism from those who had refused to hoist the national flag at their headquarters till some years ago. Farmers send their children to the border to fight and have received their bodies draped in the Tricolour.” Until now, most union leaders had been careful about only discussing the farm laws and not getting into the politics, but the “conspiracy” to malign them and weaken their movement appears to have forced a change in stand. According to the union leaders, the government and the BJP-RSS were not only trying to sabotage the farmers’ movement, but were also attempting to divide the farming community along religious lines. Alleging that a group had held a protest at Gurdwara Sis Ganj in Chandni Chowk, veteran union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the government was trying to turn this into a “Hindu-Sikh” issue. Some of the union leaders admitted the ploy had almost worked after the Nishan Sahib was hoisted at the Red Fort and BJP leaders flooded social media with pictures. Some people falsely alleged that the Tricolour had been displaced. The Haryana contingent of farmers was apparently upset, seeing it as a bid by the Sikh farmers to give the protest a communal colour. But the crackdown on Ghazipur on Thursday pushed back these concerns as farmers once again felt the need to rally together. On Thursday night, two BJP MLAs from Ghaziabad had been seen at the Ghazipur border with a group of “locals”, demanding that the farmers vacate the site. At Singhu, the “locals” were able to enter the protest arena despite additional barricading since Thursday, and threw stones at the protesters in front of the police. This triggered a retaliation. The large police force eventually intervened, firing tear smoke canisters and resorting to a lathicharge. Delhi police station house officer Pradeep Paliwal was left with a bleeding hand when he intervened in a clash between a sword-wielding protester and the alleged locals. A police officer said some farmers and policemen had been injured. The police have detained 43 people, including the man wielding the sword. Although the crowd of “locals” did not have any known face of the BJP, their slogans were similar. “Goli maaro” was a slogan some BJP leaders had chanted last year. As the call to proceed towards Delhi spread like wildfire, the Haryana administration ordered a clampdown on Internet services across the state till Saturday evening, drawing criticism from the farmers who see it as yet another part of government repression against them as it comes in the face of attempts to cut off facilities to the protest sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi asks farmers not to yield an inch to govt coercion||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday warned the government against using conspiracies and coercion to break the farmers’ resolve as the entire country was supporting their cause and urged the peasants not to yield an inch. After boycotting the presidential address to the joint session of Parliament and demonstrating in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue along with other Opposition MPs, Rahul told a media conference: “You cannot frighten the farmers by deployment of forces, arranging stone-pelting and hatching conspiracies to defame them. The entire country is standing with them. What is being done to the farmers is absolutely criminal. You are beating them, you are threatening them, you are bullying them, and you are trying to discredit them.” Insisting that nothing except scrapping of the three new farm laws would solve the crisis, Rahul said: “The government needs to talk to the farmers. It needs to give a solution to the farmers and the only solution, as I have said again and again and again, is repealing these laws and throwing them into the waste-paper basket. The government must not think that the farmers will go home. My concern is that this situation is going to spread. We do not need this situation to spread; that will be bad for the country.” Asked about the Red Fort fiasco during the tractor rally on Republic Day, the Congress leader said: “Who allowed those people to enter the Red Fort? Is it not the task of the home ministry to ensure nobody entered the Red Fort? Who is responsible? Ask the home minister what was the idea behind allowing them.” In response to another question on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the farm protest, Rahul said: “As I have said in a speech in Kerala, this is the biggest transfer of wealth from the largest number of people to the smallest number of people. You have seen what happened during Covid. During Covid, the poor have got poorer and a handful of rich people, five-six rich people have just got richer and richer. This anger that you are seeing among the farmers, this is that anger that five people, seven people have everything, we have nothing. What belonged to us is also being snatched. Modi works for these five-six persons. He did note-bandi for them, GST for them. He is now destroying the farmers. What will he say?” Rahul urged the farmers not to yield an inch and assured them that the entire Opposition was standing with them. “So far, the farmers of every state haven’t fully understood the depth of the crisis. The Prime Minister must not presume this movement will end. This will spread to unemployed youths. This will cause huge damage. Scrap the laws now. This instability is not good for the country,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind defends farm laws in Parliament||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday defended the new farm laws as beneficial for the majority and condemned the “dishonouring” of the Tricolour and Republic Day, making an oblique allusion to the farmers’ tractor rally. Addressing the customary joint sitting of Parliament on the first day of the budget session, Kovind spoke at length on the farm sector as the government benches thumped their desks and the few Opposition MPs present protested. Most Opposition parties had boycotted the President’s address in protest at the government’s “insensitive” treatment of the agitating farmers. Some MPs such as former BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal, Congress member Ravneet Singh and Aam Aadmi Party members chanted slogans and demanded the repeal of the new farm laws. Punjab MP Ravneet, whose party boycotted the event, wanted to be present to register his protest. Seated in the Central Hall, he chanted “Jai kisan, jai jawan (Hail the farmer, hail the soldier)” in the middle of the President’s address and demanded the withdrawal of the contentious laws. Rajasthan MP Beniwal and AAP members protested from the Lower and Upper House. The AAP members later posted videos of their protest. The President’s address reflects the voice of the central government, which prepares the speech and has it approved by the cabinet. “After extensive consultations, Parliament approved three important farm reform bills seven months ago,” the President said. “The benefits of these three important farm reforms started reaching more than 10 crore small farmers instantly.” Kovind said these 10 crore-odd farmers with landholdings of one or two hectares made up 80 per cent of the community, and that the government “accords priority to these small and marginal farmers too”. Kovind referred to the farmers’ tractor rally, saying: “The recent acts of dishonouring the national flag and showing disrespect to the auspicious occasion of Republic Day are unfortunate.” Some participants in the tractor rally had not taken the designated route and had instead swarmed into the Red Fort, where some of them hoisted the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib and a farmer union flag from an empty pole. The Tricolour atop the fort was not touched. Farmer leaders have alleged a government conspiracy, saying the security forces deliberately spread confusion about the route and did nothing to stop the storming of the Red Fort. The government has used the Red Fort breach to crack down on the protesters and farmer union leaders. Kovind dwelt on what the government claims are measures to increase the farmers’ income, prompting Prime Minister Modi and other ministers to break into applause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: How Ghazipur turned from despair to new hope||Television images of a peasant leader’s teardrops at the Ghazipur border on Thursday night helped galvanise the protesting farmers and their supporters, turning desolation into sudden determination and stalling a government plan to throw them out by intimidation or force. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional outburst in the face of an eviction order and massive force deployment led to a spontaneous mobilisation of people from several hundred miles away through the night. By Friday morning, a depleted and dispirited protest site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border was throbbing with a much bigger and boisterous crowd, ever more resolved to stand up to any bullying tactics. A pall had earlier descended on the site in the face of the eviction order served by the Yogi Adityanath administration and a heavy police and paramilitary build-up that triggered speculation of a midnight swoop. With the crowds having thinned since the Republic Day controversy and the remaining protesters demoralised by the authorities’ attempts to use the Red Fort breach to blacken the movement, it looked like a cakewalk for the police. Senior bureaucrats from the Meerut division had arrived and ordered Tikait to clear the site by midnight. Tikait, younger son of the late farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, appeared to have buckled under the pressure. He flared up, screaming about the presence of BJP politicians and their armed supporters who he said were beating the farmers. Breaking down before the television cameras, he said: “Now the BJP goons will beat up the farmers. I know what will happen after my arrest. I’m not going anywhere now; I shall commit suicide.” Tikait went on: “Electricity and water supply have been disconnected. The government wants to kill the farmers. I’m not going to drink water till I get water from my village.” The impassioned speech seemed to electrify his supporters and farmers across swathes of Uttar Pradesh. Within minutes, thousands of farmers had assembled at Tikait’s home in Sisauli village of Muzaffarnagar district, with appeals made to reach Ghazipur as soon as possible. A hurriedly called mahapanchayat of farmers sent out a message to the Adityanath government that the situation might slip out of hand. Thousands ventured out in the cold winter night towards Ghazipur. The protesters at the site said at least 5,000 people had joined them by early Friday morning, and the stream of arriving tractors and cars was continuing through the day. Reports spoke of bigger convoys heading towards the protest site but slowed down by hurdles put up by the Adityanath government. The Bijnor administration had allegedly blocked thousands of agitation supporters, whom the police were trying to browbeat with threats. The tenor of the discussions at Ghazipur seemed to have changed, too, with the farm laws taking a backseat to talk of the BJP’s “cruelty” and the need to save the country from “tanashahi (dictatorship)”. Satwant Singh Bains, who just arrived on Friday from Bajpur village in Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand, told The Telegraph of the emotions he felt when he saw Tikait weeping on television. “I had a sinking feeling when I saw Tikait sahib weeping. Television channels were calling the farmers terrorists, and such a heavy deployment of forces in the night looked frightening,” he said. “I wanted to come here immediately, but my family pleaded with me not to. My 94-year-old mother said this cruel government would not spare anyone. “So I waited till 11.30pm for her to fall asleep. Then I took my car and drove 250km to arrive here at 4.30am. I now feel relaxed seeing thousands coming. I had been here since December but left after I fell ill. I’m not going anywhere now.” Sukhwinder, who works in Noida, said he used to come here on Sundays to express his solidarity. He said he felt a surge of emotion on Thursday night and travelled to Ghazipur with his friends. He sent a text message to his employer in the morning, seeking leave for a few days to be here. A senior executive with a private firm who didn’t want to reveal his name said: “I’m not a farmer. But I eat. I didn’t like the Red Fort conspiracy and when I learnt of the eviction threat last night, I decided to come here.” He continued: “This government treats everybody as its enemy; every section of society is terrorised. Governments do commit mistakes but they never work on an agenda to suppress and control citizens.” He said he once supported the BJP but no longer. “I supported the BJP because I felt religion should have a moral oversight on politics. Now I’m distressed as a devout Hindu that religious leaders and saints are not berating Modi for traversing this path,” he said. “Adani and Ambani can build a statue to Modi in gold but people will never remember him fondly, never respect him after all this.” Pramod Kumar, a sugarcane farmer from Hapur, western Uttar Pradesh, said: “It is now a fight against tanashahi. From diesel prices to these laws, the intention is to weaken the farmers. “I don’t understand how potatoes sold at Rs 50 a kilo when farmers didn’t have the crop and businessmen had the stocks in cold storage. Now the farmers’ crop is ready, and potatoes are selling at Rs 10 a kg. “If unlimited storage is allowed, big corporate houses will manipulate the prices. Modi is at war with the farmers on behalf of the corporate sector. What can be more unfortunate?” Tikait seemed in a different mood on Friday in the presence of the huge crowds. He told the farmers from the dais: “Don’t misbehave with the media. Kalam, camera aur kisan par bandook ka pehra hai (The pen, TV camera and the farmers are under the watch of the gun). The reporters are doing whatever they can to help us. Please raise both hands and promise you will maintain peace.” Thursday night’s defeatism, when Tikait had talked of committing suicide, had given way to hope, even a swagger. “Farmers will write the destiny of India. Ham hi jawan, ham hi kisan (We the farmers are the soldiers). Farmers will decide what has to be done with farming,” Tikait said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Protest axe on Odisha hospital guards ||The Nuapada district administration in Odisha has sacked three security guards of a hospital and issued showcause notices to 14 others after they staged a protest demanding adequate financial assistance to the family of their colleague who died on January 26, three days after taking a Covid-19 vaccine shot. The guards, who are employed at the district headquarters hospital at Nuapada, were expressing solidarity with the family of their 25-year-old colleague Nanikram Keut who passed away three days after being administered the vaccine. Doctors had said that Nanikram, posted at the hospital for the past 13 months, appeared “perfectly healthy” and had no history of pre-existing health disorders prior to the vaccination. Nanikram was to get married next month. The guards had been deployed at the hospital by a security agency. Sources said the Nuapada collector had asked the security agency to fire the protesting guards. The district administration has been consistently maintaining that Nanikram’s death was not caused by the side-effects of the vaccine. “The entire administration was perturbed following the negative publicity generated by the news about the death of a security guard because of the vaccine. The action taken by the administration is a reaction to the development,” said a senior official. Nuapada chief district medical officer K.P. Behera told The Telegraph: “After the death of security guard Nanikram on January 26, his colleagues lodged a protest. The action has been taken on disciplinary grounds according to the direction of the higher authorities.” Behera said Nanikram had died because of a blood-related disease. “We have the post-mortem report. He did not die because of the vaccine. His death was caused by some disorder which needs to be studied closely. He was alright before taking the vaccine,” he said. A senior official of the security agency told this newspaper: “Even if their colleague had died, the security guards should not have protested. They should have come to us for a discussion. We have an agreement with the government.” The security agency in its termination letter accused the guards of conspiracy, degrading the values and ethics of the company, misbehaving with senior staff, creating unhealthy atmosphere in the work area, gross irregularities and neglect of duty, acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the company or the government and violation of the rules and procedures of the company. It also said that the guards were illegally demanding some financial help from the chief minister’s relief fund under the leadership of an outsider while being on duty. Garib Sena, a non-political outfit working for the cause of the poor, threatened to launch an agitation over the action against the guards. “They are poor people. What’s their fault? They were demanding financial help for the family members of their colleague who died three days after being vaccinated. The government should take a lenient view of the matter. If the termination order is not withdrawn, we will launch an agitation including road blockade,” said its president Ravi Mangaraj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Elderly farmer at Ghazipur pledges to protest till law repeal||Unlike his two sons, Ilam Singh has never been in the army. Now, at the age of 97, he is ready to take a bullet. “Pehli goli hum khayenge, lekin ab yeh andolan nahin rukega agar krishi kanoon wapas nahin liya (I shall take the first bullet, but this movement will not stop until the farm laws have been repealed),” the Jat farmer from Muzaffarnagar told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site at 2am on Friday. He and many other protesters were up at that unearthly hour in the biting cold because a build-up of security forces had triggered rumours of an impending attack on the gathering of 50,000 people. However, the government reinforcements were withdrawn on Friday morning. “Kal hum ghabra gaye theh sarkar ki chalaki se, aaj hum jyada taqat ke sath yahan baithe hain (Yesterday, the government’s tricks scared us but today we are sitting here with more determination),” Ilam said. He was referring to the propaganda in the electronic media about the farmers “insulting the national flag” on Republic Day, when a group from the tractor rally had stormed the Red Fort and hoisted the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib. Ilam, who had joined the two-month-old dharna on January 26 and taken part in Tuesday’s Kisan Parade, is being looked after by two middle-aged companions from his village. However, one of them had his right arm broken by the police during the tractor rally, the nonagenarian alleged. He said he would be up all night “to monitor everything and boost morale” in the face of a momentary confusion about the future of the Ghazipur protest. On Republic Day evening, the Yogi Adityanath administration had asked the protesting farmers at Ghazipur, Ghaziabad district, to leave and had cut off power and water. Currently, the protesters are bringing water on their tractors and have arranged for solar lights and large batteries. However, a piece of miscommunication about something that BKU (Tikait) president Naresh Tikait had said in Baghpat on Thursday resulted in a rumour that the dharna was being called off. Ilam said the langars that had been functioning round the clock for over two months suddenly began closing at 11pm on Thursday. But a couple of hours later, everything was back in place. “Any farmer or reporter who needs food or tea can visit our langars. There is free service. We have also made arrangements to charge the batteries of mobile phones and cameras,” Ilam said. “We have arranged for makeshift washrooms too. We have enough bedrolls and quilts for lakhs of people.” Told that the protesters now risked losing popular support because of the hoisting of the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort on Republic Day, Ilam echoed the farmer leaders’ allegation that it was a government conspiracy to defame the movement. “Chowkidar wahin baitha tha aur chori ho gayi (The watchman was there and yet the theft happened),” he said. Farmer leaders have said there was heavy police and paramilitary deployment in and around the Red Fort but the personnel just stood and watched as a group approached the high-security structure and raised the pennant. The police are also accused of allowing — if not misdirecting — some tractors to veer off the designated route and approach the ITO, and then cracking down on those following the vanguard’s lead. Ilam said he wasn’t sure whether his tractor had violated the assigned route but said one of his two helpers was beaten up about half a kilometre from the ITO and had his right arm fractured. “The central government’s agents created the ruckus at the Red Fort under the supervision of the paramilitary forces. And Modi’s baton left many farmers injured,” he said. “Such treachery is strengthening our commitment to our children that we will not let the government control the way we farm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Bihar Opp. plans human chain for protesting farmers ||The Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar has announced plans to form a human chain across the state to express support for the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and challenged chief minister Nitish Kumar to speak up for the “annadata (food-giver)”. “We are asking Nitish Kumar why is he mum on the farmers’ protest? We want to ask him whether he supports the three black farm laws that affect 80 per cent of the people of the country. He is not even uttering two words on the issue. Why is he so helpless? The central government has brought these laws not for the annadata, but for the fund-data (fund-givers),” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said. The leader of the Opposition in the Assembly was speaking to journalists in Patna after chairing a meeting with the allies to discuss the formation of the human chain. All the members of the Grand Alliance — the RJD, Congress, CPI-ML, CPI and the CPM — will participate in the human chain that will be formed from 12:30pm to 1pm on Saturday. Apart from party members and supporters, common people have been urged to join the chain. Coordination committees have been formed in all 38 districts and preparations are going on in full swing to make the event a success. “This human chain will not mark the end of our support for the farmers. We will keep supporting them with our relentless struggle,” Tejashwi said. Nitish has had a way with human chains of record length over the recent years, forming them every January since 2017 in support of prohibition and environment protection, and against child marriage, dowry and other ills. Tejashwi asked Nitish to bring back the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act his government had repealed in 2006. He said the chief minister should say whether the scrapping of the act had benefited the farmers or harmed them instead. “The condition of the farmers in Bihar is miserable. They migrated to other states to work as labourers after the APMC Act was repealed. They never got the MSP (minimum support price) for their produce. The three new farm laws will now turn them from labourers to beggars,” the RJD leader said. He also attacked Nitish for being busy in “protecting his chair”, which has brought a stagnancy in the government and stalled development. “The chief minister is going to hike diesel prices in the state. This will further hurt the farmers. He is murdering democracy and implicating his opponents in false cases,” Tejashwi said. Congress Legislature Party leader Ajit Sharma pointed out that his party and Rahul Gandhi were standing firmly with the farmers and were determined to oppose the three controversial farm laws. “It’s time that the central government understands that the farmers do not want the new laws. The Congress is going to wage a struggle from the roads to Parliament to ensure that these black laws are repealed,” Sharma said. Later in the day, CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said Bihar and Uttar Pradesh would have to stand with Punjab and Haryana to ensure the victory of the protesting farmers. He also appealed to the common people to join the human chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Mehbooba Mufti sees Kashmir template extended to other parts of country||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday accused the Narendra Modi government of exporting the Kashmir-specific template of “terrorising” people into “silence” to other parts of the country, holding up as examples the steps taken to quell the farmers’ protest and the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act movement earlier. Drawing attention to Delhi’s iron-fist policy while dealing with dissent in Kashmir, the People’s Democratic Party chief tweeted: “GOI’s template of terrorising Kashmiris into silence by using draconian laws & othering them is being extended to other parts of the country.” “Be it CAA or farmer law protests, both were termed anti-national & anti-terror laws like UAPA (were) invoked to quell these peaceful movements,” she added. Police have filed over two dozen cases against farmer leaders, journalists, politicians and activists for allegedly inciting violence on Republic Day. Several others are facing summons from the premier investigating agencies. Successive governments have often been accused of using brute force to deal with separatists and pro-azadi protesters, but the Modi dispensation has gone one step further and attempted to crush the Valley’s pro-India camp too. Three former chief ministers — Mehbooba, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah — were among thousands who were jailed in 2019 to prevent protests against the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Delhi had unleashed the National Investigation Agency, the Enforcement Directorate and other agencies in the Valley to carry out daily raids to deny these leaders any breather. Similar tactics have also been used on those supporting the farmers’ movements, its leaders have alleged. In November, the NIA arrested key Mehbooba aide Waheed-ur-Rahman Parra and booked him in a terror case. He was granted bail early this month only to be arrested again by Jammu and Kashmir’s counter-insurgency wing. Mehbooba alleges that Waheed’s persecution by the Centre is emblematic of the situation that “Kashmiri politicians find themselves in today”. “Disliked and mistrusted by the people in Jammu and Kashmir for their faith in the Indian Constitution on one hand and punished by the Centre for not toeing their line on the other,” Mehbooba recently said of these leaders. The former chief minister has fiercely supported the farmers in their fight against the new farm laws and has sought their repeal. Mehbooba says the NIA is being unleashed on farmer unions, the way it was done in the Valley. “The rot that has set into India’s premier terror investigative agency can be gauged from the manner in which they are fabricating charges on Kashmiris, farmers and those who dare to dissent,” she said recently. Referring to the chaos in Delhi on Republic Day, Mehbooba alleged that it was orchestrated to defame the farmers. Without naming actor Deep Sidhu, accused by several farmer leaders of inciting violence, Mehbooba said he was a BJP aide. “We saw on TV what happened on Republic Day. The man who did it is an aide of the BJP. He has been with the Prime Minister, the home minister and campaigned for the BJP during Sunny Deol’s election,” Mehbooba told reporters in Jammu. She said the farm laws were against the fundamental rights and the bills were passed without consulting the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||CBI raids grain godowns in Punjab and Haryana||The CBI conducted raids on around 30 godowns in Punjab and 10 in Haryana and seized samples of rice and wheat stocks, amid the ongoing agitation against the new farm laws by farmers mostly from the two states. The raids started late on Thursday night and continued till Friday evening. Multiple teams of the CBI along with CRPF personnel swooped down on the godowns. The godowns that were raided include those belonging to the Punjab Grains Procurement Corporation and the Food Corporation of India. Sources in the CBI said multiple teams of the agency conducted surprise checks at these premises in Punjab and Haryana following a large number of complaints of irregularities in FCI godowns. “The surprise checks were part of preventive vigilance,” said a CBI spokesperson. An agency official said CBI teams were checking the quantity and central pool foodgrain stocks in those godowns. “Samples of wheat and rice from the stocks of 2019-20 and 2020-21 have been collected from the godowns. The agency is checking the quantity and quality of foodgrains,” he said. The agency has got complaints that a section of FCI officials were involved in a racket that has led to the supply of sub-standard rice, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
30-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Editors Guild of India sound alarm at sedition case on journalists||Media collectives on Friday picked up cudgels for prominent members of the profession against whom the police of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have filed cases for their reporting on the tractor rally and the ensuing violence on Republic Day, demanding that the FIRs be withdrawn. The police of both states have registered FIRs for sedition and other offences against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, among others, for their tweets and comments about a farmer’s death on Tuesday. The Editors Guild of India, in a statement, condemned the intimidating manner in which the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh police have registered FIRs against senior editors and journalists (including current and former office-bearers of the Guild). “The journalists have been specifically targeted for reporting the accounts pertaining to the death of one of the protesters on their personal social media handles as well as those of the publications they lead and represent. It must be noted that on the day of the protest and high action, several reports were emerging from eyewitnesses on the ground as well as from the police, and therefore it was only natural for journalists to report all the details as they emerged. This is in line with established norms of journalistic practice,’’ the statement said. Referring to the charge in the complaint that the tweets “were intentionally malicious and were the reason for the desecration of the Red Fort”, the Guild said: “Nothing can be further from truth.” They billed the FIRs as an attempt to intimidate, harass, browbeat and stifle the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
30-01-2021||India||Jobs lost to the pandemic may not be retrieved soon: Economic Survey||The jobs lost to the pandemic may not be retrieved soon, the Economic Survey tabled in Parliament on Friday says. The document says the lockdown disrupted local, regional and global supply chains and hit economic activity and the demand for consumption. It warns against falling into the trap of low wage growth and favours stimulating the economy through public investment packages. According to the document, the lockdown led to a lowering of demand in two ways: through disruption of the labour market, which affected household incomes, and through the precautionary motive to save arising from the uncertainty amid the health crisis. “As argued above, the Covid-19 pandemic has created a significant negative shock to demand. The various costs of financial distress that firms face even before potential bankruptcy… combined with possible firm bankruptcies in a choked bankruptcy system, on the one hand, and the possibility that jobs lost during the lockdown may not get fully retrieved, on the other hand, create the possibility of economic hysteresis that must be avoided at all costs,” the report says. The survey has not provided data on the job losses, but multiple agencies have. Prominent among them is the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, which says India lost a third of its white-collar jobs in the four months from May to August last year. An estimated 59 lakh jobs were lost during this period. “If we fail to stimulate the economy, we risk the temporary weakness in demand leading to lower potential growth,” the report says. It advocates multi-year public investment packages that would contribute to lifting the growth expectations. “At a time of excessive risk aversion in the private sector, which is characteristic of any economic crisis, risk-taking via public investment can catalyse private investment and unleash a virtuous circle,” the report says. “It will crowd in private investment, rather than crowd it out. Second, there is a risk of the Indian economy falling into a low wage-growth trap, as has happened in Japan during the last two decades.” Several academics have favoured more public spending on social welfare and infrastructure to stimulate the economy. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra has suggested transferring money to poor households apart from investing in infrastructure. “To revive India’s growth story and to cash in on our rapidly closing demographic dividend window, essential features must be included in the Budget 2021,” he said. “This includes an increased expenditure in infrastructure and the health sector and an urban employment guarantee. There should be a minimum income guarantee of Rs 500 per month to poor households.” The Economic Survey suggests the government has a target of providing skill training to about eight lakh people, including migrant workers, under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0. The migrants workers were among the worst sufferers of the suddenly announced lockdown, left without jobs and money and with many of them forced to walk hundreds of miles back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
30-01-2021||India||Blast near Israel embassy in Delhi||A very low-intensity blast took place near the Israeli embassy in central Delhi on Friday, barely 2km from where the Beating Retreat Ceremony was underway. No injury was reported. Delhi police said the low-intensity blast took place at 5.05pm. “A very low-intensity improvised device went off at 5.05pm near 5 APJ Abdul Kalam Road. There was no injury to any person, nor any damage to property. Windowpanes of three cars parked on a pavement were found to be damaged,” a spokesperson for Delhi police said. He said the blast “appears to be an act of mischief”. “Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation,” the spokesperson added. A preliminary probe revealed the bomb was planted on a flower pot on the pavement. “The area has been cordoned off. A forensic team has reached the spot to examine the explosive used for the blast. The CCTV footage from the area is being scanned to see who planted the explosive. Security has been tightened in and around the high-security area,” a police officer said. In a tweet, foreign minister S. Jaishankar said: “Spoke just now to Israeli FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits.” In February 2012, an Israeli diplomat’s wife was among four people injured in a blast after a magnetic bomb stuck to a vehicle went off in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Disgruntled TMC leaders Rajib Banerjee, Baishali Dalmiya and three others join BJP||Former Bengal minister Rajib Banerjee, who recently quit the Trinamul Congress, joined the BJP in the national capital on Saturday along with a few other leaders of the state’s ruling party after meeting senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Banerjee and MLAs Prabir Ghosal and Baishali Dalmiya, who was recently expelled from the TMC, and former Howrah Mayor Rathin Chakraborty, flew to the national capital on a special plane, and met central BJP leaders. “They have joined the BJP,” party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya told PTI following the meeting. Former TMC MLA Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay and actor Rudranil Ghosh had also accompanied them on their visit to meet BJP leaders in the national capital. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy and Vijayvargiya arrived in Delhi with them. The TMC, which has been facing dissent from a number of leaders ahead of the assembly election due in April-May, said that those who are leaving do not have a long political history. Earlier in the day, Banerjee said he had a word with Union Home Minister Amit Shah who called him to the national capital. “After I resigned from the TMC, I received a call from the BJP leadership.... Amit Shah ji told me to come over to Delhi. He also requested me to pass on the information to five other important public figures who wanted to serve people in a better way to accompany me. “If I get an assurance on the state’s development, if I get an assurance that I can work for the betterment of people, I will join the BJP,” he told reporters at the Kolkata airport. When asked what role he expected to play in the BJP, Banerjee said it is for the party to decide. “I want to work for the people. So whatever role is assigned to me, I will accept,” he said. “Instead of mudslinging at each other, the Centre and the Bengal government should work together for the people of the state,” he added. Actor Rudranil Ghosh, who has recently been voicing his discontent over the issue of governance in Bengal and alleged corruption in the distribution of monetary compensation to Cyclone Amphan-affected people last year, said he wants to work for people and play an important role in the state in future. Uttarpara MLA Prabir Ghosal, who recently alleged that repair of a road in his constituency was not being allowed by a faction of the party to harm his poll prospects, told reporters that he would join the BJP. According to BJP sources, these TMC leaders were supposed to join the saffron party during Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s rally at Dumurjula in Howrah on Sunday. However, Shah’s two-day visit to West Bengal was cancelled at the last minute. The ruling TMC in West Bengal was rocked by a fresh bout of desertions on Friday with Banerjee quitting the party and several other leaders rallying behind him. Reacting to the development, senior TMC MP and party spokesperson Sougata Ray said, “Those who left don't have a long political history and most of them were inducted into the party by (Chief Minister and party supremo) Mamata Banerjee. In future, the TMC will be careful.” Another senior TMC leader and minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “What can we do if anyone wants to go? Ours is a big party. We cannot prevent dissenters by deploying the military.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav likely to be discharged from hospital if test results return normal||BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly is stable and he is likely to be discharged from the hospital on Saturday if the results of the medical examinations to be conducted on him return normal, an official of the establishment where he is being treated said. "Ganguly's health condition is stable. He slept well on Friday night and had light food in the morning," the official told PTI. Doctors are scheduled to conduct a few medical examinations on the 48-year-old former India captain to decide whether he is fit to be discharged from the hospital, he said. Ganguly had on Thursday undergone a fresh angioplasty and two more stents were implanted to clear his clogged coronary arteries. He was hospitalised on Wednesday for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. He had suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted to clear a blocked artery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
30-01-2021||West Bengal||10-quintal sale cap sparks farmer protests in Malda||Farmers resorted to protests in at least four blocks of Malda on Friday following a directive by the district administration that slashed by a third the quantity of paddy that a farmer can sell to the state government at one go. Sources said that according to the rule, a farmer can in all sell 90 quintals of paddy to the state government through a Kisan Mandi in year, and at one go can sell up to 30 quintals. But according to the new directive, while he can sell 90 quintals in all, he can now only sell 10 quintals to the state government at one time. It means for 90 quintals, a farmer has to come to the Kisan Mandi nine times. “So far, the state had been buying according to the rule and many of us have sold 30 quintals in a day. However, on Friday, as we went to sell our produce, we were told that we can, at best, sell 10 quintals a day. To sell the remaining portion, we have to visit the market again. This led to protests,” said Haripada Biswas, a farmer demonstrating in Pakua of Bamangola block. The agitation initially erupted in Pakua where the farmers locked the Kisan Mandi and resorted to protests. They also blocked the road to demand an immediate revocation of the administration’s directive. As the day rolled, reports of similar agitations came in from Habibpur, Gazole and Old Malda blocks where hundreds of farmers joined in protests. “We suspect that eventually, we will not be able to sell our produce to the state because of this directive. This is because any farmer who has 90 quintals of paddy ready for sale will have to visit the mandi for nine days,” said a farmer. “It is inconvenient and expensive.” All agitators pointed that the new directive would increase their transport costs and discourage a section of farmers to turn up at the government market. “We suspect that now middlemen will try and exploit this opportunity to buy the produce at a lower rate from the farmers. The administration should immediately withdraw this directive or else we will launch a movement,” said Shakiruddin Sarkar, the Malda district president of Sara Bharat Sanjukta Kisan Sabha, a farmers’ front of RSP that has lent support to the protest. Officials in Malda district administration confirmed the new order but said the decision had been made to ensure adequate place to stock the food grain purchased from the farmers. “The decision has been made so that we do not face any problem in storing food grain. There should be no doubt that any farmer can sell 90 quintals to the state but this time he has to sell it across nine days instead of three days,” said Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda. Partha Saha, the district controller of food and supplies, who issued the order, said some “outsiders” fuelled the protests. “Local and marginal farmers would be helped by this new order. We have information that some outsiders have triggered the agitation as they have vested interests,” he said. District BJP leaders were quick to pick up the issue and raise questions at the Mamata Banerjee government. “The decision made by the administration goes against the farmers. We support their protests and if required, our party will launch a movement on the issue,” said Gobinda Mondal, the district BJP president of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
30-01-2021||West Bengal||State government urged to set up cricket stadium in Kawakhali||The Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) has sent a proposal to the state government for setting up a comprehensive sports complex including a cricket ground in Kawakhali, a township located at the southern end of Siliguri. The decision made by SJDA to write to the state government for the sports complex comes at a time the demand for a cricket stadium is steadily gaining ground in Siliguri. “A proposal for setting up a sports complex with a cricket ground was adopted at the board meeting of the SJDA. We have proposed that the sports infrastructure can come up in Kawakhali and have sent it to the state urban development department for approval,” said Nantu Paul, the vice-president of the SJDA. He said that the SJDA already had earmarked a 15-acre plot for the proposed sports complex. “Within the complex, we have proposed a full-fledged cricket ground with spectators’ gallery. The complex will also have an athletics track and facilities for indoor games such as table tennis and a multi gym. The facility can help the promising players of the city with regular practice and can also be a venue for various tournaments,” added Paul. Siliguri is known as a city that has given some ace table tennis players to the country, from Ganesh Kundu to Mantu Ghosh in the 1980s and 1990s. However, during the past one decade, Siliguri has also come up with some fine cricketers, including Wriddhiman Saha and Richa Ghosh. During the past few months, the demand for a cricket stadium has grown louder in the city that also boasts the Kanchenjunga Stadium which has hosted several prominent football matches. Recently, a group of cricket enthusiasts submitted a memorandum to the state tourism minister Gautam Deb, who is also a resident of the city, urging him to take up the demand with the state in earnest. Also, the Siliguri Cricket Lovers’ Welfare Organisation, which earlier held signature campaigns and street corners to drum up support for the demand for s stadium, sent a memorandum to the chief minister on the issue a couple of days back. “A number of promising cricketers have emerged in the city. Despite not having an appropriate cricket ground here, they have proved their talent in international and domestic tournaments. We believe that once a ground is set up here, it would help more talented cricketers emerge. We have appealed to the chief minister to take necessary steps to establish an exclusive cricket stadium here,” said Manoj Verma, president of the association. Jayanta Bhowmik, Wriddhiman’s coach, echoed Verma to say that from Siliguri, a number of cricketers have been of late representing the state team in various tourneys. “We need a proper facility for them. Also, if developed in a proper manner, the stadium can be a second ground in the state for international cricket matches after Eden Gardens,” said Bhowmik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic body push for roads, sewerage||Authorities of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Friday elaborated on civic projects planned across the city. Among these include the construction of roads and the development of sewerage, renovation of parks, beautification and landscaping. MLA Asok Bhattacharya, who chairs the board of administrators of the SMC, said that while some of these projects were over, work on some others will start next month. “A number of development projects worth over Rs 50 crore have been completed in the city during the past few months,” said Bhattacharya. According to him, around Rs 22 crore had been spent to develop roads in the civic area. Also, Rs 5 crore which the civic body had received under the Green City Mission, a central scheme, was spent to beautify many stretches of the embankment of the Mahananda river that moves through the city. “Funds have also been spent on slum development, illumination projects with solar panels and for infrastructure development of 10 primary health centres across the city,” added Bhattacharya. In February, the civic authorities will bring in former soccer player Bhaichung Bhutia to inaugurate infrastructure development to be carried out across three football grounds. “We will also start the development and renovation of 16 roads of the city and work on scientific disposal of wastes at the dumping ground. A sum of Rs 18 crore would be spent,” Bhattacharya said. The civic body, sources said, will also host a citizens’ convention at the Kanchenjunga Stadium here on February 3. “The convention will apprise residents about all these projects that have been carried out in Siliguri,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Binay Tamang camp to Bista: Quit if Centre fails to place ST bill||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has step up heat on Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and demanded his resignation if the Centre fails to place a bill and grant tribal status to 11 hill communities during Parliament’s budget session which started on Friday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang faction, alleged that the BJP had been hoodwinking the Gorkhas since 2009 and it would no longer be allowed. “The budget session started today and this time, we want the Darjeeling MP who has won by a record margin of over 4.5 lakh votes to ensure that the 11 communities are granted tribal status during the ongoing budget session or else, he should resign,” said Pokhrel. The Tamang camp which is with the Trinamul Congress also appealed to the BJP alliance partners to dump the saffron camp if the demand remained unfulfilled when the session ended on ground of “principle”. The demand for granting tribal status to Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunuwar, Thami, Yakka (Dewan) and Dhimal (this community mostly resides in the Terai) is more than two decades old and the BJP has promised the same since 2014. Observers believe that any development — positive or negative — on the ST status could be decisive in the outcome of election results in nearly 15 Assembly seats in north Bengal. The fifth session of the 17th Lok Sabha started on Friday and will continue till February 15 after which it will be adjourned to resume on March 8 for a month. Bista has been talking about some positive developments for the Gorkhas in his recent speeches. The other demand promised by the BJP is to find a “permanent political solution” for the region. Despite Bista’s assurance, developments over the past three years on the tribal issue have not been encouraging. The Union ministry of trial affairs had formed a committee in 2016, just before the Bengal elections, to examine the tribal status demand. Since then, the committee was reconstituted three times and the final report was compiled by a team headed by M.R. Tshering, joint secretary, ministry of tribal affairs. In 2019, Bishal Rai, a resident of Teesta, who is now with the Tamang camp, had obtained some salient features of the report through an RTI query. From the RTI report, it was clear that the committee had passed the buck to the Office of Registrar General of India (ORGI). “The determination has to be done as per the modalities of the government. ORGI is the competent authority to determine if a community is as per its yardstick for listing as Schedule Tribe,” the report stated. While addressing a public meeting in Kurseong two months ago, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, had said that Union home minister had told a delegation that the tribal demand would be looked into after Assam Assembly elections. “A delegation that included party president Bimal Gurung, me, Nima Tamang and Binu Sundas (Morcha leaders) met Amit Shah (Union home minister) and he said he would look into the issue (of tribal status) after Assam assembly elections,” Giri had said at the public meeting. The delegation had purportedly held a meeting on July 21 though the names of Gurung and Giri had not been made public then. Assam assembly elections are scheduled for 2021 almost at the same time Bengal goes to the polls. The Gurung camp also dumped the BJP a few months ago and has aligned with the Trinamul Congress. Bista’s reaction could not be immediately obtained. Contacted just before filing this report, the Darjeeling MP said he was “at a meeting”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Top cop Humayun Kabir quits months before retirement ||IPS officer and chief of Chandernagore Police Commissionerate Humayun Kabir resigned on Friday three months before his scheduled retirement. Gaurav Sharma, who was  joint commissioner (establishment) in the Calcutta police, replaces Kabir, a government order said. Many bureaucrats said this change of guard was significant ahead of the Bengal polls. Kabir did not choose to comment on his resignation or its timing. “Any posting at this juncture will be important because of the coming elections,” said a senior IPS officer. Sharma, who also got additional charge of the special task force of Calcutta police, has been asked to take charge on Sunday, said a source. Sharma, a 2005-batch officer has earlier held key posts like commissioner of Howrah city police, SP Howrah rural, deputy commissioner (north), deputy commissioner (southeast) in Calcutta police, SP Jhargram and ASP Siliguri. Sources in the state home department said more changes in the rank and file of the Bengal and Calcutta police were likely in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Amit Shah cancels Bengal visit, blow to Matua plan||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday cancelled his weekend visit to Bengal, dealing a major blow to the BJP’s plans that included a rally at the Matua bastion of Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas on Saturday. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the visit had been cancelled in the aftermath of a blast near the Israel embassy in New Delhi on Friday. “Amitji’s schedule for January 30 and 31 has been cancelled. But the programme at Dumurjola stadium in Howrah on January 31 will be held as scheduled. Someone from Delhi will replace Amitji,” Ghosh said. The cancellation of the Shah’s rally at Thakurnagar has left the Matuas restless as the community expected the Union home minister to announce roll-out of the contentious Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) and clear their concerns on the issue at the meeting on Saturday. The dejection among the Matuas over the cancellation of Shah’s trip is obvious as this is the second instance of Shah not making it to Thakurnagar in recent times. During his last trip to the state on December 19 and 20, there were discussions that Shah would address the Matuas on the first day of the trip but Midnapore got preference over Thakurnagar. Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari and several others had joined the BJP at the rally at Midnapore. The hype over Saturday’s rally at Thakurnagar was evident on Friday evening as the stretch of Jessore Road from Barasat to Bongaon was lined up with BJP and Matua flags. Local BJP leaders held street-corner meetings to ensure that large numbers of Matuas turned up for Shah’s rally on Saturday. “This was supposed to be a show of strength for us,” a local BJP leader in Bongaon said. “But the cancellation of the rally will be a major loss of face,” the leader added. The BJP has long been trying to woo the Matuas, who have the numbers to determine the results in several Assembly seats in the districts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia and some parts of north Bengal, with the CAA bait and the delay in its implementation has made the community, including All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur, restless. “We understand that the situation in Delhi is serious. But the Matuas are getting frustrated now,” a pro-BJP Matua leader said. The sudden cancellation of Shah’s trip has derailed several outreach programmes that the BJP had planned, including the home minister’s visit to the Iskcon temple in Nadia’s Mayapur on Saturday. The BJP, however, has not cancelled the public meeting at Dumurjola on Sunday since several prominent Trinamul leaders are scheduled to join the BJP at the rally. “We are desperately trying to get someone of the stature of our president J.P Nadda or a senior leader like Rajnath Singh for Sunday’s rally,” said a Bengal BJP leader who did not want to be named. BJP sources said that former Trinamul minister Rajib Banerjee, who along with expelled party MLA Baishali Dalmia, former Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty and another Trinamul MLA Prabir Ghoshal would switch over to the BJP on Sunday. “Everything is final. In fact, Rajibda, Prabirda and Rathinda met Kailash Vijayvargiya and Suvenduda on Friday evening to finalise things. We can’t delay the joining any further,” a BJP source said. “That is why we want someone big from Delhi to come down to Dumurjola and hand over the flags to them,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 349 Covid-19 recoveries||Bengal on Friday logged 349 Covid-19 recoveries, 286 new infections and seven deaths, including four from Calcutta. Bengal’s total active cases fell for 95 consecutive days — since Vijaya Dashami on October 26 — from 37,190 to 5,711. “We are getting closer to our next target of less-than-5,000 total active cases,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate is now 97.21 per cent. “We are days away from our target of 98-plus in our recovery rate,” said the minister. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.17 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 70 days ago. On Friday, the state reported 25,064 tests, taking the total past 79.44 lakh, at 88,274 tests per million people. The state attributed 8,528 deaths — or 84 per cent — of the 10,155 deaths in all to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate remained 1.78 per cent, while the national rate stayed unchanged at 1.43 per cent. Calcutta High Court had intervened with instructions against crowding to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, as well as ahead of New Year celebrations. The slide in the number of infections from the festivals between October and January has shown that the court’s instructions were effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea planters’ association flag subsidy ‘bias’ in north Bengal||A tea planters’ association in north Bengal has accused the Tea Board of India under the Union commerce ministry of delaying the release of subsidy to tea estates of Bengal unlike in the neighbouring BJP-ruled Assam. “In north Bengal, the total subsidy yet to be paid to tea gardens is between Rs 300 crore and Rs 400 crore. Hundreds of applications are pending with the Tea Board that pays the subsidy. It is also disappointing that while we are being deprived, subsidies have been disbursed to applicants in Assam,” said M.P. Bansal, the chairman of the Terai Indian Planters’ Association (TIPA). The TIPA, he said, has written to the Tea Board, the apex government agency for the tea sector, seeking immediate disbursement of the subsidy. In the tea industry, estates can apply for subsidy if they do certain jobs such as replanting and rejuvenating tea bushes, setting up irrigation facilities, cultivating orthodox teas and modernising factories. “An estate needs to approach the Tea Board for inspection and approval of a project for which it can avail subsidy. The project is then executed, and after another round of inspection, the subsidy is paid. In north Bengal, many gardens have spent money on such activities but have not yet received subsidy,” said a tea planter in Siliguri. The tea planters’ association has also questioned the role of Raju Bista, the BJP’s Darjeeling MP, who is also a member of the Tea Board. “We have also sent a letter to him, saying that though he makes statements on social media about certain achievements, nothing concrete is visible on ground. We have decided to reach out to the workforce at the tea gardens to apprise them of the real facts so that they do not get swayed by the publicity and marketing blitz,” Bansal added. This is the first time a tea planters’ association in north Bengal has questioned the performance of the Board and MP.  A political observer said this might impact the Assembly elections. The state government’s recent decision to revise the wages of tea workers and salaries of staff and sub-staff has given an extra edge to Trinamul in the region, the observer said. “The subsidy issue raised by the association is something the Tea Board has to deal with. It is evident that Trinamul will pick up the issue to exert fresh pressure on BJP. Both Trinamul and the BJP are focusing on the tea population across some 15 Assembly constituencies of north Bengal,” said an observer. A source in the Tea Board said they were aware of the subsidy issue. “There are certain formalities that need to be completed before subsidy is disbursed,” said the source. MP Bista could not be contacted by this paper for his comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Step-down chant for turncoat MLA Sukra Munda||Trinamul supporters in Nagrakata waved black flags and demonstrated in front of local MLA Sukra Munda on Friday, demanding he step down immediately from the MLA’s post. The protests came in the wake of Munda joining the BJP last month. The Nagrakata  MLA, who had won on a Trinamul ticket at the 2016 Assembly elections, joined the BJP citing “neglect" by ministers in Trinamul. “People had voted for me but whenever I would approach the state ministers, I was made to wait for hours. Nothing was done for my constituency. The party went on ignoring me,” the MLA had said then. Since his defection, Trinamul leaders and workers of his constituency have raised the demand that he should resign from his post as he has defected to another party. On Tuesday, Trinamul supporters, led by some local leaders, took out a protest march in Dhumpara area of the block. When Munda reached the locality to arrange a social function, agitators waved black flags at him and shouted slogans. “Sukra Munda betrayed the confidence of thousands of people who voted for him. He should immediately resign from the MLA’s post and unless he does so we will continue our protests against him,” said Raju Chhetri, local Trinamul leader. “For five years, he has enjoyed all the benefits as an MLA and recently he has defected to BJP. He has no right to hold the MLA’s post,” Hemanta Roy, another  Trinamul leader said. An unperturbed Munda said he would hold the post till the last day of his tenure. “Why should I listen to Trinamul? They can make their demands but I want to make it clear that I will continue to hold the MLA’s post till the last date of my tenure. The police and the administration should see to it that I get proper security cover as these people had assembled near me and there was a security risk,” said the MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Tea worker shot at in plantation clash in North Dinajpur||A tea worker sustained a bullet wound when a group of workers clashed with some alleged goons over the possession of a tea plantation in Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Friday morning. Police brought the situation under control, seizing two double-barrelled guns and arresting two persons. Sources said a Siliguri resident owned the 27-acre tea plantation at Hingalgach village of Chopra block. Recently, some alleged goons mounted pressure on him to sell off the plantation to them, which prompted the 40-odd plantation workers to object to the sale and express fears that they would be jobless if the plantation changed hands, a local source said. “Some of them, in fact, had proposed to the owner to sell off a part of the plantation to them. A few days back, the owner caved in to the goons and sold off the plantation to them. The workers’ fears turned out to be correct and they were told that their services would not be required anymore,” said the source. On Friday, a gang of armed goons reached the site to take control of the plantation. As the news of their arrival spread, jobless workers tried to stop them. The goons allegedly fired gunshots at the workers. One of the workers, Akbar Ali, was hit by a bullet and admitted to the subdivisional hospital in Islampur. A Chopra police team dispersed the workers. They found two double-barrelled guns from the site and arrested two suspected goons. “The situation is under control in Hingalgach. Our men are posted in the area and searches are on to nab others who had perpetrated the violence,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee readies party for all-out fight against BJP||Mamata Banerjee on Friday told a core committee meeting of the Trinamul Congress that the party would go all out against the BJP in the first phase of a campaign from February 1 to 15 before the Assembly elections. The meeting at the chief minister's residence in Calcutta was deemed a roll call of seniors in Trinamul ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bengal visit. But the meeting did not spring surprises by way of MLAs or MPs — other than the ones already expected — being conspicuous by their absence. “Few were not there; they were not expected to attend anyway,” said a minister after the closed-door meeting. According to sources, the Trinamul chief said the party would go fully into poll-mode from February 1, with intensive focus on every constituency and an extensive tour across the state by her. The first phase of the campaign would continue till February 15. “First of all, she (Mamata) would conduct a tour of north Bengal. Then, the Jungle Mahal. These two were areas where we had not fared well in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. She likes prioritising tougher challenges,” said the minister. The minister added that the broad contours of the campaign would be laid down directly by Mamata and, for now, there would be a lot of stress on areas such as the farmers’ movement nationally and the “bohiragawto (outsider)” BJP’s alleged insult of Bengal icons in its desperation to appropriate them ahead of the Assembly polls. A senior MP said the chief minister had repeatedly instructed leaders not to cross the line of decency in political attacks against the BJP and its leadership in campaign. “Didi said the BJP would stoop to lows we cannot match and make it a very dirty campaign, which the people of Bengal are unlikely to accept. She said we must steer clear of trying to return fire by way of discourtesy and incivility. That, she said, would make a big difference,” he said. Although there were expectations, said a senior minister, of Mamata talking about defections and her zero-tolerance for sabotage, there was no such element in her directions. “The CM was entirely focused on how the BJP must be fought back and defeated, inch by inch, starting Monday. There cannot and will not be any compromise, she said…. While the national issues and perspectives would feature prominently, local issues must not be relegated to the sidelines, she said,” said the minister. Rajib quits Trinamul Domjur MLA Rajib Banerjee, who had quit the cabinet last week, on Friday resigned as MLA and then from Trinamul. He might join the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah on Sunday. Along with him, at least three other Howrah MLAs, including a former minister, a Hooghly MLA, an MLA and MP from South 24-Parganas, are also likely to switch sides. Since the defection of former minister Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP has been trying to engineer en masse defections from the ruling party. Trinamul has been insisting that those desertions will not hurt the party electorally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-216
30-01-2021||West Bengal||A trader whose profits go towards the greater good||Sixty-eight year old Mangilal Bothra is a familiar sight on the streets of Cooch Behar, with bhujia, papad and other snack items that he brings from Rajasthan to sell at homes, restaurants and shops. At the day’s end, however, he doesn’t take his profits back home but spends it on the needy. “For past seven years, I have not taken a penny of my earnings back home,” said the unusual trader who lives in the NN Road area of the town. “Whatever I earn every day, I buy various items and distribute them among the poor, the children and others. This, I believe, is my small service to society,” he said, adding that sometimes he also pitches in with monetary help to arrange the weddings of girls from humble homes. It was in 1978 when the young Mangilal had joined the trade of procuring snack items from Rajasthan, the state that he calls his second home, and supplying them to the different parts of Cooch Behar. Right now, he makes around Rs 1,000 a day, which includes a profit of around Rs 400. This tire profit goes towards charity. “Back at home, my son runs the family and at times even helps me out with money,” said the philanthropist. “I, on the other hand, spend my profits on helping people. During the lockdown, I had arranged the marriages of six girls from economically backward families whose earnings had dried up. Some acquaintances also came forward to help me,” he added. As he moves through the streets, his eyes keep scanning for people who need genuine help. Sometimes, he helps children with books and stationery, while at other times he helps the poor buy medicines or helps them with winter clothes, blankets and mosquito nets. The soft-spoken Mangilal admitted that he could have easily stayed back home and enjoyed a “retired” life. “But this is something I do not want to do,” he said. “I want to work till the last day of my life and extend whatever little help I can to make the life of the poor easier,” he said. His own lifestyle is extremely simple, he says. The sexagenarian takes a meal only once a day and relies on occasional sips of tea and munches on biscuits for the rest of the time. “Instead of spending money on myself, I prefer to save every penny of my earnings so that I can help others. This has become my habit for the past seven years. I rarely take a rickshaw to travel with my wares and cover most of the town on foot,” said Mangilal. The unusual benevolence of the trader has drawn appreciation from Cooch Behar residents, including notables. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who is also a resident of the town, said he was aware of the trader’s selfless service to society. “He has been relentlessly working for society out of his own means for years now. He is the pride of our town and we should take a lesson (in philanthropy) from him,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
30-01-2021||West Bengal||High court asks panel to consult govt on civic poll dates ||Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the State Election Commission to hold polls to 106 civic bodies after finalising the voters’ list but asked it to fix voting date/dates only after consulting the state government so that appropriate measures could be taken for maintaining law and order during the process. The division bench of Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Md Nizamuddin excluded the issue of Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls as it was pending before the Supreme Court. The high court passed the order on prayers by the Howrah district committee of the CPM and Howrah resident Mausumi Roy. Advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattachayya, who appeared for the CPM, informed the court that the five-year tenure of the Howrah Municipal Corporation had already expired and urged the court to direct the SEC to hold the election immediately. During the course of the hearing, additional advocate general Abhratosh Majumdar said it would not be possible for the state government to deploy enough force for the civic polls because of the forthcoming Assembly elections. “Holding two elections at a time is not possible. To maintain law and order during polls, security forces will have to be deployed,” Majumdar told the court. The SEC’s counsel told the court that the initial process for holding the civic  polls had already started.  After hearing the arguments, the court issued the directive to the SEC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-217
30-01-2021||North East||Locals boost Kaziranga footfall||Visitors from Assam have helped the Kaziranga National Park, a World Heritage Site popular for its one-horned rhinos, to almost make up for the shortfall in tourists from other states and abroad amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the figures released by the KNP authorities, over 1,20,960 people have visited the park since October 21 last year despite the popular tourist destination remaining shut for several months because of coronavirus restrictions and flood. During the last fiscal, there were 1,74,013 visitors, including 11,595 foreign tourists. The number of foreign tourists has fallen to a dismal 188 in the current fiscal. Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve director P. Sivakumar told The Telegraph on Friday that visitors from Assam are driving the ongoing tourist season despite the Covid gloom. “We are happy with the overwhelming response. People from Assam are visiting the park in large numbers since they are avoiding trips to other states and abroad because of Covid-19. Around 95 per cent of the visitors till now are from the state. If we go by the number of visitors, we could have crossed last year’s figures but for Covid and flood. We will come close to last year’s footfall figures, if not in revenue generation,” Sivakumar said. Kaziranga has so far generated Rs 2.22 crore in revenue compared to Rs 4.82 crore in the last fiscal. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had thrown open the 430sqkm park to visitors from October 21 with strict Covid-19 protocols in place. The park usually closes in May because of flood but it had to shut in March because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Apart from the usual jeep and elephant safaris, the main draws this year have been dolphin sightings at Bhomoraguri, birding in Agoratoli and trekking at Baneswar and Chirang Pahar. “Apart from these new introductions to attract visitors, fuelling the response is also our social media presence. We have got 15,000 followers on Twitter and over 27,000 on Facebook. Our close coordination with tour operators have also helped attract visitors,” Sivakumar, who took charge in March 2019, said. The park had seen a record number of visitors (1,88,376) and revenue generation (Rs 5.60 crore) in 2017 but it has been consistently clocking over 1.7 lakh visitors and revenue close to Rs 5 crore since then. Sivakumar said revenue is mainly generated by foreign tourists and those from other states. On an average, a foreign tourist spends at least Rs 2,500 a day. Entry fees for domestic tourists is Rs 100 per person against Rs 650 for a foreigner. “Food and safari business is doing well but we need people to stay back to see a rise in revenue. A foreign tourist spends as much as 12 locals in a day. For most locals it is a daylong trip and we get only Rs 100 in entry fees. But we are happy they are turning up in healthy numbers and helping us cope with the Covid-19 blues,” Sivakumar said. The park was set up in 1906 and declared a World Heritage Site in 1985 and a tiger reserve in 2007. Today, the park has 121 tigers, 1,089 elephants and an estimated over 2,410 rhinos. It attracts more visitors annually than the other five national parks in Assam. Raimona in Kokrajhar district will be the sixth national park of the state once it is formally notified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
30-01-2021||Opinion||Another rosy picture for the Modi govt||As far as the latest Economic Survey is concerned, the past does not pose much of a problem for the Narendra Modi government. India and the world have been living out a pandemic. Explaining past policy failures, therefore, causes little embarrassment to the Centre. Therefore, the estimated 7.7 per cent contraction in India’s annual growth rate in gross domestic product is unlikely to be viewed as a failure. Under the present circumstances, it is perhaps more important to analyse the Economic Survey with an eye on the upcoming Union budget. It contains tell-tale hints about the economic policy framework that the Central government is expected to adopt. The fiscal deficit for the financial year, 2021, had been predicted to be 3.5 per cent of GDP. It will clearly be much higher. The Economic Survey does not address the issue at all. Instead, it focuses on the combined primary deficit of the Centre and states — the difference between the fiscal deficit and interest payments — and estimates it to be 6.8 per cent of GDP. This implies that the Union budget would announce a monstrous fiscal deficit of the Centre alone, let alone the states. How will this deficit be financed? Higher taxation of the rich is one obvious policy choice. However, the chief economic adviser has clarified in no uncertain terms that this route will be avoided. Instead, he indicated that borrowing would be the way out. Borrowing is justified with reference to India’s soon-to-improve growth rate vis-à-vis new interest payments. The growth rate is expected to be higher than interest payment obligations, which leaves a balance to finance government expenditure for growth. Such growth, the Economic Survey says, would increase the “pie” available for the poor without inconveniencing the rich. Going by the Economic Survey, the Union budget would be easy on taxation and spare at least the super rich. Is borrowing the right path to follow as far as India’s credit rating is concerned? The Economic Survey points out that India is the fifth-largest economy in the world. Yet, credit rating agencies do not award it an AAA rating, the way China was treated in the past. On the other hand, India’s foreign exchange reserves are adequate to pay off its private as well as public debts without any problem. More borrowing could, therefore, be announced by the budget along with less taxation. The Economic Survey suggests that this will not merely help India grow faster but also remove inequalities since the larger pie will be enjoyed by a larger number of people. This larger output will be available as early as FY 24, and this will only require a short-term forbearance by the population. The long term looks rosy, except, of course, for John Maynard Keynes’s famous repartee that in the long run everyone will be dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Opinion||New worry: Covaxin efficacy||Sir — While the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccines in India is certainly a cause for celebration, a lot of people are worried about elderly family members getting the shots. This is because there is still uncertainty about the efficacy data of Covaxin, created by Bharat Biotech. There are fears that the vaccine, the full effects of which are not known yet, could trigger adverse responses in senior citizens, who already have weakened immune systems. The loss of loved ones to the coronavirus already takes a mental toll; it would be a crushing blow to lose a parent or a grandparent after a vaccination. The government must ensure that the vaccine is absolutely safe for old people. Indira Basu,Calcutta Be careful Sir — It was distressing to read that the former Indian skipper and the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, Sourav Ganguly, had to undergo another angioplasty so soon after his first procedure a few weeks ago (“Sourav in hospital after discomfort”, Jan 28). He was admitted to the hospital after complaining of chest pain, and had to have two more stents inserted to remove blockages in two coronary arteries. While it is a relief that his condition is reported to be stable, it is important for his doctors to closely examine all his health conditions so that a recurrence can be avoided to the extent possible. Ganguly has a lot of responsibilities on his shoulders; few have the ability to take the fortunes of Indian cricket forward like he does. In order to ensure that he is able to carry out his duties to the best of his abilities, he must take care of his health first. It is no secret that Ganguly is revered in West Bengal; the people of the state would be distressed to hear news of his health deteriorating. One wishes Ganguly a speedy recovery. It is to be hoped that he will take some rest and prioritize his health from now. Iqra Husain,Calcutta Sir — Sourav Ganguly’s achievements as a cricketer, captain, commentator and television personality are admirable; now, he is at the helm of the administration of Indian cricket. His admirers among the cricket-loving public were expectedly worried when the news of his second angioplasty came to light. Heart disease statistics in India are high; the only way to minimize risk is to take care of one’s health in terms of diet, exercise, sleep and timely medication. Fans of Ganguly and, indeed, lovers of Indian cricket will be hoping that the BCCI chief recovers well and is able to lead from the front again. Angad Sodhi,Calcutta Right demand Sir — The Congress was right to demand that Amit Shah be sacked as Union home minister following the violence that took place on Republic Day. It is quite interesting to note that the Delhi police, which is under the home ministry, is allowed time and again to beat up peaceful protesters mercilessly — as was witnessed repeatedly during demonstrations against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the national capital last year — but is strangely inept in containing situations where violence might best serve the government’s interests. Shah does not care about protecting citizens; he only cares about furthering his party’s divisive agenda. He should be removed from his position. Akhila Chopra,Delhi Sir — Amit Shah’s successive failures on multiple fronts as home minister makes the Congress’s demand for his sacking understandable. Shah is known for his chest-thumping about ‘defending’ the nation and Indians — or, at least, those that would be considered Indians under the divisive CAA. And yet, the unrest on Republic Day spoke volumes. The Centre is quick to blame the farmers for the ‘violence’, but does not security fall under the purview of the Union home ministry? Shah also mysteriously failed to ‘contain’ the violence in Jamia Millia Islamia university in 2019 and the Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2020. His ham-handedness when it comes to maintaining law and order and his telling silence must be taken into account given that he occupies such an important position in the government. Safdar Shadab,Railpar, Asansol||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Opinion||In celebration: America welcomes President Biden||After Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States of America, most of the country is revelling in the stark contrasts between him and Donald Trump. Many people rejoiced through street art, murals and memes. In New York City, the sign at the 46th Street Station on the M and R lines in Queens was altered on Inauguration Day from 46th Street to ‘46th Joe’. The street artist, Adrian Wilson, did something similar at the time of the deaths of personalities like Prince, Aretha Franklin and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The Prince and Franklin Street stations were changed for the singers, while the 50th Street station was modified into Ruth Street. In Soho, the sign for Thompson Street in the SoHo neighbourhood of Manhattan was changed to ‘Trump Gone St’, and a one-way sign above it was altered to read ‘Gone Away’. Over in Florida, Biden will join Disneyworld’s Hall of Presidents. New robotic figures are added to the attraction every time a new president takes office. Many recent presidents even recorded their own speeches. While it is not a thrilling theme park ride, it aims to provide information about American history through the talking animatronic figures. The evening of the inauguration started with a prime-time televised special, Celebrating America, hosted by Tom Hanks and featuring celebrities such as Eva Longoria, Bruce Springsteen, John Legend and Justin Timberlake. It aimed to “showcase the American people’s resilience, heroism and unified commitment to coming together as a nation to heal and rebuild” according to the presidential inauguration committee. Salute the heroes Black History Month is celebrated throughout February. It is a time to celebrate black culture and the heroes, inventors, artists and creators from the black community who have contributed to American society and culture. The idea of a black history month originated in September 1915, half a century after the Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery in the US, when the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, dedicated to researching and promoting achievements by black Americans and other people of African descent, was founded. By the late 1960s, ‘Negro History Week’ had evolved into Black History Month on college campuses until President Gerald Ford officially recognized it as such in 1976. As a celebration of Black History Month, Apple has created the ‘Apple Watch Black Unity Collection’, a limited-edition watch that features the words, ‘Black Unity’, on the back. Apple said that members of the black creative community worked with it to create the watch as a tribute to the fight for racial justice. The band has the phrase, “Truth. Power. Solidarity.” etched onto the enclosure.The watch face uses the colours of the Pan-African flag: red, green and black. Marvel will be releasing seven comic books with different covers featuring its most popular black superheroes, including Miles Morales, Blade, Black Panther, Iron Heart, War Machine, Storm, Falcon and the new Valkyrie. Barbie has also announced the release of a new Barbie doll as part of its ‘Inspiring Women’ doll series: Dr Maya Angelou. A spokesperson said that the doll highlights Barbie’s “commitment to spotlight more Black role models who are female”. Easy tests There is now a vending machine that dispenses Covid-19 at home testing kits. But the price tag is steep. From the health company, Wellness 4 Humanity, they will cost about $150 per kit and are slated to be launched in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston and Dallas. Customers can choose between two types of tests. The Rapid Antigen At-Home Test Kit provides results in 15 minutes, with no shipping or laboratory work required, and is said to have ‘97.4 per cent accuracy and 100 per cent specificity, meaning false negatives are unlikely’ according to a press release. The At-Home Saliva Test, meanwhile, is done through a saliva collection, instead of the more common nasal swabs. Customers receive their results within 48 hours, with 99 per cent accuracy, through a mobile app. In the meantime, the San Diego campus of the University of California has also launched Covid-19 vending machines for their students. All students living on campus are required to take a test once a week. Have a drink Businesses are struggling as the Covid-19 pandemic rages on. Some have had to shut down completely while others struggle to get by with business loans. There are also those who have tried to get a little creative. The American Airlines group, unable to serve wine in-flight, is now offering to deliver it to your doorstep instead. The company is aiming for $40,000 in sales through its Flagship Cellars programme this quarter. Customers can choose from collections of mixed wines, build a custom box or purchase a monthly $99.99 subscription for three wines, including delivery, the airlines said in a statement. Many restaurants offer cocktails to go or liquor delivered to your doorstep. But only one has created a mobile bar cart. The Maybourne Beverly Hills in Los Angeles has set up a service where a masked bartender will be pushing around a bar cart. He will then set up the cart at a distance and walk you through a menu of cocktails from the Maybourne Bar. Each service lasts 45 minutes to an hour, and each customer will receive one round of cocktails and another bottled cocktail for later, in keeping with LA’s to-go cocktail regulations. The delivery also includes food, such as cheese crisps, nuts and olives. According to several studies, alcohol consumption and sales have significantly gone up during the pandemic. Footnote Donald Trump has flown off to Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. However, there are reports that the resort has been gloomy, with members walking out after Trump’s election loss. On top of that, residents are not too keen to have Trump as a neighbour. They sent a letter to the Town of Palm Beach and the US Secret Service complaining that Trump has violated a 1993 agreement he made with the town that says Mar-a-Lago, his private social club, cannot be used as a full-time residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Opinion||Without artifice||The American writer, Louis Fischer, is best known for his book, The Life of Mahatma Gandhi, which Richard Attenborough drew upon while making his award-winning film of 1982. Fischer’s book was published in 1950, two years after Gandhi’s assassination. Eight years previously, he had written a much slimmer (and now far less well known) volume titled A Week with Gandhi. This was based on a visit Fischer made to India in the summer of 1942, in the course of which he had conversations with Ambedkar, Savarkar and Jinnah in the great city of Bombay, before travelling to Sevagram to speak with that village’s most famous resident. In a striking passage in this book, Fischer wrote: “[Jinnah] talked at me. He was trying to convince me. When I put a question to him I felt as though it had turned on a phonograph record. I had heard it all before or could have read it in the literature he gave me. But when I asked Gandhi something I felt that I had started a creative process. I could see and hear his mind work. With Jinnah I could only hear the needle scratch the phonograph record... But I could follow Gandhi as he moved to a conclusion. He is, therefore, much more exciting [for an interviewer] than Jinnah. If you strike right with Gandhi you open a new pocket of thought. An interview with him is a voyage of discovery, and he himself is sometimes surprised at the things he says.” This ability to listen and learn, this willingness to change his views if confronted with contrary evidence, emphatically set Gandhi apart from the other politicians of his time, as well as of ours. He was constantly questioning his own presuppositions, while constantly engaging with his colleagues and his critics. Consider in this regard Gandhi’s views on race, caste, and gender. In each of these domains, over the course of his life, Gandhi discarded the reactionary prejudices he once held to embrace more egalitarian positions. Racism runs deep in Indian culture, as manifest in the still widespread tendency among males to look for brides with ‘fair complexion’. Growing up in Kathiawar, Gandhi had unquestionably accepted racial stereotypes. That is why, in his early years in South Africa, he made a series of disparaging comments about Africans whom he saw as distinctly inferior to his fellow Indians. Over time, however, Gandhi came to see Africans in a far less pejorative light, thus to hope — as he put it in a public speech in Johannesburg in 1908 — that “all the different races [would] commingle and produce a civilisation that perhaps the world has not yet seen”. By the end of his stay in South Africa, Gandhi had moved from being a racist to becoming a non-racist. His views were to evolve further. In the last decades of his life, he was a principled and consistent anti-racist. He was in touch with African-American activists, hosting them in his ashram in Sevagram, while urging that they adopt non-violent satyagraha to combat racial prejudice in their country, as indeed they went on to do. So long as he was living in South Africa, Gandhi had kept the struggle of Indians separate from that of the Africans themselves. But in retrospect he came to see this as unwise. When a delegation of Indians from South Africa visited him in 1946, Gandhi told them they must “associate with Zulus and Bantus” too. The “slogan today,” remarked Gandhi, “is no longer ‘Asia for the Asiatics’ or ‘Africa for the Africans’ but the unity of all the exploited races of the earth.” In his autobiography, Gandhi talks of defying his Modh Bania community to travel overseas. However, a broader understanding of caste discrimination eluded Gandhi until his return to his homeland in 1915. Travelling around South India, he was dismayed by the ill-treatment of Dalits. He resolved to oppose untouchability, although at this stage he was reluctant to mount a direct challenge to the caste system itself. In the 1920s, inspired by the followers of the remarkable social reformer, Narayana Guru, Gandhi lent his influence to a campaign for temple-entry, mobilizing Dalits and caste Hindus to worship together. In the 1930s, provoked and challenged by the great emancipator of the Dalits, B.R. Ambedkar, Gandhi began to adopt more radical positions. He now advocated affirmative action, inter-dining and, finally, marriages between Savarnas and Dalits. Through his engagement with critics and on the basis of his own experiences, Gandhi came to recognize that as a system of separation, segregation and discrimination, caste had no reason to exist at all. Over the course of his life, Gandhi comprehensively shed the racial and caste prejudices of his youth. His moral evolution with regard to gender was less complete. Nonetheless, it was not insubstantial. In his domestic life, Gandhi was a typical Hindu patriarch. He might have remained that way in public too had he not encountered two independent-minded European women in South Africa. These were Millie Graham, the wife of Gandhi’s friend and housemate, Henry Polak, and Sonja Schlesin, who worked with Gandhi in his law office. Accustomed to seeing women as submissive and subordinate, it was while sharing a home with Millie and an office with Sonja that Gandhi came face to face with women as autonomous moral and social agents. These experiences led to Indian women (among them Kasturba herself) participating in a major satyagraha that Gandhi organized in 1913. After his return to India, Gandhi was at first inclined to keep women away from nationalist politics, fearing that a deeply conservative society would react with hostility to males and females coming together in the public sphere. Again, two exemplary women encouraged him to adopt a more progressive stance. These were Sarojini Naidu and Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Naidu became president of the Indian National Congress in 1925 at a time when there were no women in leadership roles in the political parties of Europe and North America. Chattopadhyay played a prominent part in the Salt Satyagraha. Later, during the Quit India movement of 1942, hundreds of female activists, many of a socialist bent, led strikes and protests and spent time in jail. In the event, female participation in the Gandhian movement was far more widespread than in any other anti-colonial struggle in Asia or Africa. Race, caste, and gender are three fundamental axes of social discrimination. That is why I have focused on them here, tracking the evolution of Gandhi’s views in this regard. Yet he was continually learning and growing in other spheres as well. Take, for example, his attitude to science and technology. In his 1909 book, Hind Swaraj, Gandhi comes across as a Luddite technophobe. However, he was to substantially modify his views in later years. Two successful operations conducted on him by surgeons — one Indian, the other European — put paid to his once dogged hostility to modern medicine. Encounters with scientists like C.V. Raman encouraged a healthy appreciation of the methods and procedures of modern science. It was surely not an accident that he titled his autobiography, “The Story of My Experiments with Truth”. Gandhi was experimenting with truth while he was on the train and when he was in the ashram, when he was by himself and while he was in conversation with others. Louis Fischer, writing in 1942, thought that the capacity for self-examination and self-critique that was such a hallmark of Gandhi’s character was conspicuously missing in his most celebrated rival, his fellow Gujarati, Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Writing in 2021, I might say that it is also conspicuously missing in the most powerful Indian now alive, Gandhi’s fellow Gujarati, Narendra Modi. In his little book of 1942, Louis Fischer observed that “[p]art of the pleasure” of interviewing Gandhi was that “he really opens his mind and allows the interviewer to see how the machine inside works”. In this regard, Gandhi was quite unlike other Indian politicians who sought to “bring their ideas out in final perfect form so that they are least exposed to attack”. Fischer was writing as a journalist who spoke to his subjects in person. However, for the historian, whose work rests on interrogating documents (both printed and unpublished), this is among the greatest pleasures of studying Gandhi as well. In his words and actions, there was no propaganda, no subterfuge, no covering up of tracks, no spin, no attempt to present oneself in a flattering light. Reading Gandhi, researching Gandhi, is to encounter a human being whom his followers claimed to be pure and perfect, a Mahatma even, but who knew himself to be fallible and flawed.  ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||JAC to push back matric, intermediate exams to May||Jharkhand Academic Council is likely to defer matric and intermediate exams to May to give more time to students to prepare, JAC officials hinted  following a meeting on Saturday morning. Earlier this month, JAC had announced that the exams would be held from March 9 to March 26. But on Saturday,  JAC chairman Arvind Prasad Singh  told reporters that they were  now looking at May. “Exams in all likelihood will now be held between May 4 onwards. A formal announcement will be made soon,” he said. Sources said that the decision to push the exams to later was taken after the state education department asked JAC to reconsider the dates. “Schools for class 10 and 12 were only reopened in December in the wake of the board exams. While online classes were held during the lockdown, it was mostly perceived as inadequate vis-à-vis classroom mode of training. Therefore, the education department wanted JAC to reconsider the dates,” said an official. CBSE board exams this year will take place in May. The council holding ICSE and ISC exams has also said that these would be deferred from the usual February-March time-table. It is yet to announce the schedule. Now, the JAC  schedule is akin to the other boards. In November last year, Jharkhand Education Project Council  curtailed the syllabus by 40 per cent across all classes. Thereafter in December, the state government allowed reopening of schools for classes 10 and 12. All schools were mandated to allow students to join in-person classes after getting parents' consent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Local passenger trains to run from Monday||South Eastern Railway announced the resumption of local trains on Saturday, in addition to extending the services of two special trains till March 31. Ranchi-Patna Special and Rajendra Nagar-Durg Special trains, which were earlier supposed to run till January 31, will now operate till March 31. “We decided to continue the running of both the trains considering the good rush of passengers,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Meanwhile, the office of SER's chief passenger transportation manager ( CPTM) in a separate circular announced restoration of several local passenger trains under its jurisdiction. The trains include Tata-Barbil MEMU Passenger, which will resume operation from February, and the Tata- Chakradharpur MEMU Passenger, which will run from February 2 Apart from this several other daily passenger trains including Tata-Kharagpur MEMU Passenger, Chakradharpur - Gomoh MEMU Passenger and  Chakradharpur  -Rourkela MEMU Passenger will resume operation from February 2. A spokesperson of Chakradharpur railway division said all passenger trains will follow the previous scheduled time of departure and arrival from the originating stations. Passengers were asked to strictly follow all the safety-related protocols before and during their journey in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau civil surgeon surprises patients on World Leprosy Day||On World Leprosy Day, survivors Shobha Devi and Mahender Misser of Jour village in Palamau received a surprise visit from civil surgeon, Palamau, John F. Kennedy and disease consultant M.K. Mehta, who inquired about their health. Leprosy, a rare skin infection, is looked down upon by society, resulting in patients to avoid getting treatment. Shobha, whose feet are deformed, found herself in a similar situation and got too late in starting her treatment. According to Kennedy, she was treated for six months and was saved from further deformities. On Saturday, the visiting officials made her run from the sadar hospital to the block hospital. Mahender Misser, meanwhile, has deformities in both his hands, and also wasted time in getting treatment. He said as he used to work with iron bars he thought his hands were getting stiff because of handling the bars, and only came to know later of his condition. In order to treat him, officials had given him a ball to press the hands and a tub to wash them, but both got damaged. Kennedy asked Mehta to provide him with the essentials. Mahender’s hands are now clawed because he took the leprosy medication too late, the civil surgeon said. District leprosy officer M.P. Singh said the disease rate is less than one per 10,000 population in Palamau. Kennedy said that apart from observing World Leprosy Day on every last Sunday of January, Jharkhand launches a two-week drive to identify the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||New health secy to beef up rural medical setup||The state health department will focus on strengthening the health setup at the rural areas of Jharkhand in a bid to ease the load on premiere healthcare centres in the cities, newly-appointed health secretary KK Soan, who will be on an inspection spree in the coming week, said on Saturday. “We will start inspecting the Primary Health Centres and Community Health Centres in the far-flung villages and address the problems there,” said Soan. “Since our priority is rural health infrastructure, the department’s active involvement in strengthening the healthcare centres in rural areas will be crucial in addressing the loopholes in the system,” he added. Primary and Community health centres are government-run healthcare facilities built to provide immediate medical assistance to patients in the villages. However, due to lack of infrastructure and qualified medical staff, most of the villagers who visit these local healthcare centres are referred to government-run premiere hospitals either in Ranchi, Dhanbad or Jamshedpur. This practice of sending almost every patient to the premiere hospitals in the cities mounts additional pressure on the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Hospital in Jamshedpur and SNNMCH, formerly known as the Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad, health officials say. “The idea is to provide sufficient facilities in the villages, so that minor to moderate ailments can be treated there itself, and patients are not unnecessarily referred to the bigger hospitals,” said Soan. Soan also interacted with doctors at RIMS in an informal meeting on Saturday and sought their suggestions for improving the health setup in the state’s largest government-run hospital. On Monday, the health secretary will inspect Sadar Hospital in Ranchi and speak to the staff there. For construction of new hospitals in Giridih and Khunti districts, the government has already finalised a 20 acre plot near the collectorate in Giridih, said Soan. A 24 acre land, about 20-minute drive from Khunti, will also be made available soon for construction of a hospital there. However, he did not disclose the number of beds that would be allotted for each of the two new hospitals. Giridih and Khunti are both rural-dominated districts. While patients from Khunti often have to travel to Ranchi for treatment, patients in Giridih travel to Dhanbad in case of medical emergency, sources said. During an interaction with media persons in Ranchi’s Suchna Bhawan on Saturday, Soan said that the department will not think of the immediate outcome of the initiatives taken to strengthen the rural healthcare setup as the process may take time, but the situation will improve gradually, he assured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant announces ‘khadi grant’ of Rs 2,000 for Tana Bhagats||Chief minister Hemant Soren announced an annual ‘khadi grant’ of Rs 2,000 for every member of the Tana Bhagat sect on Saturday, the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The idea is to help members of the sect that adheres to Gandhian ideals buy and maintain their signature attire (white khadi kurta/sari and cap),said government sources. “Like policemen who get uniforms, we have now decided to provide Rs 2,000 per year to every Tana Bhagat. For the first time in 20 years, a government is in place which is sensitive to everyone’s needs and aspirations,” the chief minister said at Banhora on the outskirts of Ranchi where he inaugurated a guest house for Tana Bhagats built at a cost of Rs 2.73cr. Hemant also unveiled a statue of Gandhi and Jatra Tanabhagat. In Ranchi, he began the day by garlanding the statue of the Mahatma. Governor Droupadi Murmu also paid he respects to the father of the nation. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who also garlanded the statue of the Mahatma, said that if Gandhi was alive today, he would have been highly “depressed” and “saddened” to see the plight of our “annadatas” under BJP rule. Speaking to the media here Oraon said that Gandhiji always stood for the rights of farmers. “In Champaran (Bihar) he fought for farmers rights through non-violent means and was also behind the farmers in Kheda in Gujarat. Whenever any injustice was meted out to farmers, he would fight for them as they are the country’s annadata. He would have been sad and depressed seeing how farmers are being exploited, attacked and harassed today under BJP-led Union and state governments,” said the former IPS officer, alluding to police action against farmers organisations following widespread violence in Delhi during their tractor rally on Republic Day. The Congress, he said, would continue to oppose the new farm laws and support protesting farmers through non-violent means till they are repealed. On Sunday, Jharkhand Congress is scheduled to hold a 80-km tractor rally from Godda to Deoghar in Santhal Parganas in solidarity with protesting farmers. Referring to Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Oraon said, “Like Gandhiji, Patel too fought many battles for farmers. However, the BJP, which often invokes Patel and Gandhiji’s names for its petty politics, has forgotten the virtues and principles they stood for. The BJP government in the Centre is hell bent on selling all farmland to private players only to help its corporate friends.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 52 per cent Covishield target on Friday||Jharkhand achieved 52 per cent of its vaccination target on Friday as 8,759 of the 16,879 people registered for the immunisation received Covishield shots, data updated by the National Health Mission said. Palamau achieved 80 per cent of its vaccination target on the day – the highest among all the 24 districts, with 796 out of 1,000 people getting vaccinated. Despite failing to achieve even 50 per cent of its vaccination target on the day, Ranchi administration administered the vaccine shots to 919 people, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, however, achieved only 42 per cent of its target as at least 2200 people were registered for vaccination at the 16 centres here on Friday. Only one case of Adverse Effect Following Vaccination (AEFI) was reported on the day. The person who suffered from adverse effects was a resident of Ranchi. As of Friday, 33,069 people have received the jabs, with 2,988 of them being from Ranchi. However, Jharkhand has achieved only 57 per cent of its target so far as at least 24,455 people registered for vaccination did not turn up at the vaccination centres, reveals government data. The active cases of Covid-19 infection saw a downward trend on the day, but Ranchi continued to report more than 70 per cent of the state's cases. Of the 45 people found infected across the state, 33 were from Ranchi. However, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day as the state reported 86 recoveries and 54 of them were reported in Ranchi alone. Friday’s findings brought the number of active cases down to 628 in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, a Covid-19 patient in Bokaro died during treatment, taking the death toll in the state to 1,070, a bulletin released by NHM stated. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, however, was 0.90 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent, the bulletin further stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
30-01-2021||Jharkhand||Shots fired at stationary SUV, police claim 'an act of intimidation'||Unidentified criminal shot at a stationary SUV in Shastrinagar area, under Kadma police station late on Friday night, triggering fear and panic in the densely-populated locality. Of the three shots fired at the car, one of the pellets remained stuck in the vehicle's rear seat with a threat letter found lying near the vehicle. The rear windscreen was also ruptured partially. The vehicle owned by Rishikesh Chandra was parked inside the garage of his house at Block No 4 in Shastrinagar. Concerned with the criminal act, the vehicle owner, who is a material supplier of Tata Steel, lodged an FIR with the Kadma police station on Saturday morning, leading the police to start an investigation. A CCTV camera installed in front of the house captured the act of firing.  The police have taken the footage in which one lone youth was seen going over to the place where Chandra's house is located and returning on foot.  Sound of gun-shots has also been captured in the footage around 11 pm. In the letter that was found near the vehicle, the victim was asked to pay `rangdaari' (extortion money) or be ready to die. The man who was seen in the CCTV camera footage is tall with his face partially covered as he had put on a hoodie jacket. Deputy superintendent of police (headquarters-II) Arvind Kumar who looks after the Kadma area confirmed about the shooting at a stationary SUV. "It appears that some criminals tried to instigate fear in the mind of the vehicle owner who is a Tata Steel supplier.  We have obtained the CCTV camera and are trying to detect the person involved in the crime," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The DSP also said that the content that was found near the car was intimidating, probably intended to create fear in the mind of the victim. Police have detained more than one suspects and are trying to detect the person responsible for the incident by interrogating them. Chandra (55) said he has no enmity with anyone and such act must have been committed by some local criminal with an intention to extort money. "From the kind of act, it appears that the person involved in the crime is a local man.  Such incidents are on the rise in Kadma locality.  Let the police detect the criminal," Chandra said while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
