31-01-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcuttans lose money without sharing OTP||At least two Calcuttans have reported to police that they have lost money from their bank accounts despite not sharing OTPs with any stranger. Both of them had received a text message or a call saying that their mobile phone connection was about to be suspended if they did not call back or click on a link shared to them. Both had clicked on the link and downloaded an application to transfer Rs 10. After some time, one of them, an elderly Calcuttan, realised she had lost more than Rs 3 lakh from her account while the other victim, a schoolteacher in Jadavpur, learned that Rs 1 lakh had been withdrawn from her account. The police said the application they had downloaded on their phone was a malware that had captured the Internet banking details of the victims when they had made a transaction of Rs 10. Then the registered mobile number was changed so that the next OTP was generated on the new mobile number, the police said. “This is a new modus operandi that fraudsters have started because the majority of the people are now aware that they should not share any OTP with any stranger. Citizens feel Rs 10 is too small an amount and that they are anyway not sharing any OTP. This makes them fall into the trap,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Police sources said they have been receiving similar complaints where people have lost money without sharing any OTP. “I received a text message from my mobile phone service provider saying my phone number would expire in 24 hours. There was a number mentioned as the customer care number in the same text message. It was different from the number that I have. So, I called at the registered number but no one responded. Then I called at the number shared in the text message,” said Susmita Ghose, a 65-year-old Calcuttan, who is one of the victims. She was asked to click on a link sent to her and download an application before making a payment of Rs 10. Later, she received a call from the telecom service provider from where she learned that the earlier call was a hoax call. By the time she contacted her bank, she found that more than Rs 3 lakh had been deducted from her account minutes earlier. In an almost similar incident, a resident of Jadavpur received a purported text message from her mobile number service provider saying the KYC of her mobile number was incomplete without which her number would be suspended. She, too, followed the same steps to make a transaction of Rs 10 and later lost Rs 1 lakh. The police said several Calcuttans have reported that they have received purported text messages from their telecom service providers claiming that the phone service would be suspended if they did not call the number mentioned in the text message or click on a link shared in the message. “We are going to take it up with the telecom service providers to create more awareness from their side so that their customers cannot be duped with such fraudulent messages,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-156
31-01-2021||Calcutta||Students bring wetlands to the city||A great view from apartment balconies and a source of cheap vegetables, the wetlands to the east of Calcutta occupy a limited space in the minds of its people. An exhibition set up by students wants to change that. It wants to “forge new connections, to dismantle the invisible walls that separate the city from the wetlands”. A “waste map” is one of the displays at the two-day exhibition that started on Saturday. It tracks the journey of sewage from a visitor’s home to a natural wastewater treatment plant. Another exhibit asks a visitor to pick ingredients for a Bengali dish and then trace their source to the same ecosystem. Titled “Jolabhumi’r Kotha o Kahini (Tales from the wetlands): an anthology of encounters”, the exhibition at Currency Building in Dalhousie is centred on the East Calcutta Wetlands. The wetlands receive and treat a bulk of Calcutta’s sewage every day and has saved crores of rupees for the administration by sparing the need to build several sewage treatment plants. The wetlands, declared a Ramsar site in 2002, provide livelihood opportunities to a large number of people in and around Calcutta through the production of fish and vegetables. Over 10,000 tonnes of fish is produced there every year and around 150 tonnes of vegetables every day. The sewage-fed aquaculture is also a massive carbon sink that removes carbon dioxide and protects climate at a regional scale. “We want to take the wetlands to the people of Calcutta. The city should know where a bulk of its food comes from; what is the destination of its filth beyond the canals that slither through its neighbourhoods,” said Rishith Sinha, a student of economics in Reed College in the US. The exhibition, curated by an artists’ collective that works closely with children, also shows how rapid changes are taking place at the 12,500-hectare of water bodies known as the city’s kidneys at the cost of the rich biodiversity there. Human settlements have come up after filling the water bodies. The threat of construction and dumping of waste looms large over the wetlands. On December 22, the National Green Tribunal asked an expert committee to complete the assessment of environmental damage within the East Calcutta Wetlands because of the “unauthorised and indiscriminate disposal of solid waste” by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation within another two months. On the inaugural day of the exhibition, the “What’s Cooking” installation drew many visitors. Each one was asked to pick raw materials to rustle up a dish. A fish curry with seasonal vegetables was a common dish that many opted for. Each visitor was shown which of the ingredients had been sourced from the wetlands. Another installation showed glimpses of the daily haat, an integral part of the wetland landscape. Photos of shop layouts and the people selling their wares adorned a wall made of bamboo and woven mats. A bunch of 10 students, including Sinha have set up the installations. Mentored by members of Disappearing Dialogues, “a dynamic platform for creative engagement and cultural expression”, the students went to the wetlands many times for a ground experience and to prepare for the exhibition. “We want to stoke responses and trigger conversations about the wetlands,” said Nabina Gupta, founder of Disappearing Dialogues. The collective has partnered with the German Consulate to organise the exhibition. A seminar with international speakers is underway along with the exhibition. “The exhibition is a call to look at the wetlands as they are — neither paradise, nor wasteland, but an evolving socio-spatial, sonic, and geographic landscape. Its people are diverse, its practices myriad and mutative. The exhibits are meant to prompt thoughts and questions, to ignite our curiosity about the wetlands,” says the curatorial note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||Two city schools announce pre-board dates||Two city schools announced dates for pre-board exams in a notice sent to parents of class X and XII students on Saturday, but did not specify the mode of exams in the absence of any directive from the state government on bringing students back to campus. St Xavier’s Collegiate School and Loreto House have sent notices to classes X and XII with dates for pre-board exams “to keep them prepared”. A notice from the principal of Loreto House to the parents says: “Keeping in mind the present unprecedented situation, the Pre-Board Examination could either be online or physical. The possibility for a (physical) examination in school will be notified to you closer to the Pre-Board Examinations.” St Xavier’s Collegiate School has also announced the dates without specifying whether the exams will be online or on-campus, the school’s principal said. Some others schools, too, want to hold pre-board exams on the campus but are waiting for the government’s nod to make a formal announcement. If allowed, this will be the first exam that the board examinees will write in school this academic year. Since board exams will be pen-and-paper, several schools are keen on conduc-ting the pre-boards on campus. All campuses have been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid. “We are waiting for the directive from the state government to allow classes on campus. Teachers and also a large section of students want to come to the school because they need the practice for two or three hours of writing to be well-prepared for the board exams,” said Loreto House principal Aruna Gomes. “But we are ready either way, online or offline,” she said. Father M. Thamacin Arulappan, principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, has announced the dates to “prepare students well in advance”. “We have not said anything regarding how the pre-boards will be conducted. If we get any confirmation (from the government), we can have it in school and in that case, the connectivity and uploading issues can be avoided. But the only concern will be of the coronavirus and that has to be taken into account,” said Father Arulappan. The uncertainty regarding the reopening of campuses has landed schools in a “fix” and some school heads said it is difficult for them to plan the exam schedule. St James’ School and Calcutta Girls’ High School plan to hold pre-boards for classes X and XII on campus. “We will be able to conduct the exams by maintaining proper distance because all other classrooms are empty and can be used,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’. “We would want to call the students of classes IX and XI also for on-campus exams but haven’t yet decided because we are waiting for a clearer picture,” she said. St James’ School that had initially planned to call classes IX and XI might not do so anymore. “We have planned the pre-board for X and XII in the middle of March subject to permission from the government,” said principal Terence Ireland. “It will be difficult to call the IX and XI students around that time and then begin the session by mid-April,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||This Earth: Its axis is your conscience||We are mistaken if we believe that human beings are destroying the earth; the planet will continue to spin and revolve irrespective of injury inflicted by human avarice. The last one year has proven that the living world is motioning us to listen, take note, rethink and rework our presence. It is from this deep sense of unease that Paribesher Sahaj Path, an Internet-based radio programme, was born in December 2020. Paribesh means environment and sahaj path, the A-B-C or the basics. It is aired every Sunday on Radio Quarantine, a community station that was launched from Calcutta during the coronavirus-induced lockdown and Amphan ravages last year. It is no coincidence that actor Dhritiman Chaterji, along with his friends Ronodeb Paul and Abeer Chakravarty — all “communications professionals” — pooled in their resources to start this. Paul is a filmmaker, while Chakravarty is the actor’s colleague from his advertising days. “All three of us had happened to read Amitava Ghosh’s The Great Derangement around the time we were hit by the double whammy last year,” Chaterji tells The Telegraph. “Essentially, we wanted to communicate three things — that occurrences such as super cyclones and pandemics are inter-connected; that they are not going to go away and are perhaps going to repeat with greater intensity; and that we, as individuals and communities, have to take responsibility and act now. We wanted to put all this across not in abstract or academic terms but in down-to-earth, intelligible ways that could motivate a general audience.” As the name suggests, Paribesher Sahaj Path is in Bengali; the collaboration with Radio Quarantine needed the medium to be thus. “Which is not at all a problem... because of the Internet, a Bangla audience does not necessarily mean a Calcutta or Bengal audience; it is the diaspora all over the world,” says Chaterji, who anchors the programme. The format is simple. Roughly an hour long, it features a detailed discussion with one person who has domain knowledge in the environmental sciences. The manner of conversation is easy, informed and interesting. There is also a conscious effort by discussants not to lapse into English words or phrases. “If you listen to similar podcasts from Bangladesh — I have recently been part of one such programme — they don’t use English at all,” adds Chaterji. The veteran actor sometimes thinks aloud, sometimes probes, and at other times voices layperson questions. The refrain: the devastating Amphan and the continuing coronavirus pandemic, are these two isolated events or are they linked in some functional manner? Also, the crisis of global warming, do these occurrences have any bearing on our political, economic, health and education systems? Are we, the human race, absolutely helpless or do we have some role to play to help the situation? “It is said that the ocean, the cradle of the first life forms on earth, flows through our veins...,” muses Chaterji philosophically in one episode. Professor of oceanographic studies Sugata Hazra, a member of the 16th Indian Antarctic Expedition in 1996-97 who has had an opportunity to “shake hands with penguins”, goes on to explain why the danger of extinction by sea is real. “Because it has happened five times so far,” he says, “albeit before human beings came into existence”. Scientists have long been warning of a sixth extinction. “There are certain marine crabs, snails and worms that are found near the deep sea hydrothermal vents. These creatures can live in super heated seawater near 250 degree Celsius — impossible conditions for human life. This only means that the seas have started preparing for life forms that will survive should such extreme conditions become a reality,” says Hazra. Now that’s information that will turn the blood cold. In another episode, historian Dipesh Chakrabarty talks about ancient civilisations, the virus-human cell connect and Wuhan, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak. The earth, he says, is indeed in the midst of a mass extinction of life. Studies estimate that about 150 species are dying every day. We also hear from the University of Chicago professor why monkeys have learnt to live in city spaces, happily too. And which bird has the largest population on earth. It’s the broiler chicken, by the way. Does that make one think hard? And this — the number of deaths due to air pollution in Bengal in 2019 was 13 times more than the number of Covid-19 deaths in 2020. Poushali Maji, an MIT researcher, elaborates on the aspects of the air pollution problem, almost always explaining a “combination of factors”. So we get in a nutshell the big picture — the higher prevalence of mechanised farming in northern India, especially Punjab and Haryana, the Green Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s, why the average income of farmers in these two states is higher than elsewhere in the country, the Government of India’s procurement plan regarding rice and wheat, the farmers’ market risk in case of other crops such as pulses, and how a water conservation act passed in 2009 has adversely impacted air pollution via stubble burning. Clarifications are sought, assumptions sounded out loud. Asks Chaterji, “Air pollution in cities is mainly due to vehicular emission, eta ki thik… is this correct?” Maji replies, “Among the sources of emission in cities, transport is significant. But if we look at the concentration of air pollutants, trans-boundary sources — biomass burning, brick kilns, coal power plants, etc. — play a much bigger role. In Delhi, for example, transport accounts for less than 5 per cent of the total pollutant concentration… Many may not believe it but the largest source of air pollution in India is biomass burning.” The podcasts are available on YouTube. Some of the other experts who have shared their knowledge and understanding are Sujit Sinha, who teaches sustainable development, Gandhi and Tagore at Azim Premji University; the bicycle mayor of Calcutta, Satanjib Gupta; and wildlife photographer and conservation activist Hirak Nandi. It is a voluntary effort and there is a perennial need for volunteers. Understanding the issues at hand may not shield us from the common fate of the grave, but the programme grants the listener illumination and compassion. “We are a small team and although we are stretching our resources to the utmost, we intend to go into other media, move forward as momentum gathers,” says Chaterji. “The idea is to go on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||A ‘virtual epitaph’ for those who died of Covid-19 ||An online memorial dedicated to the memory of those who died of Covid-19 was launched on Saturday, creating a space where a kin of the deceased can write a tribute for the departed. The website, www.nationalcovidmemorial.in, began with tributes to 31 people. The creators of the National Covid Memorial urged the kin of those who died to send tributes for their loved ones. In India, 1,54,147 people died from Covid-19 India till 6pm on January 30, 2021, according to the website of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The tribute, within 200 words, and photograph will be published on the site. The idea to build the online memorial came to its creators after seeing the helplessness of the families of the deceased who could neither visit the hospital during the person’s illness nor could go for the funeral in the first months of the pandemic. Things changed from mid-September, when the state government started handing bodies to the family. The memorial would be a “virtual epitaph” for the dead, said a member of the team that created the website. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and a brain behind the memorial, said it added that the memorial would document for posterity the cost of the pandemic. “We need to preserve for posterity what enormous suffering humankind had to go through because of the pandemic,” said Chowdhury, also a volunteer of Covid Care Network (CCN), an organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid. CCN is also involved in creating the memorial. Partha Mukherjee, of the network, said the online memorial would also provide stories and clues to public health planners in future about how the entire world, was caught unprepared. Ushasie Chakraborty, daughter of veteran CPM leader Shyamal Chakra-borty, told Metro that the pain of not being able to go on the last journey of someone could go on to haunt family members for many days. “It was kind of disrespecting the dead,” she said. The veteran leader passed away on August 6. In May 2020, The New York Times in its front page carried the names of 1,000 people who died from Covid-19 in the US, as the country approached nearly 1 lakh deaths till then. Relatives can email their tributes to nationalcovidmemorial@gmail.com or WhatsApp 9886002630. They can also visit the website and click on the ‘submit memorial’ menu. “We are asking for a death certificate and a photo,” said Chowdhury. Amik Mukhopadhyay, a Beleghata resident, has written a tribute in memory of his brother, who died on November 6. “I wrote to pay my respect to my brother, so that he lives among his known and even those who did not know him.” He also lost his 83-year-old mother to Covid on November 11. “I have also written a tribute for my mother,” he said. Among those who had written tributes about their loved ones was Bratati Bhattacharya, wife of Pradip Bhattacharya, who was a doctor in North 24-Parganas’ Shyamnagar. He was so loved that the local people contributed money to pay a portion of the bill of the doctor’s treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Calcutta||Mumbai-based company to dismantle partially fallen Vivekananda Road flyover||A Mumbai-based company has been selected to dismantle the partially fallen Vivekananda Road flyover. While the formal order has yet to be released, senior officials in the urban development department said the company will be asked to start its operations by February after bagging necessary clearances from Lalbazar. “The demolition of the Vivekananda Road flyover would be carried out in phases,” said a senior official of the urban development department. A 41m-long deck slab of the flyover under construction had collapsed on March 31, 2016, killing 26 people. Before starting the demolition work of the structure, the company would have to submit a report detailing how it wants to go about dismantling different portions. This report, spelling out the details of the methodology of demolition, would be vetted by consulting agency RITES. A committee appointed to decide the fate of the Vivekananda Road flyover had recommended its demolition in September. V.K. Raina, a bridge engineer and the external expert on the committee, had made a presentation to a team of senior officials in Nabanna explaining the need to pull down the structure. Over the next few months as the urban development department scouted for a demolition squad, the CMDA set up a team of engineers to keep a vigil on the structure. That exercise is still on. Senior officials of the urban development department said in the first phase around seven pillars of the flyover, which don’t have a deck slab on its top and have shown signs of slight deviation from their original alignment, would be selected for demolition. The flyover has 48 pillars with some already bearing the weight of the concrete deck slabs on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-157
31-01-2021||Business||SAIL net profit leaps 398% to Rs 1,283 crore||SAIL’s December quarter  net profit zoomed 398.7 per cent to Rs 1,283 crore in the December quarter mainly on account of higher income. The state-owned steel maker had a net loss of Rs 430 crore during the same quarter a year ago. During the October-December period, the company’s total income jumped to Rs 19,614 crore from Rs 16,405 crore in the year-ago period. Total expenses stood at Rs 16,406.81 crore compared with Rs 17,312.64 crore a year ago. For the nine months ended December, the net profit of SAIL increased 157.7 per cent to Rs 406 crore. During the quarter, SAIL has produced 4.37 million tonnes (mt) crude steel, registering a growth of 9 per cent over the corresponding period last year. It produced 4.15mt of saleable steel, a rise of 6 per cent. Soma Mondal, chairman of SAIL, said: “The worst is behind us. SAIL has shown overall improvement during the current financial year despite all the challenges. With the focus on seizing opportunities, the company has geared up to service the rising steel demand in the market as soon as the lockdown was lifted. “It has always been SAIL’s strategy to operate in sync with the market situation. As we look ahead, we are confident of improving the performance further in the remaining period of the financial year.” SAIL is the country’s largest steel maker having an installed capacity of about 21 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
31-01-2021||Business||Kishore Biyani tells off Amazon||Future Group promoter & CEO Kishore Biyani has hit out at Amazon.com Inc, alleging that the retail giant was playing the “dog in the manger” and that its only objective was to create confusion about the Future Group’s Rs 24,173-crore deal with Reliance Industries. Biyani also termed Amazon’s attempt to stall the deal as a “ruthless ambition to scorch the earth akin to the Greek Alexander”. Biyani made these charges in a letter to Future Group employees and it comes after Amazon took legal steps to block the deal. Recently, it has filed a petition in the Delhi high court seeking detention of the group founders, including Biyani, and seizure of their assets. Biyani said he was writing the message as over the last few weeks, he had received numerous queries on the various legal steps being taken by Amazon. He alleged in the letter that Amazon was running a concerted and coordinated media campaign and leaking misleading information. “This is a corporate battle and is being fought for supremacy over Indian customers. Immense resources are being deployed on influencing society’s mindset and belief systems,” he said. Justifying the deal with Reliance, Biyani said because of financial crisis during the  pandemic, it was left with no other option but to enter in a ‘constructive deal’ with the Mukesh D Ambani led entity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
31-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: exporters seek relief||Exporters of engineering goods have sought multiple intervention from the Centre in the upcoming Union budget in the wake of a steep rise in the  input cost of steel, ocean freight and non receipt of various incentives. The exporters claim India could lose its market for engineering items to other countries of the southeastern region unless the government makes the available steel cheaper or releases funds which are part of the incentive scheme. “Exporters have not been able to apply for MEIS (Merchandise Export from India Scheme) licences for exports done from April to December 31. This delay has caused huge cash flow problems, especially for MSME exporters, as they had factored in the amount at the time of quoting. The government should immediately issue MEIS to give relief,” Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton, one of the leading exporters out of Bengal, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
31-01-2021||Business||Union Budget 2021: Auto hopeful of addressing demands||The automobile industry is hopeful that the upcoming Union budget will address some of its long-standing demands. One such demand is the much-anticipated scrappage policy, particularly for the commercial vehicle segment that is expected to boost demand. The segment is also expecting a clear roadmap on production-linked initiatives (PLIs). Further, it wants the government to continue investments on infrastructure and the rural economy that managed to pull the country out of the Covid crisis. Credit rating agency Icra feels the PLI scheme announced by the government has the potential to kick-start significant investments in the automotive industry. The government is also expected to come out with some measures to promote investment in electric vehicles, including associated ancillaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
31-01-2021||Business||ICICI reports 19% growth in net profits ||ICICI Bank on Saturday topped Street estimates as it reported a 19 per cent growth in net profits for the third quarter ended December 2020 even as provisions rose. The private sector lender posted a net profit of Rs 4,939.59 crore against Rs 4,146.46 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected ICICI Bank to report profits of around Rs 4,200 crore. The better-than-expected performance in its bottomline came after the bank’s core net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest paid) increased 16 per cent over the same period last year to Rs 9,912 crore from Rs 8,545 crore. During the third quarter, total provisions stood at Rs 2,741.72 crore compared with Rs 2,083.20 crore a year ago. ICICI Bank disclosed it had held aggregate Covid-19 related provisions of Rs 8,772.30 crore as of September 2020 and during the third quarter, it made contingency provisions amounting to Rs 3,012.16 crore for borrower accounts not classified as NPAs after the Supreme Court’s interim order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
31-01-2021||India||Rahul says those who fear truth, arrest honest scribes||On Sunday, the Grand Old Party on Sunday slammed the BJP-led Centre over the arrest of a freelance journalist from the Singhu border with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying those who fear truth arrest honest scribes. Journalist Mandeep Punia was arrested from Singhu border on Sunday for allegedly misbehaving with the police personnel on duty at the farmers’ protest site there, officials said. A case was registered against him, following which he was, a senior police officer said, a day after the scribe was detained. Reacting to the development, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Those who fear truth arrest honest journalists.” He also tagged a video purportedly showing Punia being held by police at the Singhu border. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said journalists covering the farmers’ movement are being arrested, cases are being slapped against them and the internet is being shut down in many places. “The BJP government wants to trample upon the voice of the farmers, but they have forgotten that the more you suppress, the more voices will rise against your atrocities,” she also tweeted in Hindi. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, in a tweet in Hindi, addressed PM Modi and said by slapping false cases at the BJP’s behest against journalists exposing the attack on farmers and shutting down mobile internet at protest sites, “you will not be able to suppress the farmers’ movement and shut out the country’s voice”. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate hit out at the government, saying it is the 70th day of the farmers’ protest and they have been forced to sit at the borders by an “insensitive, obstinate and stubborn government that itself dug trenches and refused the farmers any entry in Delhi”. “For anybody who tries to show their plight, their pain, this government will go after them - whether it is people in social life, in political life or journalists. A very young journalist by the name Mandeep Punia was arrested and was presented before the court even before his Defence lawyer could reach,” she said, slamming the government over the scribe’s arrest. “We strongly condemn the sedition cases they have filed against our own MP Shashi Tharoor or the kind of sedition cases that have been filed against Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath,” Shrinate said. Tharoor and the six journalists have been booked by police, including in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, over their allegedly misleading tweets on the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. The Congress condemns it as these are the people who are trying to show the real face of the farmer, who are trying to bring to light the plight of the farmer and instead of standing with them and letting them do their jobs honestly, this government goes after them, she said. “I am not surprised that all this began in Uttar Pradesh. It had to begin in UP, because in UP to tell the truth, to open your mouth, to speak the truth will lead you to jail,” she said citing action against several journalists. Instead of going after the perpetrators, the culprits, they actually go after people, who bring truth to light, Shrinate said. “The Wire has been penalized, Siddharth Varadarajan faces the case as of yesterday because his platform showed what the slain farmer’s father had said,” she alleged. Referring to the Red Fort incident, Shrinate said the Congress is extremely upset with what happened on January 26 and the party stands in solidarity with “our forces, we stand in solidarity with the policemen, who have been hurt physically, but we would want to ask who fed them as fodder”. “Are they pawns in a conspiracy that the government tries to stitch,” she asked. “It has been 120 hours, people, who are responsible for demonising our farmers, people, who are responsible for the kind of incidents that we saw at the Red Fort are still at large and at some point the Home Minister will have to be answerable, the government and the prime minister will have to be answerable for all of this,” she said. Asked about the clash between ‘locals’ and farmers protesting at Delhi's Singhu border, Shrinate alleged that it was not locals but BJP leaders who have actually taken people at the protest sites against the farmers. “They are actually pelting stones, they are attacking the farmers and truth be told, the police has just been a silent bystander, a mute spectator, that is unacceptable,” she said. “We should stop demonizing the farmers, because this has been done at the behest of the BJP by their very own people and the farmers are not blocking the way, the farmers wanted to come and protest at Ramlila Ground very peacefully,” Shrinate said. Democracy is being “weakened” with every passing day and institutions are being “destroyed”, Shrinate said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at several border points into Delhi since November-end, demanding repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support system for their crops. Meanwhile, earlier in the day, ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat programme, Rahul Gandhi cited a media report to attack the PM, saying in a tweet in Hindi, “Don’t be so scared, talk about China”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Agri Minister Tomar counters Sharad Pawar's tweets on farm laws||Expressing dismay over Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar’s tweets criticising the farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, said that they were a mix of “ignorance and misinformation” about the legislation, and hoped that the veteran leader would change his stand after knowing the “facts”. In a series of tweets, Pawar had said that the new agriculture laws of the Union government would adversely impact the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement and weaken the `Mandi' system, on Saturday. The tweets by Pawar ‑ who as the Agriculture Minister during the UPA period had pitched for these reforms - comes at a time when talks between the Centre and the 41 protesting farmers’ unions have reached a deadlock. Responding to the NCP leader’s remarks, Tomar said that Pawar, who is a veteran leader, is also considered to be well-versed with the issues and solutions related to agriculture. “Pawar himself tried hard to bring the same agriculture reforms earlier,” said Tomar “Since he speaks with some experience and expertise on the issue, it was dismaying to see his tweets employ a mix of ignorance and misinformation on the agriculture reforms. Let me take this opportunity to present some facts,” Tomar said on Twitter. The minister countered Pawar’s tweet which said that the amended Essential Commodities (EC) Act “may lead to apprehensions that corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stockpile and sell at higher prices to consumers”. “The apprehension has no basis. Under the EC Act, the central government can intervene in case of extraordinary circumstances including war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamities of grave nature,” Tomar said. He maintained that the new laws encourage additional choice channels for farmers so that they can sell their produce to anyone, anywhere without any hassle in and outside the state to realise a competitive and better net price for their produce. “This doesn’t affect the current MSP (minimum support price) system,” he added. Under the new ecosystem, the minister said, the mandis would not get affected. Instead, they would become more competitive and cost-effective in terms of services and infrastructure; and both the systems would synergistically co-exist for the common interest of farmers. Tomar said: “As he (Pawar) is such a veteran leader, I would like to believe that he was genuinely misinformed of the facts. Now that he has the right facts, I hope he will also change his stand and also explain the benefits to our farmers.” Pawar, in his tweets on January 30, had expressed concern over the removal of stock limits on food commodities under the amended EC Act. “Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers,” he had tweeted. The NCP chief also said that reform is a continuous process and no one would argue against the reforms in the APMCs or Mandi System. “...a positive argument on the same does not mean that it is done to weaken or demolish the system,” he noted. The government has offered some concessions including keeping the new farm laws on hold for 1-1.5 years and the Supreme Court has set up a panel to look into the matter keeping the contentious legislation in abeyance for two months. However, the agitating farmers’ unions have rejected both and intensified their over two-month-long agitation on the borders of the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala discharged from hospital||V K Sasikal, the expelled AIADMK leader, was discharged from a hospital here on Sunday after recovering from COVID-19, days after she was set free by the prison officials on completion of her jail term in a corruption case, authorities said. Sending a strong signal, Sasikala, a close aide of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, travelled in a car that sported the AIADMK flag from the hospital, with the ruling party questioning the propriety of her action when she had been ousted from the party. The party has time and again made it clear that the 66- year old Sasikala would not be taken back and that her release would not have any impact on the party, which is keen retain power in the assembly elections, expected in April-May. It has already declared incumbent K Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate for the polls. Sasikala was expelled from the party in September, 2017 along with her nephew TTV Dhinakaran and others by the general council of the combined AIADMK under the leadership of Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam after the two merged their respective factions. On Sunday, the AIADMK in its twitter handle said the use of its flag by Sasikala was against the law. “How Sasikala, who is not even a party member could use the party flag? This is against the law,” said senior party leader D Jayakumar, who is also the Fisheries Minister, said. Defending Sasikala, Dhinakaran, who is the general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam floated by him in March, 2018 as an arrangement to retrieve the AIADMK, claimed, “she (his aunt) is the general secretary of the AIADMK”. Cases relating to her so-called ‘expulsion’ and connected matters were pending before the court in Tamil Nadu, he told reporters, adding, “I have already told you that legal fight will continue (to retrieve the AIADMK).” The very purpose of floating the AMMK was to retrieve the AIADMK in a democratic way and ‘Thiyaga Thalaivi Chinnamma’ (leader of sacrifices, junior ‘Amma’) would continue legal efforts to win back the party, he said. Dhinakaran said as per doctors’ advice she would stay back here and take rest for a week before returning to Chennai. Political analyst Sumanth Raman tweeted “#Sasikala coming out of hospital in a car with an AIADMK flag on it seems to be a clear signal of her intentions. Game on.” Soon after she was discharged, Sasikala reached a resort near the scenic Nandi Hill at Devanahalli in North Bengaluru. Sasikala was admitted to the Victoria Hospital after she tested positive for COVID-19 recently while under judicial custody. Prison authorities here had formally released her on January 27 after she completed the four-year jail term in a Rs 66 crore disproportionate assets case. On the advice of doctors, she remained in the hospital and was discharged on Sunday after her latest test reports came negative for COVID-19, hospital officials said. A huge crowd of her supporters greeted Sasikala as she came out of the hospital. More than 300 police personnel were deployed in the area to ensure law and order, police said. Sambasivan, one of her supporters from Hosur in the border district of Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu, told PTI that this was like a festival for him. Sasikala's release comes ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and the course of action taken by her would be keenly watched. The Apex Court sentenced her to four year simple imprisonment on February 14, 2017 at a time when she was set to take over as the Chief Minister subsequent to her election as the AIADMK legislature party leader. After the sentence that also barred her from contesting elections for six years after completion of the term, she chose Palaniswami to be the chief minister. Before coming here to serve the sentence, Sasikala had made a dramatic vow at the ‘samadhi’ of Jayalalithaa, though she did not openly declare what it was all about.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Deploy state police for security of farmers protesting on Delhi borders: AAP to Punjab CM||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to deploy the state police for the security of farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three new Central laws. In a letter to Singh on Sunday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Punjab Police must provide protection to farmers so that no harm is done to them and they can continue to protest against the "black farm laws" in a peaceful manner. "The Aam Aadmi Party demands that you deploy Punjab Police in sufficient numbers to surround the camps where the peaceful protests are being held from all sides," Chadha said. "This protection to the farmers is absolutely essential in the light of recent attacks on them, engineered and executed by goons from BJP," he said. Chadha also attacked the BJP over the issue, alleging the party proposes to continue its "attitude of intimidating" any person who dares to raise a voice in opposition. "It is very obvious from the recent behaviour of goons that have been disrupting meetings by pelting stones and other violent behaviour that the BJP will, in keeping with its standard modus operandi, (keep) attempting to intimidate our farmer sisters and brothers," he added. On Saturday too, Chadha had asked Singh to deploy the state police at the protest sites. However, Punjab's ruling Congress had ridiculed the demand of the main opposition party, saying the party was not running an "anarchist" government in the state, "like Arvind Kejriwal (was) in Delhi".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Government schemes in line with Vivekanada’s vision to help poor, says Modi||India is now providing solutions to world’s problems from the Covid-19 pandemic to climate change, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, citing a list of measures taken by his government. He asserted that these measures are in line with Swami Vivekananda’s vision to help the poor. Addressing the 125th anniversary celebrations of ‘Prabuddha Bharata’, a monthly journal of the Ramakrishna Order started by Swami Vivekananda in 1896, Modi listed several schemes, including opening of bank accounts and health insurance for the poor, to assert that they were in line with Swami Vivekananda's vision. “If the poor cannot access banks, banks must reach them -- that is Jan Dhan Yojana. If the poor cannot access insurance, it must reach them -- that is the Jan Suraksha scheme. If the poor cannot access healthcare, it must reach them -- this is the Ayushman Bharat scheme,” Modi said. Swami Vivekananda had said the remedy for weakness is not brooding over it, but thinking of solutions, the prime minister stated. “When we are thinking in terms of obstacles we get buried in them, but when we think in terms of opportunities, we get the way to move forward,” he said. “Take the Covid-19 pandemic as an example. What did India do? It did not just see the problem and remain helpless, India focused on solutions. From producing PPE kits to becoming a pharmacy for the world, our country has gone from strength to strength,” the prime minister said. India is at the forefront of developing Covid-19 vaccines and just a few days ago the country launched the world's largest vaccination drive, he said. “We are using these capacities to also help other nations,” Modi added. Noting that climate change is another obstacle that the whole world is facing, he said, “We did not only complain about the problem, we brought a solution in the form of the International Solar alliance.” “We are also advocating greater use of renewable resources. This is the Prabuddha Bharata of Swami Vivekananda's vision being built. This is an India which is giving solutions to the world's problems,” he said. Swami Vivekananda named this journal as Prabuddha Bharata to manifest the spirit of the nation as he wanted to create an awakened India, Modi said. “Swami Vivekananda saw India as a cultural consciousness that has been living and breathing for centuries, an India that only emerges stronger after every challenge despite contrary predictions,” he said. The journal ‘Prabuddha Bharata’ has been an important medium for spreading the message of India's ancient spiritual wisdom. Its publication was started from Chennai (erstwhile Madras), where it continued to be published for two years, after which it was published from Uttarakhand’s Almora. In April 1899, the place of publication of the journal was shifted to Advaita Ashram in Uttarakhand’s Mayavati and it has been published from there ever since. Some of the greatest personalities have left their imprint on the pages of ‘Prabuddha Bharata’ through their writings on Indian culture, spirituality, philosophy, history, psychology, art, and other social issues. Luminaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Sister Nivedita, Sri Aurobindo, former president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, among others, have contributed to the journal over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Farmers dance to folk tunes as police put up barricades at Ghazipur border||Hundreds of farmers, who reached a key protest site on the Delhi-Meerut highway in Ghazipur on the national capital's border with Uttar Pradesh, danced to upbeat tunes overnight as more supporters continued to pour in on Sunday. Security measures were strengthened with multi-layer barricading and barbed wires coming up on both sides of the highway stretch that has become the Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) camping site since November 28 last year in a major farmers' stir over three new farm laws of the Centre. Farmers reached the Ghazipur border from western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand as a turban-clad Rakesh Tikait led the charge for the BKU, the appeal of which coupled with a clarion call from a January 29 "mahapanchayat" of farmers in Muzaffarnagar has re-energised the stir, which was fast losing its sheen and momentum after the Republic Day violence in Delhi. According to the Ghaziabad administration, senior officials and police officers are regularly monitoring the situation at the Ghazipur border. Vehicles proceeding towards and coming from the protest site are being checked while drones have been deployed for aerial monitoring at the site, officials said. "The situation is under control and is being regularly monitored," an officer of the district administration said. The groups of farmers camping at the site braving the cold nights were seen dancing to folk tunes and songs eulogising the nation and farmers as some young protesters carried music systems to Ghazipur on their tractor-trollies. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Farmers respect PM’s dignity, but will also protect self-honour, says leader||Farmers will respect the dignity of the prime minister, but are also committed to protect their self-respect, leader Naresh Tikait said on Sunday. His comment comes a day after Narendra Modi said his government was just a phone call away for talks with them. Tikait said the government should release our men and prepare an environment conducive for talks . “A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure,” he told PTI at the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday said his government’s offer on agri laws made to protesting farmers still stands and it was a just phone call away for talks, days after violence broke out in parts of the national capital on Republic Day. “We will honor and respect the dignity of the prime minister. Farmers don’t want the government or Parliament to bow down to them,” Tikait said. “We will also ensure that the self-respect of farmers is protected. A middle way should be found. Talks should be held,” he added. During their January 26 parade, many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. Tikait said, “The violence on January 26 was part of a conspiracy. The Tricolor is over and above everything. We will never let anyone disrespect it. It will not be tolerated.” The Delhi Police has registered nearly 40 cases and made over 80 arrests in connection with the violence and vandalism. The government should release our men and prepare an environment conducive for talks. A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure, Tikait asserted. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast Sunday, Prime Minister Modi also referred to the Red Fort incident, saying the country was much pained at seeing the dishonour to the Tricolour on Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Cinema halls can operate with 100 per cent occupancy from Monday, says govt||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar announced on Sunday that cinema halls across the country will be permitted to operate at 100 per cent capacity from February 1 in adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. Digital booking of tickets and staggered show timings will be encouraged, the minister said, releasing a set of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). “There is good news. In February, people can watch and enjoy films in theatres as we are allowing full occupancy in all cinema halls. Cinema halls can now open at 100 per cent capacity. We encourage as much online booking (of tickets) as possible,” Javadekar told reporters here. “Staggered show timings will be encouraged so that the entry and exit of the crowd can be managed better. Sanitisation and all Covid-19 safety protocols must be followed,” the minister added. The development comes days after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed cinema halls and theatres to operate with more people as per fresh Covid-19 reopening guidelines, to be effective from February 1. Javadekar said he hopes people will “welcome” this move as the government is working towards relaxing several restrictions imposed due to the abnormal challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. "Customers can also buy food and beverage from the stalls at the theatres and can carry it with them inside (the auditorium). These are all normal things but when the situation became abnormal due to Covid-19, we had to put these restrictions. These restrictions are on the verge to be relaxed," the minister added. Post lockdown, the Centre had allowed reopening of theatres and multiplexes in several regions, including Delhi, parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat on October 15, 2020 with 50 per cent occupancy, functioning with stringent dos and don'ts, keeping in view the new normal. Theatres in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh opened last November, whereas cinema halls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala resumed operation in early January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||India hurt to see dishonour of Tricolour on R-Day, says Modi||India was pained to see the dishonour to the Tricolour on Republic Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, referring to the religious flag incident at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor parade. Addressing the first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme of the year, Modi also said the government is committed to modernising agriculture and is taking many steps in this regard. “In Delhi, on January 26, the country was very pained seeing the dishonour to the Tricolour,” he said. Thousands of protesting farmers had breached the monument on January 26 after deviating from their tractor rally route triggering a conflict with the police. They planted a religious flag atop the Red Fort, an incident which has sparked national outrage. In his broadcast, the prime minister also said that India has not only rolled out the world’s largest vaccination drive but is also vaccinating its citizens at the fastest rate. “The country has vaccinated over 30 lakh corona warriors in 15 days”, he said, adding the US and the UK took 18 and 36 days to reach this figure. He said the government is committed to modernising agriculture and is taking many steps in this regard. Modi added that the government’s efforts in this direction will continue. The prime minister’s remarks come amid ongoing protests by thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, at several border points into Delhi since November-end, demanding a repeal of the three new agri laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support system for their crops. The prime minister also hailed the Indian cricket team’s performance in its historic series win in Australia, saying the team's hard work and teamwork was inspirational. Modi also touched upon the Padma awards announced last week, and said the country has continued the recent tradition of honouring unsung heroes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Mercury dips to 3.1 degrees Celsius in Delhi, cold wave prevails||A cold wave swept the national capital on Sunday morning, with the minimum temperature dipping to 3.1 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. However, clear skies and plenty of sunshine are expected to provide some relief. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 22 degrees Celsius, an IMD official said. This is the fourth cold wave day in Delhi in a week. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said. Cold wave conditions had prevailed in Delhi on Friday, too, with the minimum temperature settling at four degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. On Saturday, the minimum temperature in the national capital rose slightly to 5.4 degrees Celsius. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Covid: over 13,000 cases in a day||With 13,052 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,46,183, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,23,125, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The national recovery rate has climbed to 96.99 per cent. The death toll increased to 1,54,274 with 127 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,23,125. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 1,68,784 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,65,88,372 samples have been tested up to January 30 with 7,50,964 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Academics raise quality questions on Centre's virtual university plan||The NDA government has announced plans to set up virtual universities that will offer programmes entirely online, causing concern among academics who say that global experience raises questions about the quality of the education delivered by such varsities. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal revealed the virtual varsity plan at a meeting on Friday. The plan is premised on the National Education Policy’s (NEP) aim of increasing the gross enrolment rate (GER) in higher education among young Indians from the current 26 per cent to 50 per cent by 2035. “The minister informed that government will soon take necessary steps to establish virtual universities, which is different from the concept of open universities (and) will help in achieving the desired GER in higher education as envisaged in NEP,” a government media release said. An education ministry official said the virtual universities would be likely to offer courses that do not require laboratory experiments. The students will receive all the study material online, including video lectures. They can clarify doubts through chats or email. The examinations will be held online too. There’s no clarity yet whether any interactive online classes would be held through videoconferencing. Some universities like Ignou that conduct offline distance-education courses hold about 20 per cent of the classes face-to-face at designated centres relatively close to the students’ homes. The exams too are held physically at designated centres. Global experience suggests that online courses lack rigour. A research paper, “Virtual classrooms: how online college courses affect students”, published in the American Economic Review in September 2017 said that taking a course online reduces a student’s chances of successfully completing it. The researchers studied undergraduates at an American college where each course was offered online as well as in-person. Both modules featured the same syllabus, textbooks, assignments, tests, grading rubrics and class strength. Another study, by two teachers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, too found that the proportions of students successfully completing online courses remained abysmal, and was declining. The paper, “The MOOCs (massive online open courses) pivot”, published in January 2019 in the journal Science, analysed data relating to students of online courses at MIT and Harvard University. It found that only 3.13 per cent of these students had completed their course in 2017, compared to 4 per cent in each of the previous two years. Abha Dev Habib, former member of Delhi University’s executive council, said that everywhere in the world face-to-face education was valued more than virtual or distance-mode learning. “In the western countries, students use the virtual learning modules to supplement their face-to-face learning,” Habib said. “Some do short-term programmes to gain additional qualifications for professional development. But the virtual mode is not a preferred model for the longer degree courses anywhere in the world.” She said the government should clarify whether the virtual universities would hold any live online classes. If the students lack any contact with their teachers or peers, she said, they would have to bank entirely on self-study, which means the quality of education might be poorer compared even to the usual distance-mode courses. JNU computer science professor Rajeev Kumar said virtual varsities were a good idea but their success would depend on how rigorously the institutions guarded against exam malpractices. “It’s a good step but there should be checks and balances to ensure rigour in the delivery of the programme,” he said. “There’s enough scope for manipulation in learning as well as in evaluation. For success, the academia should strive for higher standards and higher levels of academic integrity.” An Ignou professor said a virtual university implied distance education in the online mode. This, he said, required the preparation of online course material and the formulation of regulations, which had not been done yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan seeks interim bail to visit ailing mother ||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists has approached the Supreme Court seeking five days’ interim bail for Siddique Kappan to visit his 90-year-old mother who is on her deathbed. The application was filed on Friday, a day after Siddique made a video call to his family from jail but could not speak to his mother since she was unconscious at a hospital in the family’s hometown of Vengara, Malappuram district. The apex court had on January 22 allowed a single video call between Kappan and his mother, who had been asking about her son since his arrest on terror charges in October, while her health was steadily deteriorating. “We tried our best to wake her up so she could see her son. But her condition was so bad that she didn’t even realise her son was at the other end of the video call,” Kappan’s wife Raihanath told The Telegraph on Saturday. Hospitalised on January 22, Kappan’s mother was discharged on January 29 — still unconscious and without any improvement in her health — after the doctors said there was little they could do for her any more. A medical certificate submitted to the Supreme Court has confirmed that she is suffering from uncontrolled diabetes that has led to reduced food intake and general debility. “Our only hope is that the court will allow interim bail to Siddique to be with his mother for at least a few days,” Raihanath said. Kappan, 41, Delhi-based retainer of Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com and secretary of the Delhi unit of the KUWJ, was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been brutally gang-raped, leading to her death. Uttar Pradesh police have accused him and three others who were travelling with him of being members of the Muslim Right-wing group Popular Front of India, a charge Kappan denies. They have been accused of planning to foment trouble and booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other penal provisions. Raihanath said a prison official who had allowed Kappan to use his phone to make the video call had ensured there was no media presence while the call was made. While Kappan could not speak to his mother, his family members and children got to see him. “He was wearing winter clothes and a cap. But he looked tired and downcast and started tearing up on seeing his motionless mother lying on the hospital bed,” Raihanath said. She said the interim bail plea was the last resort since the regular bail application would come up only in March. “This is our only option to get him here to see his mother,” she said. Lawyer Wills Mathew, who filed the interim bail application, said that if the plea was allowed, Kappan could be flown directly to Kozhikode, about 17km from his home, and taken back to Mathura along the same route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||BJP wary as protest spotlight shifts to UP ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Saturday that his government’s offer to suspend the three new farm laws for 18 months still stands is being seen as an indication of the ruling establishment’s discomfort with the movement, which has gone from strength to strength and seems to have beaten back efforts to discredit and subdue it after the Republic Day chaos. The government had swooped down on the protests after the incidents of violence during the tractor parade on Republic Day, but the crackdown proved counter-productive as more and more farmers joined with renewed vigour, braving a slander campaign and attacks from mobs. Modi, who has not reached out to the protesting farmers directly even after more than 150 have died while on dharna, referred to the offer to suspend the laws after several Opposition leaders strongly raised the farmers’ protest and the farm laws at an all-party meeting ahead of the budget session of Parliament. The farmers had already rejected the government’s offer, made earlier this month, to keep the laws in abeyance for 18 months and said nothing short of a repeal was acceptable. The sacrifices of those who have died during the protest would not go in vain, they said. The all-party meeting was held a day after most Opposition parties boycotted the President’s address to both Houses of Parliament over the farm issues, raising the spectre of a stormy budget session. The Uttar Pradesh administration had on Wednesday served an eviction notice to the protesters at the Ghazipur border and deployed a large police contingent. But the government had to withdraw after farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s tearful appeal turned the tide, propelling large crowds from the adjoining hinterlands of western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to rush to Ghazipur and other protest sites, simmering with anger against the Modi government. The BJP appears not to have bargained for such a spirited pushback from the farmers, especially with the Uttar Pradesh elections scheduled early next year. The Modi government had till now been treating the farmers’ protest as primarily a Punjab-specific movement that had some support in Haryana but the crackdown seems to have spread the fire to western Uttar Pradesh and beyond. Many in the BJP fear that western Uttar Pradesh could now turn into the epicentre of the farm protests, which would not be good news for the Yogi Adityanath government. The BJP had in 2014 managed to sway the Jats, the dominant land community in Uttar Pradesh, by using the 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots to infuse Hindutva feelings. In the 2019 polls, too, the party had raised the Pakistan bogey in the aftermath of the Pulwama terror attack to influence large sections of Jats despite anger in the community over agricultural issues. BJP leaders now fear that the farm protests could make it impossible to mollify the community. In adjoining Haryana, the BJP government already finds itself in danger with Jat anger intensifying against the Manohar Lal Khattar government over the farm laws. The BJP government relies on the support of Jannayak Janata Party leader Dushyant Chautala, who is under huge pressure from his Jat constituency to snap ties with the saffron party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||India||AAP dares cops on farmer sword attack ||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday released pictures of alleged BJP supporters saying they had described themselves as residents of Dakha Singhu and attacked the protesting farmers on Friday. At a news conference, MLA and party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj offered to resign from the Assembly if it was proved that a farmer had indeed attacked a Delhi police inspector with a sword. A Delhi police statement on Friday had said: “While the Insp. Pradeep, SHO PS Alipur, was pacifying the farmers to stop stone pelting from their side, he was suddenly attacked by a sword-wielding person, who was subsequently overpowered and apprehended from the spot.” The police statement added: “The officer sustained grievous sword injuries and other 5 police persons were also injured.” A 22-year-old Punjab resident named Ranjeet Singh was arrested from the spot and charged with offences that include attempt to murder. In response to a question about his party’s stand on the sword attack, Bharadwaj said: “I want Delhi police to release the video which shows how the farmer was attacked, where did the farmer attack. I will resign as an MLA if proved wrong.” He alleged: “The police protected BJP goons who attacked the farmers. The police saved the attackers and helped them flee. This farmer (Ranjeet) chased the attackers. The police caught him... and all the cops pounced on this farmer with their lathis and mercilessly beat him. “When did he strike — I did not see in the (ANI) video (purportedly of the incident).” The AAP has released images of three men — whom it has identified as Pradeep Khatri Tholedar, Aman Kumar and Sudama Singh — from the footage of the brawl along with other pictures and their Facebook profile photos that suggest they are BJP activists. A recent poster describes Tholedar as the BJP Kisan Morcha president of northwest Delhi. Kumar is the husband of BJP municipal councillor Anju Devi and has been seen in BJP events in the past. Naveen Kumar, media head of the Delhi BJP, neither confirmed nor denied the trio’s party membership. He told The Telegraph: “No BJP worker is involved.... None of our elected representatives have gone to these protests.... When the police tried to remove these protesters who indulged in violence on Republic Day, AAP was standing with these protesters. AAP MLA Sahi Ram is seen in photos of the January 26 protests.” Bharadwaj said: “More than 2,500 Delhi police officials and central force (personnel) were present at the venue. On the instructions of the BJP, these police officials allowed BJP goons to enter the protest site and assault the farmers. The police are not allowing water tankers to reach the protest venue but have allowed the BJP goons.” He added: “In a planned manner, the BJP goons kept stones in two trucks near the venue which they used. In front of the police and with the help of the police these around 300 BJP goons assaulted the farmers.” In Friday’s statement, the police claimed that local people had come to meet the farmers to “press for the local demand that the protesters vacate the said space and open the border and said that they have been providing all kind of help to the protesters for the last 2 months but now their livelihood is getting affected, hence they are requested to open the border and vacate the road. They came yesterday also with the same request. This was resisted by some farmers and pushing-pulling of the police barricades kept to secure the langar tents ensued. During this stone pelting started.” The police had on Friday said they had arrested 44 people after six personnel including inspector Pradeep, the Alipur station house officer, were injured during a clash between “local villagers” and “some farmers” at the Singhu border. At least 15 farmers too were injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||India||Modi: Offer to hold farm laws still stands||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told an all-party meeting that the offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months still stood, marking his first direct intervention at a time the farmers’ protests have made an electrifying turnaround after the Republic Day setback. “During the all-party meet, PM @narendramodi assured that GOI (government of India) is approaching the farmers’ issue with an open mind,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi tweeted after the virtual all-party meeting before the budget session. “The PM said GOI’s stand is the same as it was on January 22nd — proposal by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar still stands. He (Modi) reiterated what Tomar ji said — that he (Tomar) is a phone call away for talks.” Modi has so far resolutely backed the three new farm laws and claimed they have the support of the majority of farmers. He has not reached out directly to the protesters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||India||Govt shuts down Net to cut off farmers||The Narendra Modi government on Friday ordered an Internet shutdown at all the three sites of protest along Delhi’s borders and adjoining areas for 48 hours, deploying a tactic tried and tested in Kashmir to cut off the farmers. The decision forced union leaders and prominent activists to travel outside the blackout zone to upload posts to bust the rumours that are being simultaneously spread about the situation at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri. The Union home ministry invoked the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017 in the Indian Telegraph Act to shut down the Internet in these areas where tens of thousands of men, women and children have been agitating peacefully since November-end for the repeal of three new farm laws. The clampdown comes after the protesting farmers succeeded in turning the narrative built against them, through television media in particular, since the chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally. Flow of information out of the protest sites had helped mobilise farmers over the past two days, with visuals of the crackdown at Ghazipur on Thursday night shared over social media turning the tide against the government. Through the Kisan Ekta Morcha platform, the protesting farmers were not only disseminating information and galvanising support with targeted hashtags daily, but were also seeking out videos and photographs from the public about the tractor rally. The farmers believe the chaos on Republic Day was orchestrated to defame them. Saturday’s hashtag was “ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide” with the image of Jaggi Singh — a protest participant bleeding from the head, hair flowing and fist raised in defiance — after his turban was ripped apart during the attack at the Singhu border on Friday. The attacks on the protesting farmers caught the attention of lawmakers overseas. British Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi posted Jaggi Singh’s pictures and those of Ranjit Singh, a protester pinned down on the ground with a policeman’s boot on his face, and tweeted: “Shocked to see mobs and police trying to intimidate and clear Delhi #Farmers Protest, after stopping their water, electricity and Internet. Violence can’t be condoned, but if people in power abuse peaceful protesters, it’ll merely make their movement stronger. #TheWorldIsWatching.” Jagmeet Singh, leader of Canada’s New Democratic Party, tweeted: “I am deeply concerned about the violence against farmers in India. Those calling to harm farmers must be held accountable and the right to peaceful protest must be protected. I am calling on Justin Trudeau to condemn the violence, immediately.” In a video message attached to the tweet, he called upon leaders of the world to “denounce the Indian government’s violent response to these peaceful protesters”. Despite the flow of information from the three borders reducing to a trickle on Saturday, mobilisation across Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh continued uninterrupted. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who quit his Haryana Assembly seat earlier this week in protest against the farm laws, left Ambala on Saturday for Ghazipur. Nineteen khap panchayats in Haryana’s Jind district have issued a call to boycott the BJP and its ally, the Jannayak Janta Party, and announced they would hold a padyatra from the Khatkar toll plaza to Delhi’s borders on February 7. They criticised the decision to block Internet services in the state saying it was affecting the education of students whom the pandemic has forced to study from home. The Hissar and Bhiwani districts too witnessed big protest meetings in support of the farmers. The Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan), by far the largest farmers’ organisation in Punjab, said the police had stopped a convoy of hundreds of farmers on their way to the Kundli border. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, in a late night statement, took note of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement at an all-party meeting that the government stood by its offer to suspend the implementation of the farm laws for 18 months. Stating that the farmers had come to Delhi’s doorstep to converse with their elected government, the SKM said it was always open to talks but iterated the demand for full repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed MSP for all farmers. A daylong fast was observed at all the three border protest sites to mark the anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s martyrdom. The farmers took a pledge to keep fighting for their demands peacefully. Freelance journalist Mandeep Punia was detained by police at Singhu on Saturday. Hartosh Singh Bal of The Caravan tweeted that Punia was a regular contributor and shared a video of policemen purportedly dragging him away. Bal tweeted: “We’ve learnt Mandeep had spent the morning trying to track down those from BJP claiming to be ‘locals’ at Singhu.” A policeman told PTI Punia was removing barricades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||India||Human chain defies biting cold to express solidarity with farmers||A large number of people braved icy winds and chilly weather across Bihar on Saturday on Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary (Martyrs’ Day) to come out and form a human chain to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the three controversial farm laws in Delhi. The Opposition Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, the CPI-ML, the CPI and the CPM had given a call to form the human chain in support of the protesting farmers. Apart from their workers and supporters, the parties had also appealed to the common people to participate in the human chain to protect farmers, agriculture and the country. Thousands of people in all 38 districts of the state came out waving national flags, party signs, banners and placards and assembled neatly on major roads and thoroughfares, including national highways. They shouted slogans against the central government and the new farm laws. At many places farmers came with bullock carts and tractors to participate in the human chain, disrupting the movement of normal traffic, but the short time of half-an-hour from 12.30pm ensured that the commuters did not suffer much. The farmers spoke about the poor condition of agriculture in Bihar and demanded that their produce be bought at MSP (minimum support price). The state government officially procures paddy and wheat at MSP, but the benefit seldom trickles down to the farmers. Top Opposition leaders participated in the event with their supporters in Patna and asserted that their struggle will continue till the three farm laws are repealed. “The central government has planned to hand over the land of the farmers to the capitalists. It is making the jawans (soldiers) and kisans (farmers) fight with each other so that the nefarious plan to favour its fund-givers succeeds,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who joined the human chain in Patna, said. Asserting that the Grand Alliance was completely in support of the farmers, Tejashwi added: “We are seeing that that the rights of the farmers are being usurped. We will never let this happen. We will keep on protesting till the three black farm laws are rolled back. If the farmers are asking for it, these laws should go.” CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya thanked the people of Bihar for standing in support of the farmers’ protest. He said that the agitation will now attain greater heights. “The BJP was publicising that there was no protest in Bihar. Its leaders should see how the people have come out to form a human chain against the black farm laws. The demand for giving legal guarantee on the MSP and bringing back the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act is also becoming stronger,” Bhattacharya said. The Congress leaders and supporters also participated in the human chain across the state. AICC in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, joined the protest near Bhitiharwa Ashram that was established by Gandhi in West Champaran district, while other senior leaders participated in the human chain formed outside the state Congress headquarters at Sadaquat Ashram in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||India||Video shows Indore municipal workers bid to dump homeless||The Madhya Pradesh government has suspended a municipal deputy commissioner and sacked two civic employees in Indore after a video showed elderly street dwellers being dumped on a highway on the city’s outskirts. Indore has been ranked India’s cleanest city for four years straight, and has a reputation for not letting garbage or street dwellers be visible. The video, shot by a man named Rajesh Joshi, shows municipal workers offloading from a truck elderly men and women, bent and wrinkled, on a roadside with their meagre belongings. After protests by local people, the Indore Municipal Corporation staff are seen hauling the homeless people back into the truck. Following a public outcry, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted on Friday: “Inhuman treatment towards the elderly will not be tolerated at any cost.” The elders have now been moved to a shelter for the homeless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||India||NSG scans Israeli embassy explosives||The Union home ministry on Saturday directed the National Security Guard’s bomb disposal squad to examine the explosives used in the low-intensity blast near the Israeli embassy in high security Lutyen’s Delhi. Sources said investigators probing the “very low-intensity blast” were still groping in the dark and have so far not come across “anything concrete”. “A probe is already in progress and nothing can be presumed now. It is too early to reach any conclusion. We are probing all angles,” a Delhi police officer said. No one was injured in the minor blast that took place around 5.05pm on Friday while the Beating Retreat ceremony was underway at Rajpath barely 2km away. Windowpanes of three cars parked on a pavement were found to be shattered. Sources in Delhi police said a purported white envelope addressed to the Israeli embassy and containing a handwritten note was found at the site of the explosion. The bomb was planted in a flowerpot on the pavement, police said. Sleuths of the police’s special cell probing the blast again visited the spot on Saturday to collect more evidence. “Some ball bearings were found scattered near the blast site. The residues, including metallic swab and ball bearings, collected from the spot have been sent to the forensic science laboratory for examination,” said a police officer. Officers probing the case, he said, have also scanned footage retrieved from the CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood and spotted a vehicle moving suspiciously near the embassy moments before the explosion. The explosion took place on a day when India and Israel marked the completion of the 29th anniversary of the establishment of their diplomatic relations. Sources said the special cell was also probing any link to the 2012 explosion in which an Israeli diplomat’s wife was among the four persons injured after a magnetic bomb stuck to a vehicle went off in Delhi. Delhi police’s spokesperson had said on Friday that initial impressions suggested a “mischievous attempt to create a sensation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
31-01-2021||West Bengal||TMC looted rations provided by Centre during lockdown says Smriti Irani||Accusing the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal of indulging in corruption, Union Minister Smriti Irani said here on Sunday that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi provided foodgrains for 80 crore people of the country for eight months during the pandemic, the rations were looted by the party in the state.  Irani deputised for Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah at the programme in Howrah district.  Shah's two-day visit to the state was cancelled at the last minute due to the ongoing protest by farmers in Delhi and an explosion near the Israeli Embassy on Friday. He addressed the rally through video-conferencing.  Maintaining that the PM had said that each migrant worker returning home during the coronavirus lockdown be given at least 100 days of employment under Garib Rojgar Yojana, Irani said, though countrywide more than 50 crore mandays were created, "it did not happen in Bengal".  Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said last year that the scheme was not implemented in West Bengal as the state did not provide any data regarding migrant workers who returned to their native places during the COVID-19 lockdown.  A state minister had claimed in November that Bengal had created nearly 31 crore mandays in 2010-21 fiscal under the MGNREGA scheme, and the feat was achieved amid the pandemic, as the government made sure that workers who returned during the lockdown were included in the programme.  "The Prime Minister provided five kg rice and one kg dal for 80 crore people of the country for eight months through 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana', but in Bengal, TMC looted it during the lockdown," she said.  Mentioning that Shramik Special Trains arranged by the Centre were termed 'Corona Express' by Mamata Banerjee, Irani said, "I want to ask her whether sons and daughters from Bengal working in different parts of the country are considered viruses by her".  Irani said, the Prime Minister had urged all to unite in the fight against COVID-19, but the "TMC indulged in loot during the lockdown".  Maintaining that more than 130 BJP workers died in Bengal, she said that their sacrifice will be remembered by people who will silently vote for the saffron party with the slogan "chup chap, padma chap, padma chap (silently cast your vote by pressing the lotus button -BJP's poll symbol).  She claimed that though Banerjee is shunning Shri Ram, 'Ram Rajya' (implying good governance) will be created in Bengal.  While the PM had asked each state to distribute foodgrains on the basis of ration cards, in West Bengal coupons were given by the Mamata Banerjee government for such distribution and "these went to those who are a part of the TMC", the minister alleged.  Speaking mostly in Bengali, Irani claimed that the hapless public were lathi-charged when they came down to the streets demanding food.  She claimed that the chief minister only transferred some officers over allegations of misappropriation of rations, but took no step against corrupt TMC leaders.  "I want to thank the Prime Minister that he gave rice and dal to the people which Didi did not want to," she said.  The Prime Minister transferred money to the bank accounts of poor women under the 'Jan Dhan' scheme, and also provided 80 lakh gas cylinders, under the 'Ujwala Yojana', to the poor women in the state, Irani said.  Irani said that the Mamata Banerjee government prevented opposition BJP leaders and workers from working for the people at the height of the pandemic in the state.  She claimed that relatives of coronavirus patients admitted at government hospitals were not provided information on their health condition or even when they died.  Accusing the TMC government of failing to handle the situation arising out cyclone Amphan in the state despite prior warnings, she said that the Army had to be called in to restore normalcy.  "The Prime Minister had given Rs 1,000 crore for Amphan relief as advance, but your leaders looted the money through panchayats," Irani said, asserting that Banerjee will have to answer these questions.  She said that the Mamata Banerjee government has deprived the farmers of the benefits of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi for two years, by refusing to give the list of beneficiaries to the Centre.  Irani alleged that TMC leaders are involved in taking "cut-money", which has "become a practice" in the state.  The Union minister said, according to former state Rajib Banerjee who joined the BJP on Saturday after quitting the TMC, people cannot support a party which instigates fight among themselves, keeps bad relations with the government at the Centre for its "narrow political interests".  "No patriot can stay in a political party which even insults the slogan of 'Jai Shri Ram'," she said.  Several TMC leaders including one of the founding members of the party, Bani Singha Ray, shifted allegiance to the BJP at the rally, which was attended by Rajib Banerjee and many others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||BJP doing ‘jan kalyan’, Mamata interested in ‘bhatija kalyan’, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Sunday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of working only for "welfare of the nephew" instead of well-being of the masses, and said she will have no one by her side by the time assembly elections are held.  He said the agenda of the TMC dispensation is to make the nephew the next chief minister of the state.  Pointing to the spate of defections from the Trinamool Congress, Shah asserted that Banerjee will be left alone by the time assembly elections are held in the state.  Polls to 294-member Bengal assembly are expected to take place in April-May this year.  Several TMC leaders including one of the founding members of the party, Bani Singha Ray, shifted allegiance to the BJP at the rally, which was attended by newly inducted former TMC minister Rajib Banerjee and many others.  The TMC's slogan of "Maa, Mati, Manush" (mother, land and people) has been reduced to "dictatorship, tolabaji (extortion) and appeasement", Shah said while addressing the rally through video-conferencing in Howrah district.  The senior BJP leader who cancelled his two-day trip to Bengal at the last minute due to ongoing farmers protest in Delhi and explosion near Israeli Embassy, however, kept his date with the rally by addressing it virtually.  Shah is making all efforts to realise BJP's "mission Bengal" by throwing TMC out of power in the state.  Lashing out at "dynastic politics" in the TMC, Shah alleged that Banerjee has been working towards the "nephew's welfare" rather than the well-being of the masses.  "Wherever under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi Ji, NDA has formed the government in the states they are working towards 'Jan Kalyan' (welfare of the masses) to provide services at doorsteps, but here in Bengal the only agenda of the Mamata Banerjee dispensation is to ensure that the nephew becomes the next chief minister.  "The government of Mamata didi is busy towards 'Bhatija Kalyan' (welfare of the nephew) in Bengal. The welfare of the masses is not the agenda of the TMC government," he said without naming anyone.  While inducting the new entrants into the party, Shah said the situation in Bengal under Banerjee's rule was worse than the erstwhile Left regime.  "TMC formed the government after fighting the Left parties, 10 years ago, with Mamata didi promising transformation in the state with the slogan 'Maa Maati Manush'. What changed in the 10 years that so many people are leaving TMC?"  "Mamata Banerjee should think over why so many TMC leaders are joining BJP. It is because she has failed the people of the state.  "The way leaders are deserting party by the time elections arrive, Mamata Banerjee will be left alone," Shah said, taking a swipe at the TMC supremo.  Slamming the chief minister for not being serious about implementing the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, Shah said the state government has not sent any details to the Centre.  "Initially Mamata didi did not allow implementation of PM Kisan scheme in Bengal. When she realised that the farmers are angry as they have been deprived of the benefits. She agreed.  "But now she is trying to fool the state's farmers by just sending a paper that she is ready. She did not send the list of farmers, bank account numbers. You did not send anything. Whom are you trying to fool?" he quipped.  Shah, assailed the West Bengal government, for not allowing Ayushman Bharat yojna in the state, and asserted that once the saffron party forms the government, it will propose in its very first cabinet meeting that the benefit of the health scheme is provided to all the eligible poor of Bengal.  Shah also attacked Banerjee's government over infiltration on Indo-Bangla border.  "Mamata didi's government has blood-soaked the land of Bengal. The TMC can never stop infiltration as it has allowed it in the state. Only a BJP government formed under the leadership of Narendra Modi can stop it," he said.  Shah said the BJP will take Bengal to the development path and usher in "Sonar Bangla" (golden Bengal).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Sourav in stable condition, released from hospital||Three days after undergoing a fresh round of angioplasty to clear clogged coronary arteries, Indian cricket board chief Sourav Ganguly was discharged from hospital on Sunday morning, officials said. The 48-year-old cricket icon was admitted on Wednesday to a Calcutta hospital for the second time in a month due to his cardiac condition. On Thursday, an angiography revealed that the blockages in the two other arteries had not reduced even though Sourav is on medication. So, doctors decided to perform angioplasty to remove the blockages. Cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana Health group, was present during the procedure. “Mr Ganguly is doing fine and his heart is as strong as a normal person. He had an uneventful recovery and we are hopeful that within the next couple of days, he will be able to return to normal life,” a senior doctor of the private hospital, where he was admitted, said. The former India captain is required to follow a strict routine and needs to be on medication for a few months, he added. The batting great suffered a mild heart attack earlier this month and was diagnosed with Triple Vessel Disease. He had undergone an angioplasty procedure during which a stent was inserted into one of the blocked arteries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-214
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Matuas bristle at immigrant clause||Ram Mondal, a 65-year-old from the Matua community, woke up early on Saturday, did his puja and walked 12km to reach the local high school by 9am to secure a vantage point on the sprawling ground, hoping that Union home minister Amit Shah would clear the confusion about the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act. On reaching the venue, he learnt Shah’s event had been put off. In a late Friday decision, the Union home minister deferred his weekend visit to poll-bound Bengal in the wake of a blast near the Israeli embassy in Delhi. Still, Mondal hung around for three hours. Finally, he left the venue, murmuring: “Ebar-o elen na uni (He didn’t turn up this time too).” Shah’s much-hyped event in Thakurnagar was to host an audience of more than a lakh, most from the immigrant Matua community of Bangladesh. An earlier trip to Thakurnagar had earlier been cancelled on December 19. Mondal, who migrated to India in 2000 because of floods in Bangladesh, has Aadhaar and PAN cards and a land deed in his name. Originally from Jessore, Mondal however lives in fear that Indian authorities consider him a Bangladeshi. “I want Indian citizenship and I came here thinking that Amit Shah will solve my problem,” said Mondal, who is concerned despite chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s assertion that people like him are very much Indian and no one can drive them away. A group of 20-odd men and women at the venue said they had similar fears despite having almost all identity documents such as voter, Aadhaar and PAN cards. “Only a citizenship card can solve our problem and that only the BJP government at the Centre can give us,” said one of them, Bikash Biswas, unaware that there was no such thing. Thakurnagar was painted saffron and red (the colour of the Matua flag) on Saturday for Shah’s visit. The Matua leadership and state BJP leaders had raised expectations by campaigning that Shah would announce the process of implementation of the new citizenship act. With Shah not showing up — twice in 41 days — dejection was palpable. When local MP Santanu Thakur — also from the community — was closeted in a meeting with the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy, slogans demanding immediate implementation of the citizenship act filled the air. “Amitji couldn’t come because of a national emergency.… The stage will remain intact and he can come anytime, even on 24 hour’s notice,” Roy said in a media briefing. Statements like these helped people like Mondal go back home, their hopes alive. This hope has been the BJP’s biggest political asset in the Matua-dominated parts of North 24-Parganas and Nadia from where the party won two Lok Sabha seats in 2019 riding on the promise of citizenship. At the same time, not only is impatience brewing in the community, some among the Matuas have started challenging the BJP narrative. “The provisions of the CAA will require any applicant for citizenship to disclose that he has been an illegal immigrant… The question is, why will we do so after living in this country for so many years?” asked writer Kapil Krishna Thakur. Such questions have reached Matua leaders such as Bongaon MP Santanu and his brother Subrata. “We want citizenship, but without any conditions like applying for it or declaration of status as illegal immigrants,” said Subrata. Legal experts, however, say that unconditional citizenship is not possible under the existing provisions of the CAA. Sources aware of talks between the Matua leaders and BJP top brass said that the demand from the MP’s family had made framing the CAA rules a complicated exercise. As the Matuas matter in 25 to 30 Assembly seats, Trinamul has started working overtime to woo them back. “Our chief minister has said all of us are citizens.… She has given land deeds to people in refugee colonies. The BJP is creating confusion on the citizenship issue for political gains,” said Mamatabala Thakur, a former Trinamul MP and a Matua leader, who also went on to allege that Shah had avoided coming here as he had nothing to offer. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Six turncoats hop on plane to reach Shah||Six Trinamul turncoats, including former minister Rajib Banerjee, joined the BJP at Amit Shah’s residence in Delhi late on Saturday after they took a chartered flight to the capital on the Union home minister’s “orders”. “We have been handed over the BJP flag and formally inducted into the party by Amit Shah,” said Banerjee. The others who joined the BJP with him were expelled Trinamul MLA Baishali Dalmia, former mayor of Howrah Rathin Chakraborty, MLA Prabir Ghoshal, former chairman of Ranaghat municipality Parthasarathi Chattopadhyay and actor Rudranil Ghosh. “I am sure their induction will further strengthen the BJP’s fight for Sonar Bangla,” Shah said. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy and the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, who accompanied five of the six inductees in a special flight to Delhi on Saturday, were present. Actor Ghosh did not take the flight to Delhi but was present at Shah’s home. These inductions were to be held in Shah’s presence at a rally in Dumurjola on Sunday but he had to cancel his weekend Bengal visit on Friday. Union minister for textiles Smriti Irani will address the meeting at Dumurjola on Sunday. “Shah will address the rally at Dumurjola virtually,” Dalmia said outside Shah’s residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Bagdogra taxis to go on indefinite strike over demands of fare hike||Around 1,300 taxis plying from Bagdogra airport will go off road “indefinitely” from February 2 to protest the state government’s delay in hiking fares, representatives of the Bagdogra Taxi Owners’ Welfare Association (BTOWA) said on Saturday. The taxi strike is likely to inconvenience thousands of commuters every day. On Saturday, Bagdogra airport saw 42 flights. Siraj Bhowmik, the BTOWA president, said they had no option but to announce the strike. Taxi fares had been revised last in 2008. “Earlier this month, we raised an eight-point demand including revision of fares. We had decided to discontinue our services from Bagdogra but put it off for a fortnight on the assurance of state tourism minister and officials that decisions (by the state) would be made within 15 days. A fortnight has passed without a decision,” he said. The taxi strike, sources said, has been backed by Intuc, the INTTUC and a number of other taxi owners’ and drivers’ associations of the hills and plains. The impending taxi strike has left tourism stakeholders worried. “If taxis stop plying from the airport, many tourists may cancel their trips. The administration should immediately hold talks with taxi owners and drivers,” said a hotel owner in Siliguri, adding that over 6,000 passengers travelled via Bagdogra on Saturday. Snow in Sandakphu Sandakphu, the highest point in Bengal perched at a height of 11,900 feet, saw the first snowfall of the season on Saturday. Sources said that it started snowing from 1pm, and soon there was a deposit of around 2 inches of snow across the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 310 new Covid-19 infections||Bengal on Saturday logged 341 recoveries, 310 new infections and nine deaths, including two from Calcutta. Its total active Covid-19 cases slid for 96 days on the trot from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26, to 5,671 on Saturday. Bengal’s recovery rate rose is now 97.22 per cent, ahead of the national average of 96.97. Its mortality rate, however, is 1.78 while the national average is 1.43 per cent. A minister highlighted the falling occupancy of Covid patients in hospitals as proof of improvement. “A look at the hospitalisation (of Covid-19 patients) data on December 30 and today (January 30) is evidence enough of the overall improvement overall in the past month alone,” he said, referring to  the 11.92 per cent occupancy in 13,588 Covid-19 beds across 102 hospitals on December 30, and 5.83 per cent occupancy in 8,727 beds across 69 hospitals on Saturday. “That we have been able to de-requisition 4,861 and 33 hospitals in just a month tells you how decisive this turnaround has been.” The 200 state-run safe homes had, with 11,507 beds between them, had 1,012 people on October 26 and 99 on December 30. On Saturday, there were 15 people in safe homes. The state’s positive confirmation rate is 7.15 per cent now, having improved steadily from the 8.27, 71 days ago. On Saturday, the state reported 26,107 tests, taking the total past 79.7 lakh, at 88,565 tests per million people. The state’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 5.8 lakh now, including around 5.54 lakh recoveries and 10,164 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. A similar set of instructions came from the high court, to ensure the outbreak does not worsen over the New Year celebrations. The numbers of infections from the festivals between October and January has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. The state attributed 8,535 deaths or 84 per cent of the total toll to comorbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Tally VVPAT and EVM, says poll watchdog||The Citizens’ Commission on Elections (CCE), a civil society group, said on Saturday that the Election Commission of India must optimise the tallying of voter-verified paper audit trails (VVPATs) with the EVMs in the polls in upcoming elections. Retired IAS officer Jawhar Sircar, a former chief electoral officer, addressed a news meet on behalf of the CCE, whose members include former Supreme Court judges, civil servants, journalists, economists and academics. “There is no proof that EVMs cannot be tampered with. Hence, the only solution... is to ensure that as many VVPATs as possible are tallied with EVMs,” he said. Four states — Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala — and the Union Territory of Puducherry are going to polls later this year. Sircar referred to the ECI’s decision before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to tally one VVPAT per Assembly constituency. Many political parties had moved the Supreme Court opposing this small sample size. The apex court ruled that five VVPATs for every Assembly constituency should be tallied with EVMs to ensure maximum transparency. However, the CCE does not agree. Sircar said that in an Assembly constituency with hundreds of booths, counting merely five VVPATs would not reflect the whole picture. “We have seen in Madhya Pradesh during the 2019 polls that the number of votes cast and recorded didn’t match. This happened in over 200 booths,” Sircar said. Sircar was the chief electoral officer of Bengal in 1999, when EVMs were first introduced. However, on Saturday Sircar said that there had been little technical upgrade in EVMs over the past 22 years. The CCE has prepared a report where it has discussed how EVMs can allegedly be tampered with. It will share the report with the ECI, the President of India and relevant government departments. Recently, former chief election commissioner of India S.Y. Quraishi argued in favour of cent per cent VVPAT counting. Quraishi, in a webinar, said that counting both VVPATs and EVMs takes barely 20-25 minutes, hence all VVPATs must also be counted. Sircar endorsed Quraishi. “The ECI argued that counting of all VVPATS would be a long-drawn process. From my experience as a CEO, I can say it won’t take more than 20 minutes to count a VVPAT,” he said. Subhashis Banerjee, a professor of computer science in IIT-Delhi who joined the news meet virtually, said EVMs could be hacked through electromagnetic and other devices from a remote location. Against such a backdrop, the CCE believes the only way to ensure maximum transparency in polls would be to count as many VVPATs as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Tagore focus in Bolpur station revamp ||Eastern Railway has decided to engage Visva-Bharati’s school of fine arts Kala Bhavana to give Bolpur railway station a makeover on the theme of the art and culture of Santiniketan and Rabindranath Tagore. This comes within a month of the December visit of Union home minister Amit Shah to the varsity campus and the video-address by Visva-Bharati Chancellor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of the institution’s centenary celebrations. Many sources said this hinted at how the BJP-led central government was making fervent attempts to highlight its Bengal connect in the run-up to the Bengal polls. Sources said senior officials of Eastern Railway, headed by Howrah divisional railway manager Sonjoy Kumar Saha, on Saturday held a meeting with Kala Bhavana’s senior professors at Bolpur station and asked for a detailed project report on how the station and its surroundings could get a “makeover sourcing from the art and culture of Santiniketan and of Rabindranath Tagore”. The sources said railway officials asked Kala Bhavan teachers to send their proposal as soon as possible, indicating that the central government wants primary work to start before the Assembly polls. A team of professors headed by Kala Bhavana principal Pankaj Panwar who attended the meeting gave a primary briefing to Saha and his team on making the station unique. “We plan to promote this station as an international one.… We held a meeting with Kala Bhavana teachers who assured us of help to implement the project,” said Saha. Sources said the Kala Bhavana team proposed a theme based on Tagore and Visva-Bharati along with murals of several modern artists. “We will hold a meeting shortly and make a detailed plan after visiting the station and measuring the area,” said a Kala Bhavan professor. Trinamul leaders called out the “politics” behind the plan ahead of the polls. Anubrata Mondal, Trinamul’s Birbhum president, said: “People cannot forget the faux pas by (BJP chief J.P.) Nadda in describing Santiniketan as the birthplace of Tagore... The railways’ move is nothing but a last-ditch effort to undo the damage.” Dhruba Saha, Birbhum BJP president, said Trinamul had “no right to criticise the move”. “People have not forgotten that their leaders took part in attacking the campus last year to break its gates,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||West Bengal||Five die in two mishaps||Five persons were killed in two accidents in Murshidabad’s Sagardighi and Behrampore late on Friday. In one, brothers Sitaram and Sankar Mondal, and their cousin Apurba died when their bike rammed into the wall of a home at Ujjalnagar village in Sagardighi at 10pm. In the other, Uttam Haldar and Maidul Islam died when their auto collided with a truck in Behrampore’s Katabagan around 9pm. Autorickshaw driver Samsuddin Mondal, grievously injured, was first sent to Murshidabad Medical College and then referred to NRS Medical College in Calcutta. Police are searching for the truck driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-215
31-01-2021||North East||Assam farmer ire at health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma||Farmers from Assam’s vegetable hub in Darrang district are angry and hurt over health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s claim that their produce is allegedly responsible for the “rise” in kidney and liver diseases. Sarma had said at a public rally in Sivasagar that vegetable growers from the Kharupetia-Dalgaon belt in Darrang district are allegedly carrying out a “chemical and biological attack” through their produce, leading to a “rise” in kidney and liver diseases. “Every day we keep hearing about somebody or the other suffering from kidney or liver ailments. The main reason is the vegetables from Kharupetia and Dalgaon... The unimaginable use of chemicals by vegetable growers there is posing a serious threat to our health,” Sarma said. He added: “They inject something to increase the size of brinjal and bottle gourd overnight. Similarly they feed something unimaginable to grow big fish… By eating these items, we Assamese are going to become sick. To recover from this chemical and biological attack, Assamese youth should increase production of these items.” His remark has triggered resentment among the vegetable growers who said the minister has allegedly targeted them for political gains in the ensuing Assembly polls. They staged a protest against Sarma on Thursday, daring the government to take action on those selling fertilisers or pesticides or those using excessive fertilisers or pesticides to boost output. In Sarma’s remark, they also saw an attempt to target the Muslims of East Pakistan-origin living in riverine areas and lower Assam, for “political” reasons. These people are the main growers of vegetables in Darrang district. In fact, the Kharupetia-Dalgaon belt is not only considered the vegetable hub of Assam but also of the Northeast. Vegetables from the area are also exported to Australia, Dubai and Nepal, the growers said, adding they sell about 100 trucks of vegetables daily. According to official figures, total vegetable production in 2020-21 till now in Darrang district under which Dalgaon-Kharupetia-Bechimari fall, is more than 3 lakh metric tonnes covering an area of 23,279 hectares, more than 18 per cent of the state’s total produce, officials said. They grow between three to four crops a year. Omar Ali, 38, a vegetable farmer, told The Telegraph that they are unhappy with the way the minister targeted only them even though there are other vegetable-growing areas in the state. “We have been singled out for political reasons now that polls are round the corner. We are exporting vegetables to several countries and several states, within and outside the Northeast, as far as Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. We also consume the same vegetables we sell. We are not suffering from kidney or liver ailments. These ailments are also because of dietary habits, including drinking alcohol. The minister has accused us of carrying out a chemical and biological attack. Had we been so capable, we would have produced the corona vaccine long back,” Ali said. Ali, who is also the vice-president of a farmers’ association, said instead of accusing them the government should carry out checks and create awareness about safe farming practices. “We use both fertilisers and pesticides but within permissible limits. We have to use it or we will lose our crop to pests. We also use a huge quantity of farmyard manure (essentially cow dung). We buy around 60-70 trucks of manure everyday, each truck costing about Rs 6,000. Therefore, the minister should not confuse and mislead the people. We are planning another protest against him soon,” Ali said. Nazir Sarkar of Kharupetia College said farmers use fertilisers but questioned where they were coming from and what was the government doing to stop their excessive use. “The government should ban it and create awareness about the use of fertilisers. We see politics in this attack by the minister. The minister has targeted the Miya community who make up at least 75 per cent of the population. Attacking the farmers of Kharupetia-Dalgaon is not right. They are also Assamese. I am also from the Miya community and I teach Assamese,” Sarkar said, apparently conveying the hurt of the community. Sarkar said the issue will be discussed at a citizens’ meeting in Guwahati on Sunday. An agriculture department official told this newspaper that the use of harmful chemical fertilisers has come down significantly over the years. The youths who are taking to agriculture or horticulture are using more biofertilisers and biopesticides, he added. “If harmful fertilisers are used for too long and in excessive quantities, it would also destroy the soil. Nothing of that sort has happened till now but yes we need to create more awareness,” one of them said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-24
31-01-2021||Opinion||Master of the war cry||West Bengal is still reeling from the surprise invocation of Ram on Subhas Bose’s birth anniversary celebrations at Victoria Memorial Hall. Now in war, the war cry and its rhetoric is no less important than the weaponry. The cries might fall on the ear as ululations, whoops, hisses, but they are wrapped in some primeval way with the senses and the sentiments. There was the rebel cry from the American Civil War. And “hurrah” was used by Danish and German forces in the 19th century. Ei ei oh is a Japanese war cry and hooyah was used by the US Navy. War cries must have involved a certain art, for in his epics even the great Homer identifies Menelaus as “master of the war cry” and Diomedes too. Careful study of battle orations from the middle ages has revealed a certain pattern in coinages. They seem to have shrewd psychological and managerial reasons. And as history is testimony, it is easier to bring together large numbers in the name of a common god and thereafter proceed to instruct, urge, appeal and charge in his or her name. So there is Allahu Akbar, Har Har Mahadev, Deus Vult or God wills it and Odin owns you all --- Odin is a god in Germanic mythology. The Homeric battle cry of alala is not some random assemblage of words either but an invocation to a Greek goddess of embattled genealogy, quite literally. Alala has a father, Polemos, who is the personification of war; an aunt, Envo, who is a war goddess; and her uncle Ares is a war god. War cries are not just meant to solder constituencies, they also remind one of the consequences of not warring or failure. There is a good deal of equivocation too. The inevitability of death is cushioned with a promise of a glorious afterlife. Merdeka atau Mati, meaning freedom or death, was used during the Indonesian war of independence. The Argentine General Jose de Saint Martin popularised the chant, Seamos libres, que lo demás no importa nada!... Let's be free, nothing else matters! There is the Norwegian cry of Til Valhall or To Valhalla. In Norse mythology, those who die in combat end up in Valhalla. Right now, Bengal is rife with cries. And yet it is not a war situation, just a democracy situation. God save the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
31-01-2021||Opinion||Shared bonds||Sir — While businessmen routinely default Indian banks and get away with it scot-free, it was interesting to note that the Economic Survey, once again, listed the Rs 300 crore that Pakistan allegedly owes India as pre-partition debts. Pakistan, too, is apparently owed Rs 560 crores, primarily on account of assets held with the Reserve Bank of India pending transfer. It is not surprising, though, that the two countries choose to hold on to these so-called debts instead of writing them off as non-performing assets. Shared roots cannot be severed with a stroke of the banker’s pen. Biswadeep Chatterjee,Calcutta Nature at home Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee forces us to think about what it means to garden in hard times and why is it that humans might turn to the garden or to plants — as a shelter, a refuge or a productive space — under straitened conditions (“Potted philosophy”, Jan 28). Gardening is engrossed in the everyday: in diurnal and seasonal rhythms, in the weather, and in minuscule changes that occur on a creeping (rather than a sweeping) timescale. As such, gardening, although it is a form of toil, can feel leisurely and intimate, its cares diminished in the face of grander passions, griefs and problems. As a mode of leisurely labour, gardening thus implies a construction of identity, aligning the gardener’s fruitful ordering of the land with productive subjectivity. While human intervention in the garden seeks to control and regulate production and consumption, such control is always contested by the non-human agents — plants, animals, insects, soil, wind, rain, sunlight and so on — of the garden. The actions of the latter variously influence abundance or paucity, destruction or growth, surfeit or sufficiency. Gardens are idealized, yet ever-incomplete, utopian sites that are never fixed or finished: there is always some weed growing where it should not, always some spot lying fallow and there is always work to be done. So even though the gardener aspires to nurture the conditions of utopia, this idyll will remain forever unattainable. Michael Pollan famously argued in Second Nature that “gardening... gives most of us our most direct and intimate experiences of nature”. Yet, nature in the garden is not quite the same as nature in the wild. The garden is usually bounded, local and frequently private, where wilderness is associated with sublimity and grandeur, rather than freedom and expanse. Thus while the urban gardener is solicitous of nature, he is also at ease with the ambiguity of his essential predicament: though he lives in nature, he is no longer strictly “of nature”. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — The article, “Potted philosophy”, by Uddalak Mukherjee made for enjoyable reading, especially for people like me who love to spend time with plants. One of the few good things to have happened during the lockdown is that many people started gardening, so much so that it has now become a favoured hobby. I have personally seen many people who created gardens in empty spaces that had been lying in neglect for years. Even those who do not have access to open spaces placed pots and plants in terraces and verandahs. This trend will not only make our planet more beautiful and green, but will also go some way towards reducing pollution levels and letting people breathe fresh air. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Congratulations to Tamil Nadu cricket team, led by Dinesh Karthik, for reaching the finals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy for the second consecutive time. The team has been on a roll, winning all seven games that they have played. But Tamil Nadu should not get complacent; Baroda, the team that will go up against Tamil Nadu in the finals, too, has had a smooth run. One sincerely hopes that Karthik and his boys will not repeat the mistakes of 2019-20, which cost them the finals against Karnataka by a single run. We wish the Tamil Nadu team all the best for the finals today. N. Mahadevan,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
31-01-2021||Opinion||BJP has big plans for its RS member Bhupender Yadav||The Bharatiya Janata Party is busy grooming Bhupender Yadav, its Rajya Sabha member and in-charge of Bihar, to be the next Yadav leader of the country. He is being guided, coached and coaxed to project himself as the top leader of the community that is present in sizeable numbers in many states, especially in the proverbial cow-belt that includes Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Bhupender has also accepted the party’s orders and keeps flying often along the Bihar-Delhi- Gujarat route. “Big leaders like Lalu Prasad, Mulayam Singh Yadav and Sharad Yadav are now in the twilight of their political careers. They will leave a vacuum once they retire from politics and our party wants Bhupender to be the one to fill it,” a senior BJP leader from Delhi revealed. He also said that the party had previously thought of cultivating the Bihar leader and minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai, but he did not quite make the cut. However, Bhupender’s journey is going to be an uphill task, with Mulayam’s son, Akhilesh Yadav, and Lalu’s younger son, Tejashwi Yadav, in the fray. Both are building on their political capital; both are young, energetic and fast gaining the necessary experience of the rough and tumble of public life. Sharad’s daughter, Subhashini Yadav, has also entered politics. JP Nadda recently completed one year as president of the BJP which, as its leaders claim, is the ‘world’s largest’ political party. Although Naddaji, as he is respectfully addressed, has been trying hard to step out of the shadow of his predecessor, Amit Shah, he has not succeeded yet. In important matters, Shah continues to have the final say, according to insiders. Many top party leaders still rush to Shah before meeting Nadda. In key election-bound states like Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu, Shah is still believed to be playing the role of chief strategist. Whispers in BJP corridors have it that one big reason for Nadda’s failure is that he has chosen to tread the very same path as Shah. “There is nothing new, nothing that he can call his own”: this is the refrain among sections of the party. Shah had used the post of party chief to emerge as the second most popular face of the party after the prime minister, Narendra Modi. While that is too tall a dream, Nadda has been working round the clock, travelling across the country, addressing not only party workers and the general public but also ‘eminent citizens’, an idea launched by Shah. All this, however, is still falling short of pulling him out of Shah’s shadow. People close to Nadda feel that a victory in Bengal could catapult him to the top. Wresting Bengal is quite a tall order, but even if it happens, the lion’s share of the credit will go to Shah. The ongoing farmers’ protests at different locations across Delhi’s border with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh comprise almost every colour of India’s society and philosophy except the narrow, communal perspective of the sangh parivar. If older men can be found listening to gurbani on their mobile phones in one corner, Buddhist monks can be seen discussing the Central government’s obstinacy in another camp. Amid the noise of sloganeering, idle chatter, folk songs and cooking activities, loudspeakers keep blaring speeches of trade unionists and farm leaders throughout the day. One afternoon, a farm leader who is a trained Communist was explaining from the dais how those indulging in politics in the name of Lord Ram had none of the virtues of the great man. “Ram is known for morality and sacrifice, not for power-lust and deception. [The] Modi government is like the Kauravas, who refused to give even five villages to the Pandavas. You all know the consequences. The same battle is unfolding now. The farmers will fight this Mahabharata [sic] for their rights. This will be a fight against the corporate-backed Kauravas [who are] not willing to hand over even five villages to the Pandavas.” There are also elderly men from Haryana narrating fascinating stories from Hindu religious texts to highlight how irreligious the government’s obduracy is. By sticking to the new agriculture reform laws, the BJP may have created lakhs of independent campaigners against its politics. With 22 ministerial positions vacant in Bihar and the cabinet expansion long overdue, the berth hopefuls from the ruling National Democratic Alliance are going all out to appease their deities and stars. Several leaders from the BJP and the Janata Dal (United) — the party of the chief minister, Nitish Kumar — have become more devout and regular in saying their prayers. Some have given up non-vegetarian food, some have even stopped eating onions and garlic. While many are running to temples and dargahs, others are consulting astrologers. Given that there is no certainty as to who will get a break and no indication about the exact date of the expansion, leaders and legislators are continuing with their efforts to please the divinities. A few veteran BJP leaders who were ignored during the government formation in November last year are now banking on their good equations with Kumar and cajoling him to pressurize their party to accommodate them in the cabinet. A berth-hopeful legislator vented his frustration thus: “I just hope that the expansion takes place soon. Taking [a] bath early in the morning and sitting for prayers is an ordeal in this harsh winter and to top it, I have to eat bland food. This is going on for the last two-and-a-half months. If the situation continues, the cabinet may be expanded, but I may not survive to see it.” Some BJP leaders speak like officials of Central investigative agencies. Party leaders in Kerala have often surprised people with the consistency with which they ‘predict’ the impending actions of such agencies, prompting the state’s ruling Left government to question the source of their information. Now the Karnataka BJP chief, Nalin Kumar Kateel, is said to have made a similar ‘prediction’: his Congress counterpart, DK Shivakumar, who had spent time in Tihar jail in a money laundering case, will return to prison. Shivakumar seemed unshaken, but his supporters are worried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
31-01-2021||Opinion||Let us now praise some villany||We are like that only. We praise villainy; we prostrate before villains; we prefer villains; we poll for villains and then we put them on the covers of our magazines. Villainy Wins!! Three cheers for villains!!! Look at yourself, look into your head if you have one of your own, tell yourself the truth if you can. And tell us who’s your preferred one. Tell us it’s not a villain. Or The Villain. The one who swept the poll and the one you put on the cover. Villains are, often, who we secretly want to be but haven’t the trick or the temerity to become, isn’t it? Everybody likes a villain, the one you can’t become but would want to. Oh, what power. What privilege. What a thing of pride. To be the villain. To exude villainy, to be the centre of the aura that everyone’s apprehensive to even approach. You walk and everything around scatters away, a magnetic repulsion. What a thing to be. And why not? Why be shy? Badi baat hai, not everybody’s cup of tea to be a badmaash, or mug of coffee. Villains are a thing; you don’t get them every day. How long has it been since Mogambo? Or any such with a hat for a face and a knife for a nose? But they are not like that anymore. They are different. They don’t have to wear hats or brandish knives. They simply say things. And sometimes they don’t say things. And that is how they come to be known for their villainy. Sometimes they also do things, who knows, they must be doing things but they do those things in a way that everybody knows they have done it but nobody can tell for sure. You know one when you get one. Villain, I mean. And when you get one, well, well, turn pussy, get into the well and pray Tommy Stout doesn’t come around to pull you out. It’s the truth. Why not say it like it is? The fellow is a villain, and it isn’t easy being around one. More so when we have nothing to match him, and so he rules the street, or gali, or para, or pradesh, or the entirety of who we are, or whatever. Admit it. Accept things as they are. Go. And on your way in feel free to even salute and scrape. It’s a good survival strategy, endorsed by our elders. Paani mein reh ke magarmachchh se bair? Not easy to take on a magarmachchh, in the waters or outside. Magarmachchh hi magarmachchh se bair le sakta hai; we know, we have been told, story of our times, isn’t it? But to be a magarmachchh? Want to be? Like that? Feared and loathed? Assumed awake and plotting even when they might be genuinely snoozing on the excess of a gory meal grabbed, chewed up by reeking teeth, and gulped down that reeking gullet? A creature that repels more things than merely trust? A creature that is, well, not exactly what you’d want to set out to be, right? I mean you’d still want to be called Tiger. Or Lion. They are beasts of prey too, they grab and gulp and they too never brush their teeth. But you’d still not mind Tiger or Lion. But magarmachchh? Yes? No. That settled then, not magarmachchh. Not like this one. But what is one to do? He’s there. Everywhere. All the time. He can’t be missed, or be given the miss. He is watching you, surveying your behaviour, assessing what you might deserve, a snap, a bite, a killer blow with a whiplash of that jagged tail, what? Have a crew that can take him, put him away? No? Then it may be simpler, consider yourself fortunate, you’ve been spared a scare. And a few scars too. But you are lucky not to have to contemplate any competition. Now don’t lose time, hurry up and secure your future. Give in. Give up. Sing the sordid song of sycophants and be done with it. All shall be well once you are on the side of the villain and the villain is on your side. There will be no more anything or anybody to be afraid of because you have become part of the horror, friend of magarmachchh. Masterji jooz to aalwayz say Oh lissan you there, kaun hai bey Donkey ban, joo joosless fallow Whooz is lathi usi ki bufallow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
31-01-2021||Opinion||Reading amidst flames||The public library is no longer a sacred site for only those who seek the light of knowledge. In this digital age, libraries have shifted shape and responsibilities. Digitization — not to mention book piracy — has ensured that books and knowledge are just a few mouse clicks away. The pandemic, with its attendant restrictions on gatherings, spelt further doom for the public library. The survival of the library meant that it had to transcend its identity of being a mere repository of books to become a site of congregation where people can gather to reclaim a sense of community. This is perhaps why libraries have witnessed a resurrection at protest sites around the world. An open library has been set up near the Ghazipur border in India by protesting farmers; a ‘people’s library’ — it contained over 5,000 volumes of books as well as magazines and newspapers — had also been created during the Occupy Wall Street movement, not to mention a similar exercise in Hong Kong during the pro-democracy movement. Yet, in spite of this change, one of the foundational functions of the library remains the same: it remains a fount of knowledge — knowledge that is feared by repressive regimes because reading, thinking citizens are known to have independent minds that help them challenge authoritarianism. That has also made libraries and, indeed, the pursuit of knowledge the target of political regimes. It is sad enough that governments are indifferent to the potential of public libraries. Some three years ago, Uttar Pradesh, a populous state and, allegedly, the new laboratory of religious orthodoxy, had only 75 public libraries, not all of which were supported adequately. New India has also seen the rise of dangerous strands of anti-intellectualism that has coincided with the political ascendancy of Hindutva. No less than the prime minister himself has asserted the primacy of physical strength over intellectual prowess, purportedly suggesting that hard work is more important than Harvard. The periodic desecration of libraries — from Nalanda in the past to, in more recent times, Pune’s Bhandarkar Institute — is symbolic of the antipathy that forces of bigotry and obscurantism harbour towards knowledge institutions. The Post-Truth era has saddled the library with additional tasks. The circulation of books, which, in turn, leads to the dissemination of reliable information, can be a powerful deterrent against the falsities being spread through digital and electronic media. Again, books strive to restore the balance between text and image in a society that remains enchanted — often fatally — with the dominance of the visual culture. Equally important is the role of the library in democratizing learning in a deeply iniquitous society. Usually, the best of campuses are exclusive preserves of the privileged. Academia is also burdened in terms of pedagogy with a peculiar dullness, forcing people to seek out alternative and often specious sources of knowledge. By bringing books closer to readers, especially an aggrieved people, libraries are serving as the proverbial bridge to connect thought with everyday struggles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
31-01-2021||Opinion||Farmers’ day out||Deep into the Republic Day parade’s telecast, the news ticker on my television screen read, “Violence in North West Delhi”. Urban Indians understand city geography in terms of class, not cardinal directions, so I had no idea where this violence was happening. Then it became clear that the authorized march-past had segued into an alternative peasant parade. Instead of tanks trundling down Rajpath, our screens filled with tractors turning into Delhi. One of the side-effects of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s domination of Indian politics is the besieged desperation that marks the reactions of desis who oppose its brazen communalism. Every assembly election feels like a drawn-out Test match, thanks to multi-phase polling. Every campaign of popular resistance seems like a lopsided war with citizens dug into trenches trying to face down Narendra Modi’s juggernaut, the Hindu rashtra that he has fashioned in his own image. The interesting thing about the farmers’ protest against the Central government’s agricultural laws was that for once these political roles seemed reversed. Large-scale mobilization in Punjab and Haryana had seen tens of thousands of farmers mass on Delhi’s borders; it was the Central government and its policemen who seemed besieged as they dug trenches across highways to keep the farmers out of the capital and then hunkered down, hoping to see them off. So, on January 26, when this contemporary take on trench warfare morphed into a more mobile confrontation, it became a political contest tailor-made for television. As sections of the tractor rally turned off the agreed route and headed towards the heart of Delhi, news television’s prime time artists snapped into their flak jackets and became (with one or two exceptions) the ruling party’s war correspondents. Up to that point, it was possible for even a critic of the government to debate the wisdom of this tractor breakaway. While the official parade was over, the prospect of protesting farmers being set upon by tense policemen or vice versa was a worry. You could be simultaneously concerned about a confrontation and sympathetic to the idea of farmers asserting their right to assemble and demonstrate in their nation’s capital. But watching the coverage, it was hard not to take sides. One embedded reporter had been chasing the tractor procession, microphone in hand. Every so often, he told his viewers that it was wrong to describe the demonstrating farmers as protesters because they were actually anarchists or terrorists. Then, greatly daring, he approached one of these anarchists and asked him a question. The strapping young protester ignored the question but took the mike anyway and made the most of his moment on prime time by calling out his political enemies with an audible obscenity. Terrified, our war correspondent snatched the microphone back and rushed away, complaining like an outraged uncle that the protest had been hijacked by “drunkards” and “drug-addicts”. When the tractors reached the Red Fort, the tractor parade seemed to turn into a carnival as jubilant protesters clustered around the August 15 lectern in what looked like the final scene of a movie called Farmers’ Day Out. And then, when a protester shinned up a flagpole and flew the Nishan Sahib, the next day’s headlines practically wrote themselves. ‘Religious Standard Flies on Nation’s Ramparts’ was the general drift of the social media reaction. Opposition politicians and non-feral anchors felt compelled to distance themselves from this unforced error, this own goal, this unpardonable trespass on the sacred ground of India’s secular nationhood. Or words to that effect. ‘I have been a staunch supporter of the farmers’ protests but this...’ was the throat-clearing preliminary to many triangulating tweets. You might have been forgiven for wondering where these hem-raising secularists had been earlier in the day when a massive float featuring a model of Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir had been a much-touted part of the official Republic Day parade. The majoritarian triumphalism of that tableau was staged on the central vista, the stretch of road on which the republic had been celebrated for over seventy years. And yet it went unremarked in the flank-covering stampede to censure the improvised flag-hoisting. But even as you rehearsed these arguments in your head and called out the patent hypocrisy, you realized that there was something decadent about your voyeuristic solidarity. 24x7 news television has made politics a competitive spectacle. If elections are Test matches that go on for days and weeks, this Republic Day confrontation had been successfully turned into a One Day International with a result required by close of play. Given the channels telecasting this particular contest, there was only ever going to be one winner. To rehearse arguments about hypocrisy or to defensively grade the kisan-police skirmishes on some scale of comparative mayhem was to be sucked into a trap. This was the trap of believing that this massive, months-long mobilization against the State, this sustained act of civil disobedience, could be discredited or vindicated in a single day. If there’s one lesson we ought to have learnt during Modi’s ascendancy, it is this: the revolution won’t be televised; reaction most certainly will. Too many of us have become virtuosos in the fine art of frantic spectatorship. Real political solidarity isn’t complicated; it means organization, fund-raising, making plausible arguments in a language people can understand, picking sides in politics as it is, not as it ought to be, and then actually participating. The main reason the sangh parivar runs the pageant on Rajpath today is because it has done all of the above for a hundred years. It is past time that its opponents did the same. The lesson of Shaheen Bagh and the great kisan sit-in on the capital’s borders is that civil society movements that capture the national imagination need both party-political allies and self-evident, ready-made ways in which sympathetic citizens can support them. Without such networking and engagement, even sustained forms of civil disobedience are likely to remain self-limiting, single-issue spectacles, forever being broken on breaking news. There is nothing that the gargoyles who anchor news channels would like better; we shouldn’t oblige them. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal groups block roads, trains as demand for Sarna Code intensifies||Members of various tribal bodies took to the streets, blocked railway tracks and heavy vehicles across Jharkhand on Sunday, demanding the inclusion of the Sarna Code in the religion census of 2021. Three tribal outfits – Central Sarna Committee, All India Tribal Development Council, and Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan — called for a rail and road blockade in Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Bihar on Sunday in a bid to mount pressure on the Centre for approving Jharkhand’s resolution for the Sarna/Adviwasi code. The movement of trains was affected in several parts of Jharkhand as protestors blocked railway tracks and raised slogans supporting the Sarna Code and the tribal community. A large number of security personnel were deployed at bordering areas of the state to keep the situation under control and avert any mishap. The three major tribal outfits also took out a torchlight procession in Ranchi on Saturday evening and announced Sunday’s rail and road blockade at Albert Ekka Chowk, the heart of the state capital. On Sunday, Central Sarna Committee president Phoolchand Tirkey was part of the demonstrations at Silli Railway Station. The tribal outfit stopped several trains under the Muri section of South Eastern Railways. Phoolchand said, “The process for Census will begin in April and tribal bodies across the country want the inclusion of Sarna Code in the Census this time. We will intensify our demonstrations if the government does not pay heed to us.” “The Constitution under Article 25 has granted freedom to preach and practice the religion of one’s choice to every citizen of India, but the Centre is snatching this right granted to the tribal by the Constitution,” he added. All India Tribal Development Council’s president Satyanarayan Lakra warned that the tribal protest will be larger than the ongoing farmer’s protest if the government continues to stick to its “dictatorial” attitude. The Jharkhand Assembly passed a resolution for the inclusion of the Sarna Code in the Census and sent it to the Centre last year. In the special session of the Jharkhand Legislative Assembly, chief minister Hemant Soren had said that the Sarna Dharma Code is important for the tribal and he did not want any politics over it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Dance institute felicitates corona warriors of coal city||Sixty-six individuals from different walks of life including doctors, nurses, paramedics, social workers, women volunteers, and journalists were felicitated as Corona Warriors at Dhanbad, for their selfless service during the pandemic. SDD Dance Classes, a private dance coaching institute, had organized the programme at Hirapur Hatia to honour the individuals. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha was present as the chief guest. Speaking at the event, Sinha said, “People from all walks of life have contributed in the battle against Covid 19 across the country. Dhanbad, being no exception, has witnessed doctors, nurses, and other paramedics who led the fight against the pandemic from the frontline. The plasma donor who came forward to donate blood at a time when it was most needed is commendable.” He added, “No less is the contribution of various social organisations who operated community kitchens to provide food to the hungry during the lockdown and distributed masks, sanitizers and other protective gears free of cost to those in need.” Dr. Sushil Kumar, secretary Indian Medical Association, Dhanbad Chapter, had offered his services as a doctor at Central Hospital Jagjivan Nagar - a dedicated Covid Hospital of Dhanbad was felicitated by the district administration and the dance institute also. “I had counseled patients including journalists during my deputation at the hospital. Being positive is crucially needed during the treatment,” said Kumar. He added that he had earlier volunteered his service free of cost at the Covid Hospital since May 14, 2020. However, the district administration had him engaged in active duty. “As frontline workers, doctors need to set a standard,” he further added. Head of the Department of Medicine of the PMCH, DR UK Ojha, who worked tirelessly to attend patients during the pandemic, was also felicitated during the programme expressed similar sentiments. General Secretary of Bengali Welfare Society, Gopal Bhattacharya who donated blood 69 times and also played a crucial role in mobilising people to donate blood during the pandemic was also felicitated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||One arrested in Jamshedpur for running illegal slaughterhouse||In the wee hours of Sunday, a team of police officials seized a huge quantity of prohibited bovine meat from a triple-story building at the densely-populated Dhatkidih locality, which falls under Bistupur Police station. The police arrested one person for running a clandestine slaughterhouse and seized all the types of equipment used for slaughtering animals. According to sources, the second floor of the building had been converted into a slaughterhouse, while people continued to stay on the floors below. Vishnu Raut, OC, Bistupur police station, confirmed the news, however, he didn’t disclose the number of cattle seized from the unauthorised slaughterhouse. “We have seized around 80 kgs of bovine meat from an illegal slaughterhouse that had been set up on the second floor of the residential building. A 40-year-old man identified as Anwar Qureshi has been arrested for running the slaughterhouse. He used to sell the meat clandestinely to people. We are in the process of sending them to the jail,” said Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said that they had conducted the raid at about 3 am on Sunday after getting specific information about the unauthorised slaughterhouse. This is not the first time that a residential building has been identified as a bovine slaughterhouse. In 2018, about half-a-dozen cows were seized by police from the first floor of a residential building at Dhatkidih locality. Regularly, police do seize bovine mean being brought into Jamshedpur from places like Haldipokhar and Chandil. But the running of an unauthorised slaughterhouse close to Tata Main Hospital has shocked the residents of Dhatkidih locality itself. “At a time when the district administration is trying to eliminate Coronavirus from the steel city, the act of running a clandestine slaughterhouse inside a residential building of a densely-populated area like Dhatkidih is a serious crime.  The police and administration should stop such activity strongly as it tends to create friction,” observed Saheel Akhtar, a resident of Dhatkidih while talking to this website. Akhtar, a businessman said the residents should remain vigilant about such activity and inform the police immediately when needed. It may be noted cow slaughter has been banned in Jharkhand since 2005. The ban has made unscrupulous businessmen Qureshi to trade in the bovine meat in and around Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab 4 for attacking, looting a Pebco Company employee||The police on Sunday arrested four criminals who were wanted in connection with a case of loot committed near the Indian Oil Corporation's petrol pump at Mango in Jamshedpur late on the night of January 22. The looters identified as Mohammed Taufique Khan alias Baccha (22), Naim Khan alias Banti Khan (24) Sheikh Arif and Sheikh Ibadat, both 25-year-old had also inflicted grievous injuries to the victim Rajnish Kumar Jha by stabbing in the head and neck in that eventful night. A resident of Mango, Jha (40) is a staff at the Pebco Company in Gamharia and had fallen victim to the looters while he was returning home on foot at about 11.15 pm on January 22 night, when the incident took place. The victim had got down at the Sitaramdera bus terminus from a bus and was returning home on foot. As he was passing through the petrol pump, the four criminals surrounded him and demanded the money and mobile phone. As he resisted the criminals, one of them fished out a knife and attacked him in the head and neck, causing the victim to get seriously injured. Then the criminals had snatched away his smartphone and the wallet which contained just Rs 70 in it. A police party had later rescued the victim and got him admitted at the MGM Medical College Hospital. Later the police had registered a case against four unidentified criminals on the statement made by the victim on January 24. Revealing about the breakthrough, deputy superintendent of police (Headquarters-I) Pawan Kumar said they arrested one after another accused in the case on getting a tip-off on Sunday. "Acting on a tip-off, we first picked up Banti Khan from his rented house in Munshi Mohalla. On being interrogated, Banti confessed his crime. Then we arrested the remaining three accused from their houses in Azadnagar thana area in Mango one after another early on Sunday morning. We recovered the smartphone from the possession of Baccha," said the DSP (Headquarters-I) while addressing a press conference on Sunday afternoon. Kumar said the investigation was carried out by the Mango thana OC, Vinay Kumar who had swung into action to detect the case from the day the case was registered. The police on Sunday forwarded the four accused to jail after producing them before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Toffee draws kids to polio vaccine in Palamau ||It was two drops of the oral polio vaccine along with a coconut flavoured toffee on Sunday at the vaccination centre in Palamau’s Ramgarh health centre, and the eyes of the kids remained glued only to the latter. India kicked off its polio vaccination drive for the year on Sunday, where kids between ages zero to five are administered the doses, but many parents in Palamau, especially those from the tribal areas, refuse to bring their kids to the booth and ask health workers to visit them instead. But the efforts of ANM Jyoti Theeteeo and her team did bear fruit, when they brought in the toffees with their own money, attracting kids from the district -- a move lauded by district Civil Surgeon John F. Kennedy. Kennedy said while Sunday was the booth day for vaccination, the door-to-door campaign will be done on Monday and Tuesday, along with the procedure for administering Covishield. Instructions have been given to carry out both the vaccinations smoothly, he said. The civil surgeon also made a surprise visit at three vaccination booths in Ramgarh, Piprahi and Sarahuwa. He was shown the vaccine vial monitor, a device used to discard open vials of vaccine. The workers at the Ramgarh booth knew how to handle it well, Kennedy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Two more passenger trains for Dhanbad travellers||Passengers of the Dhanbad division will soon be able to avail the services of two more passenger trains, besides an express train, with the Railway Board granting permission to the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway to restore services of passenger trains - NS Gomoh Barwadih and Dehri on Sone-Barkakana. Since March 2020, these two passenger trains had not been in service due to the pandemic. However, both the trains will be plying as ‘special’ passenger trains from tomorrow. The passengers from Gomoh, from  February 2, will also be able to avail the services of the Gomoh Chakradharpur Gomoh special train, which will be operated by the South Eastern Railway. Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Bansal, not just informed about the running of these two passenger trains but also shared a detailed schedule about the stoppages of both the trains. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Chief Yard Master of Gomoh, BK Mandal said, “We are prepared for the operation of the two trains including the NS Gomoh Barwadih Gomoh passenger special train which will leave from here at around 5.30 am and also for Gomoh Chakradharpur Gomoh train, which will depart at 2.30 pm after arriving from Chakradharur at around 1 pm.” “The crew team will board in the NS Gomoh Barwadih Gomoh passenger special train from Gomoh. This team of South Eastern Railway will accompany the train from Chakradharpur,” further said, Mandal. Expressing happiness over the railway’s plan to restore the facilities of these two trains, Sanky Gupta, a renowned RTI activist from Gomoh, said, “Both the trains will be quite useful for the passengers of Gomoh as large of passengers travel between Gomoh and Barwadih and also between Gomoh and Chakradharpur.” In the past, Gupta has fought a long battle for the development of a rail overbridge at Gomoh to overcome the problem of traffic congestion caused due to the presence of three closely placed railway crossings. “However, we are demanding for the restoration of Asansol Gomoh EMU train which is also lying suspended since March last year as a large number of passengers need to travel between Gomoh and Asansol daily,” said Gupta. Meanwhile, the railway has decreased the frequency of some trains due to foggy weather. Dhanbad Firozpur Cann Express, will not operate on Thursdays and Saturdays till further orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Crisp north winds push temperatures down across Jharkhand||Cold wave conditions prevailed in Jharkhand on Sunday as the mercury nosedived five notches below normal at several places in north-western, central and southern Jharkhand due to a free flow of dry and crisp north-westerly winds. Giridih recorded the lowest minimum reading across the state on Sunday with the minimum temperature plummeting to 5.1 degree Celsius. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum experienced severe cold when it recorded night readings of 6.6 degree Celsius, which was seven notches below normal. On Sunday, capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degree Celsius, which was four notches below normal. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees celsius, 5.3 notches below normal. Palamu headquarters Daltonganj Sunday recorded a minimum temperature of 5.3 degrees Celsius, five points below normal. Bokaro and neighbouring Ramgarh recorded 6.1 degree Celsius. The readings in both the places were four notches below normal. Met statistics revealed plummeting night readings in most parts of the state due to the dominating north westerly winds. "The cold wave condition which is prevailing over Jharkhand is likely to continue for the next 48 hours," said a duty officer at Ranchi Met centre. He said a feeble western disturbance as a trough in lower and mid-tropospheric levels with its axis at 3.1 km above mean sea level was expected around February 5. "This is expected to result in cloud formation and light rains over isolated pockets of Jharkhand on February 5 and 6," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Union Budget 2021: Jharkhand wants more Central funds, IIT in Ranchi||The Jharkhand government expects the Union Budget, to be unveiled on Monday, to provide for increasing Central assistance to the state, improving inter-district rail connectivity, an IIT in Ranchi and special road projects under the Bharatmala project. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is understood to have sent the state’s wish list to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman earlier this month, said he expected the Centre to focus on timely and increased assistance. “Considering the revenue shortfalls in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with inadequate and untimely compensation to the states under goods and service tax (GST), the Centre must act accordingly,” he said in a statement on Sunday. Giving an example, the minister said that under various social security schemes, the state government gives Rs 1,000 to every beneficiary. “Out of this, the Centre’s share is only Rs 300. They (Centre) should increase its share so that the load on poor states like our is lessened,” he said. “After the introduction of GST, states have limited scope for generating revenues. Hence, the onus of more assistance lies with the Centre now. This apart, I have also demanded that the time of transfer of Central funds to the state should be changed to the first of every month against the existing practice of transferring funds on the 20th day of the month,” Oraon added. To boost higher education, the minister said he has asked for an IIT in Ranchi even though ISM in Dhanbad was accorded the status of an IIT a few years back. “An IIT in Ranchi will give our students, mainly tribal youths, access to state of art technical education,” he said. Oraon said districts like Khunti and Chatra were still without rail connectivity and that the Union government must provide Jharkhand its due share of rail links. In terms of roads, he said he has cited the Bharatmala project and sought connectivity between Sahebganj in Santhal Pargana and Dharma in Odisha. “This will strengthen port and cargo activities between the two states,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Cinema halls will not open in Jharkhand on Monday||Cinema halls in Jharkhand will not reopen on Monday despite the Centre allowing theaters across the country to operate at full capacity from February 1 onwards, officials from the state disaster management department said on Sunday. “There is no possibility of movie theaters reopening before February 5,” disaster management department secretary Amitabh Kaushal said. “We will hold a high-level meeting on Friday, February 5, and a decision regarding reopening of movie theaters will be taken during the meeting,” he added. Cinema halls across Jharkhand have remained closed since the enforcement of a nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic back in March 2020. While most states and Union territories have allowed running movie theaters with 50 per cent capacity, Jharkhand is yet to allow theaters to open their doors. Bars, restaurants and malls were opened in the state last year. “The Centre has allowed all states to allow movie theaters to run at full capacity. The question of allowing theaters to run at full capacity or not arises only after theaters are allowed to open,” said Kaushal, adding that the meeting on February 5 will be chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren and disaster management minister Banna Gupta. Besides movie theaters, coaching institutes, primary schools, swimming pools, public parks and amusement parks have not received the state government’s nod to reopen.  “The meeting will not be about cinema halls only, but also about other services that have remained closed since the lockdown was enforced,” said the disaster management secretary. Cinema hall owners in the state have been crying hoarse over the alleged apathy of the government towards them, claiming that the lockdown has pushed many businessmen to the brink of bankruptcy. A staffer at Nucleus Mall, who did not wish to be named, said that many employees working in the multiplex were sacked during the lockdown. Sameer Kumar, a manager at Fun Cinemas in Ranchi’s Spring City Mall, said that movie hall owners have been requesting the government to let them resume services, and are expecting a positive decision from the state. “Jharkhand is one of the few states that has not allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to open. We are expecting the government’s nod as soon as possible as we have already incurred huge losses during this crisis and are not in a position to handle further revenue loss,” he said. Multiplexes clearly outnumber single-screen-theaters in the urban areas of Jharkhand, but the few single-screen-theaters left have been one of the worst-hit business ventures during the lockdown, sources said. In its latest decision back in December last year, the government allowed social gatherings of 200 people in enclosed areas, while 300 people were allowed to attend gatherings in the open. The government also allowed a maximum of 200 people to attend religious gatherings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||100 live turtles recovered at Koderma rail station||A team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) seized three bags containing 100-alive Indian flap shell turtles on early Sunday morning from platform No-3 of Koderma Railway Station in Koderma district. The Indian flap shell turtle is a protected species under Schedule 1 of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. A team led by in-charge Jawahar Lal, assistant sub-inspector Ankur Kumar, jawans Vikas Mishra and S.K Ram found three bags on the platform with no one around. Lal said suspecting something suspicious, they checked the three bags and found 100-turtles. He said smugglers might have fled after seeing the RPF team there. “We are scanning the CCTV records of the station to find them,” informed Lal. The RPF team said they had informed the forest department officials about this recovery. “We will handover the turtles to them for its release at someplace safe,” they stated. Lal said they had registered an FIR against the unknown smugglers and search is on for them. This was not the first time that turtles were recovered in Koderma which has high demands for its meat as well as for making medicines. These turtles are found in ponds, rivers, drains and other water reservoirs of the Indian subcontinent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Police officials, paramilitary forces foil potential IED blast||West Singhbhum district police along with paramilitary forces on Saturday foiled a subversive act by CPI-Maoists at Gitilipi village, where they had planted a series of can bombs all connected to each other. The 34 IEDs were detected during a search operation on the Gitilipi and Maridiri village in the rebel-affected area, after the police received an intelligence input, saying that the naxals had laid several can bombs on a mud road between Gitilipi-Maridiri. “Acting on the tip off, we set up a police team which with the support of CRPF’s 60 battalion started a search operation by following the standard operating procedure (SOP).  After an hour-long search, the police and paramilitary forces succeeded to detect the can bombs buried under the mud-road,” West Singhbhum superintendent of police, Ajay Linda told The Telegraph Online. “The IEDs were laid on a stretch of 150 meters. Soon a bomb disposal squad was pressed into service and all the bombs  detonated after they were recovered from under the road,” Linda added. He revealed that the naxals had connected the bombs with each other by Codex wire, which has also been recovered. The SP said the Gitilipi-Maridiri road is used largely by the villagers and the paramilitary forces also use the road frequently for carrying out anti-insurgency operations. “It is evident that the Maoist rebels had laid the bombs, which were of different intensity. These were meant to inflict damage to the paramilitary forces.  Had we not got the intelligence input about the bombs, there would have been heavy casualties of the paramilitary forces and also of the villagers," said the senior police officer. Linda informed that  the police have registered a case against unidentified naxals with the Goelkera thana in the evening. According to police sources, people living in the Goelkera area have started cooperating with the police and paramilitary forces increasingly. "It is a good sign that the people residing at the naxal-infested area are giving information about their activities. If the locals continue to pass on such vital information, it can be said that the naxals are on the verge of elimination," a senior police officer told us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||16 complain of discomfort after receiving Covid jab on Saturday||As many as 7,607 of 13,502 beneficiaries registered for vaccination against the Covid-19 virus were inoculated in Jharkhand on Saturday, helping the state achieve 57 per cent of its vaccination target, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Palamu has achieved 76 per cent of its vaccination so far by inoculating at least 3120 of 4193 registered beneficiaries in the district – the highest among 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, on the other hand, achieved 55 per cent of its vaccination target as 3,631 of 6,426 people registered for vaccination here were administered Covishield shots. As many as 40,721 Jharkhand residents have been administered the first dose of the vaccine since January 16, said figures released by the NHM on Saturday night. At least 643 people were administered the vaccine shots in Ranchi on Saturday, while no inoculation was done in Lohardaga. Bokaro achieved 82 per cent of its target on Saturday by inoculating 860 of 1,049 beneficiaries registered for vaccination. Ranchi achieved 56 per cent of its target on the day. As many as 16 beneficiaries complained of Adverse Effects Following Immunisation (AEFI) on the day, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the state to 224. However, Ranchi, which has reported almost 60 per cent of AEFI cases did not report any fresh case of adverse effects post vaccination on Saturday. At least 13 AEFI cases were reported in Koderma, one in Jamtara and two in Godda on Saturday. However, no severe cases of AEFI have been reported in the state so far, say doctors. Meanwhile, the number of Covid patients dropped below 600 in Jharkhand on Saturday as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases. While 100 patients recovered from the infection on the day, only 49 fresh cases surfaced, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi reported 31 of the 49 fresh cases, but also accounted for at least 61 of the 100 recoveries. The number of active cases dropped to 303 in Ranchi and 55 in East Singhbhum after Saturday's findings. As per NHM data, Ranchi was the only district with more than 100 active Covid cases in Jharkhand on Saturday. While the cases dropped, another patient from Ranchi died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid-19 toll in Jharkhand to 1,071 and that in Ranchi to 235. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.90 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-156
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Drive reduces leprosy in Singbhum ||A nearly four-decade initiative by Tata Motors and social outfit Nav Jagrat Manav Samaj in Jharkhand’s Singbhum region towards early detection and treatment of leprosy has led to a significant reduction in the incidence of cases. On World Leprosy Day on Saturday, Dr Sanjay Srivastava, chief of medicine, Tata Motors Hospital, and a governing committee member of the Samaj, said that their efforts had brought down the incidence of leprosy cases in Singbhum from 21 out of 1,000 in 1991 to only 0.3 out of 1,000 in 2017-18. “We are grateful to Tata Motors for providing all support as part of its CSR initiatives. The NJMS has been conducting a massive exercise of an ‘early case detection campaign’ which began in 1991 with Ichagarh and Nimdih blocks (then in combined Singhbhum district and now in Seraikela-Kharsawan district). Every year we target over 1 lakh people as part of our survey. This has helped in bringing down the incidence of leprosy cases from 21 out of every 1,000 people in 1991 to 0.3 in 2017-18,” said Dr Srivastava. The Samaj was established in August 1981 with a clear vision to support the cause of leprosy prevention, control and rehabilitation. Its major projects include conducting a Leprosy Case Detection Campaign for identification of new cases and running an old-age home for leprosy patients called Antyoday Bhawan (near Parvati Ghat in Bistupur) and supporting the rehabilitative measures for patients residing at various leprosy ashrams in Jamshedpur. “Leprosy as a disease has a social dimension. More than the availability of treatment, the disease leads to social stigma due to complicated wounds, ulcers, disfigurement and disabilities. Most of the leprosy patients face social exclusion in their community. Furthermore, if not identified in time, leprosy may lead to permanent disability. We at Tata Motors realised the need to work mainly because still today leprosy exists largely in the eastern part of the county,” said Dr Srivastava. Initially, the Samaj worked in seven self-settled leprosy colonies (ashrams) in and around Jamshedpur, primarily focussing on providing treatment to the patients. In due course of time, the need was felt for early detection of leprosy in the communities mainly because of the patients’ tendency to hide their condition in fear of social stigma. This led to door-to-door surveys in different blocks of East Singhbhum district from 2018-19. The Samaj also manages the Antyoday Bhawan, a 52-bed indoor care old-age home for leprosy patients. Since its establishment in 1989, this facility has successfully treated and rehabilitated over 3,000 leprosy patients. During their stay, the Samaj takes care of the hospitalisation needs of leprosy patients who are admitted for various ailments and care of ulcers and other complications. During treatment, Tata Motors provides free supply of food and medicine to the patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||10 lakh senior citizens allegedly not receiving pensions for last six months||Over 10 lakh senior citizens in Jharkhand are allegedly not receiving their social security pensions for the last six months and facing hardship amid the Covid-19 pandemic, according to economist and human rights activist Jean Dreze. Dreze took part in a protest march by elders, widows and disabled on Friday at Barwadih block in Latehar district, over 180km from state capital Ranchi, and termed the denial of pension as contempt of a Supreme Court order. “The protesters on Friday belonged to some of the poorest communities, including those from a particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG). For many of them, especially the elderly people living alone, pensions are a critical lifeline despite the meagre amount of Rs 1,000 per month. However, they are not receiving their pensions for the past six months. This is in violation of the November 28, 2001, order by the Supreme Court that pensions should be paid promptly by the 7th of each month,” said the Belgian-born Dreze. He said during their discussions with the administration and the department of women, child development and social security, senior officials admitted that the central government’s share for the National Social Assistance Programme (the central pension scheme) was diverted to pay the elderly under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) during the lockdown. Avinash Kumar, principal secretary of the social welfare department, admitted the problem but said the allotted money has already been sent to all the 24 districts for disbursement to the beneficiaries. “The problem arose as the funds were used up,” he said. The protesters at Barwadih demanded apart from prompt payment, the enhancement of the pension amount to at least Rs 2,500 per month and immediate sanction of all pending applications. Chief minister Hemant Soren has on several occasions earlier promised to increase the pension amount to Rs 2,500 per month and this pledge was also part of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha manifesto in the 2019 Assembly polls. On February 4, 2020, Soren had promised in Dumka timely payment of pension and said that, “pehle garibon ko pension, phir DC ko vetan (pension will be given to the poor before the deputy commissioner’s salary)”. On 29 December last year, the chief minister had promised universal coverage of social security pensions in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
31-01-2021||Jharkhand||Congress to hold tractor rally in Santhal Pargana to express solidarity with farmers||The Jharkhand unit of the Congress will organise a tractor rally in Santhal Pargana on Sunday to express solidarity with the protesting farmers and demand withdrawal of the new farm laws. Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said on Thursday that they have requested farmers of the state to join the ‘hul’ rally that will start from Kargil Chowk in Godda and will culminate at Rohini Saheed Sthal in Deoghar, around 80km away. “The rally will be coordinated by Congress MLA and former minister Pradeep Yadav, while finance minister Rameshwar Oraon will the chief guest on the occasion,” Patralekh told mediapersons at the Congress Bhawan in Ranchi. Minister and Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam, minister Satyanand Bhokta, party MLAs and leaders of the ruling alliance partners will also join the rally, he added. “When I went to the Singhu border to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, I saw how they were spending nights in the biting cold. Many died during the agitation,” Patralekh said, adding that many young people preparing for competitive examinations or aspiring to be doctors had also joined the farmers. “The coming generations will not forgive us if we don’t do our bit to express our solidarity with the farmers who are demanding withdrawal of the farm laws that are spreading discontent among them and try to draw attention of the badshah (ruler) who paid no heed,” Patralekh said without taking any particular name. We are holding meetings at various places for inviting farmers to join the tractor rally on Sunday, the agriculture minister said. “We condemn the violence that happened in Delhi on Republic Day but it was designed to sabotage the farmers’ agitation and to malign them,” he said, referring to the chaos at the Red Fort. “I appeal to both the President and the Supreme Court to take cognisance and institute a judicial inquiry into the happenings that day so that the truth comes to the fore,” Patralekh demanded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-157
