07-09-2021||World||Exhausted and abandoned: Why Afghanistan's army collapsed||When the Taliban swept into Kabul last month, capturing Afghanistan's capital without a fight, the sheer speed of the collapse of the Western-backed and trained army stunned the world.But senior officials in the former Afghan administration told AFP that the lightning victory was not entirely unexpected, and the consequence of fundamental leadership failures, rampant corruption, slick Taliban propaganda -- and a crushing "betrayal" by US-led forces with their hasty pullout.One top official close to the centre of power said that just two days before Taliban forces entered Kabul on August 15, he was present as former president Ashraf Ghani held an emergency meeting with his senior ministers, and military and spy chiefs."It was said that we had enough weapons, ammunition, and financial resources to hold Kabul for two years," said the official, who claimed $100 million in cash was available to secure Kabul."It didn't protect the city for two days," he said.'Lying'The official, who like most sources AFP spoke to for this article did not want to be identified for fear of reprisals, said he was not surprised by the capitulation."Ministers were lying to Ghani, telling him that everything was fine, so they could keep their jobs and their privileges," he said.As the Taliban raced through the country, the inner circle debated policy reforms."We didn't get our priorities right," he added."As the cities fell, one after the other, the National Security Council met to talk about recruitment and institutional reforms."Taliban forces swept across the country in just two weeks, seizing provincial capitals often without a bullet being fired.Another top ex-government official said nobody at the top showed leadership."None of them spoke to the media to reassure our men. None of them went into the field," he said.Ghani also made basic strategic mistakes, the close adviser added."I suggested we leave the south, as we didn't have enough manpower to defend it in the long term."But the president disagreed. He said that all Afghanistan belonged to the government," he said.CorruptionBut for the Afghan army, holding everywhere against the Taliban was an impossible task.Despite the billions of dollars of US-led military support, equipment and training, the army's capacity had been hollowed out by years of rampant corruption.Senior officers creamed off what they could, stealing salaries from lower ranks, as well as selling fuel and ammunition supplies.The situation worsened after Washington struck a deal with the Taliban in February 2020 for a troop withdrawal agreement."We were betrayed," said Sami Sadat, a general recognised for his bravery against the Taliban, who was brought in to lead the special forces in Kabul just days before its fall.Without the critical protection of US air support -- and with the former government's own air force grounded after foreign contractors maintaining the fleet were pulled out by Washington -- the army lost its strategic advantage.'Surreal'"The Taliban were emboldened," Sadat said, writing in the New York Times."They could sense victory... Before that deal, the Taliban had not won any significant battles against the Afghan Army. After the agreement? We were losing dozens of soldiers a day."The final days of fighting were "surreal", Sadat added."We engaged in intense firefights on the ground against the Taliban as US fighter jets circled overhead, effectively spectators," he wrote.Sadat dismissed the claim by US President Joe Biden that the Afghan had collapsed sometimes "without trying" to fight."We fought, bravely, until the end," Sadat said. "We lost 66,000 troops over the past 20 years; that's one-fifth of our estimated fighting force."For the soldiers on the frontlines, they saw little reason to die when top leaders were fleeing."When the Taliban got to the gates of Kabul, the soldiers knew the president was leaving -- that's why they didn't fight," said a former senior army officer who asked not to be named.At the same time, the Taliban deployed a savvy use of media messages to persuade soldiers to surrender, undermining morale even further."We had already lost the social media war," the first presidential confidante said."The Taliban were telling the soldiers that they were fighting needlessly, because at a higher level an agreement had already been signed."Abandoned and exhausted, soldiers saw little point in fighting on.On August 15, 2021, Kabul fell without a fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exhausted-and-abandoned-why-afghanistan-s-army-collapsed-101631036815422.html
07-09-2021||World||US crosses 40 million Covid-19 cases amid Delta variant spread||The United States on Tuesday crossed the sombre milestone of 40 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, according to the data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. The US became the first country in the world to surpass the grim figure of 40 million cases and more than 649,000 reported deaths. It has remained the worst-hit country in terms of total Covid-19 cases and related deaths.The United States has been reporting new Covid-19 cases largely driven by the highly contagious Delta variant. The authorities struggled to contain the Covid wave as the vaccination drive, which showed an impressive pace initially, later hit a wall due to vaccine hesitancy. Several incentives have been announced to vaccinate as many people as possible to attain some sort of herd immunity.The health authorities have also been wary of the Delta variant spread given the reports of reduced efficacy of vaccines against the highly infectious variant first detected in India. While the US has been witnessing a significant decline in fresh infections, the daily new Covid-19 cases are still greater than most of the countries.India has the second-highest overall Covid-19 cases, followed by Brazil, the UK, Russia, and France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-crosses-40-million-covid-19-cases-amid-delta-variant-spread-101631031059227.html
07-09-2021||World||Taliban announces new 'caretaker' government for Afghanistan. Find who’s who of the cabinet||The Taliban on Tuesday unveiled their cabinet as the group formally announced their government after taking over Afghanistan in a lightning offensive last month. In a press conference in the capital city of Kabul, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said it is just an "acting" government which will be led by Mullah Mohammad Hassan, the little-known head of the Taliban’s leadership council. Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the face of the Islamist group, will serve as his deputy.For now, the group only announced names for key departments such as foreign, defence and interior etc. "Rest of the ministers will be announced in the future when we find right the people to hold the positions," Mujahid said in the press meet.There was no evidence of non-Taliban in the line-up, which has been a big demand of the international community.The Taliban took over the capital city of Kabul on August 15 in the aftermath of the US drawdown. The chaotic exit led to a mass exodus of the people who feared the extremist regime of the Taliban.Also Read | Why Mullah Akhund emerged as top name for Taliban govt? There's a Pak connectionThe US-recognised government in Afghanistan collapsed after President Ashraf Ghani fled to the United Arab Emirates along with his family and key officials of his government. This is the second time that the Taliban has taken over Afghanistan. It was ousted by the US forces in 2001 in anti-terror operations by Nato allies.The announcement of cabinet appointments came hours after the Taliban fired shots into the air to disperse the crowd and arrested several journalists during the anti-Pakistan protests.Here is who is what in the new Afghan government:> Mullah Mohammad Hassan (acting Prime Minister)> Khairullah Khairkhwa (information minister)> Mullah Yaqoob (defence minister)> Amir Mutaqqi (foreign minister)> Siraj Haqqani (interior minister)> Zabiullah Mujahid (deputy information minister)> Sher Abbas Stanikzai (deputy foreign minister)> Abdul Hakim (justice minister)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-announces-new-caretaker-government-for-afghanistan-find-who-s-who-of-the-cabinet-101631028507477.html
07-09-2021||World||Mullah Hassan Akhund to lead Taliban's interim govt, Abdul Ghani Baradar to be deputy||Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund will lead the new Taliban government in Afghanistan and the group co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar will be one of the two deputies, spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said on Tuesday. The Taliban announced the first members of their new Afghanistan government after delaying it twice.Mullah Hasan Akhund headed the last Taliban government in the final years of its rule that ended after the US-led invasion. Abdul Ghani Baradar, head of the Taliban's political office in Doha, had led talks with the US which resulted in signing a deal between them and eventually America’s final withdrawal from Afghanistan.The Taliban spokesperson said that Amir Khan Muttaqi will be Afghanistan's acting foreign minister while Mullah Yaqoob, son of Taliban's founder Mullah Omar, will serve as the acting defence minister. Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network, will serve as acting interior minister in the interim government.Also Read | Why Mullah Akhund emerged as top name for Taliban govt? There's a Pak connectionAlthough the group has announced the first names of its interim government after a lot of speculations, its recognition by the international community remains a worry for the insurgents. White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said Tuesday the recognition will be dependent on what steps the Islamist hardliners take.“There’s no rush to recognition...the world will be watching, the United States included,” she said.Countries like Britain and Canada have already said that they have no immediate plans for recognising the government. “We’re not a tribal force,” Mujahid said. “We hope all countries in the world will recognize the legitimacy of our government and our Islamic regime.”The government formation was twice postponed as the insurgents were reportedly struggling to shape an inclusive administration acceptable to the international community. The first names of the interim government, however, didn't include any non-Taliban, non-Haqqani Network stakeholders, a major demand from the international community. Some reports suggest that Pakistan's alleged interference in the government formation also caused the delay."It was agreed that we would announce a new government before a formal ceremony could be held," AFP quoted Ahmadullah Wasiq, deputy head of the Taliban’s Cultural Commission, as saying.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mohammad-hasan-to-lead-new-taliban-govt-abdul-ghani-baradar-to-be-deputy-101631024569573.html
07-09-2021||World||Trial of alleged 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed resumes in Guantanamo||Accused September 11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four others appeared in court for the first time in more than 18 months on Tuesday as US military prosecutors seek justice two decades after the world-shaking terror attacks.Mohammed, with a dense, graying red beard, strode into the courtroom in the US naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as the nine-year-old trial resumed after a long halt for the Covid-19 pandemic.The military tribunal courtroom was packed with prosecutors, interpreters, and five defense teams for Mohammed and alleged co-conspirators Ammar al-Baluchi, Walid bin Attash, Ramzi bin al-Shibh and Mustafa al-Hawsawi.In the public gallery, behind thick glass, were members of the families of the 2,976 people that the defendants are accused of murdering almost exactly 20 years ago.The accused face possible execution if found guilty.But the pretrial phase now in its ninth year and bogged down over what is now the central issue -- that the five were repeatedly tortured by the CIA after their capture.Without a political intervention -- President Joe Biden had pledged during his campaign to close down the military prison at Guantanamo Bay -- it could be more than a year before a full trial begins, let alone a verdict reached.- Camouflage jackets -The trial resumed Tuesday in the highly secure "Camp Justice" courtroom on a hilltop in the US naval base at Guantanamo Bay.The defendants entered one by one with military escorts, and each sat down at a table with their own defense team.Mohammed wore a blue turban and matching face mask which he removed to let free a long, flowing beard. He chatted animatedly with bin Attash while leafing through a pile of documents.Bin Attash, who allegedly helped plan the 9/11 attacks, wore a pink keffiyeh headdress and a military desert camouflage jacket, walking slowly with a prosthetic on one leg he lost in a firefight in Afghanistan in 1996.Al-Shibh, a member of the "Hamburg Cell" of hijackers, also wore desert camouflage over his white cotton pants, seemingly to reflect his days as an Al-Qaeda jihadist.Baluchi, also known as Ali Abdul Aziz Ali and the nephew of Mohammed, revealed a short, black beard under his mask and wore a Sindhi cap of his native Balochistan, along with a traditional vest over his white robe. He is accused of handling money transfers in the plot.The fifth defendant, Hawsawi, who worked together with Baluchi, entered in a Saudi thobe-style white robe. He also carried a pillow which he placed on the hospital chair reserved for him, due to rectal damage his lawyers say was incurred in the abusive interrogations by the CIA.- Eighth judge -The hearing opened under a brand new judge, Air Force Colonel Matthew McCall, who is the eighth to be named to preside.McCall opened by asking each of the defendants if they understood the guidelines for the hearing."Yes," each answered, some in English and some in their own languages.He then launched into a discussion of Covid-19 protocols, after the long delay forced by the pandemic.Already in recent weeks several people who have joined hearings in other Guantanamo cases have tested positive, despite strict requirements for vaccinations and masks.Lowering his own mask to speak, McCall said that everyone should remained masked unless they were addressing the court.Defense attorneys said they were eager to continue where they stopped in February 2019, building a case to discredit the bulk of the prosecution's evidence due to the torture the five endured while in CIA hands between 2002 and 2006.But the trial restart began slowly. The first day is focused on a procedure unique to the military commissions, a "voir dire" assessment of the judge's own background to probe for possible biases.The procedure is crucial as the judge, prosecutors and many of the defense attorneys are all part of the Defense Department legal corps.McCall said he had worked with others on both sides of the court in this case, but had no deep links or commitments to any."I shut down all my social media," he said, to avoid potential "friends" from contacting him about the case.The voir dire review of McCall will consume two sessions this week, and the other days will involve him meeting with attorneys privately on the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trial-of-alleged-9-11-mastermind-khalid-sheikh-mohammed-resumes-in-guantanamo-101631021656722.html
07-09-2021||World||Why Mullah Akhund emerged as top name for Taliban govt? There's a Pak connection||Mullah Mohammad Hasan Akhund, the chief of the Taliban's powerful decision-making body, will be Afghanistan's new head of state with Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and Mullah Abdus Salam working as his deputies, a Pakistani media report said on Tuesday. The Taliban’s top leader Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada proposed Akhund’s name, The News International reported, citing Taliban leaders familiar with the developments.Akhund’s name as the Taliban government’s head comes days after Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) director general Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed flew to Kabul on an unannounced visit last week. During his visit, the ISI chief had met Mullah Baradar and Hizb-e-Islami leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to what reports said was to discuss the current situation in Afghanistan.Also read | Pakistan ISI chief meets Taliban top leader Mullah Baradar: Report On Monday, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid told a news conference said that a new Afghan government would be announced soon without specifying any date. Mujahid also denied there were any disagreements within the Taliban leadership about the formation of a new government. "Final decisions have been taken, we are now working on the technical issues," he said at a press conference.Before this, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar’s name cropped as the leader of the new government in Afghanistan. Baradar was a close friend of the Taliban's reclusive original leader Mullah Mohammad Omar. He served as deputy defence minister when the Taliban last ruled Afghanistan. Baradar served as a senior military commander responsible for attacks on coalition forces after the last Taliban government fell, a UN sanctions notice said.He was arrested and imprisoned in Pakistan by the ISI in 2010. He was released in 2018 and became the head of the Taliban's political office in Doha. He was one of the most prominent figures in peace talks with the United States.The Taliban have deferred the government formation at least twice amid reports of a power struggle between the group’s co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and Anas Haqqani, according to several reports. The disagreement among the Taliban leaders was over the handling of Panjshir, where resistance forces have dug out against the group.Also read | Haqqani and Baradar fight it out for power in KabulAccording to the unverified Twitter handle of Panjshir Observer, which describes itself as an independent news outlet, there was a gunfight last Friday in Kabul. "Gunfire last night in Kabul was a power struggle between two senior Taliban leaders. Forces loyal to Anas Haqqani and Mullah Baradar fought over a disagreement on how to resolve the #Panjshir situation. Mullah Baradar was reportedly injured and is receiving treatment in Pakistan," Panjshir Observer tweeted on Saturday.Mullah Akhund is the head of the Rehbari Shura or leadership council—Taliban’s powerful decision-making body—which serves like a government cabinet running all the group's affairs with the approval of the top leader. Mullah Akhund has worked for two decades as the head of Rehbari Shura and is close to Mullah Akhundzada. “He worked for 20 years as head of Rehbari Shura and earned himself a very good reputation. He is a religious leader rather than a military background and is known for his character and devotion,” one of the Taliban leaders was quoted as saying by the Pakistani newspaper.Also read | Why is ISI chief in Kabul? Afghan politician says 'to stop Mullah Baradar'Mullah Akhund belongs to Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban, and was among the founders of the armed movement, according to The News International. Mullah Akhund was the foreign minister and the deputy prime minister during the Taliban's previous government in Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001.Sirajuddin Haqqani, the head of the Haqqani Network and a specially designated global terrorist, may become the interior minister and Mullah Ameer Khan Muttaqi will be the new foreign minister, according to the Taliban leaders who spoke to The News International.Also read | Taliban won't allow Pak to interfere in Afghanistan’s internal affairs: ReportAccording to the FBI website, the US department of state is offering a reward of up to $5 million for information leading directly to the arrest of Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is thought to be in Pakistan and maintains close ties with the Taliban and al Qaeda. He is wanted for questioning in connection with the January 2008 attack on a hotel in Kabul that killed six people, including an American citizen. He is believed to have coordinated and participated in cross-border attacks against the US and coalition forces in Afghanistan.He was also allegedly involved in the planning of the assassination attempt on the Afghan president Hamid Karzai in 2008, according to the FBI website.Mullah Yaqoob, son of the Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, will be the new defence minister, the paper said. Yaqoob was a student of Mullah Akhundzada, who earlier appointed him as head of the Taliban’s powerful military commission. He was named as overall head of the Taliban military commission last year, overseeing all military operations in Afghanistan. Considered a relative moderate by some Western analysts, he is still in his early 30s and does not have long combat experience of the Taliban's main battlefield commanders.The newspaper also said Zabiullah Mujahid, whose name was earlier proposed for information minister, will now be the spokesperson for the new head of state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-mullah-akhund-emerged-as-top-name-for-taliban-govt-there-s-a-pak-connection-101631017514901.html
07-09-2021||World||‘Death to Pakistan’ slogans, gunfire, arrests: What's going on in Taliban-controlled Kabul||Hundreds of Afghan men and women on Tuesday took to the streets of Kabul to protest against the Taliban while shouting anti-Pakistan slogans over Islamabad’s interference in Afghanistan’s affairs, according to news agencies. The protest reportedly began outside the Pakistan embassy in Kabul, denouncing Islamabad's alleged interference in Afghanistan and its support for the Taliban's offensive in Panjshir.Videos of the anti-Taliban march were shared on social media in which protesters can be heard shouting slogans like “Long live the resistance” and “Death to Pakistan.” Witnesses said that the Taliban gunmen fired in the air to disperse a rally and arrested several Afghan journalists who were covering the protest, reported news agencies. There were no immediate reports of injuries but protesters were taken aback by the gunfire."The Islamic government is shooting at our poor people," one panic-stricken woman said in an Iranian television news video clip, reported Reuters. "These people (Taliban) are very unjust, and they are not human at all.”Afghanistan's TOLO News said the Taliban also detained its cameraman Wahid Ahmadi for covering the protest. “They made me rub my nose on the ground and apologize for covering the protest,” An Afghan journalist who was detained and later freed told The Associated Press. “Journalism in Afghanistan is getting harder," he added.Also Read | Pak ISI and Chinese proximity to Taliban queer Quad pitch for Kabul recognitionSaad Mohseni, CEO of Tolo's parent company Moby Group, took to Twitter to highlight the Taliban's earlier assurance and contrasting actions.“The Taliban have always insisted that they will respect freedom of expression and the media's right to cover events...and now this,” he tweeted.Several media reports suggest that Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) wants a puppet government in Afghanistan headed by its “own person”, which has led to a delay in the government formation. Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid last Saturday said that the announcement about the new government and Cabinet members will now be made this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-to-pakistan-slogans-gunfire-arrests-what-s-going-on-in-taliban-controlled-kabul-101631015041554.html
07-09-2021||World||300 unaccompanied Afghan children evacuated from Kabul, efforts on for reunion with families: Unicef||Around 300 unaccompanied Afghan children have been evacuated from Kabul since the Taliban took over on August 15, United Nations Children’s Fund (Unicef) said on Tuesday, adding that many more have been separated from their parents in the chaos that unfolded after Taliban laid siege to Kabul."We expect this number to rise through ongoing identification efforts," Unicef chief Henrietta Fore said in a statement to the media.Unicef along with its partner agencies have been involved in registering the evacuees who have been airlifted out of Kabul since August 14. Some of the children who left Afghanistan have been evacuated on flights to the United States, Germany, Qatar and other countries, the UN agency told reporters.Reuters reported on August 27 that 34 at least Afghan children have been placed in the US government’s custody after being evacuated unaccompanied from Kabul. Of the 34 children evacuated some 10 were later placed with close family members residing in the US while the rest were being housed in government shelters. A government official told Reuters that those who have been placed in shelters either do not have any close relatives in the US or their parents are deceased. "If their parents aren't here now but will be, we need a place for them to go in the interim and then they will be united when their parents get here," the official said.Also Read: University classes resume in Afghanistan with a 'curtain of separation'The Afghan all-girls robotics team consisting of children in the age group of 15-19, which was once heralded as a shining example of women’s advancement in the country, was also evacuated after the Taliban took over. Some members of the team landed in Qatar while others went to Mexico.Unicef is now trying to track and reunite these unaccompanied children with their families, and so far they have successfully returned 100 children back to their families. "They have gone to a range of countries and we are working with those governments where children have arrived without family support," spokesperson James Elder told a UN briefing in Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/300-unaccompanied-afghan-children-evacuated-from-kabul-efforts-on-for-reunion-with-families-unicef-101631015671447.html
07-09-2021||World||Taliban briefly detain Afghan journalists during Kabul protests||The Taliban on Tuesday briefly detained some journalists and a cameraperson during the anti-Pakistan protests in Afghanistan’s capital city of Kabul, Tolo News reported. "My colleague, Waheed Ahmadi, who was covering today’s protest in Kabul was taken by the Taliban fighters,” Afghan journalist, Zahra Rahimi, tweeted. They were taken into an unknown place and were released after almost an hour of detention, according to the tweets.Our colleague Waheed Ahmadi is released along with a dozen other journalists. https://t.co/OOcut3BbDQTaliban fighters brutally lashing women protesters in Kabul streets.#AfghanWomen  pic.twitter.com/xDE6fp7HWx According to multiple media reports, the group also confiscated their equipment, including cameras, and ID cards. "I was kicked and told to go away," news agency AFP quoted an Afghan journalist as saying.Hundreds of men and women shouting slogans such as "Long live the resistance," and "Death to Pakistan" marched on the streets of Kabul on Tuesday as they staged a protest against the Taliban and alleged interference in Afghanistan's affairs by neighbouring Pakistan. The protesters also showed support to the resistance forces in Panjshir, the only defiant holdout where resistance forces claim they are fighting against the Taliban.The Taliban, which took over the city on August 15 after the US drawdown, also detained some women protesters after resorting to firing in the air to disperse the crowd. Videos posted on social media of a separate rally showed more than a hundred people marching through the streets under the watchful eye of armed Taliban members. According to reports, at least three rallies were held across Kabul in a show of resistance against the Taliban, known for their brutal and radical justice system.This comes as Pakistan's intelligence chief Faiz Hameed visited Kabul over the weekend to be briefed by his country's ambassador about the escalating situation in Kabul. According to reports, Hameed has also met with Taliban officials during the visit. Pakistan, one of the three countries that recognised the last Taliban government, has long been accused of offering its leaders safe haven after they were kicked out of power by the US-led invasion of 2001.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-briefly-detain-afghan-journalists-during-kabul-protests-101631014731523.html
07-09-2021||World||US working with Taliban to enable charter flight ops from Kabul, says Blinken||US secretary of state Antony Blinken, who is currently in Qatar, said on Tuesday that the state department is working with the Taliban to enable additional charter flights to operate from Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport for people wishing to leave Afghanistan. He added that the US has been in contact with the Islamist militant group in “recent hours” and that they have reiterated to allow Afghans to “freely leave” their country.He was speaking at a joint press conference with his Qatari counterpart, Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani, along with other top defence officials and diplomats of the middle-eastern country, in Doha. US defence secretary Lloyd Austin was also present at the meeting.Referring to Taliban’s take on the scenario, Blinken said the Islamist group have reiterated that they would “let people with travel documents freely depart.” “We will hold them to that,” he added."The entire international community is looking to the Taliban to uphold that commitment," the US secretary of state said, referring to a UN Security Council resolution that sought safe passage of the people wanting to leave Afghanistan.Also Read | ‘We'll not forget them’: Nato chief on Afghans left behind after US troops leftBlinken also said that Washington has identified a “relatively” small number of Americans at Mazar-i-sharif who are seeking to leave Afghanistan. He informed that the US believes there are “somewhere around 100” of its citizens still in the war-torn nation who seek to leave. The state department, however, had earlier put the estimate at between 100 and 200.This comes after the US on Monday evacuated four Americans into a bordering third country – the name of which wasn’t disclosed — through land, marking the first such operation since the country’s troops pulled out on August 31. A state department official said that the Taliban were aware of the move and did not interfere.Meanwhile, non-governmental organisations said an estimated number of people ranging between 600 and 1,300 – including girls and US nationals — are stuck in Mazar-i-sharif.Marina LeGree, the founder and executive director of an American non-governmental organisation active in Afghanistan, told AFP that the Taliban are not letting anyone through.Blinken and Austin’s visit to Qatar is to thank the Gulf country for its help with the evacuation of thousands of people after the Taliban took control of Afghanistan.Qatar has already deployed technical teams to the Kabul airport in order to assess the viability of the venue and prepare its operations to allow evacuations and the arrival of humanitarian supplies that Afghanistan desperately needs in the current situation.Turkey is also keen on helping the country resume operations to gain a foothold in Taliban-led Afghanistan. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-working-with-taliban-to-enable-charter-flight-ops-from-kabul-says-blinken-101631012485688.html
07-09-2021||World||Canada elections: Prime Minister Justin Trudeau hit by stones on campaign trail||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was hit by gravel thrown at him by angry protesters during an election campaign stop in the town of London in Ontario on Monday. No injuries were reported.The incident occurred as Trudeau, the leader of the Liberal Party, was preparing to board his campaign bus. Journalists accompanying the PM reported that some of them were also hit by small stones.Justin Trudeau has been campaigning across the country for the September 20 snap polls, which he had called in mid-August in a bid to transform his existing minority government into a majority one.The Canadian prime minister later made light of the incident, telling reporters on his campaign plane, “There were little bits of gravel and I may have been hit. I had someone throw pumpkin seeds at me a few years ago.”It was the first incident of violence on the campaign trail. Trudeau has faced protests at several stops due to anger over mandatory Covid-19 vaccinations that are part of the ruling party’s agenda ahead of the Canada elections.While vaccinations have been announced for public service, with some resistance coming from unions, he has sought to make them mandatory for those seeking to travel domestically on planes and trains.Trudeau also faced similar noisy protests in Surrey in British Columbia, while a campaign event in the town of Bolton in Ontario was cancelled last month after a large number of protesters showed up. However, previous incidents have been restricted to only hurling abuses at the PM.Earlier on Monday, Justin Trudeau said he will “not allow” such “anti-vaxxer mobs” to “dictate how this country gets through this pandemic”.The incident in Ontario’s London immediately drew criticism from Trudeau’s principal rival, Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole, who tweeted, “This is disgusting and I condemn these actions in the strongest terms possible. Political violence is never justified and our media must be free from intimidation, harassment and violence.”Trudeau is not the only leader to have faced an attack during his campaign. Earlier this month, People’s Party of Canada (PPC) leader Maxime Bernier was hit with an egg at an event in Saskatoon in the province of Saskatchewan.The news agency Canadian Press reported that the crowd at the London event included several wearing PPC gear and quoted a local candidate as saying they had been building a network to mobilise at Trudeau’s campaign stops.There were no reports of arrests after the episode nor were any perpetrators identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-elections-prime-minister-justin-trudeau-hit-by-stones-on-campaign-trail-101631009453043.html
07-09-2021||World||'ISI would be interested:' US-built databases a potential tool of Taliban repression||Over two decades, the United States and its allies spent hundreds of millions of dollars building databases for the Afghan people. The nobly stated goal: Promote law and order and government accountability and modernize a war-ravaged land.But in the Taliban’s lightning seizure of power, most of that digital apparatus — including biometrics for verifying identities — apparently fell into Taliban hands. Built with few data-protection safeguards, it risks becoming the high-tech jackboots of a surveillance state. As the Taliban get their governing feet, there are worries it will be used for social control and to punish perceived foes.Putting such data to work constructively — boosting education, empowering women, battling corruption — requires democratic stability, and these systems were not architected for the prospect of defeat.“It is a terrible irony,” said Frank Pasquale, Brooklyn Law School scholar of surveillance technologies. “It’s a real object lesson in ‘The road to hell is paved with good intentions.’”Since Kabul fell Aug. 15, indications have emerged that government data may have been used in Taliban efforts to identify and intimidate Afghans who worked with the U.S. forces.People are getting ominous and threatening phone calls, texts and WhatsApp messages, said Neesha Suarez, constituent services director for Rep. Seth Moulton of Massachusetts, an Iraq War veteran whose office is trying to help stranded Afghans who worked with the U.S. find a way out.A 27-year-old U.S. contractor in Kabul told The Associated Press he and co-workers who developed a U.S.-funded database used to manage army and police payrolls got phone calls summoning them to the Defense Ministry. He is in hiding, changing his location daily, he said, asking not to be identified for his safety.In victory, the Taliban’s leaders say they are not interested in retribution. Restoring international aid and getting foreign-held assets unfrozen are a priority. There are few signs of the draconian restrictions – especially on women – they imposed when they ruled from 1996 to 2001. There are also no indications that Afghans who worked with Americans have been systematically persecuted.Ali Karimi, a University of Pennsylvania scholar, is among Afghans unready to trust the Taliban. He worries the databases will give rigid fundamentalist theocrats, known during their insurgency for ruthlessly killing enemy collaborators, "the same capability as an average U.S. government agency when it comes to surveillance and interception.”Also Read | Taliban open fire to disperse anti-Pakistan march in Kabul: ReportsThe Taliban are on notice that the world will be watching how they wield the data.All Afghans — and their international partners — have an obligation together to ensure sensitive government data only be used for “development purposes” and not for policing or social control by the Taliban or to serve other governments in the region, said Nader Nadery, a peace negotiator and head of the civil service commission in the former government.Uncertain for the moment is the fate of one of the most sensitive databases, the one used to pay soldiers and police.The Afghan Personnel and Pay System has data on more than 700,000 security forces members dating back 40 years, said a senior security official from the fallen government. Its more than 40 data fields include birth dates, phone numbers, fathers' and grandfathers' names, fingerprints and iris and face scans, said two Afghan contractors who worked on it, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution.Only authorized users can access that system, so if the Taliban can't find one, they can be expected to try to hack it, said the former official, who asked not to be identified for fear of the safety of relatives in Kabul. He expected Pakistan’s ISI intelligence service, long the Taliban’s patron, to render technical assistance. U.S. analysts expect Chinese, Russian and Iranian intelligence also to offer such services.Originally conceived to fight payroll fraud, that system was supposed to interface eventually with a powerful database at the Defense and Interior ministries modeled on one the Pentagon created in 2004 to achieve “identity dominance” by collecting fingerprints and iris and face scans in combat areas.But the homegrown Afghanistan Automated Biometric Identification Database grew from a tool to vet army and police recruits for loyalty to contain 8.5 million records, including on government foes and the civilian population. When Kabul fell it was being upgraded, along with a similar database in Iraq, under a $75 million contract signed in 2018.U.S. officials say it was secured before the Taliban could access it.Before the U.S. pullout, the entire database was erased with military-grade data-wiping software, said William Graves, chief engineer at the Pentagon’s biometrics project management office. Similarly, 20 years of data collected from telecommunications and internet intercepts since 2001 by Afghanistan’s intelligence agency were wiped clean, said the former Afghan security official.Among crucial databases that remained are the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System, which held extensive details on foreign contractors, and an Economy Ministry database that compiled all international development and aid agency funding sources, the former security official said.Then there is the data — with iris scans and fingerprints for about 9 million Afghans — controlled by the National Statistics and Information Agency. A biometric scan has been required in recent years to obtain a passport or a driver’s license and to take a civil service or university entrance exam.Western aid organizations led by the World Bank, one of the funders, praised the data's utility for empowering women, especially in registering land ownership and obtaining bank loans. The agency was working to create electronic national IDs, known as e-Tazkira, in an unfinished project somewhat modeled on India’s biometrically enabled Aadhaar national ID.“That’s the treasure chest,” said a Western election assistance official, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to jeopardize future missions.It is unclear whether voter registration databases — records on more than 8 million Afghans — are in Taliban hands, the official said. Full printouts were made during the 2019 presidential elections, though the biometric records used then for anti-fraud voter verification were retained by the German technology provider. After 2018 parliamentary elections, 5,000 portable biometric handhelds used for verification went inexplicably missing.Yet another database the Taliban inherit contains iris and face scans and fingerprints on 420,000 government employees — another anti-fraud measure — which Nadery oversaw as civil service commissioner. It was eventually to have been merged with the e-Tazkira database, he said.On Aug. 3, a government website touted the digital accomplishments of President Ashraf Ghani, who would soon flee into exile, saying biometric information on “all civil servants, from every corner of the country" would allow them to them to be linked “under one umbrella” with banks and cellphone carriers for electronic payment. U.N. agencies have also collected biometrics on Afghans for food distribution and refugee tracking.The central agglomeration of such personal data is exactly what worries the 37 digital civil liberties groups who signed an Aug. 25 letter calling for the urgent shutdown and erasure, where possible, of Afghanistan’s “digital identity tool,” among other measures. The letter said authoritarian regimes have exploited such data “to target vulnerable people” and digitized, searchable databases amplify the risks. Disputes over including ethnicity and religion in the e-Tazkira database — for fear it could put digital bullseyes on minorities, as China has done in repressing its ethnic Uyghurs — delayed its creation for most of a decade.John Woodward, a Boston University professor and former CIA officer who pioneered the Pentagon's biometric collection, is worried about intelligence agencies hostile to the United States getting access to the data troves.“ISI (Pakistani intelligence) would be interested to know who worked for the Americans,” said Woodward, and China, Russia and Iran have their own agendas. Their agents certainly have the technical chops to break into password-protected databases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/isi-would-be-interested-us-built-databases-a-potential-tool-of-taliban-repression-101631004957042.html
07-09-2021||World||Taliban open fire to disperse anti-Pakistan march in Kabul: Reports||Taliban gunmen on Tuesday opened fire to disperse demonstrators holding a protest march in Kabul against what they alleged was “meddling” by Pakistan in Afghanistan’s affairs. According to news agency AFP, around 70 people, mostly women, protested outside the Pakistani embassy in the Afghan capital, raising slogans against the neighbouring country.Also Read | Pak ISI and Chinese proximity to Taliban, queer Quad pitch for Kabul recognitionSaad Mohseni, the executive editor of Afghanistan’s largest media company Moby Group, took to Twitter to share a video of what he said was this anti-Pakistan protest. “Anti-Pakistan protests in Kabul, happening right now,” Mohseni tweeted. Anti Pakistan protests in Kabul, happening right now pic.twitter.com/t1SISw9RWYThere were no immediate reports of deaths or injuries.Tuesday’s development comes two days after Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed, the intelligence chief of Pakistan, came to Kabul on an unannounced visit to reportedly hold discussions over the formation of a new Taliban-led government in the war-torn nation. During the visit, the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) chief is reported to have also met the group’s de facto leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.Also Read | 'Don’t worry, everything will be OK’: ISI chief during Afghanistan visitAdditionally, the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) is alleged to have aided the Taliban in the latter’s latest offensive against the Northern Resistance Front (NRF) to capture Panjshir, the only province in Afghanistan not under the Islamist movement’s control. This is not the first time when the regime's fighters have opened fire at protesters, despite its promises of peace and general amnesty upon its return to power. On August 19, Talibs shot at participants who were taking out a protest march in the city of Asadabad on the occasion of Afghan Independence Day, killing several demonstrators.Also Read | Several killed after Taliban fire on protesters in Afghan city: ReportTaliban, which first ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, seized power for a second time after conquering Kabul on August 15. They launched their offensive to capture the city amid withdrawal of American troops, who arrived here 20 years ago following the 9/11 attacks. The United States ended its military mission on August 30, a day before self-imposed August 31 deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-open-fire-to-disperse-anti-pakistan-march-in-kabul-reports-101631002588151.html
07-09-2021||World||Panjshir resistance leaders: What have they said, where they are||Panjshir resistance forces have denied claims by the Taliban that they have “completely captured” the last stronghold of Panjshir and said their leaders are safe after the fight with the fighters of the hardline Islamist group. The National Resistance Front (NRF) leader Ahmad Massoud, the son of late former Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, called for a "national uprising" against the Taliban after the Taliban claims."Wherever you are, inside or outside, I call on you to begin a national uprising for the dignity, freedom and prosperity of our country," Ahmad Massoud said in an audio message sent to media, Aljazeera reported, without saying anything about his whereabouts.After Ahmad Massoud’s message, Ali Maisam Nazary—who calls himself the resistance front’s spokesperson—said more people have joined forces against the Taliban. “After our leader, @AhmadMassoud01 declared a general uprising, the ppl of Andarab, Daikundi, Kabul, Bamiyan & our diaspora in DC answered his call & joined the resistance. Resistance for freedom & justice has just begun & will continue till the oppressors are defeated,” Nazary tweeted from an unverified account.The people of Ghazni, Faryab and Mazar have also joined the resistance tonight. May God grant us victory!Russian news agency Sputnik reported citing Al Arabiya News that the Taliban have banned Afghan news media from circulating Ahmad Massoud’s message. Sputnik also reported that the Taliban have prevented former Afghan president Hamid Karzai and former chairperson of the council for reconciliation Abdullah Abdullah from meeting others.Also read | Pak ISI and Chinese proximity to Taliban, queer Quad pitch for Kabul recognitionThe Taliban said Amrullah Saleh, who has declared himself as the acting President of Afghanistan, fled to Tajikistan after Panjshir Valley, the last area that was under resistance forces as an anti-Taliban stronghold, came under their control. "Panjshir, which was the last hideout of the escapee enemy, is captured," Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid told a news conference on Monday.Also read | Battle for Panjshir: How Ahmad Massoud's forces were able to fight TalibanMujahid also assured the people of Panjshir that there would be no "discriminatory act against them". "They are our brothers and would work together for a joint purpose and welfare of the country," he said.Also watch | First speech of Panjshir leader after Taliban claim victory against ResistanceFahim Dashti, the spokesperson for the resistance front, was killed during the fighting in Panjshir, according to several reports. Dashti was the nephew of Abdullah Abdullah, who is involved in negotiations with the Taliban on the future of Afghanistan. Reports about the death of Dashti also appeared on several Twitter accounts of the resistance force in Panjshir. "With the heavy heart we can report that Fahim Dashti, the spokesperson for the Resistance front has been killed by the terrorist Taliban," one of the tweets said.The resistance force also said General Abdul Wudod Zara, another senior member of their group, was killed during the clashes between rebel forces and the Taliban. General Wudod was the nephew of Panjshir resistance leader Ahmad Massoud.Also read | Taliban say they 'desire' to join China-Pakistan Economic Corridor projects"Regretfully, The National Resistance of Afghanistan lost two companions in the holy resistance against oppression and aggression today. Mr. Fahim Dashty, NRF spokesperson, and General Abdul Wudod Zara were martyred. May their memory be eternal," the Afghan resistance front was quoted as saying by the Samaa News.Panjshir province remained the only holdout where resistance forces led by Ahmad Masoud, the son of late former Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, along with Amrullah Saleh, was fighting the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panjshir-resistance-leaders-what-have-they-said-where-they-are-101631001144218.html
07-09-2021||World||Battle for Panjshir: How Ahmad Massoud's forces were able to fight Taliban||A state of confusion persists over the status of Afghanistan’s Panjshir valley, which has been the site of a ferocious battle between Ahmad Massoud-led resistance forces and the Taliban, which seized power in Kabul on August 15. However, even as claims and counter claims continue, the National Resistance Front’s (NRF) resistance against the Taliban’s advance has been stiff.Here are a few reasons why the regime has found it extreme difficult to defeat the NRF and capture Panjshir, as reported in Hindustan Times’ sister website Live Hindustan:(1.) Up to 10,000 well-trained fighters: The resistance forces comprise armed members of the local militia and former members of Afghanistan’s security forces. Together, they number between 9,000-10,000 and, from recently released photos, seem to have been trained in an organised manner.Also Read | Ahmad Massoud safe, says NRF; Taliban ask ex-Afghan forces to integrate with govt: 10 points(2.) Supported by former Afghan vice president: Amrullah Saleh, who was the first vice president under Ashraf Ghani when the Taliban conquered Kabul, escaped to his birth place Panjshir. He was joined by members of the Afghan National Army (ANA), who did not surrender to fighters of the hardline Islamist movement. They joined hands with Massoud, and are fighting under his leadership.Also Read | Taliban claim Panjshir has fallen, resistance battles on(3.) Local leaders receiving foreign support: Massoud, who was educated in London, is the son of late Ahmad Shah Massoud, under whose leadership the resistance forces did not allow the Taliban to capture Panjshir during its first rule, from 1996 to 2001. Earlier this year, Ahmad Massoud met French president Emmanuel Macron to seek his support. It is said that many countries are indirectly supporting Massoud’s forces.Also Read | Afghanistan resistance front spokesperson killed in Panjshir: ReportsEven as the Taliban brought all of Afghanistan under its control with its swift capture of provincial capitals and, finally, Kabul, Panjshir is one province that remained away from its control. Recent days of fighting have only brought uncertainty over the region’s fate, even as the regime prepares to unveil the government of what, the group says, will be known as the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/battle-for-panjshir-how-ahmad-massoud-s-men-were-able-to-fight-taliban-101630993799304.html
07-09-2021||World||On Taliban's Panjshir claim, Massoud calls for ‘national uprising’: 10 points||The Taliban have claimed victory in the last part of Afghanistan still holding out against their rule, by declaring that the Panshir valley is now under their control. The resistance forces, however, have said that the fight is still not over.Pictures on social media showed Taliban members standing in front of the gate of the Panjshir provincial governor's compound after days of fighting with the National Resistance Front (NRF), commanded by Ahmad Massoud, the son of Afghanistan's legendary guerrilla commander commander Ahmad Shah Massoud.Ahmad Massoud, meanwhile, called for a "national uprising" against the Taliban.Here are the latest developments on the ongoing war in Panjshir:1. The Taliban have prohibited Afghan news media from circulating Massoud's message.2. Russian news agency Sputnik further said that the Taliban have also prevented former Afghan President Hamid Karzai and former chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation Abdullah Abdullah from meeting with their fellow citizens.3. Meanwhile, in an audio message, Massoud called for national uprising against the Taliban. "Wherever you are, inside or outside, I call on you to begin a national uprising for the dignity, freedom and prosperity of our country," according to Al Jazeera, which reported aboud Massoud's message.4. The region has witnessed heavy conflict between the warring sides in the past four days. Panjshir has been the stronghold of the National Resistance Front, led by Ahmad Massoud and former Vice President Amrullah Saleh, who declared himself caretaker president.5. Panjshir was the base of the Northern Alliance resistance fighters who toppled the Taliban with US air support in 2001 after the September 11 attacks on the United States.6. On Sunday, Massoud said that he was ready to cease fighting and start negotiations if the Taliban abandoned the province.7. The Taliban have assured the people of the valley - who are ethnically distinct from the mainly Pashtun group - that there would be no "discriminatory act against them". But the situation on the ground punches holes in those promises.8. Panjshir resistance spokesperson Fahim Dashti was reported dead in a clash with the Taliban on Sunday.9. Taliban are busy in the formation of a government to rule Afghanistan, with their spokesperson saying the leadership will be announced soon.10. Asked whether the United States would recognise the Taliban, President Joe Biden told reporters at the White House late Monday: “That’s a long way off." US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin met Qatar's ruling emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani on Monday, as Washington seeks to build a consensus among allies on how to respond to Taliban rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-taliban-s-panjshir-claim-massoud-calls-for-national-uprising-10-points-101630992260970.html
07-09-2021||World||Canada to reopen for fully vaccinated people from today: Check details here||Canada will reopen its borders for fully vaccinated people and allow them to travel from Tuesday. The decision is based on the latest available data, scientific evidence and epidemiological situation both in Canada and internationally, according to the country's Border Services Agency.Most international travellers have been barred from entering the country since the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Greater Toronto Airport Authority said in a statement on Monday that international travellers should prepare for a long immigration process, which will take up to three hours or more due to Covid-19 screening measures.Here's the complete SOP for travelling1. A traveller must have received the full series of a vaccine — or combination of vaccines — accepted by the Government of Canada at least 14 days prior to entering the country and must show proof of it.2. All travellers should have a valid pre-arrival Covid-19 molecular test result taken no more than 72 hours before their scheduled flight or arrival at the land border crossing, or a previous positive test result taken between 14 and 180 days before departure to Canada.3. All travellers must be asymptomatic.4. The travellers must submit their mandatory information via the ArriveCAN app or website, including proof of vaccination in English or French and a quarantine plan within 72 hours before their arrival to Canada.5. The travellers are admissible under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-to-reopen-for-fully-vaccinated-people-from-today-check-details-here-101630982207310.html
07-09-2021||World||Kuwait to resume commercial flights with India today: Check travel SOPs here||Kuwait will resume direct commercial flights with India on Tuesday, the nation's civil aviation authority said on Monday. The decision to resume flights was first announced last month but a time frame for implementation was not given. Kuwait had suspended all direct international flights from India on April 24 "until further notice" during the deadly second wave of the pandemic.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) eased travel restrictions on transit passengers last month and announced that it will resume commercial international flights with India, along with other nations in Southeast Asia and Egypt. Apart from India, other nations from where the international flights will start operations include Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal.India started flights between 49 cities under air bubble arrangement with 18 countries in September, according to the civil aviation ministry's notification. Under an air bubble pact, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.Here are the travel guidelines for international flights to Kuwait:1. All passengers need to be fully get vaccinated with any one of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO).2. The citizens of Kuwait, their first degree relatives and their domestic workers will be allowed to enter the country.3. All passengers will have to present a negative PCR test result from within 48 hours before departing to UAE.4. The passengers are mandated to download and register on the Alhosn app, using the UID and phone number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kuwait-to-resume-commercial-flights-with-india-today-check-travel-sops-here-101630979436374.html
07-09-2021||World||CARICOM, African Union set for inaugural joint summit||The inaugural Caribbean Community (CARICOM)-Africa Summit will be held on Tuesday (local time), with Kenya, which will host the event virtually due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, becoming the maiden host of the joint summit. The African nation’s president, Uhuru Kenyatta, will chair the meeting, which will take place under the theme “Unity Across Continents and Oceans: Opportunities for Deepening Integration.”“The historic first Africa-CARICOM Summit begins at 8am Eastern Caribbean Time on Tuesday, September 7, 2021. The full Summit will be livestreamed on the CARICOM YouTube channel and Facebook page,” the CARICOM shared on its official Twitter handle. The historic first Africa-CARICOM Summit begins at 8:00 a.m. ECT on Tuesday 7 September 2021.The full Summit will be Livestreamed on the CARICOM You Tube Channel and Face Book page -https://t.co/wyUqjrFqUzhttps://t.co/GfdwMAkIYd#caricomafrica2021 #caricomafricarelations pic.twitter.com/cb0nXv90SsAs per caricom.org, Kenya was initially scheduled to host the summit last year but the programme was postponed due the prevailing pandemic. The summit was announced after the African Union recognised the African diaspora as the “sixth region” of the continent.The respective heads of state of the Caribbean Community and African Union will participate at the event, which will also witness participation from the Chairs of the CARICOM, African Union Commission and African Regional Economic Communities (AREC); as well as Secretaries-General of CARICOM, Organisation of the African Caribbean and Pacific States (OACPS) and the President of the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).During the interaction, the two blocs are likely to reach an agreement to hold the summit on a bi-annual basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/caricom-africa-set-for-inaugural-joint-summit-101630979167453.html
07-09-2021||World||Taliban say they 'desire' to join China-Pakistan Economic Corridor projects||Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid on Monday expressed that the group "desires" to join the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).He also informed that the Taliban will address Islamabad's concerns about Pakistan based terror group 'Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan' (TTP), Samaa News reported.Mujahid also confirmed that an upcoming meeting between Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) Chief Lt General Faiz Hameed and Taliban senior leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar.CPEC is a part of China's most ambitious project 'Belt and Road Initiative', aimed at renewing the country's historic trade routes in the coastal countries of south-east Asia.In 2015, China announced the 'China Pakistan Economic Corridor' (CPEC) project which is worth USD 46 billion.With CPEC, Beijing aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in order to counter the influence of the United States and India.The CPEC would link Pakistan's southern Gwadar port (626 kilometers west of Karachi) in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It also includes plans to create road, rail, and oil pipeline links to improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.These developments came amid reports suggest that ISI has supported the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan."Islamabad has played an important role in the formation of the Taliban, Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) is their creator and supporter," Author Sergio Restelli reported on the InsideOver news website.The creation of the Taliban was Islamabad's attempt to gain hold in Kabul as a part of its strategic plan to gain hold in the region, Restelli added.Several reports also claim that ISI had deployed its "cooperation agents" with the Taliban who have been involved in takeover of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-say-they-desire-to-join-china-pakistan-economic-corridor-projects-101630976453780.html
07-09-2021||World||US thanks India, other nations for helping in evacuation from Afghanistan||The United States has thanked several countries including India for their "generous offers" to help in a variety of ways regarding the relocation efforts for at-risk Afghans during critical evacuation operations from Afghanistan.The United States forces left Afghanistan on Tuesday morning, marking the end of a chaotic and messy exit from America's longest war.In total, the United States and its partners relocated more than 124,000 people to safety, including 6,000 US citizens."With support from partners and allies, the United States put together a global network - consisting of more than two dozen countries spanning four continents - with total temporary transit capacity of 65,000 people on a rolling basis, including up to 2,000 spaces to accommodate persons that need longer-term processing," the state department said.The state department said that the US is grateful to the global network of countries that have provided critical assistance for our evacuation efforts."Partners and allies - including Bahrain, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Georgia, Hungary, Italy, Kosovo, Kuwait, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Qatar, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom - have helped transit Americans or others to safety," it said."Other countries have made generous offers to help in a variety of ways regarding the relocation efforts for at-risk Afghans. These countries include Albania, Bahrain, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, Ecuador, Guyana, India, Kuwait, Mexico, Netherlands, North Macedonia, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Singapore, Uganda, and the United Arab Emirates," it added.The state department assured that the US is working around the clock to ensure US citizens, at-risk Afghan civilians, and others are able to reach their ultimate destinations safely and efficiently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-thanks-india-other-nations-for-helping-in-evacuation-from-afghanistan-101630973665525.html
07-09-2021||World||In world first, Cuba starts Covid jabs for toddlers||Cuba on Monday became the first country in the world to vaccinate children from the age of two against Covid-19, using home-grown jabs not recognized by the World Health Organization.The communist island of 11.2 million people aims to inoculate all its children before reopening schools that have been closed for the most part since March 2020.The new school year started on Monday, but from home via television programs, as most Cuban homes do not have internet access.Having completed clinical trials on minors with its Abdala and Soberana vaccines, Cuba kicked off its inoculation campaign for children on Friday, starting with those 12 and older.On Monday, it started distributing jabs in the 2-11 age group in the central province of Cienfuegos.Several other countries in the world are vaccinating children from the age of 12, and some are conducting trials in younger kids.Countries such as China, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela have announced they plan to vaccinate younger children, but Cuba is the first to do so.Chile on Monday approved the Chinese Sinovac vaccines for children between six and 12.The Cuban vaccines, the first developed in Latin America, have not undergone international, scientific peer review.They are based on recombinant protein technology -- the same used by the United States' Novavax and France's Sanofi jabs also awaiting WHO approval.Unlike many other shots in use, recombinant vaccines do not require extreme refrigeration.The majority of schools in Cuba have been closed since March 2020, reopening for a few weeks at the end of last year before closing again in January.The government has announced schools will reopen gradually, in October and November, but only after all children have been vaccinated.UN agency UNICEF has called for schools worldwide to reopen as soon as possible, as "the long-term costs of closures are too high and hard to justify."Cuba has seen an explosion in coronavirus infections in recent months, putting pressure on its health system.Of the 5,700 coronavirus deaths recorded since the outbreak started, nearly half were in the last month alone, as were almost a third of all reported cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-world-first-cuba-starts-covid-jabs-for-toddlers-101630973448319.html
07-09-2021||World||EU regulator looks at need for Pfizer vaccine’s booster||The European Union’s drug regulator said on Monday that it has started an expedited evaluation on whether to recommend a booster dose of the coronavirus vaccine made by Pfizer-BioNTech.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said in a statement that it’s considering whether a third dose of the vaccine should be given six months after people age 16 and older have received two doses, “to restore protection after it has waned”.The EMA’s experts are carrying out an “accelerated assessment” of data submitted by Pfizer and BioNTech, including results from an ongoing trial in which about 300 healthy adults received a booster shot about six months after their second dose.The World Health Organization has pleaded with rich countries not to use booster doses until at least the end of September, saying there is no scientific data that proves the shots are necessary.Italy’s life expectancy sees fall by 1.2 yearsCovid-19 cut average life expectancy in Italy by 1.2 years in 2020, and by more than four years in parts of the country hit hard by the pandemic, statistics showed on Monday. Life expectancy at birth last year stood at 82 years, compared to 83.2 years in 2019, the Istat national statistics office said in a release.“In 2020, the spread of Covid-19 and the resulting increase in mortality interrupted the growth in life expectancy at birth that had characterised the trend until 2019,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-regulator-looks-at-need-for-pfizer-vaccine-s-booster-101630965033224.html
07-09-2021||World||Did China get invited for inauguration?||The Chinese foreign ministry on Monday did not respond to media reports claiming that the Taliban regime has invited China along with Pakistan, Russia, Turkey, Iran and Qatar to attend the new government’s formation ceremony in Afghanistan.China, which has kept its embassy open in Kabul along with Pakistan and Russia, is awaiting the formal announcement of a government by the Taliban before deciding on recognising it.Asked about reports that claim Afghanistan’s new rulers have invited China to participate in a government formation ceremony, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said, “I have no information to offer at this moment.” He reiterated that China supports “Afghanistan forming an open, inclusive, broad-based government”.UK probing allegations of suicides among veteransBritain is investigating whether or not some veterans from the Afghan war have taken their own lives because they were devastated by the chaotic withdrawal of foreign forces from the country, British officials said on Monday. Earlier, James Heappey, a junior defence minister, had told Sky News that some soldiers had taken their own lives in the past week, later rowing back over his remark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/did-china-get-invited-for-inauguration-101630964839185.html
07-09-2021||World||Won’t let any government meddle in our internal affairs, say Taliban||The Taliban regime on Monday said it won’t allow any country, including Pakistan, to interfere in Afghanistan’s internal affairs even as it confirmed that ISI chief Faiz Hameed recently met the group’s de facto leader Abdul Ghani Baradar in Kabul.Questions of interference were raised after Pakistan’s intelligence chief visited the Afghan capital on an unannounced visit last week.Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid said the group will not allow any government, including Islamabad, to meddle in internal affairs, the country’s Khaama news outlet reported.Hameed was the first high-profile foreign official to visit Afghanistan since mid-August. During a press meet in Kabul on Monday, Mujahid confirmed that the ISI chief had met with Baradar during his visit to Kabul, BBC Urdu reported. The Taliban also reportedly assured Islamabad that Afghan territory will not be used against Pakistan.1,000 await airlift nod in Mazar-i-Sharif: ReportsAbout 1,000 people, including Americans, have been stuck in Afghanistan for days awaiting clearance for their charter flights to leave, an organiser told Reuters, blaming the delay on the US state department.Exasperated by the delays, the organiser said the US state department had failed to tell the Taliban of its approval for flight departures from the airport in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif or validate a landing site. “They need to be held accountable for putting these people’s lives in danger,” said the organiser. Reuters could not independently verify the details of the account.Blinken lands in Doha for crisis talks with QatarUS secretary of state Antony Blinken arrived in Doha on Monday, an AFP correspondent saw, ahead of crisis talks with the Qataris. Blinken, accompanied by US defence secretary Lloyd Austin, is the most senior US official to visit the region since the Taliban’s lightning takeover of Afghanistan on August 15.“We are thankful for Qatar’s close collaboration on Afghanistan and its indispensable support in facilitating the transit of US citizens, Kabul embassy personnel, at-risk Afghans, and other evacuees through Qatar,” the state department said before Blinken’s arrival in Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-let-any-government-meddle-in-our-internal-affairs-say-taliban-101630964567073.html
