10-09-2021||World||Russia summons US ambassador over 'election interference'||Russia's foreign ministry said Friday it summoned the US ambassador in Moscow over the interference of US tech giants in elections in Russia, which is set to hold parliamentary polls later this month.Russia has recently ramped up control of its segment of the internet and has been taking legal action against foreign tech companies for not deleting content banned by authorities."There is one reason -- interference in Russian elections. We hope this is how American diplomats will report it to Washington," ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Telegram.In a separate statement, the ministry said ambassador John Sullivan on Friday held a meeting with Russian deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov.It added that Sullivan was presented with "irrefutable proof" of US tech giants violating Russian laws in the context of the upcoming elections to the lower house State Duma.The ministry also said that it conveyed the "categorical inadmissibility of interference in the domestic affairs of our countries".Tensions are high between Moscow and Washington over a range of issues, including claims of meddling in US elections and Russia's human rights record.In May, Russia formally designated the United States an "unfriendly" state, barring its embassy from employing Russian nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-summons-us-ambassador-over-election-interference-101631295726824.html
10-09-2021||World||Xi Jinping asks Germany to help promote ‘right’ China policy within EU||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday urged Germany to promote the “right policy” on China within the European Union (EU) in a phone conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.“Xi expressed his hope that Germany will encourage the EU to adhere to the right policy on China, treat differences objectively and address them rationally, so as to promote the sustained and sound development of China-EU relations,” the Xinhua news agency said in a report on Friday.“The China-Germany relationship will continue to make new progress, as long as both sides hold on to consolidating and deepening mutual trust, treating each other as equals and focusing on cooperation,” Xi Jinping told Angela Merkel. Xi Jinping noted that he and Merkel have maintained “highly frequent and efficient exchanges since last year”, which have gone on to play an important leading role in the development of China-Germany and China-EU relations.The frequent China-Germany exchanges have also demonstrated the high-level mutual trust between the two countries, Xi Jinping said. Singling out Germany, Xi Jinping said it has helped China and the EU to “…complete their investment agreement negotiations on schedule, and worked together to uphold multilateralism, safeguard free trade, and actively tackle climate change, jointly making positive contributions to maintaining world peace and stability”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-asks-germany-to-help-promote-right-china-policy-within-eu-101631295541068.html
10-09-2021||World||From 9/11’s ashes, a new world took shape. It did not last||In the ghastly rubble of Ground Zero’s fallen towers 20 years ago, Hour Zero arrived, a chance to start anew.World affairs reordered abruptly on that morning of blue skies, black ash, fire and death.In Iran, chants of “death to America” quickly gave way to candlelight vigils to mourn the American dead. Vladimir Putin weighed in with substantive help as the U.S. prepared to go to war in Russia’s region of influence.Libya’s Moammar Gadhafi, a murderous dictator with a poetic streak, spoke of the “human duty” to be with Americans after “these horrifying and awesome events, which are bound to awaken human conscience.”From the first terrible moments, America’s longstanding allies were joined by longtime enemies in that singularly galvanizing instant. No nation with global standing was cheering the stateless terrorists. How rare is that?Too rare to last, it turned out.Civilizations have their allegories for rebirth in times of devastation. A global favorite is that of the phoenix, a magical and magnificent bird, rising from ashes. In the hellscape of Germany at the end of World War II, the concept of Hour Zero, or Stunde Null, offered the opportunity to start anew.For the U.S., the zero hour of Sept. 11, 2001, meant a chance to reshape its place in the post-Cold War world from a high perch of influence and goodwill. This was only a decade after the Soviet Union’s collapse left America with both the moral authority and the military and financial muscle to be unquestionably the lone superpower.Those advantages were soon squandered. Instead of a new order, 9/11 fueled 20 years of war abroad. In the U.S., it gave rise to the angry, aggrieved, self-proclaimed patriot, and heightened surveillance and suspicion in the name of common defense.It opened an era of deference to the armed forces as lawmakers pulled back on oversight as presidents gave primacy to the military over law enforcement in counterterrorism. It sparked anti-immigrant sentiment, primarily directed at Muslim countries, that lingers today.What most nations agreed was a war of necessity in Afghanistan was followed two years later by a war of choice as the U.S. invaded Iraq on false claims that Saddam Hussein was hiding weapons of mass destruction.Thus opened the deep, deadly mineshaft of “forever wars.” Convulsions ran through the Middle East and U.S. foreign policy — long a force for ballast — gave way to a head-snapping change from Bush to Obama to Trump. Trust in America’s leadership and reliability waned.Other parts of the world were not immune. Far-right populist movements coursed through Europe. Britain voted to break away from the European Union. China steadily ascended in the global pecking order.Now, President Joe Biden is trying to restore trust, but there is no easy path. He is ending war, but what comes next?In Afghanistan in August, the Taliban seized control with menacing swiftness as the Afghan government and security forces that the U.S. and its allies had spent two decades trying to build collapsed. No steady hand was evident from the U.S. in the disorganized evacuation of Afghans desperately trying to flee the country.In the United States, the 2001 attacks had set loose a bloodlust cry for revenge. A swath of American society embraced the binary outlook articulated by Bush — “Either you are with us, or you are with the terrorists” — and has never let go of it.Factionalism hardened, in school board fights, on Facebook posts, and in national politics, so that opposing views were treated as propaganda from mortal enemies. The concept of enemy also evolved, to include immigrants as well as terrorists.The patriot under threat became a personal and political identity. Trump would harness it to help him win the presidency.For the U.S., the presidencies since Bush’s wars have been marked by an effort to pull back the military from the conflicts of the Middle East and Central Asia.The perception of a U.S. retreat has allowed Russia and China to gain influence in the regions and left U.S. allies struggling to understand Washington’s place in the world. The notion that 9/11 would create an enduring unity of interest to combat terrorism collided with rising nationalism and a U.S. president, Trump, who spoke disdainfully of the NATO allies that in 2001 had rallied to America’s cause.To be sure, the succession of U.S. presidents since 9/11 scored important achievements in shoring up security, and so far U.S. territory has remained safe from more international terrorism anywhere on the scale of that Sept. 11.Globally, U.S.-led forces weakened al-Qaida, which has failed to launch a major attack on the West since 2005. The Iraq invasion rid the world of a murderous dictator in Saddam.Yet deadly chaos soon followed his overthrow. The Bush administration, in its nation-building haste, had failed to plan for keeping order, leaving Islamist extremists and rival militias to fight for dominance.Today, the legacies of 9/11 ripple both in obvious and unusual ways.Most directly, millions of people in the U.S. and Europe go about their public business under the constant gaze of security cameras while other surveillance tools scoop up private communications. The government layered post-9/11 bureaucracies on to law enforcement to support the expansive security apparatus.Militarization is more evident now, from large cities to small towns that now own military vehicles and weapons that seem well out of proportion to any terrorist threat. Government offices have become fortifications; airports a security maze.But as profound an event as 9/11 was, its effect on how the world has been ordered was temporary and largely undone by domestic political forces, a global economic downturn and now a lethal pandemic.The awakening of human conscience predicted by Gadhafi didn’t last. Gadhafi didn’t last.Osama bin Laden has been dead for a decade. Saddam was hanged in 2006. The forever wars now are over or ending. The days of Russia tactically enabling the U.S., and China not standing in the way, petered out.Only the phoenix lasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-9-11-s-ashes-a-new-world-took-shape-it-did-not-last-101631294341012.html
10-09-2021||World||Los Angeles schools mandate Covid-19 vaccination for students aged 12, above||Students age 12 and older in the Los Angeles public school system soon must be vaccinated to attend classes on campus under one of the toughest anti-COVID mandates enacted in the nation.The board of the Los Angeles Unified School District voted Thursday to require students age 12 and up to be fully vaccinated — with those who take part in sports and other extracurricular activities receiving both of two shots by the end of October and all others by December 19.Students who can't show proof of vaccination won't be permitted to have in-person learning following the end of winter break on January 11 unless they have a medical or other exemption.“This action is not about violating anybody’s rights,” school board member Monica Garcia said. “This action is about doing our job to be able to offer public schools that children can come to school and be safe.”The nation’s second-largest school district was the largest in the U.S. to issue such a mandate. Nearby Culver City Unified School District imposed a similar policy last month for the 7,000-student district.New York City’s school system, the nation’s largest, has only mandated vaccinations for 20,000 student athletes in certain sports considered at high risk of spreading the virus, including wrestling.Los Angeles Unified, which has 630,000 students, has moved more aggressively than most districts in enacting COVID-19 safety measures. It tests all students and employees every week, requires masking indoors and outdoors and has ordered employees to be vaccinated.The district was among the last of the nation’s largest school districts to reopen to classroom instruction last spring. The teachers union opposed the move for months, citing health concerns.The union applauded the new mandate, which it sought after teachers were ordered to get the shots.“COVID-19 is mutating, being transmitted to our students, and vaccines remain our community’s best line of defense to prevent continued spread of disease," said Cecily Myart-Cruz, president of United Teachers Los Angeles.The district’s student population is nearly three-quarters Latino and many are poor. Among adults, poor Latinos are vaccinated at a lower rate than the state average.Los Angeles County had an increase in coronavirus case rates in children from mid-July to mid-August but these have since declined, said Barbara Ferrer, director of the county’s Department of Public Health.Between Aug. 15 and Sept. 7, nearly 8,000 student cases and more than 1,200 staff cases of coronavirus were reported in the county, most of them in Los Angeles Unified, Ferrer said.The coronavirus has been far less lethal for children than for older adults but they can pass on the virus to others, health officials have said.More than half of Los Angeles County residents between 12 and 17 are already fully vaccinated, and “increasing these numbers is a critical part of our strategy for keeping schools open,” Ferrer said.The school district's mandate could inspire similar actions in other cities, while likely sparking legal challenges from people opposed to vaccination, masking and other COVID-19 regulations.Some parents spoke against the mandate at the Los Angels Unified meeting, arguing that they should decide what is best for their children.“We don’t understand why you are so rushed,” Diana Guillen, chair of the district’s English learner advisory committee, told the board in Spanish. “This decision should be ours, a family decision.”But many parents and school board members overwhelmingly supported the plan, calling it a sound public health measure and a critical step to keep classrooms open for the in-person learning so essential for students.Also Read | Biden's six-step plan to fight Delta surge. All you need to knowBoard member Jackie Goldberg recalled when polio infections happened at her school and her friend in third grade lost his arm.“It is our moral, ethical, religious, political — pick a word — it’s our responsibility to protect the children under 12 who cannot get protected any other way,” she said.Only the two-shot Pfizer vaccine has received full federal approval for people 16 and older, while children ages 12 to 15 can be vaccinated under a federal emergency use authorization.On Thursday, President Joe Biden urged people to vaccinate their children, saying “almost all the serious COVID-19 cases we’re seeing among adolescents are in unvaccinated 12- to 17-year-olds — an age group that lags behind in vaccination rates."An August poll from The Associated Press and the NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that 55% of adults surveyed supported a vaccine mandate for students 12 and older, although that figure dropped to 42% among parents.Some parents are eager for all eligible students to be vaccinated. Lucy Rimalower, who has a kindergartener in the Los Angeles Unified district, said she is relieved officials are taking steps to try to protect her son until he is old enough to get his shot. She said that also helps protect her parents, who are in their 60s and 70s and help her with child care.“This feels like following the precedent of all the other vaccines over time that have helped us to have a safer school environment, that lets us feel like it’s safe to send our kids to school without getting chickenpox, polio, the mumps, measles, rubella, you name it,” Rimalower said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/los-angeles-schools-mandate-covid-19-vaccination-for-students-aged-12-above-101631292617467.html
10-09-2021||World||Mullah Baradar's passport reveals Pak support for Taliban||With the lifetime Pakistani passport and identity card of the Taliban deputy prime minister Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar surfacing under a fake name, it is now quite evident that the Pakistani ISI is the driving force behind the military occupation of Kabul by the Sunni Pashtun forces. Pakistan had issued Baradar’s national identity card in the name of Muhammad Arif Agha, son of Syed M Nazeer Agha.The lifetime identity card, with serial number 42201-5292460-5, was issued on July 10, 2014. Baradar’s date of birth has been mentioned as the year 1963. The national identity card was duly signed by the registrar general of Pakistan. The Pakistani passport number of Baradar is GF680121. The issue date of passport and national identity card was the same.Pakistan has been long accused of covertly providing support to the Taliban militarily, financially and with intelligence in their fight against Afghan defence forces, which Islamabad has repeatedly dismissed as baseless.According to Kabul watchers, Mullah Baradar, co-founder of the Taliban with Mullah Omar, use to stay in Pakistan’s Quetta and was part of the leadership council, or Shura, of the Islamist force. Mullah Baradar, also known as Muhammad Arif Agha, along with Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, was heading the negotiating team at the Taliban’s political office in Doha, Qatar. The duo was negotiating with another Afghan origin Pashtun and US national Zalmay Khalilzad with the support of the Qatari government.While it is understood that many of the Taliban leaders carry Pakistani passports and identity cards, it is still not clear whether the Taliban’s chief Hibatullah Akhundzada had Pakistani citizenship. Despite reports of Mullah Akhundzada being in Kabul, no one has seen the shadowy cleric. Akhundzada used to live in Pakistan cantonment in Karachi under heavy protection. On the other hand, Mullah Baradar, a UN-designated global terrorist, was captured by American intelligence forces in Karachi in 2010 and remained in Pakistani custody for several days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mullah-baradar-s-passport-reveals-pak-support-for-taliban-101631288533940.html
10-09-2021||World||India says Afghanistan situation ‘fragile’, calls for inclusive government||Describing the situation in Afghanistan as “very fragile”, India has called for a “broad-based, inclusive and representative” government in Kabul and for the international community to rise above partisan interests and stand with the Afghan people.Indian Permanent Representative to the UN T S Tirumurti on Thursday also reiterated the importance of the protection and promotion of the rights of women, children and minorities. He was participating in a UN Security Council discussion on the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), whose mandate is up for renewal beyond September 17.“The situation in Afghanistan continues to be very fragile,” said Ambassador T S Tirumurti, adding that “the current situation is of direct concern to us” as an immediate neighbour and friend of the people of Afghanistan.T S Tirumurti went on to renew India’s call for an inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan, saying, a “broad-based, inclusive and representative formation attained through an inclusive negotiated political settlement would gain greater international acceptability and legitimacy”.The current caretaker government announced by the Taliban is anything but broad-based, representative and inclusive. There are no women among them, no minorities and it is confined largely to Pashtuns, the largest ethnic community in Afghanistan and who dominate the ranks of the Taliban. There are no Tajiks or Hazaras, the next two largest groups.The Indian diplomat also took the opportunity to refer to a “substantial and forward-looking” resolution adopted by the UN Security Council during India’s presidency in August over terrorism.“It took into account some of our collective concerns, in particular on terrorism, where it has noted the commitment of the Taliban not to allow the use of the Afghan soil for terrorism, including from terrorists and terrorist groups designated” by the UN.The Taliban have given an undertaking also as part of the peace agreement they signed with the United States in February 2020 that they will not allow terrorists plan or carry out attacks on the US and allies; the Americans have expanded the umbrella since to include partners.The UNSC resolution “underlined that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts”, said T S Tirumurti. He went on to cite the Kabul airport attack to say terrorism continues to threaten Afghanistan.Ambassador T S Tirumurti also said that the resolution took note of the Taliban commitment to allow Afghans and foreign nationals to travel out of the country in a safe, secure and orderly manner.India also called for continued and unhindered UN access Afghanistan and T S Tirumurti said that when members of the council decide the future of UNAMA “we keep our focus centered on Afghan people and their expectations from the international community to stand by them in this hour of crisis”.He reiterated India’s long and significant contribution to development of Afghanistan. Indian development projects have been in critical areas of power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity building.“India’s emphasis has been on the welfare and well-being of the people of Afghanistan”, he said further. India has carried out more than 500 development projects across all 34 provinces and provided humanitarian assistance through the delivery of 75,000 MT of wheat in 2020.“We hope that these developments projects and the education and human resource development imparted by India over the years will help in contributing to the development of an inclusive and progressive polity,” the Indian permanent representative said in conclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-says-afghanistan-situation-fragile-calls-for-inclusive-government-101631292180753.html
10-09-2021||World||'His body should rot': Taliban after killing Amrullah Saleh's brother||The Taliban fighters who killed Amrullah Saleh's brother in Panjhsir on Thursday did not allow Amrullah Saleh's family members to bury the body, a family member told Reuters. They kept saying that his body should rot, Ebadullah Saleh told the news agency in a text message. The report of the death of Amrullah Saleh's brother Rohullah Azizi came on Friday amid reports of massive escalation between the Taliban and the Northern Resistance Front in Panjshir. It is believed that Amrullah Saleh's elder brother was leaving Panjshir as many Panjshir residents have been allowed by both the Resistance Front and the Taliban to leave the area as the clashes are to be escalated in the next few days. But Taliban leaders identified Rohullah as Amrullah Saleh's brother and shot him dead. "They executed my uncle," Ebadullah Saleh said adding, "They killed him yesterday and would not let us bury him. They kept saying his body should rot."Also Read | Taliban invade Amrullah Saleh's place in Panjshir, brother shot: ReportThe whereabouts of Amrullah Saleh and Ahmad Massoud are not yet known. A photo of a Taliban fighter posing with guns in front of books has been floated on social media, claiming that this is the same place from where Amrullah Saleh recently issued a video statement claiming that he was still in Panjshir.As the Resistance Front is resolute to announce their parallel government, the ousted Afghan government's ambassador to Tajikistan said on Wednesday that both Massoud and Amrullah Saleh are in Panjshir and have not fled to Tajikistan, contrary to the claims made by the Taliban."Ahmad Massoud and Amrullah Saleh have not fled to Tajikistan. The news that Ahmad Massoud has left Panjshir is not true; he is inside Afghanistan. I am in constant contact with Amrullah Saleh, who is currently in Panjshir and running the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan's government," Zahir Aghbar, envoy to Dushanbe under the government of ousted Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said.The Taliban have also claimed of recovering a huge amount of cash from Amrullah Saleh's Kabul residence and alleged that the former vice president fled with the rest of the money to funnel them into the Resistance Front.Pakistan has recently refuted allegations of extending support to the Taliban in Panjshir as Pakistan National Security Adviser Moeed Yusuf said that such claims are preposterous and a "fake news network" created by India is spreading such allegations.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/his-body-should-rot-taliban-after-killing-amrullah-saleh-s-brother-101631290310933.html
10-09-2021||World||‘There are no your terrorists or my terrorists, must fight it together’: India remembers 9/11||India’s permanent representative to the United Nations (UN), ambassador T S Tirumurti, visited Ground Zero, the 9/11 Memorial in New York City, on Friday to pay homage to the lives lost in the terrorist attack. He urged the world to fight terrorists together. “There are no 'your terrorists' and 'my terrorists' or 'bad terrorists' and 'good terrorists'. Must fight it together,” he tweeted.Trimurti told news agency PTI that Ground Zero should strengthen the world’s resolve to fight terrorism and reject any attempts to justify it. "The site should remind us of our collective resolve to fight terrorism and to refute all attempts to justify it,” he said.The ambassador said visiting the memorial with other members of the UN Security Council was a moving experience. “It was indeed a moving experience to be present at Ground Zero in New York on the 20th Anniversary of the 9/11 terror attack. I paid homage at the memorial to all the lives lost, which include many Indians,” he said.Also Read: 9/11: The end of the ‘forever wars’Permanent representatives of the 15-nation member UN Security Council visited the 9/11 Memorial and Museum in New York City on September 9. US representative to UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield led the visit to the memorial. The UN released a statement on Friday affirming their commitment to preventing counter-terrorism, adding that they are as committed to preventing terrorism today as they were 20 years ago.“Today, the members of the Security Council marked this solemn anniversary with a visit to the September 11 Memorial and Museum in New York City. The members of the Security Council are as united today as they were 20 years ago in their commitment to prevent and counter-terrorism, in all its forms and wherever it occurs, consistent with international law,” the press statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/there-are-no-your-terrorists-or-my-terrorists-must-fight-it-together-india-remembers-911-101631288468402.html
10-09-2021||World||Uyghur militants of ETIM left Afghanistan: Taliban assure China||The militants of the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, fighting for the independence of Xinjiang, have left Afghanistan, the Taliban leadership told Chinese media in a recent interview, indicating that the Taliban have already taken care of the issue that China raised. In an interview to Global Times, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen said that many members of the organization left Afghanistan after the Doha agreement as they were told that no one can use Afghanistan against other countries.The Taliban leader said that they have three commitments. "First, we will not allow any training on our territory. Second, we will not allow any fundraising for those who intend to carry out a foreign agenda. Third, we will not allow the establishment of any recruitment centre in Afghanistan. These are the main things," Suhail Shaheen said without clarifying whether the Taliban will extradite the ETM members to China if China requests the same.In the July meeting between Chinese foreign minister Wang Yo and Taliban leader Mullah Baradar, Yi had asked the Taliban to crack down on the ETIM. After the Taliban seized power in Afghanistan, China reiterated the issue.The ETIM group wants to form East Turkestan out of China's Xinjiang province and China held this group responsible for over 200 terrorist attacks in Xinjiang between 1990 and 2001, reports said. The UNSC-designated terrorist organisation is stated to be an affiliate of al Qaida.Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian on Friday said Beijing has taken note of the Taliban spokesman’s interview, PTI reported. "China hopes that the Taliban honour their words and make a clean break with the ETIM and other terrorist groups and take effective measures in its territory to resolutely crackdown on those terrorist organisations," Zhao said.China has responded warmly to the Taliban after they captured Afghanistan and announced an interim government. China said it brings an end to the anarchy in Afghanistan. China has also announced aid to Afghanistan after theTaliban takeover and the Taliban said China is their most important partner.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uyghur-militants-of-etim-left-afghanistan-taliban-assure-china-101631285918334.html
10-09-2021||World||Taliban takeover could see return of ‘al Qaeda’ style terror plots, warns UK spy chief||The head of Britain’s domestic intelligence agency has warned about a possible return of major “al Qaeda” style terror plots against the West after the Taliban’s takeover in Afghanistan. Speaking to BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, MI5 director-general Ken McCallum stressed the need to be vigilant for an increase in “inspired terrorism” alongside potential growth of “al Qaeda-style directed plots.” McCallum said that though terror threats do not change overnight, the Taliban’s return to power can provide a psychological boost to the terrorists.“Terrorist threats tend not to change overnight in the sense of directed plotting or training camps or infrastructure — the sorts of things that al Qaeda enjoyed in Afghanistan at the time of 9/11,” McCallum told the BBC.“But what does happen overnight, even though those directed plots and centrally organized bits of terrorism take a bit longer to rebuild ... Overnight, you can have a psychological boost, a morale boost to extremists already here, or in other countries,” he added.While the Taliban have assured they would not let terror groups use Afghan soil to plot attacks against foreign countries, a UN report suggests that the insurgents, especially their Haqqani network branch, and al Qaeda remain close. The independent UN sanctions monitoring committee said that the Taliban regularly consulted al Qaeda during negotiations with the US. The Afghan Islamist hardliners even offered al Qaeda guarantees that they would honour the historical ties, which stems from friendship, intermarriage, shared struggle and ideological sympathy.Britain has been a victim of several violent attacks by extremists in the last 20 years, the deadliest being the suicide bombings in London subway trains in 2005 that claimed 52 lives. McCallum revealed that British authorities had foiled 31 attack plots in the past four years, adding that he isn’t sure the country was safer or not 20 years after September 11 attacks in the US."The big concern flowing from Afghanistan alongside the immediate inspirational effect is the risk that terrorists reconstitute and once again pose us more in the way of well-developed, sophisticated plots of the sort that we faced in 9/11 and the years thereafter," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-takeover-could-see-return-of-al-qaeda-style-terror-plots-warns-uk-spy-chief-101631285277014.html
10-09-2021||World||'Graveyard of empires': Taliban turn US copter into swing, Chinese official shares video||A China government official has shared a video of Taliban fighters swinging from what seems like a defunct copter. "The graveyard of EMPIRES and their WAR MACHINES. Talibans (sic) have turned their planes into swings and toys....." Lijian Zhao, an official of China's foreign ministry, wrote tweeting the video.The withdrawal of the US troops ending the 20-year-old deployment has opened up a great opportunity in front of China in the region, experts have said explaining why China is warming up to the Taliban.A day after the Taliban announced their interim government, China termed this as an 'end of anarchy; and announced USD 31 million aid to Afghanistan. This was the first aid announcement from China after the Taliban seized power. The Taliban too termed China as their most important partner. The graveyard of EMPIRES and their WAR MACHINES. Talibans have turned their planes into swings and toys..... pic.twitter.com/GMwlZKeJT2Before Afghanistan fell to the Taliban, a delegation of the Taliban, led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, now the deputy head of the new government, met China's foreign minister Wang Yi in Tianjin. The Taliban are an important military and political force in Afghanistan, Wang Yi said at that time.After August 15, China has indicated that it is willing to cooperate with the Taliban. Experts said China has the Bagram airfield in its mind. The Chinese military is currently conducting a feasibility study about the effect of sending workers, soldiers and other staff related to its foreign economic investment programme known as the Belt and Road Initiative in the coming years to Bagram, reports said. Bagram is an ex-American airbase, which China now wants to take over, reports said.Following the exit of teh US troops, several videos of the Taliban trying to manoeuvre the equipment have surfaced on social media. One such video of a US plane running at Kandahar airport raised questions about whether the Taliban have pilots. But a Chinese official sharing the video adds much significance to the narrative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/graveyard-of-empires-taliban-turn-us-copter-into-swing-chinese-official-shares-video-101631280960039.html
10-09-2021||World||‘Immediately cease use of force, arbitrary detention’: UN condemns Taliban targeting protesters, journalists||The United Nations (UN) released a statement on Friday condemning the Taliban’s treatment of journalists and peaceful protesters since coming to power. The UN called on the Taliban to not use force or arbitrarily detain protestors, and the journalists covering the protests."We call on the Taliban to immediately cease the use of force towards, and the arbitrary detention of, those exercising their right to peaceful assembly and the journalists covering the protests," said Ravina Shamdasani, spokeswoman for the United Nations human rights office.After assuring the international community that women in Afghanistan would enjoy all rights and liberties guaranteed under Islamic law, the Taliban took matters into their own hands this week and attacked women who were protesting against the new government on the streets of Kabul. In the province of Herat, two protesters were shot dead by the militant group on September 7, reported Reuters.“There is an obligation to ensure that any use of force in response to protests is a last resort, strictly necessary and proportionate," Shamdasani warned Taliban leaders. UN also cautioned against the use of firearms in situations which do not possess an “imminent threat of death or serious injury".Distressing images of journalists with injuries sustained after being beaten by the Taliban emerged on Thursday, creating ripples of concern in the international community. In posts shared by Etilaatroz, the Afghan media house whose journalists were beaten up by the Taliban, two men, Taqi Daryabi and Nematullah Naqdi, were ruthlessly beaten up for covering the women’s protest in Kart-e-Char area of western Kabul."One of the Taliban put his foot on my head, crushed my face against the concrete. They kicked me in the head... I thought they were going to kill me," Naqdi told news agency AFP."They told me 'You cannot film'... They arrested all those who were filming and took their phones. The Taliban started insulting me, kicking me," he said, adding that when he asked why he was being beaten, he was told: "You are lucky you weren't beheaded".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/immediately-cease-use-of-force-arbitrary-detention-un-condemns-taliban-targeting-protesters-journalists-issues-statement-101631278257950.html
10-09-2021||World||Biden's six-step plan to fight Delta surge. All you need to know||US President Joe Biden on Thursday unveiled a new six-step “action plan” to fight the surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases largely driven by the highly infectious Delta variant. Over 200 million individuals in the US are either fully or partially vaccinated while more than 80 million eligible population has not received a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine hesitancy among unvaccinated has been a major reason behind the surge in Covid-19 cases.“We’ve been patient, but our patience is wearing thin,” Biden said at a White House speech. “And your refusal has cost all of us. So, please, do the right thing.”The latest plan is aimed at primarily taking the vaccine hesitancy head-on by mandating Covid-19 vaccines for federal workers, contractors, and certain health workers. It will also require employees at companies with 100 or more workers to be either get vaccinated or get tested weekly.Here are key parts of the plan:Vaccine mandateA rule will require all employers with 100 or more employees to ensure their workforce is fully vaccinated. Unvaccinated workers will need to produce a negative test result on at least a weekly basis before coming to work. According to the White House, this requirement will impact over 80 million workers in private sector businesses.The new rule will require employers with more than 100 employees to provide paid time off for getting vaccinated or recovering from post-vaccination sickness.Entertainment venues where large groups of people gather will require their patrons to be vaccinated or show a negative test for entry.The plan requires mandatory vaccinations for over 17 million health care workers in hospitals, clinics and other facilities that accept payments from Medicare and Medicaid.Also Read | Xi Jinping criticises America’s China policy in rare phone call with Joe BidenBoostersThe Biden administration is preparing for booster shots to start as early as the week of September 20, subject to approval by the US Food and Drug Administration. Booster shots will be made available free of cost across 80,000 locations.SchoolsThe staff in Head Start programs, department of defence schools, and Bureau of Indian education-operated schools will be required to get vaccinated. The plan calls on governors to make vaccination mandatory for teachers and school staff.The federal government plans to make additional funding available to help local school districts fill gaps when funding has been withheld by their state for implementing Covid-19 safety measures.Mask and testingMask requirements for interstate travel and in the federal property will continue and those found violating the guidelines will be double fined. The number of retail pharmacies offering free Covid tests will be expanded to 10,000.Covid careThe department of defense will double the number of military medical teams deployed to support local hospitals battling a surge in Covid-19 cases. The Biden administration will boost shipments of free monoclonal antibody treatment by 50% in September.EconomyUnder the plan, the maximum loan amount to small businesses affected by the Covid-19 pandemic will be increased from $500,000 to $2 million. The amount can be used to hire and retain employees, purchase inventory and equipment, and pay off higher-interest debt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-six-step-plan-to-fight-delta-surge-all-you-need-to-know-101631277301915.html
10-09-2021||World||Trial of 85 suspects, who desecrated Hindu temple in Pakistan, begins||The trial of 85 suspects, who were involved in an attack on a Ganesh temple in Pakistan’s Rahim Yar Khan district, began on Friday at an anti-terrorism court. Several hundred people who were carrying sticks, stones and bricks attacked the temple in Pakistan’s Bhong, which is 590 kms from Lahore, on August 4.The miscreants burnt parts of the temple and damaged the idols inside the temple. They claimed they were protesting against the release of an eight-year-old child belonging to the Hindu community who was arrested for allegedly urinating in a local seminary. They damaged the walls, doors and electric fittings while desecrating the temple.“The trial of 85 suspects arrested in the temple attack case began today after police submitted a report to the anti-terrorism court,” an official of the Punjab province told news agency PTI. All of them were detained at the New Central Jail in Bahawalpur city on judicial remand. The government official said that compensation worth Pakistan rupee (PKR) 10 lakh has been recovered from the suspects.“As the restoration of the Ganesh mandir was carried out by the government soon after the attack, the Supreme Court had ordered that the attackers would pay the restoration amount from their own pocket,” the official further added. He also said that the restoration of the temple from inside has been completed but work on the boundary of the temple is underway.On July 25, a resident from Bhong district reported to police that he witnessed a boy passing urine in the library of the seminary and the boy fled when he tried to catch him. The boy, who was aged between eight and 10 years, was arrested on July 26 and was produced before the court. The boy was then sent to judicial remand but was released on July 28 on post-arrest bail.The Punjab province police registered an FIR against 150 suspects under terrorism and other sections of the Pakistan Penal Code for vandalising the temple. Pakistan chief justice Gulzar Ahmed criticised the police and said that their inaction brought shame to the nation.“Imagine what mental agony the desecration incident had brought to the members of the Hindu community,” the Pakistan chief justice observed. The incident also drew sharp criticism from India as well as from the minority community leaders in Pakistan. The Pakistan parliament adopted a resolution later condemning the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trial-of-85-suspects-who-desecrated-hindu-temple-in-pakistan-begins-101631276895144.html
10-09-2021||World||31 terrorist plots aimed at United Kingdom foiled in last four years: MI5 chief||The United Kingdom stopped as many as 31 “late-stage” terrorist plots in the past four years, the chief of the country’s domestic-counter intelligence and security agency MI5, Ken McCallum said on Friday while pointing out the risks that the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan posed.He said that although the majority of these foiled plots were “Islamist extremists,” there has also been a “growing number of attack plots from extremist right-wing terrorists.”“The terrorist threat to the UK, I am sorry to say, is a real and enduring thing,” McCullum told BBC Radio, adding that the country does face a “consistent global struggle” to overpower terrorism and guard against the same.The MI5 chief also stressed that the Taliban recapturing Afghanistan after almost 20 years would have added fuel to these terrorist groups. “There is no doubt that recent events in Afghanistan will have heartened and emboldened some of those extremists,” he told BBC Radio.In this matter, McCallum said that countries need to be “vigilant” because the Taliban’s reemergence in Afghanistan has given an “overnight psychological boost” – a morale upliftment – to extremists “already here (the UK) and in other countries.”Also Read | How 2001 shaped 2021The security agency chief further stated that besides the “inspirational effect” that the events in Afghanistan have, it comes with the risk of terrorists reconstituting and “once again” posing a “well-developed, sophisticated plots” of the kind that the United States faced in 9/11 and the years thereafter.McCallum said that the number of terror plots that the UK disrupt these days are actually “higher than the number of plots which were coming at [them] after 9/11,” but on average, they are “smaller plots of lower sophistication.”The Taliban on Tuesday announced a caretaker government led by Mullah Hassan Akhund as the prime minister, and Mullah Abdul Ghani as the first deputy the PM.Also Read | Inside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headThe Islamist insurgents have time and again assured that Afghanistan’s soil won’t be used for terrorist activities and that they want to maintain good relations with international countries. However, the all-male cabinet of the new Taliban government has drawn concerns especially because the Islamist group had earlier stated that they will form an inclusive government.Meanwhile, reports have claimed that the group may hold the oath-taking ceremony on September 11, adding that invitations have already been sent to China, Russia, Turkey, Qatar, Pakistan, Iran, India and the US. (With reports from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/31-terrorist-plots-aimed-at-united-kingdom-foiled-in-last-four-years-mi5-chief-101631274869826.html
10-09-2021||World||UAE lifts travel restrictions for residents from India, 14 other countries||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Friday said that it is lifting restrictions from September 12 on entry for residents who have been fully vaccinated with a shot approved by the World Health Organization (WHO). It said that residents from India can fly into the UAE from September 12. It has also allowed residents from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Namibia, Zambia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda, Sierra Leone, Liberia, South Africa, Nigeria and Afghanistan as well to fly into the UAE from September 12.Dubai is due to open the Expo 2020 World Fair on October 1, for which it has been preparing for almost a decade, after a year-long delay due to the pandemic. The nation which is a regional business and tourism hub is relying on Expo 2020 World Fair to give its economy a boost.The organisers said they expected that the remaining flight restrictions imposed by the government will be lifted in time for Expo 2020. The UAE’s National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority on Twitter however said that approval needs to be sought from the government and various PCR tests will be conducted before entering the country.(with inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-lifts-travel-restrictions-for-residents-from-india-14-other-countries-101631271226655.html
10-09-2021||World||Taliban invade Amrullah Saleh's place in Panjshir, brother shot: Report||With heave clashes still going on in Afghanistan's Panjshir Valley, multiple reports claimed that Amrullah Saleh's elder brother Rohullah Saleh was killed as he was leaving Panjshir for Kabul. Reports said he was identified as Amrullah Saleh's brother and was tortured to death. The report comes as a photo of a Taliban fighter sitting on the same spot from where Amrullah Saleh issued a video statement asserting that he was still in Panjshir was spread on social media indicating that the Taliban have taken over the library of the place where Amrullah Saleh was residing. Hindustan Times has not individually verified the claims. Though the Taliban claimed victory over Panjshir on several occasions before, the clashes were going n between the Taliban and the Northern Resistance Front. Reports said the Resistance Front gave Panjshir families three days' time to leave the province as they were preparing for another round of fighting. The Taliban too reportedly agreed to allow safe passage to Panjshir residents, it has been reported.Both the Taliban and the opposition witnessed massive loss in the ongoing strike, which the Resistance Front alleged was being done in collusion with Pakistan. The former spokesperson of the National Resistance Front Fahim Dashty was killed last Sunday. For the last few days, people have been leaving Panjshir after the war escalated. Those who have fled to Kabul told Tolo News that people in Panjshir will die of hunger as the Taliban have blocked all humanitarian assistance in the province.Amid reports of Amrullah Saleh, the former vice president of Afghanistan and the leader of the Panjshir Resistance, fleeing the country, Saleh recently released a video from Panjshir claiming that he was there and did not flee. On Wednesday, a day after the Taliban announced the interim government, the ousted Afghan government's ambassador to Tajikistan confirmed that both Massoud and Amrullah Saleh were in Afghanistan and not in Tajikistan, as claimed by the Taliban. "Ahmad Massoud and Amrullah Saleh have not fled to Tajikistan. The news that Ahmad Massoud has left Panjshir is not true; he is inside Afghanistan. I am in constant contact with Amrullah Saleh, who is currently in Panjshir and running the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan's government," Zahir Aghbar, envoy to Dushanbe under the government of ousted Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panjsher-taliban-amrullah-saleh-rohullah-saleh-ahmad-massoud-northern-resistance-front-101631269391064.html
10-09-2021||World||Russia's Gazprom says construction of Nord Stream 2 completed||Russia's state-controlled gas giant said Friday it has completed the construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to Germany, a contentious project that Ukraine and the United States have strongly opposed.Gazprom said in a statement on the messaging app Telegram, citing its CEO Alexei Miller, that the construction of Nord Stream 2 was “fully completed” on Friday morning.Owned by Gazprom, with investment from several European companies, Nord Stream 2 is built under the Baltic Sea and bypasses Poland and Ukraine, raising objections from both those countries.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has described the new pipeline as a powerful geopolitical weapon for Russia, which annexed Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula in 2014 after the ouster of the former Kremlin-friendly president and has thrown its weight behind a separatist insurgency in eastern Ukraine.Washington has strongly opposed the construction of Nord Stream 2, but the administration of Joe Biden has opted not to punish the German company overseeing the project while announcing sanctions against Russian companies and ships.In July, the US and Germany reached a deal to allow Nord Stream 2′s completion without the imposition of US sanctions on German entities.Under the terms of the July 21 deal, the US and Germany committed to countering any Russian attempt to use the Nord Stream 2 pipeline as a political weapon. And, they agreed to support Ukraine and Poland by funding alternative energy and development projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russias-gazprom-says-construction-of-nord-stream-2-completed-101631267741964.html
10-09-2021||World||Russia will not take part in Afghan government inauguration||The Kremlin said on Friday Russia would not take part in any way in the Taliban government's inauguration ceremony in Afghanistan.The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament said earlier this week that Russia would be represented at the inauguration by ambassador-level officials, the RIA news agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-will-not-take-part-in-afghan-government-inauguration-101631267417519.html
10-09-2021||World||US still in ‘pandemic mode’: Fauci tells what Covid-19 ‘endgame’ would look like||Top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci said that the United States is still in the “pandemic mode” since the country is witnessing about 160,000 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases every day. The US was reporting less than 16,000 daily new infections around mid-June before the highly contagious Delta variant drove the surge in Covid-19 cases.“The endgame is to suppress the virus,” Fauci said in an interview published by Axios. “Right now, we're still in pandemic mode, because we have 160,000 new infections a day.”The latest epidemiological data by the World Health Organization (WHO) shows that the US continues to report the highest number of fresh infections every day, followed by India, the UK, Iran, and Brazil. Last week, America reported nearly 1.3 million new cases, a 38% increase from the previous week.“That's not even modestly good control ... which means it's a public health threat," the 81-year-old immunologist said.Also Read | Will Moderna miss Sept 20 target of US Covid booster jabs? Dr Fauci answersThe rolling seven-day average of daily new confirmed Covid-19 cases per capita for the US remains one of the worst in the world and almost 20 times that of India’s. Fauci had repeatedly warned against removing restrictions before daily new cases fell below 10,000.“In a country of our size, you can't be hanging around and having 100,000 infections a day. You've got to get well below 10,000 before you start feeling comfortable," Axios quoted Fauci as saying.The country’s vaccination drive has hit a wall after an impressive initial rate. About 52% of the eligible population has been fully inoculated against Covid-19 but high vaccine hesitancy in some parts of the country has come up as a major challenge for authorities to contain the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-still-in-pandemic-mode-fauci-tells-what-covid-19-endgame-would-look-like-101631266136833.html
10-09-2021||World||‘Malicious allegations': Pakistan on reports it helped Taliban in Panjshir||Pakistan rejected reports that said it helped the Taliban offensive against resistance forces in Afghanistan’s Panjshir valley as a “mischievous propaganda campaign”. Pakistan foreign spokesperson Asim Iftikhar issued a statement and “categorically rejected these allegations as part of a mischievous propaganda campaign.” “These malicious allegations were part of a desperate attempt to malign Pakistan and to mislead the international community,” he said in the statement.Iftikhar reiterated that Pakistan is committed to a peaceful and stable Afghanistan.The Pakistan military assisted the Taliban offensive in Panjshir with at least 27 helicopters filled with Pakistan Special Forces and also backed the group by drone strikes against the resistance forces, news agency PTI reported citing United States Central Command. Pakistan spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence’s chief Lieutenant General Faiz Hameed also visited Taliban leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar a day before the ‘fall’ of Panjshir, though both sides claim that discussions were held regarding the refugee crisis and closed borders at Spin Boldak.The Taliban said on Monday they seized Panjshir, one of the provinces which was not in their control, after a long drawn fight with the resistance front. Panjshir resistance fighters later, however, claimed that the Taliban have not ‘completely’ captured Panjshir. The National Resistance Front (NRF) leader Ahmad Massoud said that the senior leaders are safe and also called for a "national uprising".Panjshir was a centre of resistance during the Soviet occupation in the 1980s and during the Taliban's previous period of rule, between 1996 and 2001 and the rugged mountain valley is home to at least 200,000 citizens.Meanwhile, Pakistan on Friday said that the international community has a ‘collective responsibility’ to help Afghanistan. The nation’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said it sent a plane carrying food and medicines to Kabul and will also send more aid in the future. He also said that Pakistan wants the international community to unfreeze Afghanistan’s assets so that the nation led by the Taliban can use the money to revive the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malicious-allegations-pakistan-on-reports-it-helped-taliban-in-panjshir-101631264026892.html
10-09-2021||World||‘Crushed my face against concrete’: Journalists recount Taliban torture||With the Taliban announcing a hardline regime in Afghanistan, journalists in the war-torn land have now opened up about being beaten up, detained, tortured, and even flogged by the militants. In interviews recorded by the BBC, the reporters and correspondents from Afghanistan recounted their harrowing accounts of the torture. Their offence? Reporting on protests in Kabul that held a mirror on the deteriorating economic and political situation of the country.“One of the Taliban put his foot on my head and crushed my face against the concrete,” said Nematullah Naqdi, a photojournalist for the Etilaatroz newspaper, detailing how the militants tried to take away his camera when he started taking photographs of a protest in Kabul against the Taliban regime.Naqdi was one of the two journalists for the newspaper who were arrested by Taliban officials in Kabul. Later, photographs of them bruised and scarred, with marks of flogging all across their backs, emerged on social media and went viral.Mr Daryabi, alongside Etilaatroz's photographer Nematullah Naqdi, had been covering a women's protest in Kabul on Wednesday.Afterwards, they were taken to a police station, where they say they were beaten with batons, electrical cables and whips. https://t.co/OhvUSCiafENaqdi and his colleague, Taqi Daryabi, recounted how they were taken to a district police station and lashed with whips, flogged with electric cables, and beaten up with batons. They were released later by the Taliban without any explanation.Also Read | Taliban arrests five journalists working with Kabul daily: ReportDaryabi told the BBC that when he was being handcuffed by the militants, even the thought of defending himself scared him since he figured it would only cause his attackers to torture him more. “Eight of them came and they started beating me,” he was quoted as saying. “Using sticks, police sticks, rubber - whatever they had in their hands. The scar on my face is from shoes where they kicked me in the face.”The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), an American non-profit promoting press freedom and defending the rights of journalists worldwide, said in a statement at least 14 journalists, including Naqdi and Daryabi, were detained and later released by the Taliban this week. Citing eyewitness reports and people familiar with the incident who spoke to CPJ over the phone, the non-profit organisation said that at least nine of these journalists were subjected to custodial violence.Video of photojournalist Morteza Samadi being detained in Herat for covering a women's protest. https://t.co/SjuDfJino3@DaryabiTaqi and @NeamatNaqdi told @AFP that Taliban fighters punched and beat them with batons, electrical cables, and whips after accusing them of organizing the protest. https://t.co/yasqWCmDy1Even though the Taliban had promised to put on a more ‘moderate’ face this time, the announcement of a hardline regime and multiple news reports of violence over the past week suggest that the militants never intended to move past their old ways. The Taliban are facing intense outrage from the people of Afghanistan, where journalists, women, and activists including university students, all are holding demonstrations against the outfit while the 'new government is imposing restrictions to curb the voices rising against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crushed-my-face-against-concrete-journalists-recount-taliban-torture-101631259043701.html
10-09-2021||World||Xi Jinping criticises America’s China policy in rare phone call with Joe Biden||America’s China policy has resulted in “serious difficulties” in bilateral ties and goes against the fundamental interests of the two countries and the common interests of the world, Chinese President Xi Jinping told US counterpart Joe Biden in a telephone call on Friday.The conversation ended a seven-month gap in direct communication between the leaders of the world’s two largest economies. Beijing said the phone call took place on Washington’s invitation. The last time the two leaders had spoken was on February 12.“The US’s China policy has resulted in serious difficulties in bilateral relations and runs counter to the fundamental interests of the peoples in the two countries and the common interests of all countries,” Xi told Biden.Xi Jinping pointed out that whether “they (China and the US) can handle their relationship well bears on the future of the world, and it is a question of the century to which the two countries must provide a good answer”.A White House readout on the Biden-Xi phone call said Washington and Beijing needed to ensure that “conflict” between the two countries is avoided. “President Biden underscored the United States’ enduring interest in peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and the world and the two leaders discussed the responsibility of both nations to ensure competition does not veer into conflict,” it said.Earlier in the day, China’s official news agency Xinhua reported that “Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday morning took a phone call from his US counterpart, Joseph R. Biden, and the two leaders held candid, in-depth and broad strategic communication and exchanges on bilateral relations and relevant issues of shared interest”.Besides frosty ties over a range of issues, from trade to human rights to transparency over the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic, Friday’s call between Xi and Biden took place in the backdrop of rapid developments in Afghanistan where the Taliban group swept to power in mid-August.Earlier this week, the Taliban announced the formation of an interim government in Afghanistan.Chinese official media quoted Biden as saying that the US had no intention to change the one-China principle, and it was ready to engage in more candid exchanges with China to identify priorities for bilateral cooperation to avoid misunderstanding, miscalculation and accidental conflict.The US, Biden reportedly said, looked forward to strengthening communication and cooperation with China on climate change and other important issues. Urging an early easing of China-US ties, Chinese President Xi Jinping said, “Relevant government agencies of China and the US could advance collaboration and tap more cooperation potential, so as to add more positive factors to the bilateral relationship.”The Chinese president suggested that on the basis of respecting each other’s core concerns and managing differences, the two sides “continue with contact and dialogue, and advance coordination and cooperation on climate change, epidemic prevention and control, economic recovery as well as major international and regional issues”.“China and the US should show a broad perspective, shoulder big responsibilities, and bring bilateral relations back to the right track of steady development as soon as possible, so as to better benefit the people in both countries and around the world,” Xi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-criticises-america-s-china-policy-in-rare-phone-call-with-joe-biden-101631260798371.html
10-09-2021||World||Lankan archbishop accuses Rajapaksa of misleading Vatican ahead of Italy trip||Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa's visit to Italy has sparked a controversy after the country’s Catholic church Archbishop Malcolm Cardinal Ranjith claimed the trip was an attempt to "mislead" the Vatican about the probe into 2019 Easter Sunday attacks that killed over 270 people, including 11 Indians.Rajapaksa left for Italy on Friday morning to attend an international event to be held in Bologna, officials said.Rajapaksa is scheduled to deliver the keynote address at the opening session of the international symposium to be held at the University of Bologna.The event will also be attended by the prime minister of Italy Mario Draghi.Cardinal Ranjith at a press conference two days ago slammed the visit.Ranjith alleged that Rajapaksa was due to meet Pope Francis during the visit and would try to mislead the Vatican on the ongoing investigations on the 2019 Easter Sunday attacks."When there is a deadly pandemic in the country, we’re seeing a conspiracy being attempted to cover up the Easter Sunday attack,” Cardinal Ranjith told a media briefing.“I condemn this trip [to the Vatican] because they are attempting a coverup and trying to mislead the Pope and the international community," he said.The local church has branded the investigation as a cover-up and a sham. The church says there was no transparency in the investigations, which aim only to serve a political purpose.Nine suicide bombers belonging to the local Islamist extremist group National Thawheed Jamaat (NTJ) linked to ISIS carried out a series of devastating blasts that tore through three churches and as many luxury hotels on April 21, 2019.Cardinal Ranjith has repeatedly said that the investigation into the blasts was not being conducted properly. He has said he believes the real conspirators are still at large and has hinted at alleged attempts to shield the masterminds.President Rajapaksa’s government had denied any inadequacy in the investigations into the attacks.Following Cardinal’s allegations, the foreign ministry in a statement denied that Rajapaksa was to meet the Pope.Rajapaksa never sought an audience with Pope Francis during his visit to the Vatican, the Foreign Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lankan-archbishop-accuses-rajapaksa-of-misleading-vatican-ahead-of-italy-trip-101631259705763.html
10-09-2021||World||Is it necessary for Afghan women to be part of cabinet? Taliban leader replies||The Taliban have said that women cannot be ministers days after the hardline Islamist group announced an all-male cabinet for its interim government and named hardliners and globally wanted terrorists as key ministers. Taliban spokesperson Sayed Zekrullah Hashimi told Tolo News in an interview that women can't be ministers and they should give birth. "A woman can't be a minister. It is like you put something on her neck that she can't carry. It is not necessary for women to be in the cabinet - they should give birth. Women protesters can't represent all women in Afghanistan," Hashimi told Tolo news.And when the interviewer said “women are half of the society”, Taliban spokesperson Hashimi questioned the definition. "But we do not consider them half. What kind of half? The half itself is misdefined here. The half means here that you keep them in the cabinet and nothing more. And if you violate her rights, not an issue,” Hashimi said.“Over the last 20 years, whatever was said by this media, the US, and its puppet government in Afghanistan, was it anything but prostitution in offices?” He asked to which the Tolo News anchor said he cannot accuse all Afghan women of prostitution.A Taliban spokesman on @TOLOnews: "A woman can't be a minister, it is like you put something on her neck that she can't carry. It is not necessary for a woman to be in the cabinet, they should give birth & women protesters can't represent all women in AFG."Video with subtitles👇 pic.twitter.com/CFe4MokOk0Also read | UN warns of ‘incredible fear’ among Afghan women as Taliban rule returns"I do not mean all Afghan women. The four women protesting in the streets. They do not represent the women of Afghanistan. The women of Afghanistan are those who give birth to the people of Afghanistan and educate them on Islamic ethics," the Taliban spokesperson replied.He was referring to the women out on the streets of Kabul and other provinces demanding they must be represented in the government in Afghanistan and that their right to education and jobs must be protected. Many of them have been brutally assaulted by Taliban fighters—several videos have shown women with bloodied faces and being threatened with a gun. They were even whipped by Taliban gunmen, reports have said.Also read | Can the Taliban govern Afghanistan?The interview has been shared repeatedly on social media as several countries, human rights activists and women have been sceptical of the assurances the Taliban have made. Immediately after they captured Kabul last month, the Taliban said women may work but “in accordance with the principles of Islam" and that they can also study at university in segregated classrooms wearing abaya robe and niqab covering most of their faces.Also read | Taliban's diktat: No protest without permission, share details with ministryHowever, soon after being named as the education minister of Afghanistan, Sheikh Molvi Noorullah Munir said that there is no need for PhD and master’s degree in the country. "No PhD degree, Master's degree is valuable today. You see that the mullahs and Taliban that are in the power, have no PhD, MA or even a high school degree, but are the greatest of all,” Munir is heard saying in another video which was widely circulated on social media.The Taliban was known for its oppressive regime when it last ruled 20 years ago and handed out harsh punishments, including public executions and floggings, to women found going against the group's diktats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-it-necessary-for-afghan-women-to-be-part-of-cabinet-taliban-leader-replies-101631258950111.html
10-09-2021||World||‘You don’t lob tomatoes across the Pacific’: Justin Trudeau at pre-poll debate||With the September 20 snap polls round the corner, and with surveys projecting dim prospects for Justin Trudeau, the incumbent Canadian prime minister adopted an aggressive posture at an official English language pre-election debate on Thursday.“You do not simply lob tomatoes across the Pacific,” PM Trudeau retorted when his rivals on stage charged him with going soft on China; and he spelt out an “F” grade on climate change policy for one of his opponents, Jagmeet Singh of National Democratic Party (NDP). Justin Trudeau, nevertheless, drew criticism on several fronts from his four rivals at the debate – PM hopeful and main contender Erin O’Toole of the Conservatives, NDP leader Jagmeet Singh, Annamie Paul of the Green Party, and Yves-Francois Blanchet of the Bloc Quebecois. The highly combative debate, which was televised, was moderated by Indo-Canadian Shachi Kurl.The PM had himself triggered the snap election call in mid-August in a bid to turn the Liberal Party’s minority government into a majority one. But with the Liberal Party leader drawing flak on multiple issues - from calling elections amid the Covid-19 pandemic, to Canada’s handling of airlift operations in Afghanistan, to China policy - pre-poll surveys show he’s trailing Erin O’Toole.While elected with a majority in 2015, Trudeau’s Liberals are projected to capture fewer seats in parliament this time round than it did in 2019, when it had secured 157.At the debate, Justin Trudeau’s attacks on Jagmeet Singh were frequent, with the PM slamming the NDP leader’s climate change policy. He warned progressives that the NDP was open to supporting the Conservatives in case another minority scenario arises.The continued detention in China of two Canadian nationals, Michael Korvig and Michael Spavor, came up as an issue early into the debate, with Trudeau assuring that his government had been “moving forward on challenging China” and “holding them to account on rule of law”. Accused of not adequately supporting Canadian citizens in Hong Kong impacted by a new security law imposed by Beijing, and also for not attending a vote in the House of Commons on terming China’s action in Xinjiang as “genocide”, PM Trudeau’s candid response was: “You do not simply lob tomatoes across the Pacific”.The prime minister’s attacks on Singh in particular were significant because the NDP is projected to be polling over 20% of the vote, and that large share is a barrier to the Liberal Party emerging with a majority. The NDP is estimated to be on track to gain at least 10-15 seats in the election, directly denting the numbers of the ruling Liberals.Trudeau’s Liberals are seen to have been trying out negative tactics in the build-up to the polls as it trails the Conservatives, such as running advertisements targeting Conservative leader Erin O’Toole on gun control, abortion and Covid-19 vaccinations.Trudeau, however, eventually bore the brunt of much of the attacks at the debate, including from Green Party’s Annamie Paul, the only woman and leader of Black heritage on the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/you-don-t-lob-tomatoes-across-the-pacific-justin-trudeau-at-pre-poll-debate-101631255518625.html
10-09-2021||World||Philippines, Taiwan gear up for super typhoon Chanthu||A super typhoon that rapidly formed in just 48 hours is threatening both the Philippines and Taiwan with destructive winds and torrential rains over the coming days.Chanthu was about 580 kilometres (360 miles) southeast of Taiwan's southernmost tip on Friday morning, packing gusts of up to 234 kilometres (145 miles) an hour, according to Taiwan's central weather bureau.The Philippine state weather agency said the typhoon was expected to graze the northeastern tip of the country later Friday.The agency warned of "destructive" winds in Santa Ana town, where around 35,000 people live, and the eastern part of the remote Babuyan Islands. Rough seas will throw up 2.5 to 10-metre waves, it added. The Cagayan governor has ordered government and private sector workers, except those in frontline services, to stay home and "fortify" their houses, said Rogelio Sending, the provincial information officer. Most projections forecast the storm will then continue to swing northeast and could hit Taiwan directly over the weekend. "It will be closest to Taiwan on Saturday and Sunday. (The public) should take precautions against strong winds and downpours," said Taiwanese forecaster Hsu Chung-yi.Meteorologists have marvelled at how quickly Chanthu morphed into a powerful storm after it first emerged on Monday in between Guam and the Philippines. "Chanthu went from a depression to a cat(egory)-5-equivalent typhoon in 48 hours," Sam Lillo, a researcher at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, wrote on Twitter. Only five other storms, all this century, have done that, he added. Over just two days, Chanthu's wind speeds went from 30 miles per hour to 160 miles per hour at their height. Scientists have long warned that typhoons are becoming more powerful, and strengthening more rapidly, as the world becomes warmer because of man-made climate change. "This week, Super Typhoon Chanthu provided another stark example of how quickly a storm can strengthen," NASA wrote in an article about the storm on its Earth Observatory blog. A super typhoon is also known as a category five hurricane in the US. The Earth tends to experience around five storms of that power a year. Meteorologists say that while Chanthu is powerful, it is small in size and will be unpredictable. "Small tropical cyclones are capable of very rapid intensity changes, both strengthening and weakening," hurricane scientist Jeff Masters wrote on Yale Climate Connections. Taiwan is regularly hit by tropical storms in the summer months. In a rare exception to the rule, not a single typhoon made landfall last year, the first time in 56 years. That helped fuel the worst drought in decades until heavy rains set in a few months ago and brought needed relief.The Hong Kong Observatory's projection has Chanthu reducing from a super to a severe typhoon on Sunday as it nears Taiwan's southeastern coast.bur-aw-jta/jfx||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-taiwan-gear-up-for-super-typhoon-chanthu-101631249378704.html
10-09-2021||World||Afghanistan on brink of ‘universal poverty’, millions will be affected: UN envoy||Afghanistan was in danger of "a total breakdown of the economy and social order" without an infusion of money and it could push millions more Afghans into poverty and hunger. UN special envoy Deborah Lyons on Thursday urged the world to come together to prevent the collapse of the Afghan economy and address fears that the Taliban's Islamic state may spread to its neighbours.Lyons said the worsening humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan must be addressed now, while warning there is another “looming crisis” caused by the freezing of billions of dollars in Afghan assets. Lyons said the freeze will cause “a severe economic downturn that could throw many more millions into poverty and hunger” and may spark an exodus of refugees and set the country back for generations."The economy must be allowed to breathe for a few more months, giving the Taliban a chance to demonstrate flexibility and a genuine will to do things differently this time, notably from a human rights, gender, and counter-terrorism perspective," Lyons told the 15-member UN Security Council.Also read | How will Taliban impact militancy in Kashmir? Here's what analysts sayLyons said ways must be found to provide humanitarian relief “on a huge scale.” There is also a need, she said, to quickly allow money to flow to Afghanistan to “prevent a total breakdown of the economy and social order,” though while creating safeguards to ensure the money is not misused by the Taliban authorities.The Afghanistan central bank's $9 billion in reserves, most of which is held in the United States, was frozen after the collapse of the former Western-backed government. The US treasury department said it is not easing Taliban sanctions or loosening curbs on the Islamist group's access to the global financial system. Afghanistan was also to access about $450 million on August 23 from the International Monetary Fund, but the IMF blocked the release because of a “lack of clarity” about a new government.Also read | Saudis bat for Taliban regime in Afghanistan, say no to ‘external interference’She also warned that the Taliban have already “visibly welcomed and sheltered” al Qaeda members, and Islamic State extremists remain active “and could gain strength.” She told the UN Security Council it will have to decide how to engage with many of the 33 members of the Taliban government who are on the UN sanctions blacklist, including the prime minister, the two deputy prime ministers and the foreign minister.Russia's UN ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, told the council that humanitarian aid is critical and Afghanistan's frozen assets should be released soon. "Afghanistan is on the verge of an economic collapse" that will create a larger humanitarian crisis and exacerbate migration in the region and the world, he said.Deputy Chinese ambassador Geng Shuang also urged the assets' release. “These assets belong to Afghanistan and should be used for Afghanistan, not as leverage for threat or restraints,” Geng said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-on-brink-of-universal-poverty-millions-will-be-affected-un-envoy-101631247031371.html
10-09-2021||World||Afghanistan-like situation in the Sahel? UN chief raises concern||UN chief Antonio Guterres told AFP Thursday that he feared the return to power of the Taliban in Afghanistan would encourage influential jihadist armed groups in the Sahel, as he called for a strengthening of "security mechanisms" in that region."I fear the psychological and real impact of what happened in Afghanistan," in the Sahel, the secretary-general said in an interview."There is a real danger. These terrorist groups may feel enthusiastic about what happened and have ambitions beyond what they thought a few months ago," he addedGuterres said it is "essential to reinforce security mechanisms in the Sahel," because it "is the most important weak point, which must be treated.""It is not only Mali, Burkina or Niger. Now we have infiltrations in Ivory Coast, in Ghana," he added.He noted that France will reduce its presence in the region and cited news reports that said Chad wants to withdraw some troops from border areas around Burkina Faso, Niger and Mali."This is the reason why I am fighting for there to be an African counterterrorism force with a mandate under chapter seven (which provides for the use of force) of the Security Council and with dedicated funds, which can guarantee a response to the threat level," he added."I fear today that the response capacity of the international community and the countries of the region are not sufficient in the face of the threat," he lamented.The UN chief has been trying for several years to give the G5 Sahel force -- Chad, Mauritania, Mali, Niger, and Burkina Faso -- a UN mandate accompanied by collective funding from the world body.France supports Guterres but the UN's leading financial contributor, the United States, has rejected the move."This blocking must be ended. It is absolutely essential," said the secretary-general.He said he was worried about fanatical groups where death "is desirable," with armies "disintegrating in front of" these types of fighters."We saw this in Mosul in Iraq, in Mali during the first push towards Bamako, we saw it in Mozambique."This danger is real and we must seriously think about its implications for the terrorist threat and the way in which the international community must organize itself in the face of this threat," he said.prh/pdh/bfm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistanlike-situation-in-the-sahel-un-chief-raises-concern-101631246829761.html
10-09-2021||World||Joe Biden talks to Xi Jinping after 7 months, says US-China contest must not invite ‘conflict’||US President Joe Biden spoke to China's Xi Jinping on Friday, for the first time in seven months, which the White House said was a “broad, strategic discussion” over the phone. The Chinese state media, however, reported that Xi Jinping has highlighted to Joe Biden how the US policy on China has caused ‘serious difficulties’.Also Read | Singapore’s diplomacy outreach on the US-China rivalryAccording to the White House, both Joe Biden and Xi Jinping have agreed to engage, in an open and straightforward manner, on issues concerning the diplomatic ties between the United States and China. “The two leaders had a broad, strategic discussion in which they discussed areas where our interests converge, and areas where our interests, values, and perspectives diverge,” the readout issued by the White House briefing room read. “This discussion, as President Biden made clear, was part of the United States’ ongoing effort to responsibly manage the competition between the United States and the PRC,” the readout explained.According to a senior US official cited in reports, Biden requested the call after the White House concluded that the Chinese officials who met their US counterparts this year were “unwilling to engage in serious or substantive conversations”.“President Biden underscored the United States’ enduring interest in peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific,” the White House readout continued, “… and the world and the two leaders discussed the responsibility of both nations to ensure competition does not veer into conflict.”Also Read | Twenty years later, a fractured worldThe Chinese state media said that Xi Jinping and Joe Biden held “candid, in-depth” talks. China Central Television (CCTV), the Chinese state-controlled broadcaster, said that president Xi Jinping held the phone call with Joe Biden at US invitation and conducted “candid, in-depth and extensive strategic communications and exchanges on Sino-US relations and related issues of mutual concern.”This was the second phone call between Biden and Xi Jinping since the former took office as the US president and the first one in seven months. Biden, however, has not yet met Xi since he stepped into the White House, portraying the fraught relationship between the United States and China after two rounds of top-level meetings produced little progress in navigating the muddy waters of diplomacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-talks-to-xi-jinping-after-7-months-says-us-china-contest-must-not-invite-conflict-101631242029736.html
10-09-2021||World||Saudi Arabia bats for Taliban regime in Afghanistan, says no to ‘external interference’||In what comes as one of its first reactions to the new Taliban regime in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia has said that it hopes the advent of a caretaker government will help the war-torn nation achieve ‘stability’ and overcome violence and extremism. Saudi Arabia will support “the choices the Afghan people make regarding the future of their country, away from external interference”, the country's foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud, without elaborating much on the Taliban's approach to governance.Speaking at a news conference in the Saudi capital of Riyadh, Prince Faisal bin Farhan said that the kingdom hopes the formation of the caretaker administration in Afghanistan will be a “step in the right direction towards achieving security and stability, rejecting violence and extremism, building a bright future in line with these aspirations”.Minister of Foreign Affairs H.H Prince @FaisalbinFarhan, participated in the virtual ministerial meeting on #Afghanistan. pic.twitter.com/2UqHVC4pGmThe Saudi foreign minister said the kingdom respects Afghanistan's sovereignty and reaffirmed his country's support for the Afghan people, pledging to provide assistance in tiding over this ‘difficult time’. He also expressed his condolences for the people of Afghanistan and the families of the victims who lost their lives in the Kabul airport bombings last month.The Afghan people should be able to make future choices for their country without any ‘external interference’, the Saudi minister noted, adding that the Taliban and all other Afghan parties will hopefully work to maintain peace and security and protect the lives and property of civilians.Notably, during the Taliban's earlier rule in Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, Saudi Arabia was among the three countries, along with Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), which accepted the legitimacy of the regime.In its current stint as the rulers of Afghanistan, the Taliban has dismayed Western powers by appointing several hardliners to top posts in the new government, including a senior minister with an FBI bounty on his head and multiple others sanctioned by the United States and the United Nations.Tens of thousands of people fled Afghanistan after the Islamist group seized power in mid-August following a lightning military campaign. Many of those who left were professionals fearing reprisals because of their association with the previous Western-backed government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-bats-for-taliban-regime-in-afghanistan-says-no-to-external-interference-101631238643852.html
10-09-2021||World||Kabul Airport returns to action, plane with civilians flies out||Some 200 foreigners, including Americans, left Afghanistan on a commercial flight out of Kabul on Thursday, the first such large-scale departure since the US and other forces completed their frantic withdrawal over a week ago.The Qatar Airways flight to Doha marked a breakthrough in the bumpy coordination between the US and Afghanistan’s new Taliban rulers. A long standoff over charter planes at another airport has left dozens of passengers stranded.A senior US official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, provided the number of westerners on the Qatar flight and said that two senior Taliban officials helped facilitate the departure on Thursday - the new foreign minister and deputy prime minister. Americans, US green card holders and other nationalities, including Germans, Hungarians and Canadians, were aboard.Pentagon chief: Al-Qaeda may try to come backUS defence secretary Lloyd Austin said on Thursday the Al-Qaeda terror group that used Afghanistan as a staging base to attack the US 20 years ago may attempt to regenerate there following an American withdrawal that left the Taliban in power.“That’s the nature of the organisation,” he said in Kuwait City. He said the US is prepared to prevent an Al-Qaeda comeback in Afghanistan. “We put the Taliban on notice that we expect them to not allow that to happen,” Austin said, referring to the possibility of Al-Qaeda again using Afghanistan as a base.US in no rush to recognise new govt: White HouseThe US is not in a rush to recognise the new Taliban-led interim government, according to a top White House official, PTI reported.On questions regarding the interim cabinet, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Wednesday, “We have not conveyed we’re going to recognise it (the new government) and nor are we rushing to recognition. There’s a lot they have to do before that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kabul-airport-returns-to-action-plane-with-civilians-flies-out-101631238389326.html
10-09-2021||World||Covid-19 cases among children in US on the rise as schools reopen||As millions of children are heading back to schools across the United States, thousands of them are testing positive for Covid-19. More than 250,000 children had fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last week of August, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) said in a report published on Wednesday. This is the highest weekly rate of new paediatric cases since the Covid-19 pandemic began.Data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) showed that children’s hospitals are straining under the surge in fresh Covid-19 cases. About 2,500 children were hospitalised with Covid-19 in the week up to September 6. The CDC report also implied that over 55,000 youngsters have been hospitalised with Covid-19 through August 2020, who had no prior medical history. Though the deaths related to the infections are still not rampant, yet, approximately 520 children had died due to Covid-19 as of Wednesday.The CDC released a report on September 3 that showed a five-fold increase in child hospitalisation rates because of the Delta variant. In the same June-August time period, hospitalisations were 10 times higher for children under the age of four and for those between the ages of 12 to 17. Hospitalisation was 10 times higher among unvaccinated than vaccinated children, the report stated. Another CDC report from September 3 found that although hospitalisation rates for children climbed from June to August, they were lower in states with higher vaccination uptake.“It’s very important for children who are eligible to be vaccinated. There’s just no other way to protect ourselves right now except using vaccination along with mitigation – wearing masks, washing our hands, trying to maintain our social distance," Dr Mary Caserta, a professor of paediatrics at the University of Rochester Medical Center and a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics’s committee on infectious diseases, told the Guardian.According to AAP, all US states have seen an increase in Covid-19 cases, but the numbers have been uneven throughout the nation, with 11 states reporting more than 150,000 paediatric cases and three states with fewer than 10,000 paediatric cases last week. Tennessee, South Carolina, Rhode Island, North Dakota, Arkansas and Mississippi have the highest cases per 100,000 children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-among-children-in-us-on-the-rise-as-schools-reopen-101631236136016.html
10-09-2021||World||US says Taliban interim government doesn't reflect what it ‘hoped to see'||The interim Taliban government does not reflect what the international community and the United States hoped to see, the Biden Administration said on Thursday."We have spoken about our reaction to the initial caretaker government. You have heard us say that the lack of inclusivity, the track records, the backgrounds of some of the individuals involved, are a cause for concern. It certainly does not reflect what the international community and what, as a part of that, the United States hoped to see," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his news conference."Now, we note this is an initial caretaker government. We note that some of these positions remain unfulfilled. So what will be important to us is not only the composition of any future government of Afghanistan...again, we will look to see to it that it is inclusive, to see to it that it is representative of the people that the Taliban purport to represent," he said.The US also look towards their actions, and that was another constant refrain when the US and its closest allies and partners met in Ramstein, Germany.“There were several elements of consensus that emerged, and in fact, there were key questions that many of the participants posed: Will the Taliban uphold their commitments to freedom of travel and safe passage -- in the case of the United States for Americans, but also for third-country nationals, for our Afghan partners? Will they live up to their counterterrorism commitments?” he said.“There was a broad discussion of the threat from ISIS-K, from al-Qaida, from terrorist groups that may seek to operate or that are operating on Afghan soil. Will they form an inclusive government? That will be a key question that we'll look to see as the future Afghan government comes together. And will they sustain progress for women and girls? In other words, will the gains of the past 20 years that no country did more to facilitate and support than the United States, will those gains be preserved?” he asked.Answers to those questions remain unanswered, he said. “We will together be able to answer those questions with our allies and partners as we start to see how the Taliban is going to purport to govern, how it will treat its people, how it will treat our people, how it will confront threats not only to the Taliban but threats to us as well, and that includes from ISIS-K,” Price said.The United States and the international community, he said, will continue to hold the Taliban to account for its public and private commitments, the commitments it has made in private that those with valid travel documents who wish to leave the country will be able to do so.Secretary of State Tony Blinken hosted a ministerial meeting along with Foreign Minister Heiko Maas of Germany on Wednesday, and this was a topic of discussion, he said.Among the consistent themes they heard from the more than 20 countries and organisations that took part was the need to work collectively, using every tool at their disposal, to hold the Taliban responsible for those commitments."Of course, we would like to see more such flights, flights similar to the one that took off today. We have heard public statements that more, in fact, may be forthcoming. But obviously, we don't want to prejudge that, and we will continue to do everything we can together with our partners to work towards that goal,” he said, referring to an evacuation flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-taliban-interim-government-doesn-t-reflect-what-it-hoped-to-see-101631237332727.html
10-09-2021||World||Multiple people shot in southern Illinois, 3 suspects flee||Multiple victims were reported shot in southern Illinois late Thursday afternoon and three suspects who crashed their getaway vehicle into a passenger train remained on the loose, authorities said.The St. Clair County Sheriff’s Office said the suspects shot multiple people in East St. Louis, but it wasn't immediately clear how many, KMOV-TV reported. East St. Louis is located about 6 miles (9.66 kilometers) east of St. Louis, Missouri.The shooting suspects tried to out-run a MetroLink train at a nearby crossing and their vehicle was struck, the station said. Police were searching for the suspects in a wooded area.The shooting happened after 4 p.m., Illinois State Police said in a news release.The public was asked to avoid the area of the shooting, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported.MetroLink was warning of delays of an hour or more in that area. Passengers were being transported by bus shuttles around the two affected stations, said Patti Beck, a communications official with Bi-State Development, which operates MetroLink.No further information was immediately available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-people-shot-in-southern-illinois-3-suspects-flee-101631233229718.html
10-09-2021||World||We must have 'dialogue' with Taliban and avoid 'millions of deaths': UN chief||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres pleaded with the international community, during an interview with AFP Thursday to maintain a dialogue with the Taliban in Afghanistan, warning that an "economic collapse" with possibly millions dying must be avoided."We must maintain a dialogue with the Taliban, where we affirm our principles directly -- a dialogue with a feeling of solidarity with the Afghan people," he said."Our duty is to extend our solidarity to a people who suffer greatly, where millions and millions risk dying of hunger," Guterres added.The UN chief said there were "no guarantees" about what might come out of talks but that discussions are a must "if we want Afghanistan not to be a center of terrorism, if we want women and girls to not lose all the rights acquired during the previous period, if we want different ethnic groups to be able to feel represented.""Until now, in the discussions that we have had, there is at least a receptivity to talk," added Guterres, who does not rule out going to Afghanistan one day if conditions are right.What the UN wishes is "an inclusive government," where all components of Afghan society are represented, and "this first preliminary government" announced a few days ago "does not give that impression," he added, regretfully."We need respect for human rights, women and girls. Terrorism must have no base in Afghanistan to launch operations in other countries and the Taliban must cooperate in the struggle against drugs," Guterres added.He said Afghanistan must be governed "in peace and stability, with the rights of the people respected."Guterres added that the Taliban wants recognition, financial support and sanctions to be abolished."That gives a certain leverage to the international community," he said, adding that "an economic collapse situation which could create appalling humanitarian consequences" must be avoided.Guterres suggested that, as with Yemen, it is possible to foresee the granting of "financial instruments" to Kabul that would not be subject to current sanctions."It is in the interest of the international community and I am not talking about the lifting of sanctions or recognition. I am talking about targeted measures to allow the Afghan economy to breathe," he told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-must-have-dialogue-with-taliban-and-avoid-millions-of-deaths-un-chief-101631231226854.html
10-09-2021||World||Any engagement with the Taliban will be based on its actions: Australian envoy||Australia is concerned that the new regime created by the Taliban in Afghanistan is not inclusive and has UN-sanctioned members of the Haqqani Network, and any engagement with the group will be based on its actions, Australian envoy Barry O’Farrell said on Thursday. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure in the first 2+2 dialogue between the defence and foreign ministers of India and Australia on Saturday, along with other important security issues such as China’s role in the region and the situation in the East and South China Seas. O’Farrell declined to go into the specifics of the agenda for the 2+2 dialogue but said Australia is looking to the meeting to help deepen the relationship between two “dependable and trusted partners” that are already working closely on strategic issues both bilaterally and in forums such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. Australia, he said, is also working with its partners to ensure a “joined up approach in any engagement with the Taliban”, though the current focus is on ensuring that the Taliban permits the safe passage of Australian and other citizens who wish to leave Afghanistan. Referring to the formation of a 33-member interim setup by the Taliban on Tuesday, O’Farrell said: “The Australian government is deeply disappointed by the lack of inclusion in the government’s make-up, particularly the fact that there are no women, no representatives of the [Shia] Hazara community or other ethnic groups, no members of the previous government and two members of the Haqqani [Network], which is a listed terrorist organisation.” “The Australian government will engage and focus on advancing Australia’s interests and we will judge the Taliban. We are focused on ensuring that the Taliban ensures safe passage to those people who want to leave, ceases violence, pursues an inclusive government, prevents violent extremism within Afghanistan, prevents terrorism directed outwards from Afghanistan and upholds human rights, particularly for women and girls,” he said. “We will judge the government of Afghanistan by its actions and this will shape any engagement with the Taliban,” he added. Australia is also concerned about people stranded in Afghanistan following the takeover by the Taliban on August 15. Evacuation flights from Kabul stopped following the withdrawal of all US and foreign troops on August 30 and citizens from several countries, including India, are currently stranded in Afghanistan. O’Farrell said Australia has made an initial offer of 3,000 humanitarian visas and is working with the UN commissioner for refugees on such issues. Australia has also evacuated 3,600 people from Afghanistan, though permanent residents, Australian citizens and others with connections to Australia are “keen to leave”, he said. “We have joined with other nations in calling on the Taliban to uphold its undertakings that international citizens and visa holders will be allowed to depart in a safe and orderly manner,” he said. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and defence minister Peter Dutton will be visiting India during September 10-12 for the 2+2 dialogue with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh. The 2+2 dialogue is the outcome of a decision made at the India-Australia leaders’ virtual summit in June 2020 to elevate bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership. The external affairs ministry said the agenda for the dialogue will cover bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest. The Australian ministers will arrive in India after holding a similar dialogue with Indonesia, and they will also travel to South Korea and the US for 2+2 discussions. Australia’s foreign ministry said the “substantive and significant foreign and defence trip strongly reinforces Australia’s active engagement in our region”. “During our meetings and engagements across the four countries, we will discuss our continuing partnerships to overcome the pandemic, including through the equitable, safe and effective distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, and our shared path to global economic recovery,” Payne said. “These inaugural 2+2 discussions are a cornerstone of the Australia-India comprehensive strategic partnership, which is founded on a shared commitment to a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/any-engagement-with-the-taliban-will-be-based-on-its-actions-australian-envoy-101631214235667.html
