11-09-2021||World||'Exceptional': George Bush remembers Flight 93 passengers who foiled attack on US Capitol in 9/11||Former President George W. Bush told people at the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania that Americans learned much about themselves on September 11.“We learned that bravery is more common than we imagined, emerging with sudden splendor in the face of death," Bush said Saturday at a ceremony on the 20th anniversary of the attacks.Bush, who was President during the attacks, commended the courage of the Flight 93 passengers and crew, who are believed to have foiled an attack on the US Capitol by leading the plane to crash in rural Pennsylvania.“The 33 passengers and seven crew of Flight 93 could have been any group of citizens selected by fate. In a sense, they stood in for us all," Bush said. "The terrorists soon discovered that a random group of Americans is an exceptional group of people.”He encouraged Americans to put aside their political differences in the spirit of what he saw after 9/11.“So much of our politics has become a naked appeal to anger, fear and resentment," Bush said. “On America’s day of trial and grief, I saw millions of people instinctively grab their neighbor’s hand and rally to the cause of one another."Vice President Kamala Harris began her remarks at the Flight 93 memorial with words for those who lost loved ones on September 11.“So many in our nation -- too many in our nation -- have deeply felt the passage of time these past 20 years," she said. "Please know your nation sees you and we stand with you and we support you.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bush-remembers-flight-93-passengers-who-foiled-attack-on-us-capitol-in-911-101631382306484.html
11-09-2021||World||US marks first 9/11 commemoration out of the shadow of Afghan war||The United States marked the 20th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks with the same solemnity as every year, starting with the bell ringing at 8.46am at the memorial in Lower Manhattan in New York, the time the first plane hit North Tower of the World Trade Center.At 9.03am attendees stood again to observe a moment of silence when the South Tower was hit with a hijacked jet. At 9.37am, the attendees observed a moment of silence when the Pentagon was hit with a jet leading to the death of 184 people onboard and on the ground, and again at 10.03am when another hijacked jet with passengers crashed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. At 9.59am, the moment of silence was observed again when the South Tower fell and at 10.28 am when the North Tower started falling.A moment of silence was observed to mark each of these tragedies.For the first time though, the US commemorated the tragic day and events out of the shadow of the longest war in its history it had launched 20 years ago to hunt down the perpetrators of the attack - Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda - in Afghanistan.US President Joe Biden, who ended the war last month amidst both criticism and applause, and First Lady Jill Biden were joined at the New York memorial service by former president Bill Clinton and ex-secretary of state Hillary Clinton and former president Barack Obama and his wife Michelle Obama.The American president released a video message on Friday calling for “national unity”. Joe Biden said: “In the days that followed September 11, 2001, we saw heroism everywhere. We also saw something all too rare: national unity. Unity is what makes us who we are, America at its best. To me, that’s the central lesson of September 11th.”Former president George W Bush, who was president at the time and who launched the Afghanistan war, and his wife Laura Bush attended the event in Pennsylvania, the site where Flight 93 had crashed as its passengers tried to wrest control of the plane from the terrorists, who, it is widely believed, had planned to slam it into either the US Capitol or the White House in Washington DC. Bush joined vice-president Kamala Harris and second gentleman Douglas Emhoff.“On this 20th anniversary, on this solemn day of remembrance, we must challenge ourselves to, yes, look back. For the sake of our children. For the sake of their children,” said Kamala Harris at the Shanksville event, adding, “And for that reason, we must also look forward. We must also look towards the future.”Former president George W Bush spoke movingly of the united America he had led out of the 9/11 tragedy compared to the bitterly divided country now. “In the weeks and months following the 911 attacks I was proud to lead an amazing, resilient united people. When it comes to the unity of America, those days seem different from our own,” he said, adding, “Malign forces seem at work in our common life, which turn every disagreement into an argument. And, every argument into a clash of cultures.”George W Bush did not name anyone, but there was a clear pointer in his speech was to the politics of former president Donald Trump, who was not at any of the three commemoration sites. But, he used the solemn occasion to hit out at his successor. In a video message, he slammed the “inept administration” of President Joe Biden over the way the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan happened. “The leader of our country was made to look like a fool and that can never be allowed to happen,”Donald Trump said.The other former president, Barack Obama, recalled the courage and selflessness displayed by passengers of Flight 93 and first-responders. “Over the last 20 years, we’ve seen the same courage and selflessness on display again and again. We saw it a decade ago when, after years of persistence, our military brought justice to Osama bin Laden. “And we’re seeing it today - in the doctors and nurses, bone tired, doing what they can to save lives; the service members, some of whom weren’t even born 20 years ago, putting themselves at risk to save Americans and help refugees find a better life; the first responders battling roaring fires and rising waters to bring families to safety. They represent what is best in America, and what can and should bring us together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-marks-first-9-11-commemoration-out-of-the-shadow-of-afghan-war-101631383268112.html
11-09-2021||World||China criticises Uyghur Tribunal over probing human rights abuses in Xinjiang||China has criticised the Uyghur Tribunal -- an independent UK-based panel -- over investigating human rights abuses in Xinjiang and said it has nothing to do with law, justice, or truth.China's foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian during a news conference in Beijing on Thursday said that no matter how many 'actors or actresses' Uyghur Tribunal recruits and how many 'hearings' it arranges, it is nothing but a kangaroo court and a futile attempt, Voice of America (VOA) reported on Saturday."It has nothing to do with law, justice or truth, and is just another farce staged to smear and attack Xinjiang," Zhao added.Uyghur Tribunal is a panel of Britain-based lawyers and rights experts examining human rights violations and reports of genocide in China's Xinjiang region.In June, the "tribunal" heard nearly 38 witnesses during the first round of hearings in London.According to Nick Vetch, vice-chair of the tribunal, it's led by Sir Geoffrey Nice, a prominent lawyer and expert in international criminal law, the nine "jurors" include academics, medical and business practitioners.China has been accused of suppressing Uyghur minorities in Xinjiang and putting them into detention centres for years in the name of educational camps, VOA said.The US as well as rights organisations like Amnesty International accused China of genocide and crimes against humanity targeting Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities.An advocacy organisation in Washington, the Uyghur Human Rights Project, issued a report in June describing and analysing videos released by the Chinese government about the personal and family lives of Uyghurs.The 57-page report said that Chinese authorities force Uyghurs who have been detained to appear on camera and speak out against their relatives abroad, as well as against the broader movement calling for Uyghur human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-criticises-uyghur-tribunal-over-probing-human-rights-abuses-in-xinjiang-101631382492947.html
11-09-2021||World||Pak NSA calls on countries to engage with Taliban, warns about ‘cost' of abandonment||Pakistan’s national security advisor on Saturday called on the international community to engage with the Taliban to prevent another refugee crisis, reported news agency PTI. Speaking at a webinar on Afghanistan’s future and regional stability, Pakistan NSA Moeed Yusuf said that abandoning the war-torn country again would be a mistake."The world must think about the cost of abandonment of Afghanistan," the Centre for Aerospace & Security Studies (CASS), organiser of the webinar, quoted Yusuf as saying.India and Western countries have opted for a wait-and-watch policy as they are apprehensive about engaging with the Islamist fundamentalists given the Taliban’s history of gross human rights violations. Under their harsh version of Sharia law, the Taliban had banned girls education and women at workplaces during the previous rule. They were also notorious for holding public executions in stadiums.Also Read | 'ISI would be interested:' US-built databases a potential tool of Taliban repressionPakistan, on the other hand, was proactive in the government formation in Afghanistan. Earlier this week, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid confirmed that Pakistan's powerful intelligence chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed met the group’s de-factor leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar amid efforts to finalise the government. Baradar was later named the deputy prime minister of the provisional government.Yusuf said the Western countries committed a catastrophic mistake of abandoning Afghanistan after the conflict between the erstwhile Soviet Union and the so-called Afghan Mujahideen ended. The early 90s witnessed a prolonged civil war which led to the formation of the Taliban under the leadership of Mullah Omar.He claimed that Pakistan was the only nation that bore the brunt of abandoning Afghanistan, a country that, under the Taliban’s rule, provided shelter to Al Qaeda leaders, resulting in the 9/11 attacks in the United States. Pakistan NSA further stated that the world needs to constructively engage the Afghan Taliban in order to prevent governance collapse and avert another refugee crisis, according to PTI.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-nsa-calls-on-countries-to-engage-with-taliban-warns-about-cost-of-abandonment-101631375677519.html
11-09-2021||World||Leaked audio reveals Taliban's rift with Pakistan, claims report||A purported audio clip is going viral on social media claiming that the voice in the clip belongs to Taliban leader Mullah Fazel Akhund who is slamming Punjab (Pakistan) for "destroying everything". Reports said that Mullah Fazel, the deputy defence minister of the interim cabinet, also referred to ISI chief Hameed Faiz's recent visit to Kabul which, according to the audio, 'has ruined Afghanistan's entire future and another war is expecting". Hindustan Times did not independently verify the authenticity of the viral audio clip.A News18 report said that the audio mentioned a firing incident in the President's Palace between Faiz Hameed's bodyguards and the Taliban commanders. Audio file of a Taliban leader who is saying, "Punjab destroyed everything", "in Arg between Taliban there was a huge fight and there is still a lot of problems between Taliban", "guest (ISI chief) ruined Afghanistan's entire future and another war is expecting".👇 audio file pic.twitter.com/WtTU6HBZD0Faiz Hameed's recent visit to Kabul raised questions over Pakistan's role behind the Taliban and reports said that the ISI chief visited Afghanistan to mediate between the Taliban and the Haqqanis. Before his visit, the Taliban were set to announce a Cabinet under the leadership of Mullah Baradar. After the visit, there were some tweaks in the plan the final Cabinet was set up under the leadership of Taliban Supreme leader Akhundzada. Two prominent Haqqani leaders have also been inducted into the Cabinet. Reports said that this was not the Cabinet that the Taliban were actually planning as they had promised an inclusive Cabinet.The clash during the ISI chief's visit was not the first one regarding the Cabinet formation. Going by reports, the visit itself was prompted by a clash between the Taliban and the Haqqani network in which Mullah Baradar was injured.After the Taliban seized power in Afghanistan, Pakistan officially distanced itself from the Taliban using the fact that Mullah Baradar was in jail in Pakistan until the US wanted him to be released.The ISI chief had said that his visit was meant for discussing the situation of the country with the leadership. On account of his visit, the announcement of the interim cabinet was delayed last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/leaked-audio-reveals-taliban-s-rift-with-pakistan-claims-report-101631374180215.html
11-09-2021||World||Hurricane Larry hits Newfoundland wipes out power, trees||People in the Canadian Atlantic coast province of Newfoundland woke up Saturday to streets littered with branches and debris, torn and tossed around by the ferocious winds of Hurricane Larry.Larry made landfall as a Category 1 storm just after midnight Friday along the southern coast of the island, bringing sheets of rain and sustained winds of 130 km/h (80 miles) across the Avalon Peninsula, which includes the provincial capital of St. John's.The city's streets were lined with fallen branches Saturday morning, and trees were uprooted and overturned on many lawns.A small crowd gathered around Mary Queen of Peace elementary school Saturday, shaking their heads slowly as fragments of the school's shredded roof whipped around in the remaining winds.A large part of the roof was blown clear off the building and lay in a heap of siding and nail-riddled boards on the ground some distance away.As of 10 am, nearly 30,000 people in the St. John's region were still without power, Newfoundland Power's website said. But the lights and coffee makers were on at a Tim Horton's near the Rooms provincial art gallery, and the lineup to get a morning coffee snaked through the restaurant and out the door.Brandon Snook was outside the coffee shop with his infant son, Myles, as his wife grabbed a few cups inside. They didn't have any power to make their own, he said.Myles slept through the entire night, Snook said, clearly impressed.“My sister, her little little one lost her play house,” he said.“It got smashed up against the house in about two million pieces.”His own house made it through OK, he said -- just a bit of siding peeled loose.An empty building nearby in the Rawlins Cross intersection wasn't so lucky; several of its traffic-facing windows were shattered in their frames, leaving the inside of the building completely exposed.Up the street, parts of the green iron fencing surrounding the Basilica Cathedral had fallen down and several of the massive structures windows were missing.The Royal Newfoundland Constabulary urged pedestrians and drivers across the peninsula to stay home as officers swept the area to report fallen trees and power lines.Newfoundland Power, meanwhile, assured those in the dark that crews had been out since daybreak to work on the power lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-larry-hits-newfoundland-wipes-out-power-trees-101631372688357.html
11-09-2021||World||Trump uses 9/11 anniversary to attack Biden, says he was made to ‘look like a fool’||Former US president Donald Trump on Saturday used the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks to accuse his successor, Joe Biden, of surrendering “in defeat” by withdrawing from Afghanistan. In a campaign-style video message, Trump lamented the chaotic withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan last month which led to the killing of 13 US service members and dozens of Afghans in a suicide bombing outside the Kabul airport."This is a very sad day," Trump said in the message."It is also a sad time for the way our war on those that did such harm to our country ended last week,” he added.Trump was referring to the US’ Afghanistan invasion in 2001 to eliminate Al Qaeda in the wake of the 9/11 attacks and the chaotic withdrawal after two decades that saw the return of the Taliban in the war-torn country. The United States had toppled the Taliban regime in a bid to find Al Qaeda leaders, especially their chief Osama bin Laden, who had planned the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people.Also Read | 'America is under attack': When White House chief of staff whispered to George W. Bush on 9/11The former US commander-in-chief, whose administration oversaw the withdrawal deal with the Taliban last year, said that Biden was made “look like a fool”, stressing that it can never be allowed to happen. Trump blamed the chaotic withdrawal on "bad planning, incredible weakness and leaders who truly didn't understand what was happening.""Joe Biden and his inept administration surrendered in defeat," he continued. "We will struggle to recover from the embarrassment this incompetence has caused."On Saturday, Biden started a full day of memorial events from Ground Zero, the site where the World Trade Center's twin towers once stood. He then began travel to Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where a hijacked plane crashed in a field as passengers tried to take control of the flight from terrorists.“Twenty years ago, nearly 3,000 lives were cut short by an unspeakable act of cowardice and hatred on 9/11. As a nation, we must never forget those we lost during one of the darkest moments in our history and the enduring pain of their families and loved ones,” the US president tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-uses-9-11-anniversary-to-attack-biden-says-he-was-made-look-like-a-fool-101631371143406.html
11-09-2021||World||Biden, Obama, Clinton mark 9/11 in NYC with display of unity||Three presidents and their wives stood somberly side by side at the National September 11 Memorial, sharing a moment of silence to mark the anniversary of the nation’s worst terror attack with a display of unity.Presidents Joe Biden, Barack Obama and Bill Clinton all gathered at the site where the World Trade Center towers fell two decades ago. They each wore blue ribbons and held their hands over their hearts as a procession marched a flag through the memorial, watched by hundreds of Americans gathered for the remembrance, some carrying photos of loved ones lost in the attacks.Before the event began, a jet flew overhead in an eerie echo of the attacks, drawing a glance from Biden toward the sky.Biden was a senator when hijackers commandeered four planes and executed the attack. Now he marks the 9/11 anniversary for the first time as commander in chief.The president will spend Saturday paying his respects at the trio of sites where the planes crashed, but he left the speech-making to others.Instead, the White House released a taped address late Friday in which Biden spoke of the “true sense of national unity” that emerged after the attacks, seen in “heroism everywhere — in places expected and unexpected.”“To me that’s the central lesson of September 11,” he said. “Unity is our greatest strength.”Biden arrived in New York on Friday night as the skyline was illuminated by the “Tribute in Light,” hauntingly marking where the towers once stood.Following the morning ceremony in New York City, Biden will visit the field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where a plane fell from the sky after heroic passengers fought terrorists to prevent it from reaching its Washington destination. And finally, he will head to the Pentagon, where the world’s mightiest military suffered an unthinkable blow to its very home.Biden’s task, like his predecessors before him, was to mark the moment with a mix of grief and resolve. A man who has suffered immense personal tragedy, Biden speaks of loss with power.He gave voice to the pain that comes with memories of 9/11 in his video message, saying, “No matter how much time has passed, these commemorations bring everything painfully back as if you just got the news a few seconds ago.”Robert Gibbs, who served as Obama’s press secretary, said for Biden, “It’s a moment for people to see him not as Democratic president, but as president of the United States of America,.”“The American people are somewhat conflicted about what they have seen out of Afghanistan the last couple of weeks,” Gibbs said. “For Biden, it’s a moment to try to reset some of that. Remind people of what it is to be commander in chief and what it means to be the leader of the country at a moment of such significance.”On the 20th anniversary of the attacks, Biden now shoulders the responsibility borne by his predecessors to prevent future tragedy, and must do so against fresh fears of a rise in terror after the United States’ hasty exit from Afghanistan, the country from which the Sept. 11 attacks were plotted.Biden is the fourth president to console the nation on the anniversary of that dark day, one that has shaped many of the most consequential domestic and foreign policy decisions made by the chief executives over the past two decades.The terror attack defined the presidency of George W. Bush, who was reading a book to Florida schoolchildren when the planes slammed into the World Trade Center. He spent that day being kept out of Washington for security reasons — a decision that then-Sen. Biden urged him to reconsider, the current president has written — and then delivered a brief, halting speech that night from the White House to a terrified nation.The following year, Bush chose Ellis Island as the location to deliver his first anniversary address, the Statue of Liberty over his shoulder as he vowed, “What our enemies have begun, we will finish.”The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were still deadly when Obama visited the Pentagon to mark his first Sept. 11 in office in 2009.“No words can ease the ache of your hearts,” he said.“We recall the beauty and meaning of their lives,” he said. “No passage of time, no dark skies can dull the meaning of that moment.”By the time Obama spoke at the 10th anniversary, attack mastermind Osama bin Laden was dead, killed in a May 2011 Navy SEAL raid. Though the nation remained entangled overseas, and vigilant against terror threats, the anniversary became more about healing.President Donald Trump pledged to get the U.S. out of Afghanistan, but his words during his first Sept. 11 anniversary ceremony in 2017 were a vivid warning to terrorists, telling “these savage killers that there is no dark corner beyond our reach, no sanctuary beyond our grasp, and nowhere to hide anywhere on this very large earth.”On Saturday, as Biden was making his way to all three sites, Bush was to pay his respects in Shanksville. Trump planned at least one stop in Manhattan and was to deliver ringside commentary at a boxing match at a casino in Hollywood, Florida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-obama-clinton-mark-9-11-in-nyc-with-display-of-unity-101631368480099.html
11-09-2021||World||US could authorise Pfizer Covid-19 shot for kids aged 5 to 11 in October||Top US health officials believe that Pfizer Inc's Covid-19 vaccine could be authorized for children aged 5-11 years old by the end of October, two sources familiar with the situation said on Friday.The timeline is based on the expectation that Pfizer, which developed the shot with Germany's BioNTech, will have enough data from clinical trials to seek emergency use authorisation (EUA) for that age group from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) towards the end of this month, the sources said.They anticipate the FDA could make a decision on whether the shot is safe and effective in younger children within three weeks of the EUA submission.The decision on whether to authorise a vaccine for younger children is eagerly anticipated by millions of Americans, particularly parents whose children started school in recent weeks amid a wave of infections driven by the Delta variant.Top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci outlined the timetable during an online town hall meeting attended by thousands of staff at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) on Friday, according to one of the sources. A second source familiar with the situation said that the FDA anticipated a similar timeline for Pfizer.If Pfizer submits its EUA by the end of September, and the data support its use, "by the time we get to October, the first couple of weeks of October... the Pfizer product will likely be ready," Fauci said, according to the source.Fauci said that Moderna Inc will likely take about three weeks longer than Pfizer to collect and analyse its data on children age 5-11, according to the source. He estimated that a decision on the Moderna shot could come around November, according to the source. The second source said Fauci's timeline for Moderna appeared "optimistic."Officials at Pfizer, Moderna and NIH did not immediately comment.Pfizer has previously said that it would have data on children age 5-11 ready in September and planned to submit for an EUA shortly after. Previously, federal health regulators, including Fauci, have suggested that an FDA decision might come in November or later. Moderna on Thursday told investors it expected data from its children's study by the end of the year.Earlier on Friday, the FDA said it would work to approve the Covid-19 vaccines for children quickly once the companies submitted their data. It said it would consider applications based on a faster path to authorize the shot for emergency use.Such emergency authorisation requires companies to submit two months of safety data on trial participants, versus six months required for full licensure.Pfizer partner BioNTech told Der Spiegel that it also expects to request authorization globally for the Covid-19 vaccine in children as young as five over the next few weeks and that preparations for a launch were on track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-could-authorise-pfizer-covid-19-shot-for-kids-aged-5-to-11-in-october-101631366076323.html
11-09-2021||World||'My name is not Aryana. It's Freshta': How Afghan star made plan B to flee Kabul||Afghan pop star Aryana Sayeed who fled Kabul after the Taliban takeover has recounted the harrowing experience as her first attempt failed. In an interview to AFP, the pop star who fled to Istanbul said that she instructed her manager and fiance to shoot her in case the Taliban captured her alive. "I said to him, you know Hasib... if I am about to be taken away alive, just shoot me. Just shoot me in the head," she told AFP from Istanbul.Her first attempt to flee Kabul was on August 15, the day the Taliban captured Kabul. But the flight she was planning to board did not take off. The following day she made her second attempt and since then the pop star made trips to Doha, Kuwait and the US, the report said. Now she and her fiance are back in Istanbul.As they were waiting amid the swelling crowd in the airport, a kid came and sat on her lap and then the star came up with her plan B. "We made up a story as well. I remember we told this little kid if we get stopped, you have to tell them I am your mum and my name is not Aryana. It's Freshta," she said recounting how she made back-up plans.US soldiers initially refused to let them through as they were not American citizens, but a translator recognised Hasib and told the soldiers that he was the fiance of a big star whose life was in jeopardy."If the Taliban are around, there is definitely no space for me because the Taliban are thirsty for my blood," she said.The 26-year-old star have been vocal against Pakistan's meddling into Afghanistan affairs and slammed the recently announced Taliban cabinet for not being inclusive at all. "The women of Afghanistan are not the same women they were 20 years ago. They are definitely not going to accept this," she said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/my-name-is-not-aryana-it-s-freshta-how-afghan-star-made-plan-b-to-flee-kabul-101631365595434.html
11-09-2021||World||'We will be safe after this': Afghan women march in support of Taliban||Hundreds of Afghan women fully covered from head to toe marched in Kabul holding the Taliban white-and-black flags on Saturday in a show of support for the hardline Islamist group. They were seen in photographs holding printed banners and were being escorted by Taliban soldiers carrying rifles and machine guns. Saturday’s demonstration came after several protests in Kabul and other cities in Afghanistan earlier in the week called for women’s participation in the government and called for their right to education and jobs. Taliban fighters have tried to scuttle such demonstrations, often led by women, by firing into the air to disperse protesters and effectively banned such shows of defiance."Women who left Afghanistan cannot represent us," one of the pro-Taliban banners read. "We are satisfied with attitude and behaviour of Mujahideens (Taliban),” read another.Also read | Is it necessary for Afghan women to be part of cabinet? Taliban leader repliesDaud Haqqani, director of foreign relations at the education ministry, said the protest was organised by the women, who asked and been granted permission to demonstrate. The Taliban curtailed women's rights in Afghanistan during their last regime from 1996 to 2001, but they have claimed that this time they will allow them to attend university as long as classes are segregated by sex and they wear an abaya robe and niqab. Women may work "in accordance with the principles of Islam", the Taliban have decreed without giving out details about what they mean.Also read | Taliban might have cancelled 9/11 oath ceremony to save money: ReportsBefore the march, these women attended a series of speeches critical of women who have protested across Afghanistan in recent days. Held at Shaheed Rabbani Education University, these women were surrounded by large Taliban flags. "We are against those women who are protesting on the streets, claiming they are representative of women. Is it freedom to like the last government? No, it is not freedom. The last government were misusing women. They were recruiting women just by their beauty," the first speaker, who was also covered head to toe, said, according to AFP.Also read | Violence against journalists on rise in Afghanistan: Reporters Without BordersA student named Shabana Omari told the gathered women she agreed with the Taliban's policy that women should cover their heads. "Those not wearing the hijab are harming all of us. The hijab is not an individual thing,” she said, referring to the headscarves worn by many Muslim women. Somaiya, another speaker, said history had changed since the Taliban came back. "After this we will not see 'bihijabi' (people not wearing headscarves). Women will be safe after this. We are supporting our government with all our strength."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-will-be-safe-after-this-afghan-women-march-in-support-of-taliban-in-kabul-101631362316358.html
11-09-2021||World||'America is under attack': When White House chief of staff whispered to George W. Bush on 9/11||Americans are commemorating the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks that claimed nearly 3,000 lives and resulted in a years-long war in Afghanistan and Iraq. While the remembrances have become an annual tradition, the recent withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, which saw the return of the Taliban in the war-torn country, this day holds a special significance.Al Qaeda terrorists hijacked commercial airliners and crashed them into the twin towers of the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon. A United Airlines Flight 93 crashed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania after passengers tried to regain control of the hijacked plane.On that fateful day, then US President George W. Bush was in Sarasota to interact with a class of students at Emma E. Booker Elementary School.Here's how the things unfolded on September 11, 2001:American Airlines 11 departed from Boston for Los Angeles at 07.59am and has its last routine communication with the ground at 8.15am.At 08.19am, a flight attendant reported an emergency to the airline's reservation office in North Carolina via an airphone. After 22 minutes, a duty manager was told that air traffic controllers declared hijacking of the flight, believing it was headed toward New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport."Something is wrong. We are in a rapid descent," another flight attendant told the airline's office in Boston."Oh my God, we are way too low," the flight attendant said after she was asked to determine the plane's location by looking out of the window.The flight crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center at 8.46am.Also Read | On 9/11, how a Nasa astronaut saw attacks on US from spaceThen White House chief of staff Andrew Card, who was in Sarasota with Bush, told Fox 13 that initially it was believed to be a small private plane. “Sir, it appears a small twin-engine prop plane crashed into one of the towers at the World Trade Center," Card recounted a Navy captain telling the president.Bush remained seated with the children as they believed it was an accident.At 8.42am, the United Airlines Flight 175, which had departed from Boston for Los Angeles at 7.58am, reported a “suspicious transmission” overheard from another plane. It was American Airlines 11 which was about to crash into the North Tower. The United Airlines Flight 175 lost communication with the ground after reporting the transmission.A flight attendant called the airline's San Francisco office to report that the plane has been hijacked. She informed that both pilots had been killed, another flight attendant stabbed and hijackers were flying the plane in all probability.The plane crashed into the World Trade Center's South Tower at 9.03am. The tower collapsed at 9.58am in 10 seconds.Also See | Photos: 20 years later, a 9/11 image connects the photographer & survivorThe Navy captain, who had informed Bush about the plane crash, told Card that another plane had crashed into the second tower of the World Trade Center.Card walked up to the president and whispered, "A second plane hit the second tower, America is under attack."Bush remained in the classroom for about five to seven minutes and left with his motorcade at 9.35am. Air Force One departed without any fixed destination and landed at Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana.American Airlines 77, which departed from Dulles for Los Angeles, deviated from the assigned course at 8.54am. The transponder was turned off two minutes later. An airline executive learnt about the communication being lost with another flight, with one already crashed into the WTC. The airline ordered flights to not take off and those already in theair to make emergency landings.At 9.34am, Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport advised theUS Secret Service of unknown aircraft heading in direction of the White House. But the plane made a 330-degree turn for downtown Washington and crashed into the Pentagon three minutes later.United Airlines Flight 93 from Newark to San Francisco crashed into a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania at 10.02am as passengers tried to regain control of the flight.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/america-is-under-attack-when-white-house-chief-of-staff-whispered-to-george-w-bush-101631354742003.html
11-09-2021||World||John Kerry to visit India Sept 12-14, to launch clean energy funding initiative||India and the United States will launch a funding initiative to “speed” India’s transition to clean energy during Special Presidential Envoy John Kerry’s three-day visit to New Delhi starting Sunday.The Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD), as the mechanism is called, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden during a climate summit the latter had hosted virtually of 40 world leaders in April.John Kerry has spoken of the United States and allied countries raising a “huge amount” of private sector investment to help India’s efforts to mitigate global warming.During his visit from September 12 to 14, John Kerry, who first visited India in his current avatar in April, will meet Indian government counterparts and private sector leaders and discuss efforts to “raise global climate ambition and speed India’s clean energy transition”, the US state department said in a statement announcing his visit.Under the 2015 Paris Agreement, India has pledged to reduce emissions intensity of GDP by 33%-35% below the 2005 level by 2030; raise the non-fossil share of cumulative of power generation capacity 40% by 2030; and create additional (cumulative) carbon sink (something like a forest or a natural environment to absorb CO2 emissions) of 2.5-3 GtCo2e (a measure for greenhouse gases).India had also put forward a condition for meeting its targets: transfer of technology and low-cost international finance.The state department announcement said that the two countries will launch the CAFMD during the visit, describing it as one of the two main tracks of the US-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April 2021.The White House had then said that the 2030 partnership agenda will “aim to mobilise finance and speed clean energy deployment; demonstrate and scale innovative clean technologies needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across sectors including industry, transportation, power, and buildings; and build capacity to measure, manage, and adapt to the risks of climate-related impacts”.John Kerry’s visit to India - his second since his appointment to this role - was described by the state department as a part of US initiative to bolster bilateral and multilateral climate efforts ahead of the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), to be held from October 31 to November 12 in Glasgow, UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/john-kerry-to-visit-india-sept-12-14-to-launch-clean-energy-funding-initiative-101631361126476.html
11-09-2021||World||‘Smoke seemed to have an odd bloom’: On 9/11, a Nasa astronaut saw attacks from space||On September 11, 2001, planes crashed into New York City's World Trade Center, the Pentagon in Washington, DC, and a field in Pennsylvania shocking the United States and the world alike. Nasa astronaut Frank Culbertson saw the aftermath of the 9/11 tragedy from orbit from the International Space Station (ISS) as “smoke seemed to have an odd bloom to it at the base of the column that was streaming south of the city”. "It's horrible to see smoke pouring from wounds in your own country from such a fantastic vantage point," he wrote. "The dichotomy of being on a spacecraft dedicated to improving life on the earth and watching life being destroyed by such willful, terrible acts is jolting to the psyche."Frank Culbertson was widely called at the time as the “only US citizen not on earth” when the 9/11 terrorist attacks occurred 20 years ago. On 9/11, 19 al Qaeda terrorists hijacked four commercial airplanes to carry out devastating suicide attacks against the United States. They flew two planes into the Twin Towers of New York's World Trade Center which then collapsed, a third plane was flown into the Pentagon, while crew members and passengers on a fourth plane forced hijackers to crash in Pennsylvania. The 9/11 attacks killed 2,977 people, the single largest loss of life resulting from a foreign attack on American soil.Culbertson was about 400km above Earth inside the still-under-construction ISS with two Russian cosmonauts Mikhail Tyurin and Vladimir Dezhurov when he saw the huge column of smoke streaming from Lower Manhattan where the Twin Towers fell. Culbertson captured video and photos of the 9/11 site from space for Nasa, while satellites also tracked the attack site from orbit.Also read | Costs of War: This is how much US spent on war against terror post-9/11 attacksThe Nasa astronaut wrote about his experience the next day. “Well, obviously the world changed today. What I say or do is very minor compared to the significance of what happened to our country today when it was attacked by .... by whom? Terrorists is all we know, I guess. Hard to know at whom to direct our anger and fear…” Frank Culbertson said.A flight surgeon told Frank Culbertson “they were having a very bad day on the ground” and “described the situation to me as best he knew it”. “I was flabbergasted, then horrified. My first thought was that this wasn't a real conversation, that I was still listening to one of my Tom Clancy tapes. It just didn't seem possible on this scale in our country. I couldn't even imagine the particulars, even before the news of further destruction began coming in,” Culbertson said.Also read | 9/11 attacks: 20 years on, scars remainHe said he tried to explain to Tyurin and Dezhurov “as best I could the potential magnitude of this act of terror in downtown Manhattan and at the Pentagon”. “They clearly understood and were very sympathetic.”The Nasa astronaut said he found a window that would “give me a view of NYC and grabbed the nearest camera. It happened to be a video camera…” “The smoke seemed to have an odd bloom to it at the base of the column that was streaming south of the city. After reading one of the news articles we just received, I believe we were looking at NY around the time of, or shortly after, the collapse of the second tower. How horrible…”Also read | Myths perpetuated and busted in the 20 years since 9/11Culbertson said it was “pretty difficult to think about work after that”. “It all looked incredible from two to three hundred miles away. I can't imagine the tragic scenes on the ground,” he wrote.“Other than the emotional impact of our country being attacked and thousands of our citizens and maybe some friends being killed, the most overwhelming feeling being where I am is one of isolation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-9-11-how-a-nasa-astronaut-saw-attacks-on-us-from-space-101631356201464.html
11-09-2021||World||Healthy boys more likely to be hospitalised with Pfizer side-effect than Covid-19: Study||Healthy adolescent boys are more likely to be hospitalised with a rare side-effect after the second dose of Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine than the virus itself, claims a new study. US researchers studied the rate of post-vaccination cardiac myocarditis cases in the 12-15 and 16-17 age groups to analyse the benefits and risk of administering mRNA vaccines among adolescents.The researchers identified a total of 257 vaccine-related cardiac adverse events (CAEs) following the second dose of the mRNA vaccine. The rate of the CAEs per million among 12-15-year-old boys was 162.2, while it was 94.0 in 16-17-year-old boys. Among girls, the equivalent rates were 13.0 and 13.4 per million respectively.The study suggests that the rate of CAE was 3.7 to 6.1 times higher among healthy 12-15-year-old boys than their risk of hospitalisation from Covid-19 in 120 days as of August 21. The rate of CAE was 2.6-4.3-fold higher at times of high weekly hospitalization risk, such as during January 2021.“For boys 16-17 without medical comorbidities, the rate of CAE is currently 2.1 to 3.5 times higher than their 120-day Covid-19 hospitalization risk, and 1.5 to 2.5 times higher at times of high weekly Covid-19 hospitalization,” the study says.The study is yet to be peer-reviewed and currently available on a pre-print server.Also Read | Myocarditis: All you need to know about disease linked to Covid-19The United States had issued a warning to watch the symptoms of myocarditis after a small number of heart inflammation cases were reported in adolescents. While the US has continued administering mRNA vaccines among young teens, the UK’s advisory body on vaccination has not recommended inoculating all 12-15-year-olds with mRNA vaccines.The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) had opined that though the benefits from vaccination are “marginally greater”, there is “considerable uncertainty regarding the magnitude of the potential harms.” The committee further acknowledged that the margin of benefit against risk is “too small” to advise on a universal programme of vaccination for healthy 12 to 15-year-old children.“As longer-term data on potential adverse reactions accrue, greater certainty may allow for a reconsideration of the benefits and harms. Such data may not be available for several months,” the JCVI said in an independent report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/healthy-boys-more-likely-to-be-hospitalised-with-pfizer-side-effect-than-covid-study-101631353224894.html
11-09-2021||World||Taliban might have cancelled 9/11 oath ceremony to save money: Reports||The Taliban have cancelled the oath-taking ceremony of their interim cabinet, which was scheduled to take place on September 11, on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attack, reports said. The decision might have been taken to save money at a time the country is reeling under cash shortage. Some reports have however said that the Taliban were pressurised by its allies against organising an oath-taking ceremony.That the Taliban were planning to hold it on September 11 was never confirmed by the Taliban leadership though reports have claimed that invitations were rolled out to China, Turkey, Pakistan, Iran, Qatar, Russia, India and the US. The Kremlin on Friday confirmed that Russia would not take part in any way in the Taliban government's inauguration ceremony in Afghanistan. The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament said earlier this week that Russia would be represented at the inauguration by ambassador-level officials, the RIA news agency reported."The inauguration ceremony of the new Afghan government was cancelled a few days ago. In order not to confuse people further, the leadership of the Islamic Emirate announced the part of the Cabinet, and it has already started to work," Inamullah Samangani, a member of the Taliban government's cultural commission tweeted.After delaying the announcement over a reported disagreement between the Taliban and the Haqqani network, an interim Cabinet was announced on Tuesday under the leadership of Taliban supreme leader Hibatullah Akhundzada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-might-have-cancelled-9-11-oath-ceremony-to-save-money-reports-101631352172037.html
11-09-2021||World||Epic Games vs Apple court case: Here's how the ruling affects in-app payments||Apple was forced to loosen the grip it holds on its App Store payment system after a US judge ruled on Friday in a closely watched battle with Fortnite maker Epic Games. Though app makers will be able to take steps to skirt the up to 30 percent commission Apple takes on sales, the tech giant avoided being branded an illegal monopoly in the case.Here are some key questions on the App Store and the impact of the ruling:How does the App Store work?The App Store acts as the lone gateway for mobile applications of any kind onto iPhones or other Apple devices.Apple requires developers to adhere to its rules for what apps can or can't do, and makes them use the App Store payment system for all transactions there.Apple takes a commission of up to 30 percent of app purchases or transactions, contending it is a fair fee for providing a safe, global platform for developers to hawk their creations.Apple maintains that 85 percent of the approximately 1.8 million apps at the digital shop pay nothing to the Silicon Valley-based tech giant.What was the ruling?The ruling by US district court judge Yvonne Gonzalez-Rogers said that Apple's control of the App Store did not amount to a monopoly, but that it must let developers include links to other online venues for buying content or services.App makers will be able to provide links that users can click on to take them to another website to buy content or otherwise interact.Apple can still require its payment system to be used for in-app purchases, meaning it should still get its share of transactions such as buying virtual gear in a game or a subscription.Gonzalez Rogers wrote that Apple violated California's laws against unfair competition but that it was not "an anti-trust monopolist... for mobile gaming transactions."Big change?The biggest change lovers of Apple mobile gadgets might notice is that apps should start showcasing links enticing them to leave the App Store to spend money.Apple representatives called the ruling a validation of the App Store business model.The judge did not order Apple to let Fortnite back in the App Store, and studio's CEO Tim Sweeney tweeted the game would only return "when and where Epic can offer in-app payment in fair competition with Apple."Bite out of Apple's revenue?It will be difficult to estimate what sort of bite the ruling will take from the company's income.Most of the offerings at the App Store are created by small developers who haven't built their own payment systems the way Epic Games runs its own online shop, noted analyst Carolina Milanesi.Small developers likely see benefits to using Apple's payment system and provided perks, such as promoting apps or handling refunds, the analyst reasoned.App users might also feel more comfortable trusting transactions on Apple's platform rather than entering credit cards or other information on third-party websites."How many developers can do something else when it comes to payment systems and how many customers are interested in using something else?" Milanesi asked."I don't think this ruling is a problem for Apple from a revenue perspective."And, Apple may be planning to more than offset any lost revenue with its own advertising business, according to the analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/epic-games-vs-apple-court-case-here-s-how-the-ruling-affects-in-app-payments-101631344079744.html
11-09-2021||World||Did US make a mistake? Report claims Kabul drone strike killed aid worker, 9 of his family members||The US may have mistakenly targeted an aid worker rather than Islamic State fighters in a drone strike in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, which killed 10 people, The New York Times has reported using video analysis and interviews. According to the Pentagon, it foiled a new attack planned by the Islamic State through a Reaper drone strike on August 29 in the last known missile fired by the United States in its two-decade war in Afghanistan. The drone strike came the day before US troops ended their 20-year mission and following a deadly attack outside the Kabul airport, which killed 13 service members and at least 170 Afghans trying to escape the Taliban.The US military called it a “righteous strike” and officials have said that the drone attack in a dense area near Kabul airport was carried out after hours of surveillance on a white sedan, which they thought was carrying explosives. However, the New York Times said its “investigation of video evidence, along with interviews with more than a dozen of the driver’s co-workers and family members in Kabul, raises doubts about the US version of events, including whether explosives were present in the vehicle, whether the driver had a connection to ISIS, and whether there was a second explosion after the missile struck the car.”Also read | Several children killed in US drone strike on IS in Afghanistan: ReportsAhmadi’s brother Romal told the Times that 10 members of their family, including seven children, were killed in the strike—Ahmadi and three of his children, Zamir, 20, Faisal, 16, and Farzad, 10; Ahmadi’s cousin Naser, 30; three of Romal’s children, Arwin, 7, Benyamin, 6, and Hayat, 2; and two 3-year-old girls, Malika and Somaya. However, the US said three people were killed in that drone strike on that day.The New York Times said Ahmadi, 43, worked as an electrical engineer for California-based aid and lobbying group, Nutrition and Education International, since 2006. It reported the US military may have been seeing Ahmadi and a colleague loading canisters of water, which was in short supply after the collapse of the Western-backed government and picking up a laptop for his boss.Also read | Will continue drone strikes in Afghanistan 'if and when needed': PentagonUS officials say that a larger blast took place after the drone strike, showing that there were explosives in the vehicle. Times visual investigations team and a Times reporter examined the scene of the strike the morning after the drone strike and followed up with a second visit four days later. The report said they found no evidence of a second, more powerful explosion. “Experts who examined photos and videos pointed out that, although there was clear evidence of a missile strike and subsequent vehicle fire, there were no collapsed or blown-out walls, no destroyed vegetation, and only one dent in the entrance gate, indicating a single shock wave,” it said.“It seriously questions the credibility of the intelligence or technology utilized to determine this was a legitimate target,” Chris Cobb-Smith, a British Army veteran and security consultant, told the Times.Also read | Civilian casualties due to US drone strike 'being investigated': White House official Jen PsakiPentagon spokesperson John Kirby said while commenting on the report that US Central Command "continues to assess" the strike but that "no other military works harder than we do to prevent civilian casualties." "As Chairman (Mark) Milley said, the strike was based on good intelligence, and we still believe that it prevented an imminent threat to the airport and to our men and women that were still serving at the airport," Kirby said, referring to the top US general.The New York Times noted that a rocket attack the following morning, claimed by the Islamic State group, was carried out from a Toyota Corolla similar to Ahmadi's.Ahmadi’s relatives have questioned why he would have a motivation to attack Americans when he had already applied for refugee resettlement in the US. “All of them were innocent. You say he was ISIS, but he worked for the Americans,” Emal, Ahmadi’s brother, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/did-us-make-a-mistake-report-claims-kabul-drone-strike-killed-aid-worker-kids-101631339797333.html
11-09-2021||World||Toronto fest: Documentary tells stories of 9/11 survivors, victims’ families||As the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 terror attacks is marked today, a new documentary, memorialising the personal narratives of many who were directly impacted, had its premiere as a special event at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF).The documentary, Memory Box: Echoes of 9/11, brings together the emotional stories of these persons, including survivors, family members of victims, rescue personnel and onlookers. These stories were recorded in the months following 9/11 by artist Ruth Sergel, who created a wooden video booth and transported it to New York, Washington DC and Shanksville in Pennsylvania, the three sites of the attacks, and invited people to share their experiences of that day and those following.In introducing the film, which premiered as a special event at TIFF, co-director Bjorn Johnson described the project as a “collection of extraordinary but little known testimonies” and a film not about what people “saw on September 11, but rather what they felt and, more so, how they processed their trauma”.In the film, Ruth Sergel outlined her objective: “I could see the damage being done to people when they couldn’t tell their own story in their own words. It was just planes, planes, planes, building down, building down. There was absolutely no space for more complicated stories about what people actually felt.”Among those recounting their experience was Joanne Capestro, who was working on the 87th floor of one of the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center. As the first plane hit, she didn’t know what had happened and thought it was an earthquake. “We shook so strong,” she said in the video recorded months after the tragedy.There’s William Sekzer, whose first thought was that this was the building where his son worked. As he recalled, “Realising you’re helpless is a terrible thing for a parent.”The videos collected are raw, voices choke and tears flow as the horror of that day is remembered.Juxtaposing those recollections are videos and news footage from the unfolding attacks on that eventful day, moving from Lower Manhattan where the WTC stood, to the Pentagon, where another plane struck, to the small town of Shanksville in Pennsylvania where the aircraft, that passengers managed to seize control of from the Al-Qaeda terrorists, crashed, leaving no survivors.It captures the words of the rescuers, including those at Ground Zero in New York, only managing to find “buckets” full of body parts. Among those remains was a bone fragment of William Sekzer’s son.The film’s last section revisits those who were featured in the video. Twenty years later, they describe how their lives had changed. Among them was Joanne Capestro who said “you have to be able to persevere”.In its description of the film, TIFF said the directors, Johnson and David Belton “interspersed Ruth Sergel’s testimonies with news footage from the time to create a powerful narrative of how those massive, cataclysmic events affected specific individuals, and how those memories have come to reshape lives. The result is a remarkable portrait of both trauma and resilience”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/toronto-fest-documentary-tells-stories-of-9-11-survivors-victims-families-101631340005679.html
11-09-2021||World||Canada elections: Man arrested for threatening PM Justin Trudeau||An unidentified man has been arrested and charged by police in the province of Ontario for threatening Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau while he was campaigning in the town of Cambridge in late August.Water Regional Police did not name the person but said he was 32 and was from the town of Kitchener. In a release, they said he has been charged with two counts of uttering threats. The incident occurred on August 29 and local law enforcement launched their investigation after “viewing video of the event, speaking to witnesses, and receiving information provided by the RCMP”.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) is tasked with ensuring the safety of the leaders of major Federal parties.Justin Trudeau has faced protests by noisy crowds at several campaign stops, essentially over his announcement that vaccines will be mandatory for public employees and travel on domestic trains and flights. On September 6, he was hit by gravel thrown by angry protestors during a campaign stop in the town of London in Ontario. That incident is also being investigated by local police.That incident occurred as Justin Trudeau was preparing to board his campaign bus and media accompanying him reported that some of them were also hit by fragments.That was the first incident of violence on the campaign trail leading up to the September 20 Federal elections.Justin Trudeau also faced similar noisy protests in Surrey in British Columbia, while a campaign event in the town of Bolton in Ontario was cancelled last month due to the gathering of a large number of protestors. However, previous incidents have been restricted to shouting of abuse at Justin Trudeau.Justin Trudeau said last week that he will “not allow” such “anti-vaxxer mobs” to “dictate how this country gets through this pandemic”. Those attacks have drawn criticism from Justin Trudeau’s principal rival, Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole, who had tweeted, “This is disgusting and I condemn these actions in the strongest term possible. Political violence is never justified and our media must be free from intimidation, harassment, and violence.”According to Canadian media reports, the protests have been linked to the fringe People’s Party of Canada but there was no information whether the man arrested in Cambridge had any association with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-elections-man-arrested-for-threatening-pm-justin-trudeau-101631337305162.html
11-09-2021||World||Costs of War: This is how much US spent on war against terror post-9/11 attacks||The September 11, 2001 attacks ushered in an era of increased surveillance, human rights violations and mass displacements globally, with the social and economic fallout likely to continue for decades, activists and academics have said.The 9/11 attacks triggered new security laws in the United States, and an extended campaign to root out terrorism worldwide which has had far-reaching consequences from the rise of surveillance technologies to refugee crises.A recent report by three US activist groups has claimed that tech giants like Amazon, Google and Microsoft have made vast profits from US government contracts since the 9/11 attacks.Nearly 3,000 people were killed in the attacks on US soil.The Costs of War project at Brown University has calculated the actual cost incurred by the United States of America, both in monetary as well as humanitarian terms. Here's is a look at that:• The vast economic impact of the US post-9/11 wars goes beyond the Pentagon's "Overseas Contingency Operations", according to Costs of War project. It led to an expenditure of more than $8 trillion and caused about 900,000 deaths, according to its estimates.• At least 37 million people have fled their homes in the eight most violent wars the US military has launched or participated in since 2001 - including Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya and Yemen, the Costs of War project said.• The true figure is likely to be as high as 59 million, the researchers said, noting the "incalculable harm" done to individuals, families, towns, regions, as well as to entire countries physically, socially, emotionally, and economically.• The US spent $2.313 trillion in operations in both Afghanistan and Pakistan since launching its military mission after the attacks in 2001, the researchers said. This was part of the overall budgetary costs it incurred in the post-9/11 missions.• They say the amount does not include funds that the US government is obligated to spend on lifetime care for American veterans of this war, nor does it include future interest payments on money borrowed to fund the war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/costs-of-war-this-is-how-much-us-spent-on-war-against-terror-post-9-11-attacks-101631334125392.html
11-09-2021||World||32 more civilians, including 21 Americans, evacuated from Afghanistan: Antony Blinken||The United States on Friday facilitated the departure from Afghanistan of 21 American citizens, secretary of state Antony Blinken announced, adding that 11 Lawful Permanent Residents (LPRs), too, were evacuated from the war-torn nation. “An additional two US citizens and 11 LPRs departed Afghanistan today overland,” Blinken noted in a statement.Also Read | Kabul Airport returns to action, plane with civilians flies out19 Americans, he noted, flew out of Kabul on a Qatar Airways flight. “We continue to work to uphold our commitment to assist departures for those to whom we have a special commitment,” the US secretary of state further said. An additional two U.S. citizens and 11 Lawful Permanent Residents departed Afghanistan today overland, while another 19 U.S. citizens traveled out on Qatar Airways. We continue to work to uphold our commitment to assist departures for those to whom we have a special commitment.Additionally, addressing a telephonic briefing on the developments, Jalina Porter, prinicpal deputy spokesperson of the Department of State, said that the department provided guidance to the 13 evacuees who left Afghanistan via overland route. “We worked to facilitate their safe passage, and embassy officials greeted them once they had crossed the border,” Porter said.
11-09-2021||World||UNSC 2593 is mantra for delisting Taliban shadowy leaders||With 17 out of 33 ministers in the Taliban cabinet on the sanctions list of the UN Security Council's (UNSC) 1267 Committee, the Sunni Islamist government will have to seek delisting of these individuals based on the latest 2593 UNSC resolution on Afghanistan. The 1267 Committee is headed by India till December 2022.Resolution 2593 was passed by the UNSC under the presidency of India on August 30, 2021 with Russia and China abstaining from voting.Paragraph two of resolution 2593, which has become a mantra for the democratic world, clearly demands that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists or to plan or to finance terrorist acts. While reiterating the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, the resolution also calls to take action against those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999).While Taliban has not been designated as a terrorist organization, many of its leaders are under the 1267 list with Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani being the most prominent one. The head of Haqqani Network is designated both by UN and US Department of State and has a USD 5 million bounty on his head. Other prominent listed ones are: Abdul Haq Wasiq, head of intelligence; Mohammed Fazl, Deputy Minister for Defence; Khairullah Khairkhwa, Minister of Information and Broadcasting and Noorullah Noori, Minister for Border and Tribal Affairs. While Sirajuddin Haqqani remains in the shadows, the four others were released from Guantanamo Bay detention facility in exchange for a US Army deserter during the Obama regime.Violation of 2593 resolution will lead to UN sanctions on the Taliban government, particularly if the Sunni Islamist group provides safe havens to terrorists group like al Qaeda, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba or Tehreek-e-Taliban, Pakistan. All these groups have publicly sworn allegiance or Bayat to elusive Taliban chief Hibatullah Akundzada with JeM’s chief operational commander Mufti Abdul Rauf Azhar aka MARA personally meeting him in Kandahar last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unsc-2593-is-mantra-for-delisting-taliban-shadowy-leaders-101631332467958.html
11-09-2021||World||Britain's Prince Andrew served with legal papers in sexual assault lawsuit||Britain's Prince Andrew has been served with a lawsuit by a woman accusing him of sexually assaulting and battering her two decades ago, when she asserts she was also being abused by the financier Jeffrey Epstein, according to a Friday court filing.In an affidavit filed with the US District Court in Manhattan, Cesar Sepulveda, identifying himself as a "corporate investigator/process server," said he left a copy of Virginia Giuffre's lawsuit on Aug. 27 with a police officer guarding the Royal Lodge in Windsor, England, a property Andrew occupies.The London-based Sepulveda said police had told him a day earlier they were instructed not to accept court documents on Andrew's behalf, but upon his return was told documents would be forwarded to the prince's "Legal Team."Police refused to let him see Andrew or to say where the prince was, he added.Spokespeople for Andrew said on Friday that his lawyers had no comment. A source close to Andrew's legal team said the prince had not been personally served.Andrew, 61, is one of the most prominent people linked to Epstein, charged by Manhattan federal prosecutors in July 2019 with sexually exploiting dozens of girls and women.Epstein, a registered sex offender, killed himself on Aug. 10, 2019, at the age of 66 in a Manhattan jail.In her lawsuit dated August 9, Giuffre said Andrew forced her to have unwanted sexual intercourse at the London home of Ghislaine Maxwell, the British socialite and Epstein's longtime associate. She also said Andrew abused her at Epstein's mansion on Manhattan's Upper East Side, and on a private island that Epstein owned in the US Virgin Islands.In a November 2019 BBC interview, Andrew, who had been a friend of Epstein, denied Giuffre's claims of sexual abuse and said he did not recall meeting her. "I can absolutely, categorically tell you it never happened," Andrew said.An initial conference is scheduled for Monday afternoon before US District Judge Lewis Kaplan in Manhattan. Maxwell faces a scheduled Nov. 29 trial before a different Manhattan judge on charges she aided Epstein's sexual abuses. She has pleaded not guilty.In 2017, Maxwell settled a $50 million civil defamation lawsuit against her by Giuffre for an unspecified amount. Maxwell is not a defendant in Giuffre's lawsuit against Andrew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britains-prince-andrew-served-with-legal-papers-in-sexual-assault-lawsuit-101631331582441.html
11-09-2021||World||US honors 9/11 dead on 20th anniversary of attacks||America marks the 20th anniversary of 9/11 Saturday with solemn ceremonies given added poignancy by the recent chaotic withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and return to power of the Taliban.Heart-wrenching commemorations will unfold at each of the three sites where 19 Al-Qaeda hijackers -- mostly from Saudi Arabia -- crashed packed airliners, striking the cultural, financial and political hearts of the United States and changing the world forever.The memorials come with US troops finally gone from Afghanistan, but national discord -- and for President Joe Biden, political peril -- are overshadowing any sense of closure.In a video posted on the eve of the anniversary, Biden urged Americans to show unity, "our greatest strength.""To me, that's the central lesson of September 11th. It's that at our most vulnerable, in the push and pull of all that makes us human, in the battle for the soul of America, unity is our greatest strength," Biden said in a six- minute message from the White House.At New York's Ground Zero, where two pools of water now stand where the Twin Towers used to, relatives will read out the names of the nearly 3,000 people killed, in a four-hour-long service starting at 8:30 am (1230 GMT).Six moments of silence will be observed, corresponding with the times the two World Trade Center towers were struck, and fell, and the moments the Pentagon was attacked and Flight 93 crashed.Monica Iken-Murphy, who lost her 37-year-old husband Michael Iken in the World Trade Center, says this will be a "heightened" anniversary for many Americans.But for her, as for many other survivors, the pain has never wavered."I feel like it just happened," she told AFP.A whole generation has grown up since the morning of September 11, 2001.In the interim, Al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden has been hunted down and killed. A towering new sky scraper has risen over Manhattan, replacing the Twin Towers. And less than two weeks ago, the last US soldiers flew from Kabul airport, ending the so-called "forever war."But the Taliban who once sheltered bin Laden are back ruling Afghanistan, the mighty US military humiliated. In Guantanamo Bay, accused 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other men continue to await trial, nine years after charges were filed.Even the full story of how the attack came to happen remains secret. Only last week did Biden order the release of classified documents from the FBI investigation over the next six months.- 'Honor and memorialize' -At Ground Zero, 2,753 people, from all over the world, were killed in the initial explosions, jumped to their deaths, or simply vanished in the inferno of the collapsing towers.At the Pentagon, an airliner tore a fiery hole in the side of the superpower's military nerve center, killing 184 people in the plane and on the ground.And in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, the third wave of hijackers crashed into a field after passengers fought back, sending United 93 down before reaching its intended target -- likely the US Capitol building in Washington.Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will stop at each of these places on Saturday to "honor and memorialize the lives lost," the White House said.In his video address Friday night, Biden urged Americans to come together as they reflect on the tragedy."Unity doesn't mean we have to believe the same thing, but we must have a fundamental respect and faith in each other and in this nation," Biden said.The president had planned for this to be a pivotal day in his nearly eight-month-old presidency.However, instead of presiding over a moment of unity, Biden will traverse a country angry about the messy Kabul evacuation, which included 13 US soldiers killed by a suicide bomber, and stung by the broader realization of failure and defeat.For the relatives of victims, the anniversary, as always, is about keeping the memory of their loved ones alive."It's like Pearl Harbor," said Frank Siller, whose firefighter brother Stephen died at the World Trade Center."People who weren't alive don't have the same feeling about it as those who were alive. But America has never forgotten about Pearl Harbour and America will never forget about 9/11."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-honors-9-11-dead-on-20th-anniversary-of-attacks-101631330339473.html
11-09-2021||World||Ukraine says all-out war with Russia is 'a possibility'||Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Friday that an all-out war with neighbouring Russia is very much an ‘unfortunate’ possibility, but to prevent that he would first like to have a substantive meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin. “I think there can be,” Zelenskiy said when asked at the Yalta European Strategy (YES) summit if there could really be an all-out war with Russia. “It's the worst thing that could happen, but unfortunately there is that possibility.”The conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which has been referred to as an “undeclared war” in the past, has rolled on for seven years and has already cost thousands of lives. It started when Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014, a move yet to be recognised by several Western powers. The conflict later extended to Ukraine's east, where Moscow backs pro-Russian separatists at the Donbas region, with more troops (an additional 10,000, according to reports) amassing near the border. Kyiv says the conflict in eastern Ukraine has killed 14,000 people since 2014.“Ukraine has been ready for a long time,” said Zelenskiy, pointing out that the country had not yet received a clear answer to its request to join the Nato military alliance, a move that is almost certain to infuriate Moscow.“All-out war would be the biggest blunder on Russia’s part,” the Ukrainian president was quoted as saying in a report by the Independent online newspaper. “It’s a spooky scenario but unfortunately it isn’t unlikely. The danger is reaching a point of no return.”According to the Reuters news agency, Moscow has accused Ukraine of losing interest in peace talks, while Zelenskiy pushed in vain for a meeting with Putin in the conflict zone. “Honestly, I don't have time to think about him,” Zelenskiy said on Friday, referring to Russian president Putin. “I'm more interested in whether we can really meet substantively, not declaratively as he does with some states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukraine-says-all-out-war-with-russia-is-a-possibility-101631324971098.html
11-09-2021||World||Now president, Joe Biden to mark 9/11 rite amid new terror fear||He will again make the ritual journey to sacred American landmarks of loss. He will once more bow his head in silent prayer. He will repeat words of comfort for those whose lives changed forever on that brilliant September day two decades ago.But this time, Joe Biden will hold the rank of commander in chief as he marks the anniversary of the nation's worst terror attack. Now, he shoulders the responsibility borne by previous presidents to prevent future tragedy, and must do so against fresh fears of a rise in terror after the United States' exit from the country from which the September 11 attacks were launched.This 9/11 comes little more than two weeks after a suicide bomber in Kabul killed 13 US service members as the military concluded its withdrawal from Afghanistan. And as Afghanistan returns to Taliban rule, there are fresh concerns that the country could again be a launching pad for attacks that Biden's government will be charged with preventing.But for Biden, like his predecessors, the 9/11 anniversary can also present an opportunity to try to reclaim the sense of national unity that followed the attacks, a spirt long since faded amid the country's divisive politics."For Biden, it's a moment for people to see him not as Democratic president, but as president of the United States of America,” said Robert Gibbs, who served as President Barack Obama's press secretary.“The American people are somewhat conflicted about what they have seen out of Afghanistan the last couple of weeks,” Gibbs said. “For Biden, it's a moment to try to reset some of that. Remind people of what it is to be commander in chief and what it means to be the leader of the country at a moment of such significance.”The president will commemorate the solemn anniversary on Saturday by paying his respects at the trio of sites where the hijacked planes struck, puncturing the United States' air of invincibility and resulting in the deaths of 3,000 Americans.While the ceremonies don't call for him to make public remarks, Biden released a video Friday to remember those who lost their lives, comfort their families and honour the courage and sacrifice of first responders and servicemembers over the last 20 years.He delivered an impassioned appeal for the nation to set aside its differences and reclaim the spirit of cooperation that sprung up in the days following the attacks.“Unity is what makes us who we are — America at its best,” Biden said. "To me that's the central lesson of September 11,” he added. “Unity is our greatest strength."First on Saturday for the president will be a stop in New York City, where the twin towers of the World Trade Center were toppled as a horrified world watched on television. Then, a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where a plane fell from the sky after heroic passengers fought terrorists to prevent it from reaching its Washington destination. And finally, the Pentagon, where the world's mightiest military suffered an unthinkable blow to its very home.Biden's task, like his predecessors, will mark the moment with a mix of grief and resolve. A man who has suffered immense personal tragedy, Biden speaks of loss with power and eloquence, and he has repeatedly addressed the grief caused by the COVID-19 pandemic that has claimed more than 600,000 lives across the country.“We all remember distinctly that day and how much it's impacted us and has impacted us for the last several decades,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said this week. “That's true for him as well.” Afghanistan will shadow the day.Osama Bin Laden used that nation to mastermind the 2001 attacks, ushering in an expanded era of terror attacks on soft targets — hotels, office buildings, nightclubs — in cities across the West. Al-Qaeda was routed from Afghanistan in the months after September 11. But other groups have taken up the cause, including the Islamic State group in Afghanistan, believed to be responsible for the Kabul attack last month.Biden has long argued that the United States' military mission in Afghanistan was over, that the US needed to stop allowing its soldiers to die there. But for some, the return of the Taliban to power, and the terror threat it could produce, has made the 20th anniversary a bitter and worrisome one.Biden will be the fourth president to console the nation on the anniversary of that dark day, one that has shaped many of the most consequential domestic and foreign policy decisions made by the chief executives over the past two decades.The terror attack defined the presidency of George W. Bush, who was reading a book to Florida schoolchildren when the planes slammed into the World Trade Center.The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were still deadly when President Barack Obama visited the Pentagon to mark his first September 11th in office in 2009.By the time Obama spoke at the 10th anniversary, bin Laden was dead, killed in a May 2011 Navy Seal raid.President Donald Trump pledged to get the US out of Afghanistan, but his words during his first September 11 anniversary ceremony in 2017 were a vivid warning to terrorists, telling “these savage killers that there is no dark corner beyond our reach, no sanctuary beyond our grasp, and nowhere to hide anywhere on this very large earth.”On Saturday, as Biden visits all three sites, Bush will pay his respects in Shanksville while Obama will do the same in New York. Trump will be delivering ringside commentary at a boxing match at a casino in Hollywood, Florida, though he is planning to make at least one stop in Manhattan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/now-president-joe-biden-to-mark-9-11-rite-amid-new-terror-fear-101631326247476.html
11-09-2021||World||Vaccine or test: US Prez Biden makes big push for shots||In his most forceful action so far on the Covid-19 pandemic, US President Joe Biden on Thursday ordered sweeping federal vaccine requirements for as many as 100 million Americans - private-sector employees as well as health care workers and federal contractors - in an all-out effort to curb the surging Delta variant.Speaking at the White House, Biden sharply criticised the millions of Americans who are not yet vaccinated.“We’ve been patient. But our patience is wearing thin, and your refusal has cost all of us,” he said. The unvaccinated “can cause a lot of damage, and they are”.The expansive rules mandate that all employers with more than 100 workers require them to be vaccinated or test for the virus weekly, affecting about 80 million Americans.And the roughly 17 million workers at health facilities that receive federal Medicare or Medicaid also will have to be fully vaccinated.Biden is also requiring vaccination for employees of the executive branch and contractors who do business with the federal government - with no option to test out. That covers several million more workers.Children aged 12 or over who attend public schools in Los Angeles will have to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 by the start of next year, city education chiefs said on Thursday, the first such requirement by a major education board in the US.Meanwhile, Denmark’s high vaccination rate has enabled the Scandinavian country to become one of the first European Union nations to lift all domestic coronavirus restrictions.The return to normalcy has been gradual, but as of Friday, the digital pass - a proof of having been vaccinated - is no longer required when entering night clubs, making it the last virus safeguard to fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-or-test-us-prez-biden-makes-big-push-for-shots-101631322962744.html
11-09-2021||World||9/11 attacks: 20 years on, scars remain||Americans mark the 20th anniversary of 9/11 on Saturday with troops finally gone from Afghanistan, but national discord - and for President Joe Biden, political peril - are overshadowing any sense of closure.A whole generation has grown up since the morning of September 11, 2001. In the interim, Al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden has been hunted down and killed. A towering new sky scraper has risen over Manhattan, replacing the Twin Towers. And less than two weeks ago, the last US soldiers flew from Kabul airport, ending the so-called “forever war”.Yet, 9/11 never fully went away. The Taliban who once sheltered bin Laden are back ruling Afghanistan. The mighty US military has been humiliated. In Guantanamo Bay, accused 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other men continue to await trial, nine years after charges were filed. Even the full story of how the attack came to happen remains secret. Only last week did Biden order the release of classified documents from the FBI investigation over the next six months.Monica Iken-Murphy, who lost her 37-year-old husband Michael Iken in the World Trade Center, says this will be a “heightened” anniversary for many Americans. But for her, as for many other survivors, the pain hasn’t wavered. “I feel like it just happened,” she told AFP.Simple, heart-wrenching ceremonies lined upSame as every year, simple, heart-wrenching ceremonies will unfold at each of the three places where Al-Qaeda hijackers crashed packed airliners, striking the cultural, financial and political hearts of the US.Ground Zero in New York was where the majority of the about 3,000 fatalities, including people from all over the world, were killed in the initial explosions, jumped to their deaths, or simply vanished in the inferno of the collapsing towers.At the Pentagon, an airliner tore a fiery hole in the side of the global superpower’s military nerve centre.And in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, the third wave of hijackers crashed into a field after passengers fought back, sending United 93 down before reaching its intended target - likely the US Capitol building in Washington, a short flight further on.Biden and First Lady Jill Biden will stop at each of these places on Saturday to “honour and memorialise the lives lost”, the White House said.Shadow of AfghanistanBiden planned for this to be a pivotal day in his nearly eight-month-old presidency. Taking over from Donald Trump in January, he promised Americans unity - exiting Afghanistan against the background of the 9/11 anniversary was going to be a big part of that. Biden changed the pull-out date to September 11.Even if he backtracked to a less politically sensitive cut-off of August 31, he clearly meant to own both the withdrawal and the anniversary.However, instead of presiding over a moment of unity, Biden will traverse a country angry about the chaotic Kabul evacuation and stung by the broader realisation of failure and defeat.When Biden tours the three sites on Saturday, the weight of 20 years of history - and the need somehow to turn the page - will be on his shoulders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/911-attacks-20-years-on-scars-remain-101631322922141.html
11-09-2021||World||Joe Biden and Xi Jinping hold first call in seven months||America’s China policy has resulted in “serious difficulties” in bilateral ties and goes against the core interests of the two countries and the common interests of the world, Chinese President Xi Jinping told US counterpart Joe Biden in a rare telephone call on Friday.The conversation ended a seven-month gap in direct communication between the two leaders. Beijing said the call took place on Washington’s request. The last time the two leaders had spoken was on February 12.“The US’s China policy has resulted in serious difficulties in bilateral relations and runs counter to the fundamental interests of the peoples in the two countries and the common interests of all countries,” Xi told Biden.Xi pointed out that whether “they (China and the US) can handle their relationship well bears on the future of the world, and it is a question of the century to which the two countries must provide a good answer”.Xi said the two countries should demonstrate “strategic vision and political courage”.A White House readout on the phone call said Washington and Beijing needed to ensure that “conflict” between the two countries is avoided. “President Biden underscored the United States’ enduring interest in peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and the world and the two leaders discussed the responsibility of both nations to ensure competition does not veer into conflict,” it said.The US, Biden reportedly said, looked forward to strengthening communication and cooperation with China on the climate crisis and other important issues.Earlier in the day, China-based Xinhua news agency reported that the two leaders held “candid, in-depth and broad strategic communication and exchanges” on bilateral ties.Besides frosty ties over a range of issues, from trade to human rights to transparency over the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic, the call between Xi and Biden took place in the backdrop of developments in Afghanistan where the Taliban group swept to power in mid-August.Chinese media quoted Biden as saying the US had no intention to change the “one-China principle”, and it was ready to engage in more exchanges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-and-xi-jinping-hold-first-call-in-seven-months-101631322877055.html
11-09-2021||World||The big names of 9/11: Where are they now?||The world is marking the 20th anniversary of September 11 terror attacks on the United States. Nearly 3,000 people were killed in the 9/11 attacks that forever altered world history.In these 20 years, a war was waged against terrorism, al Qaeda's Osama bin Laden was hunted down, and a new skyscraper replaced the Twin Towers (one of the sites of the attacks) in New York.Bin Laden, Hamid Karzai, George W Bush and Condoleezza Rice were some of the central figures in the chaos that followed the terror attacks in the US.Here is a look at the big names of 9/11 and where they are now:Osama bin Laden: The founder of al Qaeda, he became the face of terrorism since the attacks, sparking dread and bewilderment as to how he could orchestrate the attacks from the caves of Afghanistan. On May 2, 2011, in a mission code-named Operation Neptune Spear, US special forces hunted him down in Pakistan's Abbottabad and killed him.Hamid Karzai: He lobbied hard with the West to take action against the Taliban and al Qaeda. When the US uprooted the Taliban, he became president, until 2014. He survived assassination attempts and is still on the fringes of Afghan politics, taking part in power-sharing talks recently.George W Bush: The 43rd president of the US, he was informed of the attacks while reading "The Pet Goat" to second graders in Sarasota, Florida. He passionately spoke to the people of the United States that night, and later spearheaded the war on terror. He has long retired to oil painting in Texas. Recently, he said he was closely tracking the developments in Afghanistan.Dick Cheney: While the Secret Service played "hide the president" with Bush on September 11, the VP hunkered down in a bunker in the White House. After surviving five heart attacks, Cheney now the oldest living former US Veep.Condoleezza Rice: She was the National Security Advisor (NSA) to Bush when 9/11 took place. In the summer of 2001, she met with CIA director George Tenet to already discuss the looming threat of al Qaeda attacks on US targets. More recently, she became one of the first two women allowed to join the Augusta National Golf Club. She's now director of Hoover Institution at Stanford University.Rudy Giuliani: Mayor of New York City at that time, he was the hero of the moment. Oprah Winfrey called him "America's Mayor". Time magazine declared him Person of the Year. His recent misadventures as a Donald Trump supporter are well documented. They resulted in the suspension of his law licence.Colin Powell: He was the secretary of state in 2001. On 9/11, he was in Lima on an official visit. He went on to make a case before the United Nations for military action against Iraq, later drawing fierce criticism for it. He left the Republican Party after the January 6 assault on the Capitol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-big-names-of-9-11-where-are-they-now-101631323161191.html
11-09-2021||World||Denmark becomes only European country with no Covid-19 curbs||Denmark on Friday became the only European nation with no Covid curbs, losing a requirement to show vaccine passports to enter nightclubs as it cautiously embraces a return to normal.New infections have eased off in Denmark as vaccine rates have climbed, reaching over 70 percent of the overall population.But as the Scandinavian country looked ahead to a new post-pandemic reality, the WHO warned that vaccines alone may not end the pandemic and the virus could be around for years.One Denmark resident said the lifting of the last curbs was "liberating" after a tough pandemic slog."It's been a rough couple of years. I have three kids and we have had homeschooling and it's been a lot of hard days," Klaus Sylvester said."It's quite liberating that Denmark no longer has restrictions."The nightclub rule was the last in a long line of measures that Denmark has gradually lifted in recent months.It is now the only nation in Europe to have no restrictions in place after Iceland lifted all its measures in June, only to reimpose them after cases spiked again.Denmark introduced Covid passports in March 2021 as part of a gradual easing of rules.On August 1 it lifted the Covid pass requirement at museums and indoor events with fewer than 500 people, before ditching it for major events, while masks have not been required on public transport since mid-August.On Saturday, a sold-out concert in Copenhagen will welcome 50,000 people, a first in Europe."We are definitely at the forefront in Denmark as we have no restrictions," Ulrich Rum-Petersen, an event promoter, told AFP."We are now on the other side of the pandemic thanks to the vaccination rollout."Danish authorities insist the virus is under control, with around 500 daily Covid cases and a reproduction rate of 0.7.Vaccines have been swiftly rolled out, with 73 percent of the 5.8 million population fully vaccinated, and 96 percent of those 65 and older.- Cautious optimism -Optimism was tempered Friday as the World Health Organization's Europe boss warned that vaccines were not likely to end the pandemic for good.Instead, jabs will help prevent serious disease and death, though the virus is likely to be around for years to come as it mutates, said Hans Kluge."We should anticipate how to gradually adapt our vaccination strategy to endemic transmission and gather really precious knowledge about the impact of additional jabs," he told reporters in Copenhagen.Denmark made third doses available to vulnerable groups as of Thursday, and the health minister said vaccines played an important role in helping the country return to normal.But he struck a cautious note."Daily life is basically back to normal, but that doesn't mean there won't be any danger down the road," Magnus Heunicke said Friday."The virus has mutated several times, so I can't make any guarantees. But with this many people vaccinated, we are well set," he told Danish television TV2.Christian Nedergaard, who owns several restaurants in Copenhagen, said that while everyone is happy about the return to normal life, "the situation is still complicated"."The memory of coronavirus will fade very quickly from some people's minds but not for everyone, and for restaurants this period has for sure been a game-changer," he said.Karoline Heiberg, a 24-year-old Copenhagener, said she felt conflicted about the lifting of all restrictions."On the one hand I'm excited ... because I miss pre-corona life," she said."But on the other hand I don't feel quite safe" she said, especially "on public transportation, people cough all the time."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/denmark-becomes-only-european-country-with-no-covid-19-curbs-101631322091824.html
11-09-2021||World||Covid-19 cases in Australia's Victoria state hit 13-month high||Australia's Victoria state, the country's second-most populous, on Saturday reported the biggest one-day rise in locally acquired Covid-19 cases in more than a year.Victoria state said it detected 450 locally acquired Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the biggest one-day rise since Aug. 8, 2020.Queensland state said five new Covid-19 cases were detected in the past 24 hours, stoking fears Australia's third-largest state could be next to be swamped by new infections.Queensland state Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said the state would not yet enter a lockdown, but her government was monitoring closely any signs the cluster could have spread."If we start seeing any seeding, then we may have to take very quick, fast action. But at the moment, it’s contained to the family," said Palaszczuk.The surge in new cases comes as Australia struggles to contain the highly infectious Delta variant that threatens to push the country's economy into its second recession in as many years.The rise in cases sees Australia's two largest states and its capital in strict lockdowns as authorities seek to curtail infections while racing to vaccinate as many people as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-cases-in-australia-s-victoria-state-hit-13-month-high-101631319664401.html
11-09-2021||World||Afghanistan situation ‘very fragile’, we are concerned: India at UNSC||Terming the situation in Afghanistan “very fragile”, India on Thursday called for a “broad-based, inclusive and representative” government in Kabul and stressed the need for the international community to rise above partisan interests and stand with the Afghan people.“The situation in Afghanistan continues to be very fragile. As its immediate neighbour and a friend to its people, the current situation is of direct concern to us,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador, TS Tirumurti, said at the UN Security Council Debate on Afghanistan.“We reiterate the need for the voices of Afghan women to be heard, aspirations of Afghan children to be realised and the rights of minorities to be protected. We call on humanitarian assistance to be provided urgently and underline the need to provide unhindered access to the UN and other agencies.”On the issue of the interim Cabinet that the Taliban have announced that includes several sanctioned names, Tirumurti stressed India’s call for an inclusive dispensation. “A broad-based, inclusive and representative formation attained through an inclusive negotiated political settlement would gain greater international acceptability and legitimacy,” he said.A day after Afghanistan fell to the Taliban, the United National Security Council issued a press statement saying that the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country.During his speech, Tirumurti said India was privileged to preside over the adoption of a “substantial and forward-looking resolution” of the UNSC during its presidency of the 15-nation body last month.The resolution “took into account some of our collective concerns, in particular on terrorism, where it has noted the commitment of the Taliban not to allow the use of the Afghan soil for terrorism, including from terrorists and terrorist groups designated under Resolution 1267”. It also “underlined that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts”, added Tirumurti, and cited the Kabul airport attack to say terrorism continues to threaten Afghanistan.He reiterated India’s long and significant contribution to the development of Afghanistan. “India’s emphasis has been on the welfare and well-being of the people of Afghanistan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-situation-very-fragile-we-are-concerned-india-at-unsc-101631317744919.html
11-09-2021||World||How Biden, then a Senator, had reacted after planes flew into World Trade Centre on 9/11||US President Joe Biden, one of the most powerful men on the planet, was a Senator when the Al Qaeda terrorists attacked the twin towers of the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001. In his memoir titled ‘Promises to Keep: On Life and Politics’, Biden has recounted the tragic day when he was serving as the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.The Democratic senator from Delaware was on a train from Wilmington to Washington when two planes, hijacked by Al Qaeda terrorists, flew into the World Trade Centre, turning the twin towers into rubble. He was talking to his wife, now the First Lady, Jill Biden."Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God.""Jill, what is it?""Another plane ... the other tower."Also Read | Myths perpetuated and busted in the 20 years since 9/11Moments after a third plane hit the Pentagon, Biden got off the train at Union Station from where he saw a brown haze of smoke in the sky, according to the memoir. He rushed to the Capitol and insisted that it was the safest place to be even as the buildings were being evacuated. Biden said he tried to enter the Capitol building but was refused entry by a police officer. At that point, he felt it was important to “show the country we were still doing business", as per the memoir.After 20 years, Biden will visit all three memorial sites to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks. He will visit ground zero in New York City, the Pentagon and the memorial outside Shanksville, Pennsylvania, the White House said last Saturday. He will be accompanied by Jill Biden, who was on phone with her husband on the fateful day when nearly 3,000 people were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-biden-then-a-senator-had-reacted-after-planes-flew-into-world-trade-centre-on-911-101631298212770.html
11-09-2021||World||Myths perpetuated and busted in the 20 years since 9/11||In an article in the New York Times on February 20,2020, Sirajuddin Haqqani, the interior minister of Afghanistan and head of the globally proscribed Haqqani Network (HQN) group, propagated a myth by promising a consultative mechanism for “a new, inclusive political system in which the voice of every Afghan is reflected and where no Afghan feels excluded”. Today, two decades after the 9/11 terror attacks, Haqqani, a US-designated global terrorist with a $5million bounty on his head, is the interior minister of a hardline, exclusive, Taliban government in Kabul after the pusillanimous exit of the US forces and abject surrender by the US-trained Afghan forces.After spending more than $825 billion on military expenditure, $130 billion on reconstruction and losing at least 2,300 men in the war against the Taliban and al Qaeda since 2001, the US war against terror has come full circle — it has ceded power to those from whom it snatched power two decades ago. Worse still, there has been no material change on the ground. The 20-year military occupation of Afghanistan by US forces post 9/11 has shattered many myths, raising serious questions about the US’s future capacity and capability to exert influence on the world. The hasty and pathetic retreat from Kabul will have a serious reputational consequence for the US military and its feckless leadership. Here are some myths that lie brutally exposed with the sudden end of Operation Enduring Freedom, which was launched on October 7, 2001, in response to the twin-tower attacks in New York on 9/11.Also Read| 9/11: Decades after the attack, toxic dust still ails Americans1. Invincibility of the US military and forever warsThe war in Afghanistan is the longest war in the US history after Vietnam, which also ended in American defeat at the hands of an asymmetric force, the Vietcong, and an equally unceremonious exit from Saigon in 1975. Clearly, neither the occupying forces nor the occupied have any love for endless wars. Just as Afghan public support went down for the US forces over the years, the American military also lost the motivation to fight the enemy. India learnt this the hard way in less than three years (1987-1990) in Sri Lanka with nearly 90,000 troops deployed at its peak; the Soviet Union learnt the same lesson in 10 years in Afghanistan. Forever wars are untenable, and the Americans should have gone for a decisive knock-out punch of the Taliban and its affiliates rather than get drawn into a deliberate long-drawn battle.2. The Taliban won and America lostThe argument that a rag-tag sandals-and-black-turban wearing terror militia defeated the US in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed. The fact is that the war was won by a duplicitous Pakistan, which successfully managed a high-risk act by overtly supporting the US in counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan, while its spy agency, the ISI, sustained the Taliban militarily through endless supply of rabid Sunni Islamist cadre, weapons, ammunition, intelligence, tactics, and medical support. Pakistan was both the problem and the solution and the US could never win till Rawalpindi, the headquarters of ISI, was humbled in battle. With Taliban leadership councils or shuras openly functioning in Quetta and Miramshah, and terror affiliates, HQN and al Qaeda, operating in Afghanistan from across the Durand Line separating the two countries, it was a tiring game. And the US did get tired in the end.Nearly a decade ago, in October 2011, then US secretary of state Hillary Clinton bluntly told the Pakistani leadership that it could not keep “snakes” in its backyard to strike its neighbours, even as she asked Islamabad to “squeeze” HQN for attacks on US forces in Afghanistan. Little did she know that the “backyard” she referred to was a pit full of assorted venomous snakes. If there was any doubt about ISI’s nexus with its demon child, that is comprehensively shattered last week when the current DG ISI Lt General Faiz Hameed flaunted his credentials like an imperial viceroy in Serena Hotel in Kabul to supervise military operations against resistance in Panjshir and to approve the Taliban cabinet.Also Read| 9/11: The end of the ‘forever wars’Former Indian foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal said: “The US war on terror began with a bang after 9/11 and has ended with a whimper. The Taliban were not forgiven for hosting Osama bin Laden but Pakistan which sheltered Osama for years got forgiveness. More than that, this war did not get extended to Pakistan which regenerated the Taliban and has been complicit in its terrorism. The US has rewarded Pakistan with strategic depth in Afghanistan, and at India’s cost. India has been a victim of cross border terrorism for over three decades. Beyond vengeance, if the war on terror was meant to uphold civilised values, these have been abandoned in the Afghanistan-Pak region. If the war on terror was to make the world safer, that expectation has not been met. “ It lies to the credit of ISI that the US paid over $35 billion to Pakistan, a unique payment for its deceit.3. Al Qaeda and Taliban have no truck with each other, and al Qaeda has been decimated in AfghanistanEven as US President Joe Biden declared closure of the mission in Afghanistan citing the completion of military objectives — decimating al Qaeda and killing its first chief Osama bin Laden — a US State Department report totally contradicted the US commander-in-chief. The quarterly report of lead inspector general for Operation Freedom’s Sentinel, released on August 17, stated that according to the State Department, the Taliban continues to maintain its relationship with al Qaeda, providing a safe haven for the terrorist group in Afghanistan. If this was not enough, a June report to the UN Security Council said that a significant part of the al Qaeda leadership resided in Afghanistan and just across the border in Pakistan. It said the primary component of the Taliban in dealing with the al Qaeda is the Haqqani Network with ties between two groups sealed on basis of ideological alignment, comrades-in-arms, and inter-marriage. The Biden fallacy was nailed when al Qaeda swore “bayat” (allegiance) to Taliban supreme leader Mullah Hibatullah Akundzada on August 31, while announcing global jihad against the US, Israel, and India. It is naive to assume that the US, with its intelligence-gathering capabilities, does not know that pan-Islamic terror groups morph into different identities for operational reasons, with one group deliberately propped up as the enemy for convenience. That enemy is now the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), which any intelligence operative in India will say is an ISI creation and a conglomerate of disaffected cadres from al Qaeda, Taliban, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. The last ISKP emir Aslam Farooqui aka Mawlawi Abduillah was arrested by Afghan intelligence on April 4, 2020. He had past links with LeT and Haqqani Network. Farooqui was apparently killed after he was freed from Bagram prison after the Taliban swept to power.4. America was distracted by Iraq and Afghanistan, resulting in rise of ChinaA classified US National Defence Strategy report in 2018 stated that interstate competition, not terrorism, was the primary concern in US national security. The CIA now talks about shifting from counterterrorism to conventional intelligence or spying on other states such as China. It is a flawed argument on part of the US to blame the rise of China to its obsession with Iraq and Afghanistan.It was Washington itself that assiduously promoted the interests of Beijing by conjuring up fears of the Russian bear to make China into an economic and military power.Also Read| 9/11-related illnesses claimed more victims than attack: ReportThe much-trumpeted Asia Pivot of the Obama regime never fructified, and the US only woke up after China flexed its military muscle to turn the South China Sea into its backyard, militarily threatened Taiwan and Japan, and trained its missiles on a US base in Guam.China will now seize the opportunity presented by the US’s humiliating exit from Kabul and go for the global jugular through its proxies to become the pre-eminent superpower.5. Taliban has changed from its previous versionWith 17 out of 33 ministers in the Taliban cabinet designated as global terrorists by either the UN or the US or both, and with no women or minority representation, the myth propagated by Haqqani in the Left-liberal West lies in tatters. After two decades of fighting, the Taliban has become more radical and hardline as they believe they defeated the mighty US military (albeit with the help of Pakistan). This is also a result of shady US interlocutors cutting side deals with the Taliban leadership in Doha through the world’s worst (or best) brokers in Qatar and Pakistan with the help of the UK, whose military was brutally decimated in the 18th century by the ancestors of the present Sunni Pashtun force. The present Taliban regime will be the beacon for all affiliated terror groups, particularly in the Afghanistan-Pak region, and its continuation in power will accelerate the perception of diminishing US power with the latter’s own allies in West Asia and Asia questioning its credibility. Rising radicalism will further destabilise the world. It was Covid-19, with its origins in Wuhan, which dented the US economically, but it is the Afghan retreat that has hurt the perception of American military capability. Two decades after 9/11, the stage is set for China. And India should beware of the consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myths-perpetuated-and-busted-in-the-20-years-since-911-101631297395851.html
